K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S say Nationwide Building  Society mis-sold them a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs S bought the policy  in October  1992  at the same time as taking  out a personal 
loan. Their recollection is that they applied for the loan and PPI policy in branch, but due to 
the time that has passed, Nationwide hasnt  been able to confirm  how the loan and PPI 
policy were sold to Mr and Mrs S. 
Because of the length of time since the sale Nationwide hasnt  been  able to confirm if the 
loan was secured  or unsecured. Nor has it been able to give us any details of the length of 
the loan term or how much was borrowed.  The earliest record of the monthly cost of the 
premium which is available  is from February 1993  when it cost £17.15  per month. 
We dont know how much benefit  the policy  would  provide but policies like these  would 
usually cover the loans monthly repayment. As there is so little information  available from 
the time of the sale, Ive relied  upon a policy  document  dated near the time of the sale and 
which I consider most likely was similar  to the one that applied to the policy Mr and Mrs S 
were sold.  The policy didnt attract interest and could be cancelled  by either party  with 14 
days notice without penalty. 
The policy was a joint policy but only allowed for one Principal Insured Customer where  all 
parts of the cover applied  accident sickness, unemployment and life. The Joint  Insured 
Customer was only covered for life by the policy. 
Mrs S was the Principal  Insured Cover so the policy provided cover for Mrs S for accident, 
sickness, unemployment and life  subject to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to 
repay Mrs Ss monthly loan repayment  for up to the remaining term of the loan or the 
disability came to an end (or up to a maximum of 24 months if it was a secured loan)  in the 
event of a successful disability claim and 12 months  in the event  of unemployment. 
As Mr S was the Joint Insured Customer he was only covered for life by the policy.  
At the time,  Mrs S was employed as a reservation  operator for a travel  company. She has 
told us she was entitled to six months full sick pay if she was too unwell to work. She would 
also receive death in service benefit.  Mrs S has said she had £5,000  of savings as a means 
of repaying the loan should she be unable to work. Mrs S has said she was in good health at 
the time of the sale. 
Mr S was employed as a maintenance engineer. He was entitled  to six months full pay and 
six months half pay if he was too unwell to work  and would receive  death  in service benefit.  
Mr S also had £5,000  of savings. Mr S told us he had suffered from a slipped disc in around  
1978 and had several months off from work.   
Nationwide has sent us screenshots to show that the loan account closed in 1995.  
Mr and Mrs Ss representative has made  lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf.
 
Ref: DRN89293132I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Ss representative  says:
Nationwide failed  to meet  the sales standards which  applied  at the time. In those  
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  APP 3, it should be presumed  Mr and Mrs S 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr and Mrs 
Ss representatives believe there to be no evidence  to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Nationwide  should 
have told Mr and Mrs S about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Nationwide  should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr and Mrs S 
and the impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
The information Mr and Mrs S received was misleading. These policies  were  
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue;
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs S disagreed  with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ss. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here, but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ss complaint
This sale took place  in 1992 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC code, the FSAs (and 
Ref: DRN89293133FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 1995. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for   Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Nationwide at the time. So, Im satisfied I should  take the ABI code and 
these other  publications into account when deciding, what  is in my opinion,  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ss case. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost  duty of good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Building  Societies 
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Building  Societies  Ombudsmans terms of reference  the Ombudsman  
was required to decide complaints by reference to what  was, in his opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances.
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Nationwide was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
Ref: DRN89293134-If Nationwide gave  advice, whether  it advised  Mr and Mrs S with reasonable care and 
skill  in particular,  whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for them,  given 
their needs and circumstances. 
-Whether Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs S sufficient, appropriate and timely information 
to enable them to make an informed choice about whether  to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr and 
Mrs S, I must then go on to consider  whether and to what  extent Mr and Mrs S 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs S 
and Nationwide, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. Ive set out my 
reasoning below. 
did Mr and Mrs S know they had a choice?
Nationwide had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
Mr and Mrs Ss recollection of the PPI sale is that it was sold in branch and it was included 
as part of the loan package. Nationwide hasnt been able to confirm  how Mr and Mrs S 
applied for the loan and PPI. 
As Ive said above,  theres no paperwork still available from the time of the sale which  I dont 
find surprising given  how long ago the sale took place   nearly 30 years ago  and 
businesses arent  obliged to keep paperwork indefinitely. 
In such a situation, I need to decide  what I think is most likely to have happened, based  on 
the very limited information available to me. As Mr and Mrs S say the PPI sale was made 
during a meeting, I think its most likely  that the cover would have been discussed with them  
by the adviser  they saw. And the fact that Mr and Mrs S had to make a decision about the 
benefit of the policy   that Mrs S would  be the Principal Insured Customer  and Mr S was 
only covered for life as the Joint Insured Customer  would suggest it was discussed  and 
not just included as part of the overall  personal  loan package without their knowledge. (And  
from what Mr and Mrs S have told us, Mr S would receive better employee benefits if he was 
too unwell  to work so this may have led to their decision about  who should be the principal  
customer.) So, I think its very unlikely  that the PPI would have been  added by the adviser 
unless Mr and Mrs S agreed to take it.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs S knew the policy was 
optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
Ref: DRN89293135did Nationwide provide  advice?
Nationwide says it didnt  provide advice  during  this sale. Mr and Mrs S havent told us 
whether advice was given. As I dont have  any contrary recollection from Mr and Mrs S that 
would make me re-consider what Nationwide  has told us when Nationwide sold Mr and Mrs 
S the PPI, Im not persuaded that it provided  advice. 
This means  Nationwide  didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable  for Mrs S. Instead, it had 
to give them sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable Mr and Mrs S to make 
an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  including  drawing to their attention  
and highlighting   in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  the main provisions of the policy 
and significant  limitations and exclusions. 
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs S were given a broad  description of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect their payments if 
Mrs S was unable to work through accident, sickness  and disability) and of the approximate 
costs. Ive reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mr and Mrs S would have 
taken out the policy  without any sense  of what the policy  was for and of how much the 
premium might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Nationwide gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr and Mrs S agreed  to take out the policy.  
So, I dont think Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs S sufficient, appropriate and timely information  
to enable them to make an informed choice about  whether to take out the policy,  including  
drawing their attention  and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Ss representative  has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like                
Mr and Mrs Ss. Ive considered these  carefully and summarised  them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Ss representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs S about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Ss representatives views on this. The duty of utmost good 
faith in insurance  law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material 
facts and not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what a court  
would say  I think  its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer having to 
disclose the claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and 
Ref: DRN89293136exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs S have  suggested.  And taking into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that Nationwide  ought to have done either. 
What effect did Nationwides shortcomings  have on Mr and Mrs S? To what extent did 
Mr and Mrs S suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Nationwide didnt  do all it should  have  done  when it sold this policy  to Mr and 
Mrs S. So, Ive gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr 
and Mrs S suffered  loss and damage as a result. To answer this, I must decide whether or 
not Mrs S would have  still taken out the policy, had Nationwide done things properly. 
Mr and Mrs S say they would not have taken it out and believes I should  presume this to be 
the case given  the significant failings identified above. Ive considered the representations  of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr and Mrs S had to weigh up in their own mind the cost of 
the policy against the benefits offered and the potential  consequences if they didnt insure  
against the risk of Mrs S being  unable to work. 
As Ive found above, Mr and Mrs S chose to take this policy  out. So, I consider that its 
reasonable to conclude  they had some  interest  in the benefits offered by this type of 
insurance. But they made this decision based on incomplete information. So, what  Mr and 
Mrs S thought they were getting is not exactly what they got. The extent  to which  this 
differed is a relevant consideration when determining if Mr and Mrs S have suffered any loss 
or detriment.  
As Ive said above,  there is little information  available from the time of the sale so although I 
consider it more likely  than not that Mr and Mrs S knew they would  have to pay something 
for the policy, I dont  know if Nationwide told them the exact premium at the point Mr and Mrs 
S applied  for the policy. Having said that, it seems likely Mr and Mrs S would have been told 
the cost before the policy started and they paid for the policy  for a number of years,  so if the 
costs were significantly at odds with their expectations at the point  of sale, its possible they 
might have raised that with Nationwide at the time, or reconsidered their decision.
Overall, I am not persuaded Mr and Mrs S would have found  the cost unacceptable if they 
had been given the exact figure during  the meeting in which  they agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Nationwide  made  clear exactly  what Mrs S would  get back in 
return in the event she made a successful claim. But I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs Ss 
expectations about what the policy would  pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient to 
meet her loan payments)  were significantly different to what  the policy  actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs S thought  they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following  (I refer to Mrs Ss circumstances as 
she was the Principal Insured Customer):
The policy excluded claims relating to any physical or mental  defect, infirmity or 
recurring disease for which  Mrs S had received treatment or advice  during  the 12 
months immediately preceding the start date of the policy and which  recurred during 
the first 12 months of taking the policy;  
Ref: DRN89293137The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mrs S 
wasnt a permanent employee.
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mrs S be unable  to 
do her normal occupation, or any gainful occupation which  Mrs S may be reasonably 
expected to undertake bearing in mind her knowledge and training.
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mr and Mrs S pause for thought  and may well have caused Mr and Mrs S to 
conclude that the policy wasnt as good  as they thought, and they might have decided  not to 
proceed. The limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, 
might have dissuaded some consumers  in slightly different circumstances from Mrs S from 
taking out the policy.  
But, the evidence  about Mrs Ss circumstances  at the time of sale shows that the policy  
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. She was eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable to her 
should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence to suggest 
she wouldve been caught by any of the significant  exclusions   Mrs S didnt  have any pre-
existing medical conditions and was in permanent employment. (Mr S told us he had a pre-
existing medical condition  a slipped disc in 1978  but he was only covered for the life 
benefit of the policy.)  So, I still think Mrs S had some good reasons to take the policy  out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mrs S would have 
expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some  evidence to 
support that claim.
If Mr and Mrs S had known Mrs S could only claim for disability if she was unable  to do both 
her normal  occupation,  or any gainful  occupation  which Mrs S may have reasonably  been  
expected to undertake bearing mind  her knowledge  and training, it might  have  played  into Mr 
and Mrs Ss thinking about what they would have done. And I accept it may have given them 
pause for thought  although its possible  they may not have been overly concerned given 
that if Mrs S was unable  (through disability)  to carry on her own occupation the chances that 
she would  be able to take up what I deem to be a similar occupation  would also, in all 
probability, be limited.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs S would still have  taken out the policy.  The policy was sufficiently close  
to what its likely they thought they were getting  and provided benefits that would help them  
manage the consequences  were  Mrs S made redundant, or unable  to work through  accident 
or disability.  In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs S would 
have taken out the policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations  on cover.
Mr and Mrs Ss representatives say the rules about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP App 
3) make it clear  that, where  a significant failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
Ref: DRN89293138the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs S would not have bought  the PPI they bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted  
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr and Mrs 
Ss circumstances  as detailed above, I consider it reasonable to conclude the position Mr 
and Mrs S found themselves in as result  of the sale was the same position they would have 
been in had the breach  or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs S believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs S in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept its possible they wouldnt have taken out the policy, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that they would still have taken  
out the PPI had they been given clear, fair and not misleading information about  the policy 
they were buying.  So, Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude Nationwide should  pay Mr and Mrs S compensation, as that 
would put them in a better position than they would have been  in if everything had happened 
as it should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs S think Nationwide misrepresented  the terms of the policy in 
how it described the PPI.  Whilst I accept  there  is a possibility  a court might conclude some  
of Nationwides  statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion  the reason  why 
Nationwide failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in 
the information it provided  but because the overall information Nationwide  gave               
Mr and Mrs S, in the way it did, was insufficient to meet the standards  I consider it fair and 
reasonable to expect  it to have met in 1992  when  providing information  about an insurance  
policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Ss representative says a court might  take 
if it were to find Nationwide  negligently  misrepresented the contract  to Mr and Mrs S and 
about the remedy a court might award  if it were to find that Nationwide  had been in breach of 
its duty of utmost  good faith.  But this doesnt persuade  me to alter my conclusions  about 
what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the complaint  including  what  I think 
is fair compensation in the circumstances  of this case. For the reasons Ive already set out I 
dont think it would be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs S in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Ref: DRN89293139Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 March 2021.
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8929313