K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs N complain Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited didnt tell them 
their policy would auto-renew, leading to them paying for two pet insurance policies. 
background
Mr and Mrs N took out a pet insurance policy with Red Sands in September 2016.  In 
September 2018, Mr N contacted Red Sands to ask why the policy had renewed in 2017.  He 
said hed only realised  the policy had run for that year when  he received a renewal notice in 
August 2018.
Red Sands  said it had told Mr and Mrs N at the outset  that their policy  would automatically 
renew, so it didnt think it had done  anything wrong.  It said if Mr and Mrs N could show they 
were insured  with another company  for that year it could look to offer a 50% refund.           
Mr and Mrs N didnt accept this and complained  to our service.
Our investigator didnt  think Red Sands had made it clear that the policy  would auto-renew  
when Mr and Mrs N had taken it out in 2016. He reviewed the renewal letter from 2017 and 
didnt think this had made it clear  that the policy would  automatically renew unless  Mr and 
Mrs N got in touch to cancel it. So he recommended Red Sands refund Mr and Mrs N the full 
policy premium from 2017  to 2018.
Red Sands  didnt agree. It said Mr and Mrs N had been made aware that the policy would 
automatically renew when  the renewal documents were issued in 2017.  It said it wasnt  
responsible for Mr and Mrs N not reading their emails.  Our investigator still thought the 
complaint should  be upheld  as Red Sands  hadnt  made the terms clear at the outset of the 
policy.
As Red Sands didnt  agree,  the matter has come  to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Red Sands  has offered  to refund Mr and Mrs N 50% of the premiums they paid if they could 
show they took out insurance elsewhere. But I dont think this is appropriate in this case. Ive 
explained why below.
Red Sands  argues that it doesnt  matter if it told Mr and Mr N that the policy would 
automatically renew when  they initially took out the policy. It says this is because it told them 
at renewal in 2017 that this would happen.  I dont agree Red Sands was clear at the outset 
or at the point  of renewal in 2017.
Ref: DRN84575422When Mr and Mrs N set up their policy with Red Sands,  they should have been  provided  
with information  that was clear, fair and not misleading. Ive looked  at the information 
provided to Mr and Mrs N when it took out the policy. The letter  and policy schedule provided  
doesnt say the policy  will automatically renew  at the end of the year.  At the very end of the 
letter it has a section  on the policy period. It says its a monthly policy  and cover and terms 
can be reviewed wherever necessary. But I dont think this is the same as saying  the policy 
will automatically renew each year unless Mr and Mrs N got in touch to cancel it.
Ive also looked  at the policy document  provided  to Mr and Mrs N at the outset of the policy. 
And having done so Im not satisfied the policy document makes it clear about  the terms of 
renewal. But even if it did, Id expect Red Sands to have made this clear  to Mr and Mrs N in 
the covering letter and the policy schedule, rather than expecting  them  to read the whole 
policy document to understand  the cover they had. 
Ive also looked  at the renewal notice sent to Mr and Mrs N in 2017. And I dont  think  this 
makes it clear that the policy will automatically  renew unless its cancelled.  The letter says 
Mr and Mrs N dont need to contact Red Sands if they wish to continue. This does suggest 
the cover  will continue  unless Mr and Mrs N get in touch. But I dont think  this is enough  to 
say it was made clear  to Mr and Mrs N that they needed  to proactively do something  to stop 
the policy continuing. Having looked at all of the renewal information Im not satisfied            
Red Sands  did enough  to bring to Mr and Mrs Ns attention that the policy  would renew in 
2017.
Ive also seen a copy of the renewal  notice sent in 2018. This was what prompted               
Mr and Mrs N to get in touch with Red Sands. This letter is much  clearer in telling Mr and 
Mrs N what they need  to do. It has a section titled heres what you need  to do under which 
there are bullet points  of information about  the policy. The final bullet point is highlighted in 
bold and says if they are happy with the cover, they dont need to do anything as their policy 
will automatically renew. It still doesnt say Mr and Mrs N need  to get in touch if they want  to 
cancel it, but it is clearer  than the communication  sent out in 2017.
I think, had the 2017 letter  been  more explicit  along the lines of the 2018  document,          
Mr and Mrs N would  have cancelled the insurance  in 2017. Mr and Mrs N have already 
shown they were insured with another provider for that period. So Im satisfied that had     
Red Sands  made it clear  about the terms of renewal, Mr and Mrs N wouldnt have continued 
their insurance.
As a result, to put Mr and Mrs N back in the position they would have been in, Red Sands 
should refund all of the premiums paid for the 2017 policy. It should also add 8% simple 
interest to the premiums  from the date they were paid, until the date of settlement.  
Ref: DRN84575423my final decision
My final decision is that I direct Red Sands Insurance Company  (Europe)  Limited to refund 
the premiums paid by Mr and Mrs N for the 2017  policy. 
It needs to add 8% simple  interest to each premium paid, from the date of the payment, until 
the date of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 May 2019.
Michelle Henderson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8457542