K822xcomplaint
Mr C complains that PDL Finance Limited,  trading as Mr Lender, lent to him in an 
irresponsible manner.
background 
Mr C took out three loans  with Mr Lender between February and May 2016. The loans were 
repayable in one repayment. Mr C repaid loans  one and two but didnt repay  loan three. 
Mr Lender passed the debt to a third party. A summary of Mr Cs borrowing with Mr Lender 
is as follows:
date £ amount 
borroweddate repaid
129 February 2016 150 31 March 2016
27 April 2016 150 29 April 2016
311 May 2016 150
In response to Mr Cs complaint, Mr Lender  offered to recall the debt from the third party,  
reduce the outstanding balance to the original amount  due of £173.40  and agree an 
affordable repayment  plan.
Mr C says he couldnt afford to repay these loans, which is why he had to re-borrow. He 
wants Mr Lender  to write off the outstanding balance he owes  and refund  the interest hes 
paid. 
One of our adjudicators assessed  Mr Cs complaint. He didnt think  that Mr Lender had lent 
to Mr C irresponsibly. The adjudicator asked Mr C to let us know if he wanted to accept the 
offer Mr Lender had made in relation to loan three.  
Mr C didnt agree with the adjudicators  assessment. He said that these were high interest 
loans intended  for short-term use and the frequency of the loans showed that he was 
struggling financially.
As there was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice, this means that it should have  carried out proportionate checks  to make sure Mr C 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
Ref: DRN88971222But certain factors might  point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Mr Lender was required to establish whether Mr C could  sustainably repay his loans  not 
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.  Of 
course, the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a consumer 
could sustainably make  their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. 
This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook  (CONC) defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties  and in particular, the customer  should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having  to borrow  
to meet  the repayments. And it follows that a lender  should realise,  or it ought  fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower  wont be able to make their repayments  sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments  without  borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Cs complaint.
I dont think that Mr Lender was wrong to give Mr C loans one to three.  Given the repayment 
amounts, what was apparent about Mr Cs circumstances at the time and his history with the 
lender at that point, I dont think it wouldve been proportionate for Mr Lender to ask Mr C   
for the amount of information needed  to show the lending was unsustainable. 
At the time Mr C applied  for these  loans, he told Mr Lender that his net, monthly  income was 
£1,300 and his monthly  expenditure was £340. He said that he was living  with his parents, 
which would explain his low monthly  expenditure. So, it appeared that Mr C could  afford to 
repay these  loans. There wasnt anything in the information Mr C provided or the information 
Mr Lender shouldve been aware  of, which meant  it wouldve been proportionate for it to start 
verifying what Mr C  said. 
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Mr Cs borrowing with Mr Lender,  with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Mr Lender  should reasonably  have seen that further  
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful and so shouldnt  have  provided  any further 
loans. 
Ref: DRN88971223I note that Mr C says that the frequency of his borrowing showed  that he was struggling 
financially. Im afraid I dont agree. Mr C took out three loans over short  period. As far as
Mr Lender was aware, he appeared to repay loans one and two without  difficulty. I dont 
think that the pattern of borrowing, in itself,  meant  that Mr Lender should  have seen that the 
lending was unsustainable. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint. 
If Mr C wishes  to accept Mr Lenders offer to recall the debt from the third party, reduce the 
outstanding balance to the original amount due of £173.40 and agree an affordable 
repayment plan,  he should contact Mr Lender  direct.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2020.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8897122