K821x#15complaint
Ms M, on behalf of Mr L, complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC t/a Barclaycard hasnt 
upheld Mr Ls section  75 claim under the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
background
Mr L is unhappy with the cost and quality of workmanship  carried out by a locksmith  who 
attended his home when  he was locked out. Mr L was charged £1111.20 in total for the 
work. Mr L says he never agreed to this sum and, in addition,  the locksmith  caused 
unnecessary damage to his property and the work  wasnt of a reasonable standard.
Mr Ls section 75 claim wasnt upheld by Barclaycard. Unhappy with this, he referred the 
matter to our service. 
Whilst the case was with our service,  Barclaycard  made Mr L an offer.  They agreed to refund 
him £765.20. This amount  was made  up of  
-£1111.20 (the amount  Mr L had been charged by the locksmith),  less
-£550 (the original  disputed fixed amount), plus
-£204 (this being remedial work  costs)
 
An adjudicator thought  this was a fair offer. But Mr L didnt. He asked that the matter be 
passed to an ombudsman for review. Mr L has since sent further submissions  to our service 
for consideration. In particular I note it has been stressed that the figure of £550  was not 
quoted or agreed for the work. And that the cost of replacing the locks was a consequential 
loss arising from the breach of contract that had occurred with the locksmith. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Im satisfied that Mr L meets the criteria  for bringing  a valid section 75 claim. I think  the 
locksmith made a misrepresentation and that Barclaycard should be held liable for this. I find 
Mr Ls (and Ms Ms) testimony to be persuasive. I dont think  they would have gone ahead  
with all of this if theyd  have known the amount Mr L would  subsequently be charged.  
On reviewing all the evidence I think it likely that the locksmith told Mr L that he would 
charge £300 to do the job. I then think Mr L was quoted £250 for replacing  the Chubb  locks 
that the locksmith  would have to drill out in order to open the door. I think  it would be 
reasonable for Mr L to think the whole  job would therefore cost £550. Mr L is adamant  that 
no reference to VAT,  extra labour charges or costs per lock were mentioned to him.  
Just like the adjudicator  I cant  hold Barclaycard  responsible for the fact that Mr L then chose 
to get another locksmith out to replace any of the locks theyd just had installed. I appreciate 
the reasons why he says he did this. But Barclaycard cant be held liable for this. And just 
because another  locksmith has since quoted  less for the same job, this doesnt  mean  thats 
what Mr L should have  been quoted too. Section 75 claims dont deal with price variation.
Overall I consider the offer Barclaycard  has now made to be fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. I am however concerned  by the length of time it took Barclaycard to make 
Ref: DRN83695912this sensible offer. I therefore think Barclaycard  should pay Mr L an additional sum of £100  
as recognition for the distress  and inconvenience  he has experienced in this case.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Barclays Bank UK PLC t/a Barclaycard 
should  
1.Pay Mr L the sum of £765.20; and 
2.Pay Mr L a further sum of £100  for the distress  and inconvenience he has 
experienced in this matter. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M, on behalf of 
Mr L, to accept or reject my decision before 18 April 2020.
Robyn McNamee
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8369591