K821x#15complaint
Mr Q complains that TSB Bank plc misspelt his name on his credit card account.  He said this 
negatively impacted on his credit  score and caused him to have to delay his application for a 
mortgage.
background
Mr Q opened a credit card account  with TSB in 2010. On 18 June 2018 he complained to 
TSB that his surname  hadnt been  spelt correctly on its records and he said hed already  
notified the bank of this issue in 2015. So he said his name  shouldve  been corrected three 
years ago. And he said, when he complained in 2018, he had to contact TSB on a number of 
occasions to ask it to change  his name.
Mr Q wasnt happy with what  had happened  and complained to our service. He told us that 
he wasnt able to apply  for a mortgage as a result of his surname being spelt incorrectly. He 
said this was because  his TSB account  didnt appear on his credit  file, which negatively 
impacted on his credit score because he had no other credit or bank accounts. 
When Mr Q brought his complaint to us TSB still hadnt corrected the spelling of his 
surname. Our adjudicator  looked into this and thought TSB hadnt acted fairly. They  thought 
that it should compensate Mr Q in the sum of £300 for his distress and inconvenience, which 
TSB agreed  to pay. But Mr Q thought  TSB should  pay more  given  what  had happened and 
the stress  and upset  this had caused him. So, the complaints  now been referred to me for a 
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
overall conclusion  as the adjudicator for broadly the same reasons. I fully understand that 
this has been  a frustrating and inconvenient time for Mr Q, but I hope he can understand the 
reasons behind my decision.
It hasnt been  possible to establish how and why Mr Qs name came to be spelt incorrectly.  I 
think its unlikely that that Mr Q wouldve misspelt his own surname when he opened his 
account with TSB.  But, the crux of this complaint is about whether TSB acted  fairly  and 
reasonably once it was aware of this mistake  and whether the compensation its already 
agreed to pay Mr Q is fair and reasonable. 
Mr Q told us he complained about his name  being misspelt  in 2015 when he visited  a branch  
and that TSB failed  to update his records or request proof of the correct spelling of his name  
 such as his passport.  But TSB said it had no record of Mr Qs complaint in 2015  and the 
first time it was aware Mr Qs surname had been  misspelt was when he complained  in June 
2018.
Where there is a disagreement about  what happened,  as there is here,  I have to base my 
decision on what I think is more likely to have happened in the circumstances, on balance  of 
the evidence available. So, Ive given careful consideration to what is being said here.
I understand that after Mr Q says he complained  in 2015, he received  statements and 
correspondence from TSB, which wouldve shown the spelling of his name still hadnt been  
Ref: DRN88946982corrected. And I think it wouldve been  reasonable for him to raise this issue  again  with TSB 
afterwards  and certainly  before he made his complaint in June 2018. I can see that Mr Q 
proactively referred  his complaint to our service within two months of his complaint to TSB in 
June 2018. Theres  no sign that he took similar action in 2015, so in the absence  of any 
evidence to show this I think, on balance, that the first time TSB became aware of the 
problem was when  Mr Q complained in June  2018. 
Ive then thought about  whether  TSB acted proactively  in trying to resolve matters after this 
date. From the evidence  Ive seen, I dont think it did. I say this because Mr Qs name  was 
still spelt incorrectly when he referred his complaint to us even though it had already been 
aware of this issue for two months. And I havent seen any explanation from TSB as to why it 
delayed correcting the spelling of his surname.  
After Mr Q complained to TSB in June 2018,  Ive seen he made at least  four telephone calls 
to request that it correct the spelling of his surname because it still hadnt  been changed. I 
dont think he shouldve  needed to chase TSB to do this when hed already made  a 
complaint. Prior to 26 September  2018, TSB still hadnt corrected the spelling of Mr Qs 
surname. It said in order to do so it would need  to see a copy  of his passport. But it couldve 
asked him to produce his passport in June, once it was aware  of the problem. This would  
have been sensible  and reasonable. I say this because,  having  seen Mr Qs passport, Im 
satisfied that any ambiguity  regarding the spelling of his surname couldve been quickly  
clarified. And this wouldve resolved Mr Qs complaint and enabled  him to move on with the 
situation.
The problem with Mr Qs name being  wrong on his account was that it meant this account  
wasnt showing on his credit file.  Im pleased to see that, as of 26 September  2018,  TSB 
corrected Mr Qs name on his credit card account. And I can see that TSB contacted  credit  
reference agencies  on 1 October  2018  to inform them that Mr Qs credit file should be 
amended with the correct information.  So, Mr Qs credit card account should  now show  on 
any credit  report  thats obtained in his name.
Ive carefully considered  what impact the misspelling  of Mr Qs surname had on him. I can 
understand Mr Qs reluctance to apply for a mortgage while  this issue was outstanding. His 
credit file shows that the relevant agency classed his credit  score as fair.  But it doesnt 
show any other open, active credit accounts to allow lenders to see how he managed an 
account. So I think it was reasonable  for Mr Q to want  to have his TSB account showing,  as 
it wouldve  been likely to improve  his score.  
I cant say for sure how TSB reporting  the account  wouldve  impacted on this score. The 
factors a lender will consider for such an important form of lending  are complex and credit 
information like this is only one such factor.  But Im satisfied that had TSB amended his 
name when  it should and reported this on his credit  file, Mr Q wouldve been able to make 
his application  sooner.  And he couldve done so without the worry of having an application 
declined because of this mistake and the further  impact  this might have on him.
Our adjudicator suggested TSB should pay Mr Q £300 compensation for the impact  this 
mistake had. TSB agreed  to pay that amount  to Mr Q. But its clear Mr Q doesnt think this 
adequately reflects  his inconvenience  and experience.
Its my role to consider what impact the banks actions have had on the consumer and to 
decide, within guidelines set by our service, how much would be appropriate in the 
circumstances. 
Ref: DRN88946983I realise how frustrating and stressful this must have been for Mr Q and that he spent a 
significant of time in asking TSB to correct his surname. I also understand that, instead  of 
being able to purchase a property, Mr Q continued  to rent his home  while TSB was 
correcting the mistake. This issue was time sensitive to him. And it mustve been 
disappointing that he had to bring  his complaint to our service to try and get this resolved. 
But, while I acknowledge Mr Qs strength of feelings  about this matter, I cant know  for sure 
that he wouldve  been approved for a mortgage purely because of the issue with this 
account here. So, I agree with the adjudicator  that £300 is a fair award that recognises  the 
trouble, frustration and upset this mistake caused  him. So I wont  be ordering TSB to pay 
any more. 
my final decision
My final decision is I uphold  Mr Qs complaint in that TSB Bank  plc should pay Mr Q £300. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Q to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 April 2019.
Julie Robertson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8894698