K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs E complain  that they were mis-sold a reviewable whole of life policy by an 
adviser from Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) in 1989.  
background
Mr and Mrs E first complained to L&G in February  2019. This was following notification from 
L&G that their policy  had failed a performance  review. Mr and Mrs E said this had given 
them cause to revisit the sale of the policy in 1989.  They didnt recall being  advised about 
any of the features of the policy and didnt feel it was appropriate for them  given it was 
subject to reviews.  
L&G rejected the complaint that same month. It said during Mr and Mrs Es meeting with the 
adviser, he asked them  questions about  their circumstances and filled in an application 
based on the answers they gave. He also gave them a policy  booklet and illustration. L&G 
says the policy booklet explained  the nature of the plan including the policy  reviews,  both for 
indexation and performance reasons. 
L&G said that if Mr and Mrs E had been  unhappy with what  they were sold,  they could have 
cancelled  at any time.  
Finally, L&G explained  that as Mr and Mrs E age, the cost of their life cover will increase, 
and this could  be one of the reasons why their premium is now insufficient  to maintain the 
policys sum assured.   
Mr and Mrs E remained unhappy and brought their complaint to this service. They said they 
had paid significantly more premiums than their policy  was now worth, and this wasnt 
explained to them at the outset. They are now considering surrendering  their policy.
They also made other points to one of our call handlers when furthering their complaint, 
including explaining that the recent  review would increase their policy premiums by 100% or 
significantly reduce  their sum assured and they found this unacceptable. Mr and Mrs E said 
that they were  passed to an adviser  proposing  they take out the policy shortly after having 
agreed to take out an endowment savings policy to protect their mortgage  which  
essentially duplicated life cover.  
The investigator noted that L&G had not been able to supply any information whatsoever 
from the time the policy was sold. He therefore  disagreed that Mr and Mrs E were  presented  
with relevant information in 1989  to understand that the policy was reviewable. 
Further, he did not think the sale of the policy was suitable for them.  He noted  Mr and Mrs E 
had no identified need for a whole of life policy given  their existing provisions and 
circumstances. He therefore believed the policy premiums  ought to be returned to Mr and 
Mrs E from the outset, with interest.   
Mr and Mrs E accepted the investigators findings. However, L&G disagreed and supplied 
some information from the time of the sale in 1989, including  the policy  application. It said 
that application showed Mr and Mrs E had sought  cover for family protection,  whereas their 
recent endowment  savings policy had been taken out for mortgage protection.  Further, L&G 
said in the event Mr or Mrs E were to pass away, the survivor would be reliant on one 
income. 
Ref: DRN87082062Our investigator disagreed and said he still felt the complaint should be upheld. He said that 
at the time of the sale Mr and Mrs E were newly married with their only documented liability 
being a mortgage, which he agreed the endowment savings policy was designed to protect. 
But he saw no identified  need for further  life cover  for family  protection when Mr and Mrs E 
did not have any dependents.  
He also said he could  not understand how recommending  a reviewable whole of life policy  
with a sum assured of £105,000 was appropriate  to cover the deceaseds half of the bills, 
should either Mr or Mrs E have passed  away.   
L&G asked for the complaint to be passed  to an ombudsman.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the outcome 
reached by our investigator with marginally different  reasoning. I consider this complaint 
ought to be upheld.
L&G has supplied a policy  brochure  that it says was issued to Mr and Mrs E at the time of 
the sale. It has also argued that while  holding the policy, Mr and Mrs E would or should have 
known about the reviewable nature of the policy, because the performance reviews  were 
undertaken every five years from 1999  onwards.   
I do accept L&Gs point  about the reviews.  The brochure I have seen does go into clear 
detail about the reviews,  noting how your  level of protection and your premium will be 
reviewed by Legal & General on the 10th policy anniversary. At each review, Legal & General 
will make an assessment of the level of guaranteed life cover  which  can be sustained  given 
the current premiumshould it prove necessary the premium or the level of cover can be 
varied following  a Plan Review.  This may happen  if the past rate of unit growth has differed 
from that assumed  at the previous review or policy inception or of if the charges for mortality 
and expenses have  similarly varied  from those previously assumed .  
I havent seen  any suggestion that Mr and Mrs E were not given  the policy documentation in 
1989. I would therefore expect that they may have been aware of the reviewable nature of 
the policy, either from the outset or once reviews were undertaken from 1999  onwards. But 
that alone does not mean the policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs E in the first place.  
L&G has not been able to supply any evidence that the adviser  completed  a suitability report  
or gave  any type of advice or documentation to Mr and Mrs E which  explained why (in his 
view) a whole of life policy was appropriate  for their circumstances at the time of the sale. It 
has pointed to a box on the application form which has been  ticked  (presumably by the 
adviser) stating the policy was for family protection. But, that form simply required that one 
of three  boxes should be ticked as a reason for completing the application, with the other two 
being business  and inheritance tax options.   
I have not seen any clear  or objective evidence  as to the reason for L&Gs  advice in 1989. 
The adviser has not set out why this policy was appropriate for Mr and Mrs E. To the 
contrary, there does  not seem to be any reasonable prompt as to the cause for the 
recommendation  Mr and Mrs E were a young  couple without dependents, and they had 
recently taken out life assurance through an endowment  savings policy alongside their 
Ref: DRN87082063mortgage lending.  
I agree  with our investigator that a whole of life policy does not appear to be a suitable  
recommendation to protect the income  of the sole survivor should  one of Mr or Mrs E have 
passed away. There does  not appear to be any record of Mr and Mrs Es needs whereby a 
whole of life policy would  have been an appropriate  suggestion to meet  any stated aim. And, 
L&G has not been able to supply any such evidence.  Overall, I do not believe the 
recommendation was suitable in the circumstances.  
putting matters right 
L&G must calculate a refund of all the premiums Mr and Mrs E have paid from the policys  
inception to the date this decision is accepted (if it is accepted by Mr and Mrs E within  the 
timescale set out below). 
Interest should  be added  at gross rate of 8% simple per annum from 1 April 1993  and 15% 
per year before that date.  If L&G considers it is legally obliged to deduct income tax from the 
interest paid, it should issue  a tax deduction certificate with the payment. Mr and Mrs E may 
be able to reclaim the tax paid from HM Revenue and Customs,  if applicable.
From the total calculation,  L&G is entitled  to deduct the policys surrender value, as at the 
date of acceptance. It should  then pay the balance to Mr and Mrs E.  
Mr and Mrs E can decide whether to continue with the policy, noting that it remains 
reviewable, and the premiums and sum assured arent guaranteed beyond  each 
performance review. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  that Mr and Mrs Es whole of life policy  was mis-sold,  since I have 
seen no demonstrable  evidence that it was suitable for their circumstances at the time of the 
sale. Legal and General  Assurance Society  Limited  must pay Mr and Mrs E the total of the 
redress calculation I have  set out above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 August  2020. 
Jo Storey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8708206