K822xcomplaint
Mr R complains that U K Insurance Limited  (UKI) has poorly  handled a claim he made 
under his buildings insurance policy.
background 
Mr Rs initial  claim  to UKI was in 2009.  Since  then our service has considered a number of 
complaints related to this claim up until the events of 26 June 2017   the date UKI had 
issued its final response letter.  
Within the last decision issued by our service (November 2018), we considered  the quality of 
repairs carried out, the service provided by UKI and its agents, delays, and what  should be 
covered under the policy alongside compensation. As these matters  were discussed in detail  
and have already  been  the subject of a decision, I wont repeat the full history  of the claim 
and will simply  focus on the issues at hand. 
In 2018 UKI issued  a cheque to Mr R in the name  of his late wife. Mr R complained  and UKI 
apologised for this mistake, it re-issued the cheque and awarded him £150  in compensation. 
Mr R was also unhappy UKI deducted  tax from this payment to him. UKI said it gave him the 
details needed  to reclaim  this from HM Revenue and Customs (HMRC) should he want  to.
Mr R asked UKI to pay £10,000  in costs to an independent engineer  (IE)  handling  the 
claim. In July 2017 IE contacted UKI to request payment for works completed  which  UKI 
settled. Within this request IE highlighted there were snagging works still due to be 
completed. Following  Mr Rs complaint UKI spoke to IE who said there  still were  snagging 
issues, including screed on a garage floor and a blocked gulley. IE said the contractors were 
handling this and would correct the works  at no additional cost to Mr R or UKI.
Mr R said that during the ongoing works, the front of his home  couldnt  be repaved with block 
work until other repairs were completed.  And as a result, the soft ballast from the unfinished 
blockwork led to damage to the carpets  inside his home. UKI considered  this and agreed to 
pay for costs  related  to moving furniture, transport for a cleaner and the cleaning  costs 
themselves. Mr R said this carpet  cleaning  wasnt successful and asked UKI to cover  the 
cost of new carpets, which it refused.
Mr R also said he damaged his vacuum while removing ballast and sand from his carpets. 
UKI said it wouldnt pay these costs as it didnt cover consequential losses  and highlighted 
the item had been used against the manufacturers operating instructions. In addition,  Mr R 
said UKI had caused further delays since the last decision was issued.  He highlighted that 
his garage flooring was laid five times due to poor workmanship and there had been 
problems with his downstairs wash  basin.  And he said these mistakes had impacted his 
ability to use his home as he shouldve been able to, including  his garage and conservatory 
for a considerably length of time.
Our investigator looked into what happened. She said:
UKIs offer of £150 was fair and reasonable for its mistake related to the cheque.
Mr Rs concerns about UKIs tax deduction  was for him to take up with HMRC.
UKI didnt have to provide £10,000 to the independent engineer as hed said there 
were no further costs required.
Ref: DRN80129172Mr R hadnt provided evidence to UKI demonstrating the carpets  needed to be 
replaced, so in light the policy  terms,  she wasnt  persuaded its refusal  at that time 
was unreasonable.
Mr R had used his vacuum to clean  sand and ballast for two years prior to it 
breaking. In light of this, she wasnt persuaded there was enough evidence to show  it 
had only stopped functioning due to this type of use, and that it had been used for 
purposes it wasnt designed for.
UKI hadnt monitored the claim properly between  July 2017 to February  2019  as it 
had passed control of the resolution to the independent engineer. But during this time 
mistakes were  made in relation to snagging issues, and these mistakes  prolonged 
things for Mr R. And had it remained involved this might  have improved things. So 
she awarded a further £650 for the impact of these  delays and issues.
UKI agreed,  but Mr R didnt. Ive summarised his response below.
 
Mr R provided  comments  from a carpet  retailer that said showed hed gone  to great 
lengths to clean the carpets but there  was permanent damage in sections due to the 
sand and ballast  damage.
Mr R said hed raised concerns about the sand  and ballast ruining his vacuum  in 
December 2016, and following this rubber matting had been laid until February 2018 
when it was taken  up without notice. And this resulted in further damage to the carpet 
and vacuum. He also said he had used the item in line with the manufacturers 
recommendations.
The delays laying  the garage  floor led to him having to store tools off site, and 
prevented him from enjoying the property in full until its resolution in May 2019. So he 
asked for further compensation.
He didnt understand why UKI had deducted  tax from a previous settlement.
Our investigator looked again but didnt change her mind. She said:
UKI had installed rubber matting  following  Mr Rs initial concerns in 2016  and this 
had been in place until all of the works  were  completed, with an exception in 
February 2018 when  it was removed then reinstalled. UKI had said its builders had 
finished most of the work  at this time. 
Mr R had said at that time his neighbour had brought ballast into the home while  he 
was away so he asked  for the matting  to be reinstalled, which UKI agreed to despite 
saying it didnt think this was necessary.  
Overall she felt UKI had taken reasonable steps to prevent damage  to the carpets,  
highlighting its contractors hadnt completed  works  within  the property, and while  the 
matting had removed for a short period, it didnt seem this period alone  was the 
cause for the level of damage complained about.
Household appliances can become damaged  over time due to normal  use, and she 
wasnt persuaded there was evidence to support this was UKIs responsibility  for the 
damage to the vacuum.
And she reconsidered the impact of the delays, but was still satisfied £650 
compensation was a fair sum of compensation in the circumstances.
She explained she wasnt able to comment on the settlement of a previous 
complaint. But in any case,  it seemed  he could  re-coup  this tax from HMRC.
Ref: DRN80129173Mr R accepted part of the investigators findings,  but said he still disagreed with her thoughts 
in relation to the damage to his carpets, his broken vacuum cleaner and the tax deducted on 
the previous settlement. So the complaint  has been passed to me for an ombudsmans  final 
decision. Mr R has been clear on what aspects he would like me to consider, so it is only 
these points I will address  within this decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
outcome as our investigator for broadly  the same reasons.  Ill explain why.
damaged carpets
Mr R has said overall he feels UKI acted unreasonably by not providing continuous safe and 
clean access to their property particularly taking into account  the circumstances of him and 
his late wife, who sadly passed away in April 2017.
So Ive considered the steps UKI took to protect Mr Rs home  from any damage. Firstly Ive 
noted that UKIs builders had no access to Mr Rs home as the works didnt require this. So 
any damage caused to the carpets was not caused directly  by UKI or its agents, and 
wouldve been brought into the property by Mr R or someone else with access  to the home.
Mr R first raised  concerns  about  the carpet  in December 2016. Following this it provided 
rubber matting to prevent ballast being brought into the home. This seems reasonable to me.
UKI removed these mats around February 2018  as it said they were no longer necessary. 
But after Mr R disagreed,  UKI paid £887.12 to have mats reinstalled to protect the carpets.  
And it did so, despite saying it didnt feel this was necessary and that the wiping of footwear 
on a doormat wouldve  been sufficient to prevent any damage to the carpet. This suggests to 
me UKI had considered  Mr Rs concerns and circumstances, and although it didnt agree this 
step was necessary it had agreed  to it at a cost to itself. 
Ive reviewed the photos provided by Mr R, and its clear there  are large  patches  of 
discolouration across  the lounge and hallway carpet. And while  there may be instances this 
damage was caused outside of Mr Rs control  such as his neighbour visiting the home  
while he was away  I dont think it would be fair to extend this liability to UKI as it wasnt its 
representatives that caused it.
Mr R has provided a quote from a carpet retailer. Its agent says Mr R has gone  to great 
lengths to clean the carpets, but as these attempts werent successful  it recommended the 
carpets were  replaced. I have no reason to doubt  Mr R has gone  to great lengths to clean 
the carpet,  but this simply doesnt persuade me that UKI didnt take reasonable steps to 
prevent damage  to his property in the first place.
In summary,  UKI provided rubber matting  for Mr Rs home the majority of the claim, its own 
representatives werent present inside the property so hadnt  caused the damage 
themselves, and it had agreed to cleaning costs  and further matting even  where it didnt 
believe this was necessary. Taking  this into account,  Im satisfied  UKI has acted fairly and 
reasonable and Im not asking it to replace  or cover the cost of any replacement  carpets.
Ref: DRN80129174Vacuum 
Mr R has said he used his vacuum to minimise the damage to his carpets. And it seems he 
was aware using it may damage the device. As Ive outlined above, Im satisfied UKI met its 
obligations to protect  the property by providing rubber mats as it did. And Im not persuaded 
its fair to hold UKI responsible for the damage  caused to the carpets.  So it follows that I 
dont think UKI is responsible for the steps Mr R took to clean  the carpets using his vacuum, 
which he says broke  the device. As a result  Im not asking it to cover  any associated  costs.
tax deduction  on settlement
Mr R has questioned UKIs decision to deduct tax from a settlement awarded from a 
previous decision.  In doing so hes suggested  UKI didnt comply with the decision as the 
ombudsman intended.  If a business doesnt comply with an ombudsmans final decision a 
consumer can enforce the decision  in court. This doesnt mean  going  over the same merit 
issues that have  been considered, instead  it means a consumer can take our legally binding 
decision to a court enforcement office  and ask for it to be treated as if it had been  issued  by 
that court or office. 
The process is similar to enforcing  a judgment where the case has been heard in court. So if 
Mr R still feels  the previous decision hasnt been complied with, this is his avenue  of 
resolution. And for this reason, its not a subject I can consider as part of this complaint. 
my final decision
For the above reasons Im upholding this complaint,  and U K Insurance Limited must:
pay Mr R £650 in compensation.
UKI must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which  we tell it Mr R accepts  
my final decision. If it pays later than this it must  also pay interest on the compensation from 
the date of my final decision  to the date of payment  at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 September  2020.
Jack Baldry
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8012917