K820x#14Complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1998. Mr R says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold him the PPI. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Mr Rs credit card application had a section  for extra products, one of which was PPI. It 
offered a box he could  mark  if he wanted the policy, or which  could be left blank if he 
didnt want it. The box for PPI was marked and Mr R signed  the application to confirm his 
choices. So I think that Halifax  made  it clear  Mr R didnt have to take out PPI and that he 
chose to take it  though I can understand if he no longer recalls doing so after so long. 
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr R, so it had to check  that the policy  was right for him 
 and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example, it looks like Mr R was eligible  for the policy and wasnt significantly affected by 
any of the main things  it didnt  cover.  And so far as hes told us, Mr R doesnt seem to 
have had any other protection in place.  So it looks  like the PPI couldve been useful for 
him in his circumstances.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr R about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But he chose  to take out the policy - so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. As I said above, it doesnt look like he was significantly affected  by any of the 
exclusions to or limits  on the PPI, and it could have been  useful for Mr R in case 
something went wrong. And so I dont think better information  about the PPI would have 
put him off taking  out the cover.  
This means  Halifax doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr R.
But Halifax  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr R because: 
Halifax got a high level of commission and profit share (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have  told Mr R about  that. Because  Halifax  didnt tell him, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Halifax has paid back the amount of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN80905562My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc (trading as Halifax) does not have 
to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr R.
But Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) does have to pay back  to Mr R any commission  
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has 
already done this, so I dont award  any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 October  2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8090556