K822xcomplaint
Mr M says RAC Insurance Limited provided  poor service under  a motor breakdown policy  he 
had through his bank account. Mr M is represented by his wife, Mrs S.
background 
The familys car was involved in an accident  on 25 June 2017 whilst  Mr M, Mrs S and their 
children were abroad. They  went to their hotel and called RAC for assistance  that evening.  
They wanted  a hire car. RAC told them hire couldnt  be arranged until their car was taken to 
a garage, in line with the policys  terms and conditions.  RAC also said there may be a 
problem finding  hire at all, as Mr M and Mrs S planned  to travel to another country by car. 
On 26 June 2017 at around  9am Mr M and Mrs S and their family were  at a garage when 
RAC told them it may have found  a hire car for them. RAC said it was checking  whether the 
car could  be taken across  the border. At around 10.30am,  Mr M and Mrs S told RAC the 
garage had offered them a car. Shortly afterwards,  the garage  withdrew  its offer when it 
found the car was to be driven into another country. RAC suggested that it might  be a better  
option for Mr M, Mrs S and their family to fly to their destination. They  declined  the offer of 
alternative transport. They  thought  it wasnt suitable as they had a lot of luggage. 
At around 1.30pm RACs agent  said it had arranged for a taxi to take Mr M and Mrs S back  
to their hotel from the garage. It also said a hire car had been arranged and would be 
delivered there. Mr M and Mrs S called several  times to say the taxi hadnt arrived.  RAC  
chased its agent but the family had to wait for several hours  at the garage.  RACs agent later 
said that it had contacted  several hire firms, but hire wasnt possible for Mr M and Mrs S. 
RAC told Mr M and Mrs S the news at around  4.30pm. It arranged for them to stay in a hotel 
near the airport and started to look into flights for the family.  RAC told Mr M and Mrs S at 
around 9pm that flights were booked.  As it couldnt provide a reference number for them, 
Mr M and Mrs S didnt have confidence  in the plans.  In fact RACs agent  had made  an error, 
so Mr M and Mrs S booked the flights themselves the next morning. They  flew to their 
destination, got a hire car for nine days and flew back  to collect the repaired car. RAC paid 
all the costs they asked for, but Mr M and Mrs S werent happy that it only offered £75 for 
poor service.    
RAC said the problem  with car hire was outside its control and it had offered alternatives  
early on. It accepted  there was confusion  over flights, hence the £75 compensation. Mr M 
and Mrs S still werent satisfied with that. 
Our adjudicator thought RAC had handled  the claim reasonably and that the compensation it 
offered was fair, based  on the issues that were  within its control. As there was no 
agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review. I issued a provisional  decision 
upholding the complaint,  as follows:
I think the claims notes show that RAC did all it could to try to find a car-hire  firm that was 
willing to allow a car to be driven  over the border to Mr M and Mrs Ss destination. RAC said 
from the outset that any potential  hire car it found would have to be checked to ensure it 
could be driven  into another country. When its agent  said a car was available on 
26 June 2017,  RAC  told Mr M and Mrs S, but warned them it was still checking  the cross-
border issue. The garage also offered  them a car, but withdrew  it due to the same  issue. 
RAC offered flights to Mr M and Mrs S at that point,  but they wouldnt accept that option.
Ref: DRN84822262RACs agent continued to look for suitable  car hire. An hour later, Mr M and Mrs S asked 
about progress.  RAC  again suggested  flights or travelling by train as better alternatives.  But 
Mr M and Mrs S were insistent on hire. RACs agent  told it that one hire firm had agreed  to 
provide a car at around 1.30pm, but shortly after 2pm the agent confirmed that none of the 
four hire firms it had tried would allow a car to cross  the border. Thats  what RAC had 
suspected from the start and had warned Mr M and Mrs S about. I dont think  RAC could 
have done more than it did. The issue was outside  its control  - and it offered valid options.
In terms of the flight arrangements, from the claims notes it seems RAC  was misled by its 
agent and initially  thought  the flights had been  reserved.  The agent later told RAC that 
wasnt possible, as the reservations had to be made by a person travelling and paying by 
credit card. I think it must have been  very worrying for Mr M and Mrs S to find on the 
morning of the day they were due to travel  that the flights hadnt been  reserved after all. I 
also think it must have been  very difficult for Mr M and Mrs S to have to stay at the garage  
much longer  than expected, especially with their young children, and in hot weather. RAC 
noted in its final response letter to Mr M that he had raised this as an issue, but it didnt refer 
to it again. The £75 it offered was just for the inconvenience with the flight  arrangements.
The claims notes show that RACs agent was asked to arrange  a taxi for Mr M and his family  
at 1.30pm on 26 June  2018. At 2.33pm RAC asked its agent to arrange another taxi, as 
Mr M had by then complained that the first one hadnt arrived. At 2.40pm RACs agent  said 
the taxi hadnt yet been booked. RAC  asked  it to do so as a matter of urgency. Yet at 
3.13pm Mr M had to call again to say there was still no sign of a taxi. When  RAC contacted  
the agent yet again, it said a taxi had never been  arranged. I think a wait of well over two 
hours for a taxi would have been  very frustrating  as well as inconvenient for Mr M and Mrs S.  
In my opinion, its likely that the lack of confidence  in RAC or its agent  that was generated by 
what happened with the taxi was compounded  by the further confusion about the flight 
bookings. On the details I have to date, it isnt clear  why RAC didnt think compensation was 
payable for a situation that Mr M and Mrs S clearly found difficult to cope  with. When we 
asked RAC  about  it, it said it assumed the claims handler had put more  emphasis on the 
problem with the flights than the one with the taxi, on the basis  that it caused more  
inconvenience for Mr M and Mrs S. 
From the comments made  by Mr M and Mrs S I think  both incidents caused them distress 
and inconvenience.  I think the situation  with the taxi should have been  addressed,  given its 
impact on Mr M and his family.
Taking everything into account,  although  I dont think RAC acted unreasonably in relation  to 
the hire car, or in the way it handled  the claim in general, I think  it should  pay Mr M £150 
compensation in total for the trouble and upset caused by the problems with the taxi and the 
flight bookings.   
I asked the parties  to comment on my provisional view. RAC accepted it. Neither Mr M nor 
Mrs S made any comment.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ref: DRN84822263As RAC accepted my provisional findings,  and Mr M and Mrs S didnt comment, I dont think 
theres any reason  to depart  from them.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require RAC Insurance  Limited to pay Mr M 
a further £75 (making £150 in total) for distress  and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 July 2019.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8482226