K821x#15complaint
Mr W complains that British Gas Insurance Limited  damaged his boiler  while trying to repair  
it under  a home emergency insurance  policy.
background
The Financial Ombudsman  Service deals with complaints against insurance companies and 
other regulated financial firms.
Mr W had an EnergyExtra 50 agreement. It covered (in addition  to home electrics, plumbing 
and drainage) repairs to Mr Ws central heating system. In return  for a monthly fee, Mr W 
had the benefits of urgent access to an engineer  and of paying only a fixed fee for every 
completed repair. Ive seen a renewal letter dated August 2017. It refers  to an excess level 
of £50.00. So I think that was the fixed fee.
Mr W provided us with a British Gas document about the Homecare range. It lists insurance 
products  including  EnergyExtra 50. And it says British Gas Insurance  Limited  underwrites 
all such products. British Gas has agreed with us that EnergyExtra 50 is an insurance 
product.
Mr W complained  that  while trying to replace  the flue hood in mid-December  British  Gas 
damaged his boiler beyond repair. He was without central heating and hot water for about 
six weeks before he paid an independent engineer  to install a new boiler.  Mr W also got that 
engineers report  on the condition of the old boiler.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought  that, 
regardless of how the British Gas engineer approached the task, it was probable  the 
outcome would be that a replacement boiler  was required.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr W 
and to British  Gas on 9 January 2019. I summarise my findings:
The boiler was an old one. And one of the photographs shows  serious rust. So the 
independent engineers opinion about the damage to the boiler (in particular the 
rivets of its casing) isnt enough  to persuade me that the British Gas engineer  fell 
below a reasonable standard  of care and skill. I preferred  the evidence  of British Gas 
that its engineer  had to apply force to the flue hood- and the chassis  failed due to age 
and corrosion.
Therefore I didnt hold British Gas responsible for what followed  however 
uncomfortable and inconvenient that was for Mr W.
Mr W is complaining  that British Gas should  refund what he paid on about 
8 December. He refers to this as a call-out fee. But I think  its the same as the fixed  
fee for every completed repair referred  to in the agreement and the excess level 
referred to in the renewal letter. So I found  it likely that Mr W paid £50.00.
Ref: DRN82676252I didnt think British Gas did a completed repair. And it hasnt said it has refunded 
Mr W. So I thought that  unless it did refund him - British Gas should refund Mr W 
£50.00  with interest  at our usual  rate.
Subject to any further information from Mr W or from British  Gas, my provisional decision 
was that I was minded to uphold this complaint  in part. I was minded to direct British Gas 
Insurance Limited to pay Mr W:
1.£50.00 in refund of his payment on about  8 December 2017; and
2. simple interest on that amount at a yearly rate of 8% from that date until the date 
of its refund. If British  Gas considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs 
to withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr W how much  its taken 
off. It should also give Mr W a tax deduction  certificate if he asks for one, so he 
can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Mr W disagreed  with the provisional decision.  He says that the British  Gas engineer didnt 
use the required skill and care whilst replacing the flue. And any independent  boiler engineer 
would say nothing  should be used to leverage against the heat exchanger  fans.
British Gas hasnt  responded to the provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
British Gas has said Mr Ws boiler  was over 30 years old. He has said it was over 15 years  
old. Whichever is more correct, it was an old boiler.
In December 2017, Mr W called for help because the boiler was making more noise than 
usual. So I think the boiler was working.
I hold British Gas responsible for the actions of the engineer who visited  Mr W in 
December 2017.  And its common  ground  that he didnt fix the boiler but left it not working.
Ive read the independent report. Its dated  February 2018 but refers  to an inspection  in late 
December 2017.  It includes the following:
... It is my professional opinion that the damage  to the boiler  was caused by brute 
force of a kind that I would associate  with actions either meant  to break  a boiler of the 
wall in as little time as possible or an attempt to make sure the boiler will never  work  
again.
if a boiler that had simply  failed was taken off the wall and then thrown out of a first 
floor window into a skip, I would expect less damage than what I saw here.
although there was some rust on what used to be the flue hood,  there  was no rust 
of any significance on the actual boiler/boiler frame  that would come anywhere near 
rendering the boiler beyond repair.
The actual damage included the frame  having  been  bent so far out of the original 
shape that the cover could not be fitted back into place.
A number  of rivets holding the boiler  casing together were broken.
Ref: DRN82676253The ignition  assembly  was bent inward/forward as if it had been given a good whack 
with a hammer and if I remember correctly, the burner itself was damaged as well. I 
have worked on many  different boilers and I know very well from experience that 
sometimes it can be very difficult to get certain parts out. How anyone  trying to 
remove a fan can accidentally manage to destroy the ignition is beyond my 
comprehension; the only two options I can see are either wilful destruction or 
incompetence to the extreme. What  I could see of what  was left of this boiler, apart  
from the extensive mechanical damage, was in line of what I would expect for a 
[boiler model] of around that age; used but nothing that would lead me to advise the 
user to start budgeting for a replacement.
So the independent engineer said that there was no significant rust on the boiler frame and 
that  before  the damage  he wouldnt have advised Mr W to start budgeting for a new 
boiler. He said that someone had damaged the boilers ignition, frame and burner by force.
Mr W said the British Gas engineer snapped  the rivets on the chassis some  18 inches below 
the flue hood.
British Gas sent us 3 photographs. After we sent them to Mr W, he added some further 
comments. He says one of the photographs shows that the British Gas engineer  hadnt 
removed the screws  securing the flue hood  to the chassis. Instead, Mr W says, the engineer  
had used something as a lever causing  damage  to the flue hood (which  was going to be 
replaced) and unrepairable damage to the chassis and heat exchanger fins.
But its common ground (and supported by the photographs) that there  was a rust hole in the 
flue hood. So  while it had been  producing heating and hot water - the boiler hadnt been 
working safely. It needed a new flue hood to contain  exhaust gases. Therefore I dont find 
the British Gas engineer at fault for leaving Mr W without  a working boiler  on the first visit on 
about 8 December.
The engineer ordered spare parts and on 12 December  he returned to fit them.  So I dont 
think hed given up on the boiler. He was trying to fix it. In order to do so, he needed to 
remove the old flue hood. Mr Ws independent  engineer didnt say anything  about whether 
the flue hood was attached by screws and /or rust. So I accept British Gass statement  that 
the hood was stuck  on due to rust  so its engineer used force.
Ive looked again at the photographs.  And I dont agree with Mr W that they show that the 
British Gas engineer  had used something  as a lever causing damage to the chassis and 
heat exchanger fins.
Ive found the boiler was an old one. And one of the photographs shows serious rust. So the 
independent engineers opinion about the damage to the boiler (in particular the rivets of its 
casing) isnt enough to persuade me that the British Gas engineer fell below a reasonable 
standard of care and skill. I prefer the evidence  of British Gas that its engineer had to apply 
force to the flue hood- and the chassis failed due to age and corrosion.
Therefore I dont hold British Gas responsible for what followed  however uncomfortable 
and inconvenient that was for Mr W. He complained to British Gas.  From  what  Mr W says,  
he was away from home  towards the end of December. British Gas turned  down his 
complaint and Mr W got the independent  engineer to visit.
It then took him until mid-January to get a new boiler installed. I dont find British Gas 
responsible for any of the time Mr W was without a working boiler. So I dont find it fair and 
Ref: DRN82676254reasonable to order British Gas to pay compensation  for the distress  and inconvenience he 
suffered during that time.  And I dont find it fair and reasonable to order  British Gas to 
contribute anything  towards the cost of Mr Ws new boiler.
But Mr Ws complaint form included the following:
I would also like to be reimbursed the call out fee that was charged when my boiler  
was rendered operational [sic] by one of their employees
I think Mr W is complaining that British Gas should refund what  he paid on about 8 
December 2017.  He refers to this as a call-out fee. But I think its the same as the fixed fee 
for every completed repair referred to in the agreement  and the excess level referred to in 
the renewal letter. So I find it likely  that Mr W paid £50.00.
I dont think British Gas did a completed repair. And it hasnt said it has refunded Mr W. So 
I think that  unless it did refund him - British Gas should refund Mr W £50.00  with interest  
at our usual  rate.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct British Gas Insurance Limited to pay Mr W (unless it has already paid him):
1.£50.00 in refund of his payment on about  8 December 2017; and
2.simple interest on that amount at a yearly rate of 8% from that date until the date 
of its refund. If British  Gas considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs 
to withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr W how much  its taken 
off. It should also give Mr W a tax deduction  certificate if he asks for one, so he 
can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 March 2019.
Christopher Gilbert
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8267625