K821x#15complaint
Ms D was involved  in a road traffic  accident on 3 November 2018, which was her fault. 
Kindertons Ltd were instructed to deal with the repair  to her van. Ms D has complained about 
the time it took for the van to be repaired, and that Kindertons didnt keep her updated.
background
Ms D runs a courier business  and she insured  her van through  an insurance broker.  After  
the accident Kindertons were instructed  by the insurance broker to manage the repairs  to the 
van. Ms Ds insurance policy didnt  offer her a replacement vehicle, which  meant she wasnt  
able to work while the van was being repaired. Because  Ms D was at fault for the accident, 
she was unable to claim for loss of earnings while the van was off the road.
The van had been collected by a recovery  agent, and there was a delay in it being delivered 
to a garage for repairs. Once the repairs were authorised, there  was a delay in the repairs  
being completed because parts werent available. While the van was at the repairers there 
was also an attempted  break-in, which  caused  damage. This additional damage was 
repaired before  the van was returned. This all meant that Ms D was without her van from 
3 November to 18 December 2018.
Ms D has complained about the length of time she was without her van, and the lack of 
updates she received. Kindertons accepted  they couldve done better, and offered Ms D £50 
compensation for this. Ms D rejected this offer. She is being represented in this complaint by 
Mr S.
This complaint was originally accepted for investigation by the Legal  Ombudsman, but was 
transferred to the Claims Management Ombudsman (a Financial Ombudsman  Service) as 
part of the change in the regulation of claims management companies. The investigation  
was completed by a Claims  Management Ombudsman investigator  under the rules  of the 
Legal Ombudsman. This means that only Kindertons service was considered,  and not what 
the recovery agents or the garage  may or may not have done.
Our investigator found Kindertons hadnt  provided  a reasonable service. He found that, on 
more than one occasion, they hadnt  phoned Ms D back when  promised. He felt they 
couldve provided regular  updates, and this wouldve made Ms D feel she wasnt  being 
forgotten and the situation was being taken seriously. Because of this he recommended  
Kindertons pay Mr D £200 in recognition  of frustration and upset caused by the lack of 
updates.
Mr S disagreed with the investigator. He says Ms D could accept four weeks  for the van to 
be repaired  and returned but the additional 2 weeks is unacceptable and either Kindertons 
or the repair company or both need to compensate  that.  He thinks that a refund of the £750  
excess Ms D paid on the insurance  policy should  be the minimum compensation she 
receives.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ref: DRN89168642Its not disputed  that there was a two-working  day delay  in the van being  sent to the garage.  
This was because the recovery company  werent able to make  the delivery as they were  too 
busy recovering damaged  cars from the roadside,  which they say takes priority. This is an 
issue with the service provided by recovery company and I cant  hold Kindertons  responsible  
for this. 
Its also not disputed  that there was a small delay  in the garage initially looking at the van, 
and a much  longer delay in the repairs taking place. This was because of an issue with the 
parts that were required.  The parts being  unavailable is something Kindertons  had no control 
over, and I cant hold them responsible for any other  delays by the garage.
I appreciate that Mr D wouldve preferred the van be taken to a garage  of her choice to be 
repaired, but this garage  was not approved  by Kindertons / the insurance company. Because 
of this, I think it was reasonable that the van was taken to an approved  repairer, even if this 
meant a few days delay  before any work could be started. I also feel that any problem with 
the parts being unavailable wouldve affected whatever garage was repairing  the van. So I 
dont think the van being repaired at Ms Ds garage  of choice wouldve meant  these delays 
wouldnt have happened.
But Kindertons didnt  chase the repairers for regular updates, and they didnt  tell Ms D what  
was happening as often as they could have. Ms D was reliant upon the van for her income,  
and I understand  that not knowing  when the van would be returned wouldve been  extremely  
stressful for her. Had Kindertons given her regular updates, even if these were that parts  
were still not available, it wouldve made  her feel that Kindertons were  taking  the situation 
seriously and trying  to sort things for her as quickly  as possible. 
Mr S has asked  for an increase in the recommended compensation. I appreciate  the issues  
caused by the van not being available, and the impact this had on Ms Ds income. But the 
insurance policy didnt  allow  for a replacement van while Ms Ds was being  repaired, and if it 
had done this couldve limited the impact of the delays. As Kindertons  werent  involved in the 
sale of the policy,  I cant  say they should be held responsible for this not being  suitable for 
the situation Ms D unfortunately found herself  in. Because of this, I dont think  the 
compensation should be increased and I agree that Kindertons should pay Ms D £200.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I uphold Mr Ds and Mr Ss complaint. Kindertons Ltd 
should pay them £200 to compensate for the frustration and stress caused  by the lack of 
updates.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms D and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 September 2019.
Andrew Burford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8916864