K820x#14complaint
Mr As complaint is about the amount of compensation Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) has 
offered to settle  his complaint about payment protection  insurance  (PPI) that was mis-sold 
with two loans.
background
Mr A took out two loans with BOS and with both he bought PPI policies. In 2017 BOS  upheld 
his complaint that the PPI had been  mis-sold and offered him £2,030.41 in compensation. 
Mr A didnt think the compensation offered was fair as he says he had complained many 
years earlier about  the PPI and as BOS didnt  pay him the compensation earlier he got into 
financial difficulties. So he thinks he should  get some additional compensation for the time 
he had to wait before BOS agreed to settle his complaint  and also for the trouble and upset 
he was caused.
When our adjudicator considered the complaint they thought  the offer BOS had made  in 
compensation for these loans was fair. 
Mr A didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
BOS has agreed to uphold Mr As complaint  that the PPI was mis-sold. So Im not looking at 
how the PPI came to be mis-sold. In this decision Im only considering if what BOS  has 
offered in compensation is fair.
Mr A has raised a number  of complaints about his financial  matters  with BOS.  But in this 
decision I am only looking at the compensation due for the mis-sold PPI Mr A had with his 
two loans ending  7644 and 4036.
Mr A took out loan ending 7644 in September 2002 and refinanced  it early  with another loan,  
ending 4036, in July 2003.  With both loans Mr A bought a PPI policy  and the cost of the 
policy was added to the amount Mr A borrowed for each loan. The second loan, 4036, was 
settled early in March 2004.
Mr A hasnt questioned  the amount offered by BOS to repay the costs  of the PPI, but I have 
looked at how BOS worked out the compensation it offered Mr A. It has included all the 
premiums and interest Mr A paid for the PPI when he was making  repayments  and any PPI 
costs that had flowed through  from one loan to the next. This also includes any amount that 
may have  been  included  as part of an early settlement payment. 
BOS has then also added 8% simple interest to compensate Mr A for any time he has been 
out of pocket for the costs  of these PPI policies. This is from the date he made any payment 
to the date of final settlement in 2017.  BOS made its offer to Mr A in April 2017 and sent him 
a cheque which was cashed on 26 April 2017.
Ref: DRN89593772I think how BOS has worked  out the compensation is fair to put Mr A, as far as possible, in 
the position he wouldve been in if he had not bought these two PPI policies.
I have also considered Mr As submissions  as to why he thinks he should  get some  
additional compensation. He had major financial and personal issues, especially between 
the period 2008 and 2011. Mr A has said BOS denied he was owed this PPI for 20 years 
and also that he went to BOS with his complaints about these loans some eight years before 
he was paid the compensation in 2017.
I understand Mr A may have talked  to BOS about  his financial situation some  years before 
he got the compensation for the mis-sold PPI with these loans. But the evidence I have seen 
is that he first complained  about the PPI with these two loans in 2016. 
The loans I am looking  at were taken  out in 2002  and 2003 and were settled by 2004.  It 
seems a few years  later Mr A had financial problems and some  debts  with BOS which were 
sold to a third party.  But the debts sold were  not for these two loans, 7644 and 4036  which  
had the PPI, as these  had both been  settled by March 2004. This was some years before 
any debts were sold by BOS.
The issues  Mr A has raised about  being  chased by third party  debt recovery  firms  are being  
dealt with separately. The mis-sale of the PPI with the two loans I am considering was not 
the cause of that action and not responsible  for any upset Mr A may have been  caused 
because of his debts.
So considering everything I have seen,  I think what BOS  has offered and paid for the mis-
sold PPI with the two loans, 7644  and 4036,  is fair.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  set out above, I think that the compensation Bank of Scotland plc has 
paid to Mr A for the mis-sold PPI with these  two loans is fair and Im not telling it to do 
anything more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 May 2019.
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8959377