K820x#14complaint
Miss W says Bank of Scotland  Plc, trading as Halifax,  (Halifax) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background and summary to complaint
Miss W bought the policy in 2000 at the same time as taking a credit  card.  She applied for 
the card and PPI at a meeting in a branch. Her credit card application form says she was 
employed in administration and had been there  for just over four years. I think  its likely this 
reflects her situation  at the time.
Miss W hasnt been able to tell us what sickness or redundancy benefits she got from her job 
 in what she told us, she recalled a different employment. But from what  else shes told us 
and what I have, I think she was entitled to less than six months  but at least  three months  
sick pay and three  months pay for redundancy.
Miss W has told us she didnt have any other  means with which to pay her credit card if she 
couldnt work. She has also told us of an infection shed had as a child.  She hasnt told us of 
any other, or more  recent, health  issues.
The PPI policy provided cover for disability and unemployment, and also life cover,  subject 
to its exclusions and limitations. For a successful unemployment or disability claim, it offered 
to pay 10% of Miss Ws card balance. The life cover would, subject to its terms,  clear  the 
balance on death.  Halifax says the policy cost 78p per £100 of the monthly outstanding 
balance. The premium  attracted interest and had to continue  being paid during a successful 
claim.
Halifax has sent us evidence to show that the credit  card account closed in 2007.
Miss Ws representative has made  lengthy  and substantial representations on her behalf. I 
will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In summary, 
Miss Ws representative says:
Halifax failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should be presumed Miss W wouldnt have taken 
the policy and the complaint should  be upheld.  Miss Ws representatives  believe there to 
be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a successful 
claim meant  the policy was of inherently poor value  as shown by the low claims ratio. 
The common law duty of utmost  good faith means  Halifax  should have told Miss W about 
the poor value;
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Halifax  should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Miss W and the impact they 
would have had on her chances of making a claim;  and
Ref: DRN81339822The information Miss W received was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had a chance to 
give their responses to the adjudicators  opinion.  Miss W disagreed  with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been  
passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account: relevant 
law and regulations;  relevant  regulators  rules,  guidance and standards; relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Miss Ws. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Ws complaint.
This sale took place  in 2000 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So the FSAs and the FCAs overarching principles 
for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) are not applicable to this 
complaint; nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2007. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgement in Plevin about 
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgement, arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at the time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Halifax, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for all 
intermediaries (Including Employees of Insurance Companies)  other  than Registered 
Insurance Brokers   The ABI Code.  
Ref: DRN81339823The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct Marketing/ 
Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Halifax at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take these codes into account 
when deciding, what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Miss Ws 
case.
I have also taken account of relevant law in reaching  my decision, including: the law relating 
to negligence, misrepresentation and contract (including the express and implied  duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   the Office of the Banking Ombudsman  in this 
case  might have been expected to reach in relation to an equivalent complaint. I note that 
under the Banking Ombudsmans  terms of reference the Ombudsman was required to 
decide complaints  by reference to what was, in his opinion, fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances  and that the Ombudsman was required  to observe any applicable rule of 
law or relevant judicial  authority. 
I am also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first 
issued by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating to the 
sale of PPI. This sale took place before insurance mediation became a regulated  activity,  so 
Halifax was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Miss Ws complaint.  
key questions  
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Halifax gave advice,  whether it advised  Miss W with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs and 
circumstances. 
-Whether Halifax gave Miss W sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to enable her 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take the policy,  including  drawing to her 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions 
of the policy  and significant limitations  and exclusions. 
Ref: DRN81339824-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Miss W, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Miss W suffered loss or damage  
and what I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Miss W and 
Halifax, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ws complaint.  Ive set out my reasoning  below. 
did Miss W know she had a choice?
Halifax had to make it clear the PPI was optional. The credit card application  form had a box 
to mark if PPI was wanted.  On Miss Ws form, this box is marked. Like other details of her 
application, the mark is printed. Miss W took the card and PPI at a meeting. I think  its likely  
the mark in the box reflects the outcome of a discussion she had with Halifax at the meeting 
before the form was printed for her to sign. Above the PPI box and an unmarked box for a 
different product, the form says:  If you want these services please  mark the relevant boxes. 
I think it is apparent that if PPI wasnt wanted, the box for it should  be left unmarked.  Taking  
everything into account I think its more likely Miss W knew the policy  was optional.
Miss W has told us she felt pressured into taking the policy. But I havent seen anything  else 
to make me think this. I expect that Halifax wouldve said positive things about the cover  and 
encouraged Miss W to take it. Ive thought carefully  about whether Miss Ws recollections 
are enough  to show that Halifax  likely  went further  and pressured her. I give what  she recalls 
some weight, but it isnt very detailed and I bear in mind also that Miss W set it out over 15 
years after the sale.  On balance what I have isnt enough to make me think  Halifax  likely  
pressured Miss W. Taking everything  into account  I think its more likely she agreed to take 
the PPI without undue pressure.
did Halifax provide advice?
Both Halifax and Miss W agree that advice  was provided during this sale. This means 
Halifax had to advise  Miss W with reasonable care and skill, in particular whether the policy  
was appropriate  or suitable given her needs and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps Halifax took to establish  whether the policy was a suitable 
recommendation for Miss W. There is no record of what the adviser  discussed  in relation to 
the policy. This is unsurprising in respect of a sale during a meeting. The adviser had some 
limited information about  Miss Ws financial circumstances, but there is no specific  evidence 
to show the adviser  took steps to establish  whether Miss W would have been caught by the 
significant exclusions and limitations which might have meant  the policy did not fully meet 
her needs.  For example,  there is nothing to suggest  Halifax considered whether Miss W had 
any pre-existing medical conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded that Halifax did all it should  have 
done to determine whether the policy was suitable for Miss W given her circumstances. So 
Im not persuaded Halifax advised  with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Halifax did all it should have done to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Miss W, I do think its more likely than not that the policy was ultimately suitable 
for her. In reaching  that conclusion Ive taken  into consideration:
Ref: DRN81339825-Miss W met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Although Miss W says she was financially stretched  at the time,  Ive seen nothing else to 
suggest the monthly cost of the PPI wasnt affordable at the time she took it.
-Miss W had a need for the policy  it seems  likely her ability  to continue  to meet her 
credit card repayments would have  been put under strain if she was not working  for an 
extended period  of time  even  allowing for the sickness and redundancy benefits I think  
she would have  been entitled to.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Miss W. There  was 
nothing about  her employment  or occupation which would have made  it difficult  for her to 
claim. Miss W has told us of an infection shed had as a child.  But theres  nothing  to 
suggest this or anything related  to it had caused her problems since  or had ever led her 
to take any time off work  - and Ive nothing to persuade me Miss W had reason to think  
this might change in future. There were  also no additional restrictions on cover for mental  
health or back problems.
-While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 months for each claim for 
disability or unemployment, it still provided useful cover given Miss Ws circumstances.
the information
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Halifax gave Miss W sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable her to understand what  Halifax 
was recommending to her and make an informed decision  about  whether to follow that 
advice and take the policy.
Im satisfied its more likely than not Miss W was given  a very broad description of what  the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is, that the policy would protect her card payments in the 
event she was unable  to work through disability or unemployment). Ive reached this 
conclusion because I think  Miss W would  have been told this  at the very least   during the 
discussion with the adviser. I think its unlikely Miss W would have taken the policy without 
any sense of what the policy was. 
Im also satisfied Miss W would have realised the policy wasnt free and its likely she would 
have had some understanding of how much the policy cost before  agreeing  to take it.
But the evidence  from the time of the sale doesnt  tell us whether Halifax  gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost (the fact that the premiums  
would be added to the account balance, attracting interest if unpaid  at the end of the month, 
and were payable  during  a claim) or about  the exclusions  and limitations, before Miss W 
agreed to take the policy. 
Even if that information  were in a leaflet  or policy summary Miss W might have been given, I 
think its more likely  than not that she based her decision on the things she was told, rather 
than on anything she was given.
Ref: DRN81339826Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Miss W, Im not persuaded Halifax did 
enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a way that was fair 
and reasonable to Miss W. Im not persuaded that Halifax  gave Miss W all of the information 
she needed about the policy to make an informed decision about whether to follow  the 
recommendation and take the policy.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded that there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Miss Ws representative has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Miss Ws. 
Ive considered these  carefully and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have explained 
the low claims  ratio  what Miss Ws representative  considers to be poor value  and 
the fact that much of the premium went to the business rather than the insurer.  
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just told 
Miss W about  the limitations and exclusions,  it should have  gone  further  and explained 
the significance  of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Miss Ws representatives views on this. The duty of utmost  good  faith 
in insurance law imposed  a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material facts and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Miss W has suggested. And taking  into account  the law, industry  codes and standards  
of good industry  practice applicable to this complaint, I dont think  its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Halifax ought to have  done  either. 
what effect did Halifaxs  shortcomings  have  on Miss  W? To what extent did Miss  W 
suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that Halifax  didnt do all it should  have done when it sold this policy  to Miss W. So 
I have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Miss W 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Miss W 
would have still taken  the policy, had Halifax done  things  properly.  
While Im not persuaded that Halifax took the steps it should have done  to establish whether 
the policy it recommended was suitable  for Miss W, I have found that the policy  was 
ultimately suitable for her.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Miss W has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if Halifax  had explained things properly, 
Miss W wouldve acted differently, or whether she would have taken the policy  in any event.
Miss W says she would not have taken  it and believes  that I should  presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. I have considered  the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Ref: DRN81339827Deciding whether  to follow advice to take insurance  requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Miss W had some interest in taking payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when Halifax advised her there was a suitable  product 
she could buy that would  protect her credit card payments in the event she was unable  to 
work because of accident, sickness or unemployment, she concluded she wanted that 
product. But she made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning what  she 
thought she was getting is not exactly what she got.
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Miss Ws circumstances at the 
time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. 
In relation to the costs, Im satisfied Miss W ought  reasonably to have known she would  
have to pay something for the PPI and that it would cover a portion  of her outstanding 
balance. But, I accept  that Halifax didnt make clear  the on-going cost information.  So while 
Miss W didnt know some  things, the ultimate  position in the event of a successful claim was 
not dissimilar to what she would reasonably  have  thought from the information she based 
her decision  to take the policy  on and found  acceptable. 
Possibly the most significant differences between what Miss W thought  she had bought  and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to any health  issue  Miss W knew  or shouldve  known 
about or for which  shed received advice or treatment from a medical practitioner in the 
12 months before the policy start;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Miss W 
wasnt a permanent employee; and
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Miss W be stopped 
from doing her own job, or any similar  job, and also stopped from doing any paid work  
her experience, education or training reasonably qualified  her to do.
I do accept there is a possibility that the limitations  or exclusions above might well have  
caused Miss W pause for thought  and may well have caused  her to conclude  the policy 
wasnt as good  as she thought and she might have decided not to proceed. The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Miss W from taking  the policy.
But, the evidence  about Miss Ws circumstances at the time of sale shows the policy  wasnt  
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. She was eligible for its benefits and it provided 
cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to her should  the 
insured risks have  become a reality. The policy wouldnt  have covered time off work related 
to the health issue shed  had as a child. But theres nothing  to suggest that issue or anything 
related to it had caused her problems since or ever caused her to take time off work. Im not 
persuaded Miss W had reason to think  this might change in future. Bearing all this in mind, I 
dont think better information  about  this exclusion would have put Miss W off the PPI. And I 
havent seen any evidence to suggest  she wouldve  been caught by any of the other  
significant exclusions. So I think she still had some good reasons to take the policy.
Ref: DRN81339828The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions, or place  any additional 
restrictions or more onerous  evidential  requirements in the event of a claim on those 
grounds than would have applied to any other  disability claim. And I think its unlikely Miss W 
would have expected to make a disability claim on the policy  without first providing some 
evidence to support  that claim.  
If Miss W had known  she could only claim for disability if she were not only stopped from 
doing her own job, or any similar job, but also any paid work her experience,  education or 
training reasonably qualified her to do, it might have played into her thinking about what  to 
do. And I accept it may have given her pause for thought  although given Miss Ws 
circumstances, on balance, I think she would  have still been interested in taking the cover.
Having considered all the evidence and arguments in this case,  I consider  it more likely than 
not Miss W would still have taken the PPI. The policy was sufficiently close  to what  she 
thought she was getting and I think it couldve provided a useful benefit in a difficult  time - 
notwithstanding her employment benefits, and taking into account  her lack of other  means. 
And in those circumstances I consider it more likely than not that she would have taken the 
policy in any event.  
Miss Ws representatives say the rules about  how to handle PPI complaints (DISP  App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption. 
They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
I have thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, I have found  it would be reasonable to conclude  there  
were substantial flaws  in the sales  process.  In those  circumstances, DISP App 3 says it 
should be presumed Miss W would not have bought the PPI she bought unless, in the 
particular circumstances  of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption. 
I am satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude  the presumption  is rebutted 
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Miss Ws 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Miss W 
found herself in as a result of the sale was the same position  she would have been in had 
the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Miss W believes the presumption may only be rebutted  when the flaws in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments.  
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Miss W in the position she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policy.  
Ref: DRN81339829That is because,  while I accept its possible Miss W wouldnt have taken the policy,  Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that she would  still have taken 
the PPI had she been given clear, fair and not misleading information about  the policy she 
was buying. So Im not persuaded  it would be fair and reasonable in those  circumstances, to 
conclude Halifax should pay Miss W compensation, as that would put her in a better position 
than she would have  been in if everything had happened as it should have done.
Im also aware that Miss W thinks Halifax misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Halifaxs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why Halifax  
failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in the 
information it provided  but because the overall  information Halifax gave Miss W, in the way 
it did, was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to 
have met in 2000 when providing information about  an insurance policy.
Ive also thought about the approach Miss Ws representative says a court might take if it 
were to find Halifax negligently misrepresented the contract to Miss W and about  the remedy  
a court  might award if it were to find that Halifax had been  in breach of its duty of utmost 
good faith. But this doesnt persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint   including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out, I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Miss W in a better position than if everything had 
happened as it should have done.
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 December 2019.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8133982