K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains on behalf of and in his capacity as a director of a limited company K that 
HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt  correctly follow the instructions provided when making a payment. 
He also doesnt  think HSBC did enough  to prevent  K from becoming the victims of a scam.
For ease of reading, Ill mostly only refer to Mr M where I mean K or their staff.
background
The detailed background to this complaint  is well known to both parties, so Ill only provide 
an overview of the key events here.  On 29 May 2018 Mr M sent a payment for £24,000 via 
online banking from Ks account with HSBC.  The payment was intended  to settle an invoice 
Mr M had received from another business that Ill refer to as B.
However, shortly after the payment had been  sent,  it transpired  that the email purporting  to 
be from B, had actually been  sent by a scammer.  The scammer had inserted their own 
account details  into the invoice. So when Mr M made the payment, the money went  to the 
scammer, rather  than to B as he intended.  
On 30 May 2018 Mr M called HSBC to report that the payment had been  sent as a result of 
a scam. HSBC contacted the beneficiary  bank shortly after being  made  aware of this. The 
beneficiary bank  later recovered  and returned around £5,000 to Mr M. But this still left him 
with around a £19,000 loss as he was still being  pursued by B for settlement of the invoice. 
Mr M complained; he accepts he authorised the payment,  but he pointed out that HSBC  
didnt send it to where  he asked. He says the account name on the account that received the 
payment wasnt that of B, and so HSBC ought  to have held the payment and queried this at 
the time.  He believes HSBC failed to safeguard his finances and holds them liable  for the 
outstanding amount. 
HSBC said that there was no error  on their part and declined to reimburse any money.  The 
matter was referred to our service and one of our investigators didnt think the complaint 
should be upheld.  She didnt think HSBC  could reasonably have been expected to have 
intervened in the payment. She didnt consider it to be unusual  for the account in question. 
She also wasnt persuaded  that even if HSBC  had intervened that it would have made  a 
difference. Mr M disagrees and has asked for an ombudsman  to review his complaint. 
Another of our investigators also shared  with Mr M that the requirement to check  the name 
on an account (Confirmation of Payee or COP) was something that had recently been 
introduced. But as this wasnt  a requirement at the time the payment was made, he didnt 
think it made a difference to whether the complaint  should be upheld. He also pointed  out 
that the relevant regulations from that time deem  a payment to have  been  correctly executed 
if it has gone to the account number and sort code provided. 
Mr M still disagrees and so the complaint  has come  to me to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN83682722In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules,  guidance  and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  what I consider to be good industry practice  at the
time.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected  to process  payments
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  them to make, in accordance with the terms and
conditions of the customers account.  And I have taken that into account when deciding  what
is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story:
-the law recognises  that a bank may be liable  to its customer if it makes a payment in 
circumstances where  it has reasonable grounds  (although not necessarily proof)  for 
believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate  the funds  of 
its customer (known as the Quincecare  duty); and
-regulated firms  like HSBC are also required to conduct their business with due skill, 
care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to the 
interests of its customers (Principle  6). 
In addition, as a matter  of good industry practice, I consider firms should in any event have 
taken proactive steps to:
identify and assist  vulnerable consumers  and consumers in vulnerable  
circumstances, including  those at risk of financial  exploitation (something recognised  
by the FCA in recent years and by the British Bankers Associations February 2016 
report improving outcomes for customers in vulnerable circumstances); 
look to identify and help prevent transactions - particularly unusual or out of character 
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam (something also 
recognised by the British Standards Institutes October 2017  Protecting Customers 
from Financial  harm  as a result of fraud  or financial abuse  Code of Practice, which 
a number of banks and trade associations were involved in the development of). 
This means  that, particularly with the increase of sophisticated fraud and scams  in recent 
years, there are circumstances where a bank should  fairly and reasonably  take additional 
steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment.  Or in some cases decline to 
make a payment  altogether, to help protect  customers from the possibility  of financial harm.
I think it would be helpful to first address Mr Ms point about the name  of the account being 
checked. Section  90 of The Payment  Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs) says:  
(1) Where  a payment order is executed in accordance with the unique identifiers, the 
payment order is deemed to have been  correctly  executed by each payment service provider 
involved in executing the payment order with respect to the payee  specified by unique  
identifier. 
(5) Where  the payment service user provides information additional to that specified in 
regulation 43(2)(a)  the payment service provider  is liable only for the execution of payment 
transactions in accordance with the unique identifier provided by the payment service  user.
Ref: DRN83682723The impact  of this is that the payment was correctly processed if it went  to the account 
number and sort code  instructed by Mr M. At the time, there  was no regulatory  requirement 
to check the beneficiary  name. So, even if the beneficiary account holders name didnt 
match that of B (which  Mr M provided), I cant fairly say that HSBC didnt follow  his 
instruction when they sent the payment  to the sort code and account  number  specified.  I 
appreciate that the introduction of COP has increased the security of this type of transaction.  
But there was no requirement for this to be in place when the payment was made. 
Mr M has argued that irrespective of the change with regard to COP, HSBCs systems were  
insufficient at the time and therefore  theyre  liable. Ive thought  about  this, but I dont agree. It 
wouldnt have been possible  for one bank  to introduce a COP system  on their own.  Co-
operation is required  between the sending  and receiving bank to verify the account name. I 
cant fairly criticise HSBC for failing to introduce  this sooner. So whilst Im sympathetic to the 
difficult position this puts Mr M in, I cant fairly  say that HSBC  did anything  wrong  when 
sending the payment to the account  code and sort number specified.  
Ill next consider  whether HSBC had any reason  to intervene in the payment,  or if they 
reasonably could have identified that it might be being instructed as a result  of a scam or 
fraud. It isnt in dispute that Mr M went online and gave his instructions to send £24,000 from 
Ks account to the details provided  in the email.  So, in line with what  Ive said above,  the 
starting point is that HSBC should follow that instruction unless there are objective reasons  
why they ought to have had concerns that Mr M might be at risk of financial harm.  
Whilst £24,000 is a large  sum of money, Ive considered whether or not the instruction to pay 
this amount represented unusual or suspicious activity in relation to the account. What can 
be considered  unusual clearly requires reference to the common  activity on an account. Ive 
looked back at the bank  statements as far as April 2017 to assess this. Ks account is a 
business account and typically maintained a very healthy balance.  It wasnt  unusual  for the 
account to have a credit  balance in excess of £100,000.
It also wasnt uncommon for large payments  to be made from the account. In the months 
prior to the scam, several of these payments were for between £20,000 and £50,000. I 
appreciate that the £24,000 was sent to a new payee and that the online payments Im 
referring to are likely  to have been to existing payees. But even taking that into account, I 
cant fairly say that the payment instruction Mr M provided ought  to have stood out as 
unusual, out of character or suspicious. I couldnt reasonably expect HSBC to intervene  in 
these circumstances.  And as Mr M didnt  speak to or interact  with HSBCs staff at the time of 
the payment,  I cant see that HSBC missed an opportunity  to identify the payment was being 
made in relation to a scam.
As Ive explained, Id expect HSBC to be on the lookout for any out of character or unusual  
transactions and to be alert to circumstances where  their customer might  be at risk of 
financial harm. Indeed, HSBC and all banks have  regulatory  obligations  to do so. But at the 
same time, HSBC cant be involved in every  transaction. In the circumstances of this 
complaint, I dont think I can fairly criticise HSBC for following Mr Ms instruction and 
processing the payment as I dont think there was anything sufficiently unusual  about it that 
reasonably could have put them on notice that there might be a problem.
Recovery
I can see that HSBC contacted the beneficiary  bank within an hour of the end of the call that 
reported the matter  to them. The beneficiary bank said they had recovered all they could 
from that account  this was later returned  to Mr M. I dont think HSBC did anything that 
Ref: DRN83682724prevented more of the money being recovered.  It sadly appears to be a feature of these 
scams that the funds are very quickly moved  on, to frustrate the efforts  of recovery.
Summary
Im really  sorry  to hear that Mr M has lost a significant amount of money. But overall,  I dont 
think HSBC missed an opportunity to prevent  him from losing money in this way or did 
anything to hinder  the recovery of the funds.
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, my final decision is that I dont  uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 November  2020.
Richard Annandale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8368272