K822xcomplaint
Mr S is unhappy that Lowell Financial Ltd (Lowell) contacted him to chase  him for a debt he 
said didnt belong to him. 
background 
In December 2018 Mr S received a letter from Lowell explaining that he was liable for a debt 
of £730.42 on a catalogue account.
The letter explained that Lowell could provide Mr S with a 75 per cent discount to help him 
pay off the balance of the account.  And it told him the different  ways he could pay it. The 
letter also noted  that if Lowell didnt hear from Mr S it would assess  the next steps needed  
which might  include passing the account to an external collections partner for collections 
activity in relation  to the debt.
Ms S contacted Lowell and explained that he was a victim of fraudulent activity, and the debt 
on the account wasnt his. He said he had not purchased any goods, taken delivery  or 
received any of the goods that were purchased on the account. 
Lowell maintained that the account was Mr S  and said therefore the balance  on it needed 
to be paid by him. It said it was satisfied the account and therefore the money owed on it, 
was his. 
It said the account had been  open for over a year, and the original creditor for the account  
was satisfied there wasnt any fraudulent activity underway in this case. Lowell said the 
original creditor had past interactions with Mr S, including in reference to a dispute about  a 
failed delivery. And it noted the account  in question was registered to Mr S address.
Mr S maintained the account was not his. And he told Lowell this was the case. In 
March 2018 Lowell confirmed it had further looked  into the matter, and had made  the 
decision to close the account the debt was owed on. So, it would not be pursuing Mr S any 
further.
It said that upon carrying our further investigations it had discovered the items purchased 
through the account were  delivered to a different  address. And, the address on the account 
had also changed.  It explained that whilst  this didnt conclusively mean there was fraudulent 
activity on the account, it had been enough information for it to decide not to pursue Mr S for 
the debt, and close the account. It also requested a default registered for this account was 
removed with all credit reference agencies.
Lowell apologised  for any offence it had caused Mr S in communicating  with him about the 
account, and chasing him for this to be paid. But, it said at the time these communications  
had been justified. Mr S remained dissatisfied with Lowells response. So, he referred  his 
complaint to this service  for an independent  review. 
Our investigator considered this complaint and thought it should be upheld. She said Lowell 
should pay Mr S an amount of £100 compensation in this instance. 
Ref: DRN85941412Our investigator thought Lowell had acted  reasonably in initially contacting Mr S about the 
account based on the evidence it had at the time.  But she thought that it could have 
completed its further investigations earlier  than it had, and this would have shown the 
differences in address on the account  that it had later discovered.  She felt taking this action 
earlier would have  meant the account being  closed  earlier,  and Mr S wouldnt have 
experienced the same level of upset and inconvenience that he did.
Lowell agreed  to our investigations opinion and said it would be happy to pay Mr S £100 
compensation. But, Mr S didnt agree.  He felt further compensation should be paid to him for 
the inconvenience and upset the situation had caused. 
Because Mr S didnt  agree  this complaint has been  referred to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided to uphold  
this complaint. Ive explained why below.
Lowell purchased this account and therefore  the amount owed on it in July 2018.  It has said 
it contacted Mr S at the address registered on the catalogue account at that time to explain 
this (this wasnt Mr S address). And it has said it sent further letters to this address chasing  
payment, that went answered and unreturned. 
Because of this it ran a trace in an attempt  to locate the person responsible for the account 
and the address they resided at. It noted this linked the catalogue account with Mr S 
address. And it said when  the account had been  initially set up it had been opened with 
Mr S personal details. Given this information I think at this stage it was reasonable for 
Lowell to contact  Mr S at his address  it found for him to ask for payment of the funds owed. It 
didnt know there was any suggestion the account wasnt Mr S.
Ive also reviewed the letter Mr S initially received from Lowell in December 2018. And whilst 
I can understand Mr S was distressed to receive this document,  Im satisfied the tone of the 
letter was professional. As Lowell sent the letter based on information  it had suggesting  the 
account was Mr S, and the tone of the letter was reasonable, I dont think  it did anything 
incorrectly at this stage.  
But Mr S contacted Lowell on receipt of this letter to say he was the victim of fraudulent 
activity, and explain the account  wasnt his. And I think  it was at this stage Lowell could have 
done more to assist Mr S. 
Our investigator said it was reasonable for Lowell to carry out a full and through  investigation  
at the time Mr S let it know he had been  a victim of fraud. And after Mr S told Lowell that it 
was someone else that must have opened  the account, ordered and taken delivery  for items. 
I agree.
I can see Lowell did look into the issue when Mr S raised his concerns. But, I dont think  its 
investigation was thorough enough.  Lowell told Mr S in January 2019 that it was satisfied  the 
account was Mr S. But I think if it had carried out more thorough investigations  at this point it 
would have noted some  anomalies  with the account. And this would have led it to close  the 
account. 
Ref: DRN85941413Two months  later, in March 2019,  Lowell noted  further investigations had highlighted that 
whilst the account  was opened  with Mr S address details the address was changed  shortly  
after the account opened. And, items were delivered to that address (never  to Mr S home).  
It also said it had become aware  on reviewing Mr S credit file that the address the account 
was changed  to was only linked to Mr S because of this catalogue  account.  There  were  no 
other links to this address  on the credit  file. I think it would have been reasonable for Lowell 
to carry out these investigations in January 2019,  and this would have meant  it took the 
decision to close the account earlier.
Given this, I think Mr S experienced two additional  months of trouble and upset in relation to 
this situation when this could have  been avoided. Lowell has agreed to provide £100  
compensation for this. Mr S doesnt  feel this is fair. He said he had suffered for four months  
whilst this matter was being dealt with. And he said he had to take time off work to deal with 
the situation. So, he felt additional compensation should be paid to him.
Ive thought carefully about this. And whilst I appreciate Mr S had to deal with this matter  
between December 2018 and March 2019 (when Lowell closed the account  and removed  
default marker from Mr S credit file), Im satisfied as above that only two months  of this 
upset and inconvenience was unavoidable. And I think £100 is a fair and reasonable sum of 
compensation to reflect  the inconvenience and upset this caused Mr S at the time. So, I 
require Lowell to pay this sum of compensation to Mr S. 
my final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Lowell Financial 
Ltd to pay Mr S an amount of £100  compensation. 
Lowell Financial Ltd should do this within 28 days of us telling it Mr S accepted  my final 
decision. If it pays it later than this it should  add interest to the compensation at a rate of 8% 
simple per year from the date of my decision to the date it makes payment.1
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 June 2019.
Rachel Woods
ombudsman
1 If Lowell Financial Limited considers that its required  by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off income 
tax from that interest, it should tell Mr S how much its taken off. It should also give Mr S a certificate 
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN8594141