K821x#15Complaint
Ms S has complained that the advice Portafina  LLP gave her to transfer her personal 
pensions into a Self-Invested Personal Pension  (SIPP) and invest  in a range of funds was 
unsuitable.
Background
One of our adjudicators investigated Ms S complaint. He issued his assessment of it on 12 
September 2019. He set out the background and circumstances to the complaint in that 
document. However, in brief, Ms S met with Portafina in 2013.  At the time she had two 
personal pensions  with an estimated total value  of around £15,000. Portafina completed a 
risk profiling exercise which concluded  Ms S had a moderately cautious attitude  to 
investment risk.
Portafina advised Ms S to transfer  the pensions to a SIPP and invest in the following 
manner:
50% - Hypa Raithwaite LP Fund  
20% - Venture Oil Investments Ltd Fund  
7.5% - Kudos Asia Investments Ltd Fund  
7.5% - EOS  Solar  Investments Ltd Fund  
15% - Cash 
Ms S subsequently transferred  her two pensions in April 2013. 
By January 2018 the value of Ms S pension had fallen to just over £1,700.  This was what 
she held in cash  the value of the four funds was less than £1 in total. Ms S, through a 
representative, complained to Portafina. She subsequently referred her complained to us. 
Our adjudicator thought that the complaint should be upheld. He thought  the funds that 
Portafina had recommended presented a greater degree of risk than was suitable  for Ms S. 
He thought Ms S original  pension  had been  invested in a manner that was aligned  to her 
attitude to risk. And Ms S had incurred higher charges as a result of the transfer. Overall, he 
didnt think the advice given to transfer and invest in the funds  recommended  was suitable.
Both Portafina and Ms S accepted the adjudicators  assessment. 
Portafina subsequently went onto offer compensation to Ms S. However  Ms S, through  her 
representative, didnt  accept the offer. It said the offer wasnt in line with the adjudicators 
recommendations. Portafina had said it was unable to take ownership of one of the 
investments that remained in the SIPP and was illiquid   the Hypa  Raithwaite Fund. 
Ms S representative has said it was aware of other  instances where Portafina had taken 
over ownership of the fund. Its said the Hypa Raithwaite investment was registered at 
Portafina's business address. The representative said the SIPP provider had confirmed 
Portafina had taken ownership  in other  cases. And Portafina had said it could take 
ownership in exceptional  circumstances; but not what the exceptional circumstances were.
The adjudicator said he had also contacted the SIPP provider which had said its 
understanding was that Portafina was able to take ownership. And Ms S would theoretically 
have to pay ongoing charges as long as the SIPP remained  open due to the illiquid asset  
Ref: DRN88685412remaining in it. The adjudicator therefore thought Portafina should exercise its power  to take 
ownership of the investment so that Ms S could close the SIPP.
Portafina said it had agreed to pay compensation  as outlined  in the adjudicators  
assessment. But that it wasnt able to buy the Hypa Raithwaite investment in the 
conventional way, and so would have to draft an undertaking for this investment. It said it 
would also cover the five years worth of SIPP charges as recommended by the adjudicator  
if the plan remained  open. It said it had accepted the adjudicators  finding  on both the merits 
of the case and on compensation.
The complaint has therefore been  passed to me to decide. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Portafina has accepted that the advice it gave  Ms S was unsuitable for her circumstances. 
For completeness, I also think it was unsuitable for the same reasons as outlined  by the 
adjudicator. So what remains for me to determine is appropriate compensation.
The compensation recommended by the adjudicator  said, amongst other things:
actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
If, at the end date,  the investment is illiquid  (meaning it cannot  be readily sold on the open
market), it may be difficult  to find the actual value of the investment. So, the actual value
should be assumed  to be nil to arrive  at fair compensation. Portafina LLP should take 
ownership of the illiquid investment by paying a commercial value acceptable to the pension  
provider. This amount  should be deducted  from the compensation  and the balance paid as 
above.
If Portafina is unable  to purchase the investment the actual value should be assumed to be 
nil for the purpose  of calculation. 
Portafina may wish to require that Ms S provides an undertaking to pay it any amount she 
may receive  from the investment in the future.
That undertaking must allow  for any tax and charges  that would be incurred on drawing the
receipt from the pension  plan. Portafina will need to meet any costs  in drawing up the
undertaking. 
So the starting point is that Portafina should buy the investment.  And the evidence suggests  
there is a way that Portafina can buy the investment.  The second part of the methodology for 
compensation says If Portafina is unable to purchase the investment. So this is only relevant 
where its not possible to buy the investment  its not a matter for Portafina to decide which 
it prefers. So if there is a way that Portafina  can buy the investment  it should do so. This is 
the preferred option as it brings finality; there  is no risk of Ms S having to pay on-gong SIPP  
fees after the five years. 
Ref: DRN88685413My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Ms S complaint.
I order Portafina LLP to calculate and pay compensation  to Ms S on the following basis.
fair compensation
In awarding fair compensation, my aim is to put Ms S as close as possible to the position  
she would  probably  now be in if she had been  given suitable advice.
I think Ms S would have  retained her existing  pensions. Therefore, I am satisfied that
what I have set out below is fair and reasonable given Ms S' circumstances  and objectives  
when she invested.
what should  Portafina  LLP do?
To compensate Ms S, Portafina LLP should:
Compare the performance of Ms S' investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the fair value  is greater  than the actual value, there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value , no 
compensation is payable.
Portafina should also pay any interest set out below. If there  is a loss, Portafina LLP should 
pay into Ms S' pension  plan, to increase its value by the amount of the compensation and 
any interest. The payment  should allow for the effect  of charges and any available  tax relief. 
Portafina shouldnt  pay the compensation into the pension  plan if it would conflict  with any 
existing protection  or allowance.
If Portafina isnt able to pay the compensation into Ms S pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to her. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have provided a 
taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to notionally  allow  for any 
income tax that would otherwise have  been paid. The notional  allowance should  be 
calculated using Ms S actual or expected marginal rate of tax at her selected retirement 
age.
I think Ms S is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at her selected retirement age, so the 
reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Ms S would have been able 
to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction  should be applied  to 75% of the compensation.
In addition, Portafina should  pay Ms S £250 for the distress and inconvenience  
caused.
Provide the details of the calculation to Ms S in a clear, simple  format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Portafina considers that its required by
HM Revenue & Customs  to deduct  income tax from that interest, it should tell Ms S
how much  its taken  off. Portafina  should  also give Ms S a tax deduction certificate if
she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN88685414investment  
namestatus Benchmarkfrom
(start date)to
(end 
date)additional 
interest
SIPP still exists The 
performance 
of the two 
original  
personal 
pensionsDate of 
transferDate of 
decision8% simple  a
year from date
of decision to
date of
settlement if
settlement  isnt
made within
28 days  of
Portafina  LLP 
being
notified  of
Ms S
acceptance of
this decision
actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
If, at the end date,  the investment is illiquid  (meaning it cannot  be readily sold on the open
market), it may be difficult  to find the actual value of the investment. So, the actual value
should be assumed  to be nil to arrive  at fair compensation. Portafina LLP should take 
ownership of the illiquid investment by paying a commercial value acceptable to the pension  
provider. This amount  should be deducted  from the compensation  and the balance paid as 
above.
If Portafina is unable  to purchase the investment the actual value should be assumed to be 
nil for the purpose  of calculation. 
Portafina may wish to require that Ms S provides an undertaking to pay it any amount she 
may receive  from the investment in the future.
That undertaking must allow  for any tax and charges  that would be incurred on drawing the
receipt from the pension  plan. Portafina will need to meet any costs  in drawing up the
undertaking.
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a
return using the benchmark.
Any additional sum paid into the investment  should be added to the fair value calculation
from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from
the fair value  at the point  it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue  any return in the
Ref: DRN88685415calculation from that point on. If there  is a large  number of regular payments, to keep
calculations simpler, Ill accept if you total all those  payments and deduct that figure  at the
end instead of deducting periodically.
why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because Ms S existing pensions were invested  in 
line with her attitude to investment risk, and I dont think she would  have transferred 
away from her original  pensions had suitable  advice  been given
SIPP fees
The SIPP only exists because of the recommendation  to transfer the pension.  In order  for
the SIPP to be closed and further  SIPP fees prevented, the investments need  to be
removed. But if Portafina cant buy them  Ms S is faced with future SIPP fees.  I think it is fair 
to assume five years  of future SIPP fees. So, if Portafina cant  buy the investments, it should 
pay an amount equal  to five years of SIPP fees based on the current tariff. This is in addition 
to the compensation calculated using a nil value for the investment.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 December  2020.
David Ashley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8868541