K821x#15complaint
Ms M complains that Blantyre Credit Union Limited failed to collect  her direct debit payments 
for her loan, placed  her account  in arrears, and adversely affected her credit  rating. Shes  
also concerned  that the affordability checks carried out before she was given  the loan may 
not have been appropriate.  
background
In January 2018 Ms M took out a £5,001  loan at 9.02% p.a. interest from Blantyre,  repayable 
over 34 months with 33 payments of £170 and a final payment of £62.09. On 18 January she 
completed the paperwork for the loan repayments to be taken by direct  debit  (DD).
The first two loan payments, due in February  and March 2018, were  unable to be taken by 
direct debit. After discussion with Blantyre, Ms M completed another direct debit instruction 
on 26 March as requested. That again failed to operate. 
On 23 May 2018, after two more payments had not been taken  under  the direct  debit,  credit  
control at Blantyre spoke  with Ms M about the outstanding payments. Blantyre says that it 
asked Ms M to confirm  her bank details for the DD to check  they were correct,  and they 
were. Blantyre said that the DD had been  taking the payments and then reversing them.  
Blantyre asked Ms M to check  if the funds for the payments were still sitting  in her account.  It 
then suggested  that the payments be taken by standing order going forward;  that arrears  
were reported to a credit  reference agency; and that an arrangement would need to be put in 
place to get her caught up as it may have an effect on her future  borrowing. 
On 31 May 2018 Ms M complained to Blantyre about the service shed received since  taking 
out the loan. The complaint was prompted  by the call on 23 May. She said it had failed to 
collect the payments  by direct debit as agreed,  and hadnt fixed this despite several 
attempts. Shed completed a new DD as requested. She said there was no mention then that 
the account was in arrears, that she had to repay  an amount, or that her credit file could be 
impacted. Even after that, she said she didnt receive any calls regarding arrears.  And at that 
time she had the money.
But shed since used  it to pay her now ex-partner and to clear other bills. She says she did 
this under the impression shed be starting her payments a few months later than expected 
due to what Blantyre  had admitted was its error. She said there was no evidence that 
Blantyre had set up the direct  debit. Her bank  had said the issue  with the DD was Blantyres 
error and she could provide a letter confirming that.
Ms M said shed spoken to the Blantyre agent  a second time and the representative had said 
it would  be investigated  but all shed received was a letter  enclosing  a standing  order  form, 
which didnt mention arrears. She also said she had concerns about Blantyres affordability 
checks  she wanted an explanation of why it had asked for her partners income and 
whether that affected the amount it would lend.  
She wanted the arrears removed from her account  and credit  file. She said it would be fine if 
the payments  were  moved forward, i.e. the loan rescheduled, but otherwise she wanted 
them written-off. She also wanted an apology  and compensation  for distress and 
inconvenience. She added that if the loan payments couldnt be collected by direct  debit  she 
wanted the balance to be written-off. 
Ref: DRN85499282The same day, Blantyre acknowledged her complaint by email and said that her loan would 
need to be re-scheduled, but as thered been  a change in her circumstances shed be 
emailed an income and expenditure form to complete.  Once that was done, Blantyre said it 
could arrange  the re-schedule. 
The change in circumstances was a reference to the fact that in her complaint Ms M had 
said shed taken out the loan when there  were  two incomes coming  in, but since then shed 
split with her partner, and she was now having  to cover all the bills in full as well as the loan 
payments. Ms M had said that this was already causing her stress and financial difficulty, 
without the added issues Blantyre had created. 
On 1 June 2018 Blantyre  wrote to Ms M saying it had been in contact a number of times to 
discuss her outstanding balance. It asked her for proof  of income and any other information 
to support the reason  for non-payment. It said once it had that information, it would come  to 
a revised agreement suitable for both parties.  It also said it could  now accept debit card 
payments over the phone,  if that would be easier  for Ms M. 
On 4 June Blantyre provided  what  it called an update on Ms Ms complaint.  It explained what  
was intended  by the call on 23 May, and offered an apology  for any upset caused. It also 
said it couldnt understand what the issue was with the DD. An income  and expenditure form 
was enclosed with a request to return it within 7 days. It said that as a not-for-profit 
organisation it didnt pay compensation and it hoped that its sincere apology  was enough to 
settle the matter.  
On 11 June Ms M responded to Blantyres email of 31 May. She wanted more detail about 
what the income and expenditure would  be used for and wanted the opportunity to decline 
any changes to the credit agreement  before they were made. Ms M also said she was 
seeking compensation regardless  of the fact Blantyre  was a non-profit  organisation. 
Blantyre replied the same day. It explained  the income and expenditure information would be 
used to assess affordability. It said it had asked her to complete the form because shed said 
shed separated from her partner and this had reduced her income. It also said it didnt think 
any compensation was due because  members had a responsibility to comply  with their credit  
agreements, which Ms M hadnt done.
Blantyre noted  Ms M had mentioned the financial ombudsman service  and encouraged her 
to come here if she felt it wasnt handling  her complaint satisfactorily. It also urged her to visit 
her branch  to discuss her credit agreement and arrears.  This was necessary because  it 
couldnt be done by email  and Ms M had said she didnt want to be called. 
Ms M emailed Blantyre on 20 June. She said that she wasnt able to identify  what  outcome 
Blantyre was proposing or whether it had issued its final response  to her complaint. She set 
out issues which she said remained unanswered. She objected to the tone of the letter of 11 
June, and said the letter of 4 June  basically repeated back  what had been said.  Ms M set out 
her concerns  about the use of the income  and expenditure  form, the affordability  checks,  
and the process  going forward. She said that:
All I actually  want from you is to either write  off my arrears and collect my direct debit as 
usual going forwards  or reschedule my payments, as though  they were only due to start next 
month. If my situation gets any worse and I cant afford the agreed repayment,  I will of 
course contact you. 
Ref: DRN85499283She said shed already  brought  her complaint to us but would  rather avoid the time that 
would take if Blantyre could offer something she was happy with. 
On the same  day we received Ms Ms complaint. 
On 22 June Blantyre  sent a lengthy response to Ms M which endeavoured  to address the 
questions raised  in her letter of 20 June. Among other things, Blantyre  said it wouldnt write-
off the arrears and that if she wanted the loan rescheduled Ms M would need to complete 
the income and expenditure  forms sent to her. Blantyre also said it wouldnt remove the 
adverse reports from her credit  file. 
In July our investigator  emailed Ms M to say that Blantyre had agreed to suspend interest 
and payments on the loan until our service issued  its findings. 
In late August 2018 our investigator gave  her view on the complaint. She didnt think  
Blantyre needed  to do anything in relation to the arrears or the adverse credit reports. But 
she did think that it couldve  done  some things better, so she said it should pay Ms M £100  
compensation for stress  caused and £10 to reimburse her for a letter she obtained from her 
bank in relation  to the direct debit.  
Ms M thought her complaint hadnt been understood correctly.  She said she hadnt  said she 
definitely couldnt afford the repayments on the loan. The context for her asking that the 
arrears be written-off was if Blantyre couldnt resolve the issues  with the direct  debit.  She 
said Blantyre hadnt been clear with her about what  it would do with her income and 
expenditure information. She didnt want a new loan. She repeated  that she wasnt able to 
repay the arrears  in a lump sum and she didnt think it was fair that her credit  report had 
been affected. She also didnt agree with our investigators comments in a number of other 
respects. Finally, she asked that Blantyre continue to hold her account whilst matters  were 
resolved.
It seems  Blantyre  accepted our investigators  view, as in September  it sent a cheque for 
£110 to Ms M. Its not clear to me if that cheque has been cashed.  In early  October  2018,  
our investigator gave a further view on the complaint. She said she now understood that Ms 
Ms concern  was with the ability to afford the arrears repayment on top of the monthly  
repayments. But she still thought it wasnt unreasonable of Blantyre to want  to see details of 
her income and expenditure before it decided what it could do. And she didnt think that that 
she could fairly ask Blantyre to remove adverse  information from Ms Ms credit file if she 
wasnt in a position to bring  the loan payments  up to date in a reasonable time. 
Our investigator still thought that Ms M had a responsibility to ask about the missed 
payments, even though Blantyre also should  have  explained to her that they should be 
brought up to date.  
Our investigator said she couldnt  say how the arrears should be dealt with. She also said it 
wasnt possible to know if the issue with the direct  debit had been resolved until a successful 
payment attempt had been made,  which might  be for the full amount  due since  the loan 
commenced. And even  if the DD issue hasnt been  resolved,  she couldnt ask Blantyre to 
write-off the loan as there were other reasonable ways to make the monthly payments.
Ms M wasnt happy with the second view.  And she thought that it was completely unfair that 
further missed payments  were being recorded on her credit file whilst the account  was on 
hold. She asked that we tell Blantyre to start taking payments  again.  But for reasons Im 
Ref: DRN85499284unaware of, we asked  it to continue not to seek payments, which it agreed to do. She 
advised Ms M of this, and no objection to this was received. 
The complaint then came to me for an ombudsmans  decision. At my request, our 
investigator asked both Ms M and Blantyre to provide some further information.
On 21 March 2019 I issued a provisional decision.  My findings were:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Having done so, I propose  to uphold Ms Ms complaint, and tell the credit  union to 
reschedule the loan in its entirety  and remove any adverse information  from Ms Ms credit  
files. But Im not going to tell Blantyre that Ms M must be allowed to pay by direct debit, as 
Blantyre is unable to ensure this is possible.
But before I do that, Id like to say that its taken  longer than Id like to issue this decision,  
and Im sorry for that. And Id also like to reassure both Ms M and Blantyre that Ive read all 
the information on the file, even if I dont refer to it in this decision. Ill only refer to what I 
think is relevant for me to resolve the complaint. 
I also wont be dealing with our investigators findings in any detail because these arent 
relevant to my own findings. This is because I consider the complaint  afresh,  with fresh  eyes. 
This is the purpose  of the ombudsman stage of our process. So Im not bound by anything 
our investigator has said in her views.  
There are a number of separate, but inter-related issues in this complaint. Ill deal with each 
of them  in turn. 
the Direct  Debit
At the time the complaint came  to our service in June  2018, four payments under the loan 
had not been made  because two successive direct  debits had not been successfully taken 
This appears  to be because, for whatever reason, Ms Ms bank either  didnt receive the 
direct debit request  from Blantyre, or there was some deficiency with it. This is supported  by 
the letter Ms M provided from her bank that states that the four payments Blantyre tried to 
claim under the direct debits were rejected with the reason no instruction. 
Blantyre has made  general  enquiries  with Ms Ms bank to try to ascertain what the process 
should be with direct debits generally.  But it says its unable to ask about the specific direct  
debit. As it is Ms Ms account, Ive no reason to think  this is incorrect,  as I wouldnt expect a 
bank to discuss customer information with a third party.
But theres also nothing  to suggest that there was any action or inaction on Ms Ms part that 
caused the direct debit  not to be taken.  She did what she was asked to do by Blantyre. 
Blantyre says it cant be expected to be responsible if a direct debit mandate  is lost  all it 
can do is forward it to the bank. Its not clear to me that in this case  the direct debit was lost 
 but for some reason,  which  isnt clear, the direct debits either werent  received or didnt  
operate.
Ref: DRN85499285Im afraid Im unable  to determine  from the evidence why the direct debit didnt operate.  So 
the only thing  that is certain is that the payments werent taken under either  of the 
instructions. Ms M wants me to tell Blantyre to write-off the arrears  because of the issues 
with the direct debit.  And if a direct  debit cant be operated successfully going forward she 
wants me to tell Blantyre  to write-off the whole  loan. 
I dont think it would  be fair to write-off  the arrears because the direct debit didnt operate, 
albeit through  no fault of Ms M or Blantyre  that Ive been able to identify. Ms Ms had the 
benefit of the loan monies, so its right that she pays them back. Later  in this decision, Ill 
consider what I think should  happen with the repayment of the arrears. 
And I also dont think it would be fair to tell Blantyre that it must write-off the loan if a direct 
debit doesnt work  in the future. This is because it isnt entirely in Blantyres control whether 
a direct debit will successfully operate.  And I also dont think that Ms M is entitled to insist  on 
a method of repayment of the loan where Blantyre  has said that there are other reasonable 
alternatives available,  such as payment by standing order or by telephoning  Blantyre and 
giving debit card details for a payment to be taken. 
missed payments
As a result of the two direct debits not operating, the loan repayments for February, March, 
April and May 2018 werent taken. Ms M said in her complaint to Blantyre that when she was 
contacted about the direct  debit not working  shed  completed a new mandate, as requested. 
She says there was no mention  then that the account was in arrears; that she had to repay 
an amount; or that her credit file could be impacted. Even after that, she says she didnt 
receive any calls regarding arrears.  
Ive decided to give Ms M the benefit  of the doubt  here. Although there are suggestions from 
Blantyre that she was contacted and asked to pay the arrears, Ive seen no evidence that 
this was the case prior to the telephone  call on 23 May. 
Blantyre says that Ms M was obliged to make  the payments under the loan contract. But 
since Im not satisfied that Blantyre made  it plain  she needed  to pay by other  means when 
the direct  debit didnt  operate,  I dont  think it is fair to rely here on the strict terms of the 
contract. 
It does seem that Ms M was asked to pay the arrears during the telephone conversation  of 
23 May. Ms M said in her complaint that shed  used that money to pay her now ex-partner 
and to clear other bills. She says she did this under the impression that shed be starting  her 
payments a few months later than expected  due to what Blantyre had admitted was its error  
with the direct debit.  
As Ive said,  Im not satisfied that the error with the direct debit  was Blantyres fault.  But it 
wasnt Ms Ms fault either.  And since Ive decided to give her the benefit of the doubt as to 
whether she understood the payments still needed to be made, even though  the direct debit 
wasnt operating, Im going to accept that she didnt need to have an amount set aside for 
the arrears, as she believed her payments  would  be delayed  instead of being  sought  in full.
When the complaint  came  to us, Blantyre agreed  to put the loan on hold until we reached a 
decision on it. But it wasnt made  clear  to Ms M that meantime she needed to set aside the 
loan payments that would  otherwise fall due so that she could  pay them in full if necessary 
when our service had finished  its involvement. 
Ref: DRN85499286If I only tell Blantyre to reschedule the first four payments that were due on the loan, then the 
issue of payments that would have been  due whilst  the complaint is with us is unresolved. I 
dont think this is in the best interests  of the parties. So I propose to tell Blantyre  to 
reschedule all the payments on the loan so that if Ms M accepts our decision, the loan is 
treated as commencing on one month after the day of acceptance, and the first repayment is 
then due one month  after that. 
I understand that Blantyre wanted Ms M to provide an income and expenditure statement 
before it rescheduled the loan. Ms M was very unhappy about that, and wanted  to 
understand its purpose. But I think it was reasonable of Blantyre in the circumstances to ask 
for it. This was because  Ms M had said in her complaint to Blantyre that she was in financial 
difficulties. Financial institutions are required to respond positively and sympathetically to 
indications that a customer is in financial difficulty. And since Ms M was saying she would 
struggle to pay the arrears, it was reasonable of the Blantyre to ask for proof of her situation. 
But I dont think its necessary for Blantyre to have a completed income and expenditure  
form in order to do what I propose to ask it to do now.  This is because under my direction Ms 
M wont  be required to pay lump  sum arrears.  Ms M has been clear with this service that she 
can afford the monthly loan repayments and that wont cause her financial difficulty. And my 
proposed direction is that she starts to pay the loan, from the beginning, in the usual way. 
Thereafter, if at any time Ms Ms financial  situation changes, she can approach  Blantyre who 
I would expect to respond  positively and sympathetically. 
credit reporting
Ms M has given us a copy of her credit report with the agency Blantyre reports to. Its 
showing missed payments from February 2018  to the present day. I propose  to tell Blantyre 
to ask the credit reference agency  to remove the loan in its entirety from Ms Ms report.
Once the loan has recommenced, Blantyre can report it in the usual way, with its new 
commencement date. This is, in my view, the fairest and simplest thing to do. It wouldnt be 
right for the first four months  payments to show  as being missed, given my findings above. 
And equally, it wouldnt be right to show the payments whilst the account  was on hold as 
being missed. It may be possible  for those to be shown as on hold, but to avoid any negative  
inference being drawn from this that might  impact Ms M, I think it preferable just to remove  
the loan in its entirety and start the reporting afresh when it re-commences. 
affordability
I can see that our investigator  thought Ms M had made a complaint  about whether Blantyre 
had properly assessed the affordability of the loan at the start, and she dealt with this in her 
view. But its not plain  to me that Ms M did actually complain about this to Blantyre. In her 
complaint on 31 May 2018 Ms M said that Blantyre had asked her for her partners income 
yet shed only declared her share of the bills. She then went on to say that shed since  lost 
his income and now had to pay all the bills, as well as the loan repayments and this was 
causing her stress and financial  difficulty.  
This seems to me to be directed to financial difficulties arising after the loan was taken  out, 
rather than affordability when it was taken out. And in her written complaint form to us, 
affordability of the loan at the time she took it out wasnt raised. 
Ref: DRN85499287But Ive nonetheless had a look at the information Blantyre considered to assess  whether to 
give the loan in the first place. Im satisfied  that Blantyre obtained the records  I would expect 
it to, such as Ms Ms credit report, details of other  borrowings and proof of earnings. Ive also 
looked at the income and expenditure information completed on Ms Ms loan application. 
From that it looks like Ms M provided her annual salary and her partners annual  salary. But 
both of these have been scribbled out, I dont  know  by whom, and Ms Ms monthly net salary 
written next to the box for her salary/wages.  Ms Ms total expenses were  £651 against 
income of over £1500. I dont think Blantyre couldve known that she only included her half of 
the bills from this, although I note she didnt include an amount for groceries. But even  with 
an amount for that included the loan repayments do still appear  to have been affordable. 
And Ms M also isnt currently  saying that she cant afford them. So Im not going to ask 
Blantyre to do anything  further about this. 
compensation 
Our investigator thought that Blantyre  should pay Ms M £110 compensation. This included  
£100 for her distress and inconvenience  and £10 to re-imburse her for the cost of obtaining a 
letter from her bank  about the direct  debit. 
In September  2018 Blantyre sent Ms M a cheque for this amount after it accepted our 
investigators suggestion. Its not plain to me whether Ms M has cashed  that cheque. But 
Blantyre was not obliged to pay this compensation unless  and until Ms M also accepted our 
investigators view on the complaint.  
Ive no doubt Ms M has been distressed and inconvenienced by the handling of her loan 
repayments and arrears by Blantyre.  Compensation isnt meant to punish the business. But 
because Ive found that Blantyre should have made it clear that Ms M needed to make  it 
plain that she had to pay the loan repayments by other means when  the direct  debits  didnt 
operate, I think it is fair to tell Blantyre  to pay the £100 for her distress and inconvenience  
and £10 re-imbursement  costs. 
My provisional decision was that Blantyre Credit Union Limited must:
(a)Remove the loan in its entirety  from Ms Ms credit report;
(b)waive all arrears currently accrued on the loan;
(c)reschedule the loan to commence one month after Ms M accepts our final decision, 
with the first repayment due one month after that; the loan to otherwise have the 
same terms  and conditions as before; and
(d)if it has not already  done so, pay Ms M £110  compensation.
Both parties  accepted my provisional decision.  
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I still think  my provisional 
decision is a fair way to resolve the complaint. And since both parties have accepted  it, I see 
no reason to change  it. 
Ref: DRN85499288Blantyre have already  sent Ms M a cheque for the £110 compensation, so Im not asking it to 
pay any further compensation.  But if that cheque hasnt been  cashed and needs to be re-
issued, I expect Blantyre  to do so. 
my final decision
My final decision is that Blantyre Credit Union  Limited must:
(a)Remove the loan in its entirety  from Ms Ms credit report;
(b)waive all arrears currently accrued on the loan;
(c)reschedule the loan to commence one month after Ms M accepts our final decision, 
with the first repayment due one month after that; the loan to otherwise have the 
same terms  and conditions as before; and
(d)if it has not already  done so, pay Ms M £110  compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 June  2019.
Helen Wheatley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8549928