K821x#15complaint
Mr Y complains that British Gas Insurance Limited  didnt act fairly or reasonably when  
dealing with his heating system  under his home  emergency insurance policy. He wants 
compensation.
background
Mr Y had a home emergency policy with British Gas.  He said that its engineer attended to 
due to a drop in pressure and thought it was due to a leak in the heating pipes. But the 
engineer couldnt find the leak,  so Mr Y said the engineer re-pressurised the system  to find 
the leak and told him to contact British Gas when  it appeared. Mr Y said that signs  of a leak 
did appear several months later and five times  an engineer was booked  to come, but 
cancelled or rescheduled (when  Mrs Y had taken time off work). Mr Y said that a wall was 
covered in mould and he wanted British  Gas to pay compensation  for the damage  caused by 
its delays, including  the unnecessary cutting of a wooden floor and failure to replace 
decorative covers.
Mr Y complained to British Gas. It said that its engineer couldnt  find a leak and fitted a 
pressure-reducing value  to the heating filling loop to do so with Mrs Ys consent. British  Gas 
said the next visit was about five months  later due to damp being found  on the walls and 
accepted that the repair  work  wasnt completed  for another two months.  It said that the leak 
wasnt detectable when  British Gas visited and wasnt caused by its staff,  and Mrs Y had 
signed a damage  waiver  form. But British Gas did pay £200 as a gesture of goodwill as visits 
by its engineers were  rescheduled  and not always productive. It also said Mr Y should claim 
under his home insurance and his insurance company could pursue the matter.
Mr Y complained to us, explaining that he was unhappy that despite reporting  the leak,  it 
took so long for someone to detect  and repair it; Mr Y was also unhappy about the standard  
of the work done. The investigators  view was that the damage  done to the floor was 
necessary to access the leak, and the terms and conditions of the policy says that 
British Gas wouldnt replace or repair a surface  or covering. She said this meant that all 
British Gas had to do was make good  and she was satisfied that it had done so in respect  
of the floor and decorative cover.
But the investigator thought that the damage to the wall was worsened  by the delay between 
20 June and 16 August  2018. The only way to find the leak was to wait until it appeared and 
Mr Y did promptly  report it to British Gas in the investigators view. She didnt accept that 
Mr Y caused  the delay.  The investigator  said that British Gas should  pay for the damage 
suffered by the wall and the costs of redecorating  caused as a result  (by paying the 
cheapest of three quotes obtained  by Mr Y).
Mr Y disagreed as he said that the floor was unnecessarily damaged  and supplied  two 
quotations for the work the investigator recommended  was carried  out. He also said that 
another leak had been  found.  British Gas said that the leak wasnt  caused by it and it was for 
the consumer  to mitigate any water leak  it believed that the leak must have been present 
for longer than Mr Y had admitted. The investigator  said that she accepted Mr Ys evidence 
that he told British  Gas about the leak when he first saw it and she believed the delays after 
the leak was reported made the damage  worse. Mr Y said that the leaks  were  continuing  
and the whole wall was now ruined.
Ref: DRN84745882my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I said:
I cannot  resolve the events that have happened  since the complaint was first made (the 
further leaks); these have  not been investigated  as part of this complaint. But I can bear in 
mind that the situation has now changed in terms of any redress that I may require  as the 
investigator was dealing with a situation where the leak had stopped and only wallpapering 
was required.
Dealing first with Mr Ys complaints about  the work  done in relation to the floor and 
decorative covers, I think that British Gas has acted fairly and reasonably. It isnt possible to 
access leaks within a wall without doing  some damage. All that the terms and conditions of 
the policy require  is that the damage is made good,  but surfaces and coverings are 
expressly stated to be items that will not be repaired or replaced. I have noted what  Mr Y 
had said about  how the floor was removed and that there mightve been another  less 
damaging option,  but British Gas said in the policy was clear that it would not guarantee 
anything in respect of the floor.
This leaves  the issue of the wall. There are several disputes between  the parties  about  this 
issue, though  both accept nothing could  be done until the leak was located. British  Gas says 
that Mr Y didnt call it promptly; Mr Y says that he did and the damage was caused  by the 
delay between him contacting British Gas and someone attending to repair.  I note that the 
wallpaper of the room  affected might have  caused  some delay in spotting the leak (and the 
wallpaper apparently  cant be replaced and spreads into a connected room). Given the 
records of the calls made by Mr Y trying to get someone to promptly attend his property, its 
not likely  in my view that he spotted  the leak and ignored it. British Gas hasnt given any 
reason why it thinks Mr Y delayed reporting  the leak, or why he wouldve done so. Equally,  
though given the revelation that there  are other  leaks  in the wall, I cant  say that all the 
damage identified  was caused  by the delay in repairing the original leak. 
And I think regardless of delay, the wallpaper  was also going  to have to be removed once 
the leak was spotted due to the water  marks. The evidence doesnt support the view that the 
delay caused  any additional damage  or added to the costs  Mr Y wouldve incurred anyway  in 
fixing the leak. Mr Y in his evidence  to this service has shown that he is keen to have his 
property decorated to a high standard. Its also Mr Ys choice to have the same wallpaper in 
two rooms, so I cant say that its fair and reasonable for the costs of wallpapering both 
rooms to be borne by British Gas. With the news of further leaks, it seems  to me that if 
British Gas had attended  promptly, the wallpaper was always  going to be removed (and if it 
wasnt done due to the original leak and the water  marks, it wouldve happened due to the 
further leaks). This means I dont think its fair or reasonable for the redecoration  costs  to be 
paid by British  Gas  it didnt  cause  the original leak and the wallpaper was likely to be 
removed due to the water marks and then the further leaks. I also note that the terms and 
conditions of the policy dont cover the costs of wallpapering.
Ref: DRN84745883But I do think British Gas,  as it accepts in its response to Mr Y, did act unfairly and 
unreasonably in dealing with the leak once located.  Much of its own evidence shows  that it 
took about five weeks  to arrange for someone to attend and the repair work took longer as a 
result. Appointments were  rearranged/cancelled and even  British  Gas described some  of the 
earlier visits as unproductive. Mr Y ended up repeatedly contacting British Gas to try and get 
someone to attend.  I dont  think £200  reflects the trouble and upset he suffered, particularly 
as he was understandably concerned that delay was causing  further  damage.  While money 
never truly compensates for trouble and upset suffered, I think £400 compensation is fair 
and reasonable in this case.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties  disagreed with my provisional  decision.  British Gas simply said that it felt £200 
compensation was sufficient in all the circumstances.  Mr Y said that he totally disagreed with 
my comments. He was of the view that if British  Gas had turned up at his property earlier, 
the wall paper wouldnt have been damaged.  No further information about the current 
position with the further leaks was given.
Ive considered carefully the evidence and the comments received. British Gas hasnt given 
any additional reasons as to why it thinks my provisional decision is incorrect;  Ive already 
considered what  it said previously.  Mr Y didnt comment on my proposed award for trouble 
and upset, and I remain of the view that £400  compensation is fair and reasonable for the 
reasons given in my provisional decision.
In my provisional decision,  I said With the news  of further leaks, it seems to me that if 
British Gas had attended  promptly, the wallpaper was always  going to be removed (and if it 
wasnt done due to the original leak and the water  marks, it wouldve happened due to the 
further leaks). I remain  of the view that this comment is more  likely than not to be correct;  
whether or not British Gas initially  arrived at Mr Ys property promptly  is irrelevant as the wall 
is now ruined according to Mr Y due to the further  leaks, though the initial water marks may 
well have caused a need to replace the wallpaper  in any event. This wouldve have meant 
that in any event wallpapering  and plastering  would be required. I think its fair and 
reasonable for me to bear in mind  the later events and to conclude  that it wouldnt  be fair or 
reasonable for British Gas to pay towards  redecoration.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint  and British  Gas Insurance  Limited should pay 
Mr Y £400  compensation for the distress and inconvenience it caused  him. Under the rules  
of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or reject my 
decision before  27 July 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8474588