K820x#14complaint
Mr L says he was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  when he took out a 
credit card in 2004 with Barclays Bank  UK PLC.
background
Mr L has already been paid some  money for the commission Barclays received from selling 
him the PPI. However, our adjudicator who looked  at this case  said the complaint about  the 
PPI being mis-sold shouldnt be upheld. 
Mr L disagreed and still thinks he was mis-sold the policy  in the first place and so the 
complaint has been passed to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.  
Having done this, Im not upholding the complaint about the mis-sale. 
We have a copy of the application form used in Mr Ls case and I can see there is a yes 
and no option  about having PPI with the new credit card account. Mr Ls form had an tick 
in the yes box, so I think this shows  he agreed  to the PPI at the meeting in the branch.
I also think Mr L would have known  that he didnt need to have PPI with his card if he didnt 
want it. This is because there  was an option on the form not to take it. I can also see he did 
end up being charged quite a bit for the PPI over subsequent years. My experience  of these  
situations is that Mr Ls credit card statements would have showed  the PPI being regularly 
charged on his account. These costs would have  been described  on the statements as 
Payment Protection  Plan  or something  similar. So I think if Mr L hadnt  ever wanted the 
PPI policy, he would  have  wanted  to know why these  charges were occurring.  
Barclays concedes that it probably recommended the PPI to Mr L during the sale. This 
means it had an additional duty to ensure this type of cover was suitable  for him. Overall, I 
think it was.
This is because Ive looked at Mr Ls situation. I think he was eligible for the cover  and not 
caught by any of the main exclusions we tend to see in these types of policy.  Mr L says he 
had some savings available to him. But Im afraid this doesnt necessarily mean  the PPI 
wasnt of use. The policy would have paid out 10% of his outstanding credit card balance  for 
up to a year if hed needed to claim and this wouldve been in addition to any other means  
he had at that time. I also think  the PPI cost would have been affordable for him.
So overall, I think this policy  was suitable  for Mr L.
Barclays still needed to provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading  so Mr L 
could make an informed  choice about whether or not to go ahead and buy the PPI. I cant 
say for sure that Barclays  did everything right, but I do think  Mr L would have probably been 
given some written and verbal information  about  the policy. 
Ref: DRN84597152This means  I dont  think Barclays has to pay back all the cost of the PPI to Mr L. Its already 
paid back some of the cost of the PPI to him because  when the policy was sold it expected  
to get a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the PPI premium). It 
should have told Mr L about that. Because it didnt, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount of commission  and profit share  that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium.  I think that offer is fair in this case.
my final decision
I dont think the PPI policy was mis-sold. So Barclays  Bank  UK PLC does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr L. 
Barclays Bank UK PLC has paid to Mr L the commission  and profit  share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 June  2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8459715