K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains the vehicle he acquired on a hire purchase  agreement  financed by Startline 
Motor Finance Limited was not of satisfactory  quality. He wants  to end the agreement and 
have his deposit refunded.
background
Mr B tells us at the end of January 2018 he acquired a vehicle from a dealer who Ill refer to 
as E, a company. He says the following day the car broke  down and he took it back to the 
dealership. He says the engine kept cutting out and the suspension was leaking. Mr B says 
he told E he wanted to reject the vehicle but E refused and insisted on repairing the vehicle. 
Mr B says he then raised the complaint with Startline. About two months  later Mr B says he 
was contacted by E and told the vehicle was repaired and he could collect  it.
Startline told us it accepted Mr B brought his concerns to its attention on 5 February 2018. 
Hed said hed returned the vehicle to E as the exhaust had broken and the suspension was 
leaking and told E he wanted to reject  the vehicle.  Startline  said it had asked Mr B to provide 
evidence of the faults but hed not done so. It said Mr B had refused  to collect the vehicle 
from E. So it had done so as it still owned the vehicle  Mr B had abandoned.
The investigator recommended  the complaint should  be upheld. She said no one had 
disputed the car required  repairing. And it had taken two months for this to be completed.  
She felt the vehicle  was not of satisfactory quality when supplied and Mr B was entitled to 
reject it. She thought  Startline had been  told of the faults. And by not acting it had prolonged 
the resolution of this matter. She thought  the agreement  should be ended  and Mr Bs 
payments returned.  And he should receive  £100 compensation for distress and 
inconvenience.
Startline didnt respond to the investigators  view so an ombudsman  has been  asked  to 
make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mr B is annoyed  and frustrated about whats happened. He acquired a 
vehicle which cost over £8,000  and almost immediately hed returned the vehicle to the 
dealership as faults had become apparent.
Under current legislation Startline, as the supplier of both the vehicle and finance,  is 
responsible for the vehicle being  of satisfactory quality when supplied. And whilst I dont 
apply the law directly  I do take it into account. So if I thought the vehicle wasnt  of 
satisfactory quality when supplied Id expect  Startline to put things right.
I can see from a note that on 3 February  Mr B notified Startline of the issues  and made it 
clear he wanted to reject the vehicle and end the finance agreement. Ive seen no evidence 
that Startline made any attempt  to contact E. Instead its told Mr B that he needed to provide 
evidence of the faults. Given Startline  had been told the vehicle was at the dealership it 
would have been a simple  matter  for it to make enquiries of E and establish the position. So I 
think its approach was unhelpful  to put it mildly. 
Ref: DRN83235252Whilst normally Id look to evidence of a vehicle inspection to see what, if any, faults  were  
found its not necessary to do so in these circumstances. Startline hasnt disputed  the 
vehicle was repaired or that it took around two months before Mr B was told it was ready to 
collect. So its a reasonable inference  that whatever was wrong was quite serious. The faults 
were reported the day after the vehicle was supplied. So in the absence  of contrary evidence 
the inevitable  conclusion is the vehicle  was not of satisfactory quality when supplied.  
Mr B made clear  his intention to reject the vehicle immediately the faults  became apparent - 
so I cant see any proper  reason why either  E or Startline should seek to prevent this. 
I understand that Mr B has tried and failed to finance  another  vehicle as his credit score may 
have been affected by the outstanding amounts on this agreement.  And whilst he says he 
has occasional use of another  vehicle  hes likely  to have experienced inconvenience through  
not having the use of a vehicle of his own.
The inconvenience  caused to Mr B has extended  well beyond that which  was necessary if 
Startline had accepted rejection of the vehicle when it reasonably ought to have done  so. So 
I think the level of compensation should  be higher than that recommended by the 
investigator. So Im going to award £300  for distress and inconvenience.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im upholding this complaint.
Im ordering  Startline Motor Finance Limited to:
1.End the agreement with nothing further  for Mr B to pay.
2.Arrange to have  all details of the agreement removed from Mr Bs credit record.
3.Refund all payments made by Mr B under the agreement  including  his deposit  of 
£1914.79. And pay simple  interest  at the rate of 8% per year from date of payment to 
date of settlement.
4.Pay £300 compensation to Mr B for distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 February  2019.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8323525