K821x#15complaint
Mr S is unhappy with the way American Express Services Europe Limited has handled his 
card account. 
background
Mr S complains that American Express decided to remove the facility on his account to pay 
bills by cheque and shortly afterwards said it was closing his account. Hes also unhappy 
about the way it has dealt  with him. He says his card was rejected after he was told it would 
be usable resulting in him losing a deposit hed paid for a hire car. The ability to pay bills by 
cheque was also the most convenient way for him to make payments.  He also says he 
hasnt received statements hes asked for and that American Express hasnt corresponded  
with him using a large font size as hes requested.
Mr S also has a complaint  about  some disputed transactions and default charges on his card 
which is being dealt  with separately.
In summary  American Express has said that the removal of the cheque payment facility  and 
the closure of the account were  commercial decisions  made  in line with the terms and 
conditions of the account. The rejection of Mr Ss card wasnt  as a result of its error but was 
in line with the terms and conditions as his account  was being reviewed. But it accepted  Mr 
S hadnt received the service hed expected when he contacted  it about the account closure 
and it offered £100 compensation for this. And its now also prepared  to refund the £99 car 
hire deposit  he lost as hed been given incorrect information.
Our investigator felt this complaint  should  be partly upheld. She said:
American Express says details of the removal of the cheque  payment facility were 
given to Mr S in a letter   which he says he didnt get - and on the account 
statements. But as this method  of payment isnt specified in the terms and conditions  
removing it isnt a variation  of the accounts terms and American Express  isnt 
obliged to notify Mr S. It hasnt acted unreasonably and the decision to remove the 
facility is a business decision which we wouldnt interfere with.
American Express notified Mr S of the proposed closure of his account.  But it accepts 
the service he received  fell short and he was given  incorrect  advice. The £100  
compensation American Express  has offered  for this is reasonable. The account 
closure was reasonable and made in line with the terms and conditions of the 
account.
American Express gave Mr S some incorrect information and a result  he lost a car 
hire deposit. Its agreed to refund him £99 towards this. But he appears  to have paid 
£102 and that amount  should  be refunded  plus any associated interest.  Mr S also 
had to contact American Express and was caused distress and inconvenience. It 
should therefore also pay him an additional £50 compensation for this.
She hadnt information about  whether American  Express had failed to communicate 
in a large font as Mr S requested.
American Express said it accepted the investigators  view and has provided evidence  itd 
sent him large  font statements by special  delivery  which had been collected by him.
Ref: DRN80168912Mr S didnt agree and has asked for an ombudsman  review.  He remains unhappy and wants 
his account reopened. He also says the amount of compensation isnt enough. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S would like his complaints about  some about some disputed  transactions and default 
charges on his card to be dealt with by me. But I cannot do so or comment  on them  as they 
are the subject of a separate complaint.
I appreciate American  Express decisions to remove  the cheque  payment facility and later 
close the account were  disappointing for Mr S particularly as he says the cheque payment  
facility was his preferred  method of payment. But I think  American  Express  acted fairly and 
in line with the accounts terms  and conditions when doing  so. It says it sent Mr S a letter 
about the account closure. Its unfortunate if Mr S didnt  receive  it but that isnt American 
Express fault. And it says information  was also set out on the account statements.
In addition these  decisions  are examples of American Express exercising its commercial 
discretion as its entitled to do. And this isnt something  we would interfere with.
I cant therefore fairly or reasonably  require American Express to now reopen the account as 
Mr S would like.
American Express accepts it gave Mr S some  incorrect  advice and its agreed  to refund £99 
for a car hire deposit. But as he appears to have  paid more than that amount I agree with the 
investigator that it should in fact refund him £102  for that and any interest  that accrued on 
this payment.
Its clear Mr S has been  caused some distress and inconvenience when dealing with 
American Express and as a result  of whats happened.  It offered him £100 compensation for 
this but our investigator  felt this should  be increased  to £150. American Express  has agreed 
to this. Mr S says its too little.
Taking everything into account,  including the level of awards  we make,  I agree with the 
investigator that a total of £150  compensation is fair and reasonable in this case. And I dont 
think I can fairly or reasonably require American  Express to pay any more than this as Mr S 
would like.
American Express has also shown  it communicated with Mr S in a large font as he asked for.
Overall I think  the investigators proposed resolution  of this complaint is fair and reasonable. 
And I dont  see any reason to change the proposed  outcome in this case.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  To put things  right American  Express Services Europe Limited 
should, if it hasnt  done so already:
Ref: DRN801689131.Refund the sum of £102 to Mr S plus any interest that accrued  on this car hire 
deposit payment;  and 
2.Pay Mr S a total of £150 compensation.
American Express must pay the compensation within 28 days  of the date on which  we tell it 
Mr S accepts my final decision.  If it pays  later than this it must  also pay interest  on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
If American Express considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to withhold 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr S how much its taken off. It should also give 
him a tax deduction  certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 September  2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8016891