K821x#15Complaint
Mr Bs unhappy with how AIG Europe Limited  dealt with a claim he made  on his personal  
accident insurance policy.
Background
Following Mr Bs claim, AIG investigated and issued its final response in November 2017. 
AIG apologised  for its poor handling of the claim and offered Mr B compensation of £300.
Mr B eventually complained to us about AIGs actions and we set up a separate  case  to deal 
with that complaint.  
In the meantime AIG continued to deal with Mr Bs claim. In October 2018, it offered an 
interim claim payment  of £3,000 and a further £100  as compensation for not chasing for 
medical information when it should have.
Mr B wasnt  happy with AIGs offer of £100  and subsequently brought  this complaint to us. 
Our investigator looked into the matter and recommended  to AIG that it increase its offer of 
compensation to £200 in total.  
AIG didnt  agree  with the investigator.  It said there  was nothing  to suggest chasing  Mr Bs 
doctors more frequently would have prompted  earlier responses from them, or allowed them 
to assess the claim any sooner.
The complaint was passed  to me to review afresh.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To clarify, the focus of this complaint  and this decision   isnt on AIGs initial  compensatory 
offer of £300.  Nor is the complaint specifically about  the merits of the claim itself.  Instead it 
concerns AIGs more  recent  offer of £100  as compensation for its handling of the claim.   
In focussing on the offer of £100, I havent  solely considered  the events that occurred 
between AIGs first final response letter of November 2017 and its second final response 
letter of October 2018 in isolation. But its fair to say Ive placed  emphasis on what happened 
in that period.  
Having done so, Ive decided that AIG should  pay more in compensation to Mr B than its 
offered. Ill explain why.
On reviewing the file, I recognise Mr Bs claim was by no means  straightforward. The nature 
and impact of his disablements complex  and any insurer, including  AIG, would have needed  
time to get to grips with the claim.  Much  of the information AIG needed was from third 
parties, and I recognise that meant it wasnt necessarily  fully in control of what information it 
received or when  it received it.  
That said,  AIG itself accepts it ought  to have handled Mr Bs claim better.  Just prior to 
making its offer of £100, an AIG member of staff recorded in its claim notes that:
Ref: DRN80549932 medical records requested on 26th March  2018 and it took until 22nd August 2018 
to receive all sets I cannot see that we chased  the records but waited for them  to 
come into us.
ACTIONS
I have spoken  to [a colleague] and explained  the case  that we havent chased the 
records in four months and only received third party correspondence. She has 
confirmed that I should  offer £100  compensation and ensure GP chases on a regular  
basis as this is the second  complaint.
 
Ive thought about the impact Mr B says AIGs actions  had on him given his ongoing health 
problems. And also, as is recorded in its claim notes above, that this wasnt the first time AIG 
hadnt been as proactive as it might  in progressing the claim. Ive also carefully considered 
our approach to awards for distress and inconvenience suffered.
While recognising the difficulty in attaching a monetary value to the trouble and upset Mr B  
or any consumer, for that matter  has experienced, and having taken all of the 
circumstances into account,  I believe it would be fair for AIG to increase its offer of £100 to 
£200. 
I note AIGs point that Mr B declined the offer of £100 on the basis he wasnt looking for 
money and that he just wanted his claim to be taken forward. I can understand that, at the 
time, his priority  was his claim rather than securing compensation for mis-handling. 
Nevertheless, its clear that he remains unhappy with how AIG went  about things  and 
thats why he complained  to us. 
My final decision
For the reasons  given,  I require AIG Europe Limited  to pay Mr B £200  in total (thats  
inclusive of its previous  offer of £100) as compensation  for the upset  its caused  him and the 
trouble hes been  put to because of its handling  of his claim during the relevant period. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 December  2019.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8054993