K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains, as a director of L (a limited company) about  delays  by 
ERGO Versicherung  Aktiengesellschaft settling a claim on a defective title insurance 
policy.
Where I refer to ERGO  Versicherung Aktiengesellschaft, this includes its agents and 
claims handlers acting on its behalf.
background
L wished to develop a piece of land and had planning permission for this, but the 
development was only viable  if it had access for cars to park on the property. L approached 
the owner of the neighbouring land to discuss getting access  to the property but they 
refused to give consent.
In April 2017 L made  a claim on the policy. There was correspondence over the following 
months concerning  attempts to reach  a settlement with the owners of the neighbouring  
land and legal advice was obtained from a barrister. But the neighbouring  owner wouldnt 
agree to provide access for cars to the land and the legal advice about pursuing a claim 
against them  wasnt favourable. So ERGO agreed to settle the claim on the policy  but 
there was a dispute about the value of the land.
In December 2017, L complained to our service about the delays  settling the claim. 
Around the same time, ERGO made  an offer of £65,000 to settle the claim.  L sought 
advice and in March 2018 made a counter offer of £202,500. (Both offers  would be subject 
to the excess of £25,000 being deducted.) Further correspondence followed  without  any 
agreement being  reached.
In January 2019 the parties agreed  that an independent surveyor  would prepare a report 
on the value of the land and following this, the value was agreed  and the claim was settled. 
But L advised that it still wanted us to look into its complaint about delay  it said the claim 
should have been settled  much earlier and sought  compensation  for the delays.
Our investigator reviewed  the complaint and said ERGOs settlement offer was 
reasonable, as it was entitled to rely on its expert advice.  He noted that ERGO had also 
offered compensation of £600  in respect  of delay and thought this was fair.
Mr B replied  on behalf of L. He said the investigator had focused on the settlement 
amounts but the complaint wasnt really about that; they had accepted the settlement  but 
were unhappy  with how long it had taken,  and the trouble  and expense  L had been put to 
as a result. He was seeking  substantial  compensation  for this. 
The investigator reviewed  Mr Bs concerns but didnt  think further  compensation was 
appropriate. He felt the delays were due to disagreements  between the respective experts  
and it was reasonable for ERGO to rely on its expert  advice. Mr B disagreed with the 
investigator and requested an ombudsmans decision. 
I issued a provisional decision in February  2020. In the provisional decision I said:
Under the terms of the policy, ERGO provides  cover  for loss suffered by L. and the 
policy defines this loss as difference in the market value of the property, calculated on 
Ref: DRN87850992the assumption that it is not affected  by the defect  in title.
The policy terms say the market value is as determined by a surveyor appointed 
by agreement between  the Insurer and the Insured.
Insurers should settle claims promptly and fairly. Mr B says there were unreasonable 
delays and a lot of time was wasted because  ERGO  initially  made a very low offer;  there 
were then extended negotiations; and throughout this process ERGO was slow to respond.  
Ive considered why it took so long to settle  the claim and whether this was due to ERGOs 
actions
ERGO says it tried to reach a solution  but claims like this involve legal issues, which are 
not straightforward, and normally take some  time to resolve. It accepts there  have been  
some delays but says it wasnt responsible for all of the delay and refers to instances  
where L delayed replying  to correspondence.
During 2017, attempts were  made  to reach a settlement  with the owner  of the neighbouring  
land and legal advice was obtained on the dispute.  I think  ERGOs actions during that 
period were  reasonable.
By late 2017 it was clear  the dispute  with the neighbouring land owner wasnt going  to be 
resolved and so a payment would  need to be made to L to settle  the claim on the policy.  
ERGO made  an initial offer of £65,000.  It says this was reasonable, based on the advice it 
obtained. But there followed months of negotiations  and correspondence, after L obtained 
its own expert advice, which valued the claim at around £200,000  more than three times 
the figure offered.
Eventually in December 2018 ERGO proposed instructing a joint surveyor,  as per the 
policy terms. I note that ERGO  itself concluded  around this time that the value should now 
be determined by a jointly appointed  surveyor on the basis that we will accept  their view as 
binding - as the policy directs.
In my judgment,  this is the crux of the matter  as Ive said above, the policy itself clearly 
sets out what should  happen;  the value is to be determined  by a jointly appointed 
surveyor.
So thats what should have happened. And its not clear to me why ERGO chose to follow  
a different route,  seeking  its own advice and then trying to negotiate with L. That inevitably 
meant L in turn sought its own advice  and there followed lengthy  negotiations.
To my mind,  all of that could have been  avoided if ERGO had done what  the policy  
required in the first place.  If that had happened in December 2017 rather than 
December 2018,  a great deal of time could have been saved, it would  have avoided  each 
party obtaining their own expert evidence (which  a huge difference  in valuations) and the 
protracted negotiations that followed.  Mr B has explained  that L was always willing  to 
accept a reasonable offer, and Im satisfied the claim would have been settled much 
sooner.
For this reason, I think there was unnecessary delay. So Ive considered the consequence 
of this.
Mr B has set out a detailed claim for losses he says L suffered, amounting to £38,187. 
Ref: DRN87850993This is made  up of:
Interest on the agreed settlement of £139,000 from 8 December 2017 (when 
settlement should have been  agreed) to 30th August 2019 (when settlement 
was actually made).
Further interest at the same rate for the correspondence delays leading  up to the 
8th December  2017.
Reimbursement of £4,195 of legal fees paid to Ls solicitors for all the 
chasing required to progress the claim, which was unnecessary.
Reimbursement of 100 hours at a rate of £100 for time spent by Ls Directors 
responding to all the requests for information, which  were  subsequently not used  
or taken  into consideration.
As the claim was delayed,  I think it would be fair to award interest to reflect  the loss of use 
of the money.  But Ive taken into account  that claims like these are not straightforward; they 
can involve complex  legal  points and generally require legal advice. And Ive explained that 
I think the steps taken  in 2017 were reasonable. Even if a joint expert had been proposed 
in December 2017, it still would have taken  some time to resolve the complaint  the 
settlement itself wasnt agreed until August  2019. So I dont  propose  to award interest  for 
the whole  period. But as Ive found  there was unnecessary delay of 12 months,  I think an 
award of interest  for that period would  be fair.
Legal fees would not normally be compensated for simply because the complainant 
chooses to be represented. But if unnecessary additional legal costs were incurred as a 
result of the delays, it is fair to compensate for these. So  provided  L can evidence these 
additional costs  over and above  its other  costs,  I think they should be reimbursed.
This complaint is brought by L. As a limited company,  L is a separate legal entity from the 
people who run it. I cant compensate Mr B or the other directors  or shareholders 
personally. But I can make an award for inconvenience experienced by the company itself.  
L is a small company;  as I understand it, there  are only two directors and this was its first 
development project. L spent a lot of time and effort dealing with the claim, much  of which 
could have been avoided, and this took them away from other  activities. I think the 
inconvenience caused would have had a greater impact on Ls operations  than for a larger  
company. So I think  an award would be reasonable.  We dont usually award  compensation 
for specific "units" of time. Taking  into account all the circumstances here, my view is that 
an award of £1,000 for the inconvenience  caused  to L would be fair.
my provisional decision
For the reasons  given  I intend to uphold  the complaint and direct  ERGO Versicherung 
Aktiengesellschaft to pay compensation to L as follows:
interest on the agreed settlement of £139,000  at the simple rate of 8% per year 
for a period of 12 months from 30 August  2018 (when a settlement should 
reasonably have been made) to 30 August 2019  (when settlement was made)  a 
total of £11,120;
(subject to L providing proof  of the additional  costs)  £4,195 of legal fees paid to 
Ls solicitors for the chasing required to progress  the claim; and
£1,000 for the inconvenience caused to L
ERGO Versicherung Aktiengesellschaft must  pay the compensation within  28 days  of 
Ref: DRN87850994the date on which we tell it Mr B (on behalf  of L) accepts  my final decision.  If it pays  later 
than this it must also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision 
to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
developments
ERGO has not replied  to the provisional  decision or provided any further  comments. 
Mr B has replied  on behalf of L. He says that, while there are some points of detail he might 
disagree with, in broad terms hes happy with and accepts the provisional decision.
Mr B has provided documents to evidence the £4,195 of additional legal costs.  He says hes 
tried to take a fairly high level approach, without diving into every  small detail.  There  are a 
few small items that could  be seen as normal costs. On the other hand, there were 
considerable costs  incurred  before June  2018  that have not been included.  And he says he 
hasnt claimed for the cost of the independent  valuation they had to get in response to 
ERGOs initial valuation,  but if the correct route had been followed at the outset, this 
valuation and subsequent expense would not have been required. 
findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and  
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I see no reason to 
change my provisional decision.
In the provisional  decision  I said the legal costs of £4,195 should be paid, subject  to 
proof of these costs  being provided, and Mr B has provided this. He admits there may 
be some  items that might be considered normal  costs. But he also makes  the very 
valid point that L had to pay for their own expert report   which  wouldnt have been  
necessary, if ERGO  had followed the procedure set out in the policy  terms. So thats  an 
additional expense  which hasnt been repaid. Taking  all of this into account - and in the 
absence of any further comments from ERGO - I think the payment of £4,195 is fair..
On this basis, and for the reasons set out above,  in my judgment the complaint should 
be upheld and the compensation payment to L is fair.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint  and direct  ERGO Versicherung  
Aktiengesellschaft to pay compensation to L as follows:
interest on the agreed settlement of £139,000  at the simple rate of 8% per year 
for a period of 12 months from 30 August  2018 (when a settlement should 
reasonably have been made) to 30 August 2019  (when settlement was made)  a 
total of £11,120;
£4,195 of legal fees paid to Ls solicitors  for the chasing required to progress 
the claim; and
£1,000 for the inconvenience caused to L.
Ref: DRN87850995ERGO Versicherung Aktiengesellschaft must  pay the compensation within  28 days  of 
the date on which we tell it Mr B (on behalf  of L) accepts  my final decision.  If it pays  later 
than this it must also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision 
to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B (on behalf  of 
L) to accept  or reject  my decision before 18 April 2020.
Peter Whiteley
ombudsman
* If ERGO Versicherung Aktiengesellschaft considers  that its required  by HM Revenue & Customs 
to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr B how much its taken  off. It should also 
give Mr B a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue 
& Customs if appropriate
Ref: DRN8785099