K820x#14complaint
Mr O says Santander UK Plc mis-sold  him payment protection insurance (PPI).
background
In 2002 Mr O took out a mortgage  with Santander,  trading as Abbey National. He also 
bought a monthly premium PPI policy, which would pay benefits if he was off work  ill or 
injured, or lost his job. 
Santanders records show that the mortgage  was paid off, and the PPI cancelled,  in 2005. 
But Mr O complains that the policy had been mis-sold. Among other things, he says he didnt 
ask for PPI but it was added without his knowledge,  and he feels he didnt really need it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments, to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website, and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Os case.
I dont have much clear information  about how the PPI was sold,  but both Mr O and 
Santander think it was during a meeting. From what Ive read and been  told, thats probably 
right. But after so many years there  are no notes available now to show me what, if anything 
was discussed  about PPI. So I have  to decide  what I think is most likely  to have happened, 
based on what Mr O has been  able to remember and what  Santander has told us about its 
usual sales process  at that time,  as well as the limited paperwork that Ive been given.
Having done that, Ive concluded on balance that the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
was Mr O given a fair choice?  
Santander says that as part of its normal sales procedure  its adviser  wouldve made Mr O 
aware that the PPI was optional. Its possible the adviser didnt follow  that usual process on 
this occasion.  But Ive not seen anything which shows clearly that this is what happened.
The mortgage application Mr O completed  and signed doesnt seem to have  dealt with PPI. 
But Santander thinks he willve signed a separate application form for the PPI, although  after 
so long this completed  paperwork is no longer available. I think thats likely to be right. And 
Ive seen the welcome letter which was sent to Mr O soon afterwards,  thanking  him for 
choosing to have  the PPI and giving him more details about the cover hed taken out. Ive 
not been told anything to suggest that he queried this letter with Santander, as I wouldve 
expected him to do if he hadnt agreed  to have PPI.
Ive carefully considered  what Mr O has said. And I cant be sure exactly what  took place. 
But I think he probably did complete an application  form and bank  mandate specifically for 
PPI, which  would in my view have indicated to him that it was a separate product from the 
mortgage. And overall I think its likely  that Mr O was given a choice and opted to have the 
PPI, even if understandably  he doesnt  remember that now, many  years later.
Ref: DRN88661692Mr O has also said he wasnt told he could get PPI from elsewhere, if he so wished. That 
may well be right. But in my view Santander wasnt obliged to tell him this, as long as it 
made it clear  he didnt have to have the PPI it was offering. Which I think  it probably did.
was Mr O given good enough advice and information?
From what  Ive been told, its likely  Santander  recommended the PPI to Mr O. This meant it 
had to check that the PPI would be right for him. Based on what  Ive been told about his 
situation at the time, I think it was suitable.  Mr O wouldnt  have been affected  by any of the 
likely main exclusions to, or limits on, the PPI cover and to my mind it couldve been  helpful 
for him. But Santander  still had to give Mr O good  enough information about  the cost,  
benefits and main features of the PPI, so he could fairly decide whether or not to take it out.
I dont know what was discussed about PPI in the meeting,  if anything. Santander says Mr O 
wouldve been given  a summary leaflet  about the policy, but I cant be sure he was  or what 
else Mr O had read or been told about the PPI before he agreed to have it. Its possible the 
information hed got wasnt as clear  or full as it shouldve been.  Mr O certainly feels that it 
wasnt. But on balance, in my view its unlikely  that having better information wouldve 
changed his decision. I think Mr O would probably  still have taken  out the PPI. 
Thats because from what Ive been told about his circumstances at the time, and looking at 
the likely  terms of the policy, I think Mr O was eligible for it. I dont think he wouldve been 
affected by any of the main things the PPI didnt cover. I think it couldve  proved useful.  And 
Ive not been told anything to suggest it wasnt affordable for him then.
Mr O feels that because  of his employee benefits  he didnt really need  PPI. But I think it 
couldve still been helpful for him. Hes told us he wouldve been entitled to good  sick pay. 
But the PPI payments couldve lasted  for up to 12 months at a time and wouldve been paid 
out on top of his sick pay, or of any redundancy payment he mightve got if hed lost his job. 
And hes told us he cant  recall what, if any savings or other  means he wouldve been able to 
use for the mortgage  repayments if he wasnt earning. 
Mr O has mentioned possible financial support from his family, but I dont think he couldve 
been certain itd be available  when  needed. PPI provided him with more reliable protection.
Ive also taken into account that Mr O was borrowing  a large  amount for potentially a long 
time, secured on his home and in his sole name, so the effect of not keeping up with the 
repayments couldve been serious  for him. The PPI was paid for monthly, so it didnt add to 
his borrowing or attract  interest. And he could cancel it at any time, without further cost, if his 
situation changed or he no longer wanted  it. 
Ive thought carefully about everything Mr O and his representatives have told us. And its 
difficult to decide  a case like this, where  the available  information  about the sale of the PPI is 
quite limited. But weighing up all that Ive read and been told, on balance I dont think I can 
fairly and reasonably say that it was mis-sold.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im not upholding this complaint. So Santander UK Plc 
doesnt have to do anything more.
Ref: DRN88661693Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 February  2020.  
Chris Langford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8866169