K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains that U K Insurance Limited  (UKI) declined his claim on his motor insurance  
policy as it said the car involved  wasnt covered. He wants it to deal with the claim.
background
Mr C bought a new car and Mrs C contacted UKI to change the car on his policy. She used a 
webchat to get several quotes  and then she said she made  the change online.  But UKI said 
there was a problem  switching  the car because of a linked rescue policy.  So it sent Mr C an 
email asking him to contact it. He didnt do this and following an accident  he found that the 
car was uninsured.   
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should be upheld. He thought  Mr C had 
made it clear  that he wanted to change his car and UKI had told him he could do this online. 
He thought UKIs email to Mr C didnt make  it clear that the change hadnt been made and 
that Mr C would be driving whilst uninsured. He thought UKI should  have done more to try 
and contact Mr C. He thought that if an additional  premium was required, then this could be 
collected later. He thought  UKI should  settle the claim  under the remaining terms of the 
policy, deducting any additional premium required, and pay Mr C £150  compensation for his 
trouble and upset.  
UKI replied that Mr C should  have responded to its email saying that it had prepared a quote 
for the change of car and contacted it to confirm he wanted to make  the change. It said it 
would have confirmed  cover was in place  by sending policy documents.  It said Mr C didnt  
receive these and could have queried  this. It said there was no evidence that Mr C had 
made the change, just that hed asked for a quote. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to hear about the car accident and that Mr Cs son and friend  were  badly  hurt. I 
can understand that having the claim declined has caused the family additional stress at a 
difficult time. 
Mr C and Mrs C used UKIs online  webchat  several times to get quotes for a change  of car. 
Ive looked at the transcripts  of these contacts. The quotes led to a change  in premium  which  
the agents told them about.  The agents told Mr C and Mrs C that they needed to call to 
accept the quotes after theyd seen  the cars. One agent said they could call or use webchat 
if they bought  a car. I think Mr C and Mrs C wanted to change  the car on cover immediately 
they found a new one. 
And, when  Mr C and Mrs C were on their way to look at a last car, Mrs C called UKI to get a 
new quote. The agent told Mrs C that it would be too late to call it if they wanted  to accept. 
But the agent said she could do it online on the road so that they could drive the car home. 
So I think Mr C and Mrs C were left thinking they could complete the change online. 
Ref: DRN82743732UKIs records show that Mrs C completed the online amendment.  But it said that it wasnt 
accepted because of the linked rescue policy  which led to a change in premium. So it sent 
Mr C an email asking him to contact it. But Mrs C said they didnt receive this email.  UKI 
hasnt explained  why in the many contacts with Mr C and Mrs C this issue  with the linked 
policy wasnt identified earlier.
Ive looked at UKIs email. It says that a quote has been prepared for the change  in car and 
that Mr C should  call UKI to accept  it. I can see from UKIs records that the email  was sent to 
the correct address. UKI later told Mr C that its emails may go to a junk or spam folder so 
this may be why he didnt  see it. But, nevertheless, Mr C and Mrs C had completed  the 
change online.  Theyd been  told the car would definitely be covered if they did this. So, even 
if they saw the email,  they may not have  appreciated  its significance as it didnt tell them  that 
the online process had been  unsuccessful.
I think Mr C and Mrs C had made it clear to UKI that they intended  to change their car. 
Theyd obtained several quotes. Theyd discussed  how to accept one. And then they tried to 
accept the quote online.  So I think Mr C made reasonable  attempts  to make sure that he 
was insured. This service believes that insurers should take reasonable steps to ensure that 
policy holders are told that their policy isnt in place  as this will have serious consequences 
for them and expose  them to possible court action.
When their online acceptance  didnt succeed, I think UKI should  have done more to try and 
contact Mr C to tell him that his cover wasnt in place. I think that one email sent to a 
possible spam  folder  with no warning of the possible consequences or reason  for contact 
wasnt nearly enough. I think UKI should have called Mr C to alert him that the change hadnt 
been made.
UKI recently  sent us what it said was the online journey Mr C would have completed to 
change his car. This process ends  with a page that says a quote will be sent within  an hour.  
UKI said Mr C should have seen this and questioned why he hadnt received his quote.  But 
this online  journey example was completed a year after Mr Cs application to change  his car. 
So I cant see that its the same process. From UKIs records,  Mr C had already obtained his 
quote in a phone call. So I dont  think this is relevant to Mr Cs complaint.
UKI said that Mr C should have  queried  why he hadnt received new policy documents. Mr C 
said he hadnt expected any as the policy number was the same. But I dont think, on 
balance, that this would be a reason for Mr C to think that his cover wasnt in place as hed 
completed the online process  as advised  by UKI.
So I think UKI didnt  do enough to tell Mr C that his change of car hadnt been made. And so 
I think it unfairly declined  Mr Cs claim  following  the accident. I think it should now deal with 
the claim.  If there is a difference in premium  due to the change  of car, I think its fair for UKI 
to deduct this from any settlement. Mr C has been without his money for some time,  so I 
think UKI should reasonably add interest to this. And, as its caused Mr C considerable 
stress and trouble, I agree  that it should pay him £150 compensation. This is in keeping with 
the level Id award  in similar circumstances.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require U K Insurance  Limited to do the 
following:
Ref: DRN827437331.Settle Mr Cs claim under the remaining terms and conditions of the policy  and deduct 
any additional premium  required  for the change in cover  from the settlement.  Interest  
should be added to this settlement at the rate of 8% simple  per annum from the date of 
loss to the date of settlement. 
2.HM Revenue & Customs  requires UKI to withhold income tax from that interest. It must 
give Mr C a certificate showing  how much  its taken off if he asks for one.
3.Pay Mr C £150 compensation for the distress  and inconvenience caused by its level of 
service. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 October  2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8274373