K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that National  Westminster  Bank Plc will not allow  them to re-
mortgage at the lower  rate it offers  to new customers.
background
Mr and Mrs G had a mortgage  with NatWest. Their fixed rate was coming to an end, and 
they wanted to take out a new interest  rate product. But they discovered  that, as existing 
customers, NatWest would only offer them higher rates than those available  to new 
customers. 
Mr and Mrs G complained  to NatWest. But NatWest didnt uphold  their complaint. It said, in 
summary:
It considered a number of commercial factors when determining the interest rates  it was 
able to make available to both new and existing customers.
It offered  a variety  of products and these were reviewed on a regular basis to ensure 
they remained both competitive and profitable for the bank.
While  it was in its best interests  to ensure  that its rates were competitive, it appreciated 
that its rates may not always  be the lowest available.
Although it accepted  that existing customers might be able to find cheaper deals 
elsewhere it didnt  currently  offer loyalty or teaser products. The rates  offered were  the 
only rates available at this time.
There was also no obligation  on it as a lender to inform customers prior to any 
commercial decisions being  made.
Our adjudicator didnt  feel that NatWest had dealt with Mr and Mrs Gs complaint unfairly.  He 
said:
Mr and Mrs G had said that they were mortgage trapped  customers.  This was because 
they couldnt obtain an agreement  in principle with another lender because  of the nature 
of their jobs. But he didnt feel that this was something for which  he could  reasonably 
hold NatWest responsible.
Because they hadnt been  able to re-mortgage elsewhere Mr and Mrs G went  back to 
NatWest. Both NatWest and Mr and Mrs G agree  that the current  rates that NatWest 
offers to new and existing customers are different. But he felt that it is up to the bank to 
decide what rates it is prepared  to offer to customers, whether existing or otherwise.
He hadnt  seen any evidence to suggest that NatWest had treated Mr and Mrs G any 
differently to any other existing  customers.  So he didnt think  that NatWest  had treated 
them unfairly.
Mr and Mrs G wanted  compensation for the time and effort theyd put into making their 
complaint. But he explained that we wouldnt ordinarily award  compensation simply 
because a complaint  had been made. Wed only consider it if we thought NatWest did 
something wrong in relation to the way it had handled the complaint. And he couldnt see 
that NatWest had done this, so he didnt think that NatWest needed to pay 
compensation.
Mr and Mrs G didnt agree with our adjudicators conclusions. Mr G said in particular that he 
didnt think it fair for a mortgage trapped customer to be forced onto a higher fixed rate. But 
our adjudicator wasnt persuaded to change  his view, so the complaint has been referred to 
me for a final decision.
Ref: DRN84903922my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Mr and Mrs G have raised a number of issues. Ive considered everything they have to say, 
but have concentrated my decision on those issues I find to be central  to their complaint.
Having carefully considered all the available evidence and arguments I agree with the 
adjudicator that NatWest  has dealt with Mr and Mrs Gs complaint fairly. I appreciate  that this 
will come as a disappointment to them, so Ill explain why Ive reached this decision.
Ive looked at the mortgage agreement that Mr and Mrs G signed  in 2003. This provided  that, 
after the original  fixed term ended,  they would move to the standard variable rate unless 
otherwise agreed  between the lender and the borrower. There is nothing  in that mortgage 
agreement to say that they are entitled to a new rate.
NatWest agrees that the rates that it offers to new and existing customers are different. It 
has explained to Mr and Mrs G that it considers a range of commercial  factors  when 
deciding on the rates to offer. And it has explained in some  more detail to this service some 
of its reasoning for the difference  between  the rates. As this information is commercially 
sensitive NatWest has asked, and we have agreed, that this information  should be kept 
confidential.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs G find it unfair that NatWest will only offer them  a higher rate 
than it would to a new customer. But I agree that this is a matter for NatWests  commercial 
discretion and not something that this service can influence.
Mr and Mrs G are unhappy that they are trapped with NatWest.  Mr G has explained that he 
has started a new role following redundancy with a reduced basic salary plus commission. 
And he says his wife is part self-employed and doesnt have a consistent earnings history. 
He says that these  factors  mean that theyve  been  unable to get agreement in principle to a 
mortgage from another lender. But, although I sympathise with their situation, Im not 
persuaded that I can hold NatWest responsible for the fact that theyve been unable  to 
obtain a mortgage elsewhere. And, as Im not persuaded that NatWest  is treating them  
differently from any other existing customer, I dont agree that it has acted unfairly.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 June  2019.
Alison Cribbs
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8490392