K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2004 to 
protect a mortgage. Mr and Mrs B say The Co-operative Bank Plc trading as Britannia  
mis- sold them the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Bs case.
The PPI covered Mr B only, so I have mainly considered  his circumstances at the time it 
was sold. However, as this was a joint mortgage, Ive also taken into account Mrs Bs 
circumstances to decide if the policy was right for them.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
The Co-operative had to make Mr and Mrs B aware  that the PPI was optional and get their 
consent before adding  it to their mortgage.  Mr and Mrs B signed a separate application 
form to take out the PPI. They both signed  to say they wanted PPI, which  was free for the 
first six months. This mightve encouraged them to take out the policy.  I think The Co-
operative made it clear  that Mr and Mrs B didnt have to take out the PPI and that they 
chose to take it out. 
Form the information available, I dont think The Co-operative recommended the PPI to Mr 
and Mrs B so it didnt have to check if it was right for them.  But, it did have to make  sure 
they got enough clear and fair information about the policy  to decide for themselves if it 
was right for them and they wanted  to buy it.
Its possible the information The Co-operative  gave Mr and Mrs B about  the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve  been.  So. Ive gone  on to consider whether they have lost out because  
of this.  I cant see that they have. They chose to take out the PPI knowing the other  means 
they had available. They said they wouldve got sick pay; six months worth at full pay and 
six months worth at half. Mr B said he also had savings and was eligible to get redundancy 
pay. The PPI would have paid out on top of Mr Bs sick pay, for up to 12 months per 
successful claim,  allowing them to use Mr Bs sick pay, savings and Mrs Bs income  to 
meet their other household  expenses at what might be a difficult  time for them financially if 
Mr B wasnt  working. 
Based on what Ive seen  of Mr Bs circumstances  at the time it doesnt  look like he was 
affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been 
useful for Mr and Mrs B if something went wrong. It also looks like he was eligible  to take 
out the policy and it  seemed affordable. So I dont think better information about  the PPI 
would have put them off taking out the cover.
I cant see that The Co-operative mis-sold  this policy  to Mr and Mrs B, so it doesnt have to 
pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs B.
But The Co-operative  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs B because:
Ref: DRN87782992 
 The Co-operative got a high level of commission and profit share  (more  than 50% 
of the PPI premium) - so it should have  told Mr and Mrs B about that. Because  The 
Co-operative didnt  tell Mr and Mrs B, that was unfair.
 To put that right, the Co-operative has paid back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that is fair in this 
case.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs B has said - including what  theyve said 
about trying  to cancel  PPI after the free period was up. But, I can see that the Co-
operative wrote to them and told them how to go about cancelling the policy and 
they didnt do that. So, this doesnt change my view.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so The Co-operative Bank Plc does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs B.
But The Co-operative  Bank Plc does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs B any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I 
understand it has already done this, so I dont award any further  compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs 
B to accept  or reject my decision before  23 August 2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8778299