K820x#14complaint
Mr W is unhappy Europ Assistance S.A. (EA) has declined his travel insurance claim.
background
In July 2018, Mr W was on holiday when he injured his hand on a boxing game in an arcade. 
He was taken  to hospital and received treatment. The notes from the hospital  say they 
suspected a fracture, but Mr W was confident it was just a sprain and he didnt feel he 
needed to stay overnight, so he discharged himself. The invoice from the hospital at this time 
was €235, but Mr W later received further invoices  from the hospital.  Hes said hes now 
received invoices for over £2,000.
Mr W put in a claim for the costs on his travel  insurance. EA reviewed the claim but declined 
it for two reasons. It said that costs  over £500 had to be pre-approved, which  Mr W hadnt  
done, as he didnt contact his insurer at the time. And it said that in the accident report  form 
Mr W said he was under the influence of alcohol  and had drunk 5+ blue lagoons. It referred 
to the policy  terms which  say (under general  exclusions)  that it wont  pay anything  directly or 
indirectly caused by being  under the influence of alcohol.
Mr W disagreed  with the outcome, so he brought his complaint to our service. Our 
investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. In response, Mr W said that while  he had been 
drinking it was a fault in the game that caused his injury. He said there  was padding missing 
from the part of the game  that the user punched,  so the accident happened due to this and 
not due to his drinking. He said that hed been the victim of a known  scam  abroad where 
hospitals deliberately overcharge tourists. And that it was a huge shock to receive further 
large invoices when he returned  to the UK. So he asked  for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role isnt to assess Mr Ws actions or to carry out my own assessment of the claim.  What  
I have to consider  is whether or not, based  on the evidence available,  EA has fairly 
assessed the claim.
I appreciate the arguments Mr W has made about  his alcohol consumption  and how this 
hadnt impacted  his bodily control.  But the accident report he has completed  asks if he was 
under the influence of alcohol and he has answered yes to this. And he stated hed had 
5+ blue lagoons, suggesting more than five drinks had been  consumed.
Based on all the evidence available, I dont  think EA has unfairly  declined  Mr Ws claim. 
While I have noted his points about not being drunk and incapable of sound  judgement, 
this isnt the test that applies here.  The accident report  from the time says he was under the 
influence of alcohol . And the term EA is relying on, which  is found  under the general  
exclusions section reads:
We will not pay anything  directly or indirectly  caused by:
1.being under the influence of alcohol
Ref: DRN83350442Ive considered Mr Ws points about  the fault with the boxing game. But I havent  seen any 
evidence to show this was the case.  Even if I was to accept there was a fault with the game, 
the term says directly  or indirectly caused  so I would still have to consider whether 
someone not under the influence of alcohol would have ended  up in the same  situation and 
so gotten the same  injury as Mr W. Based on the evidence I do have, I can see why EA has 
relied on the alcohol exclusion.  It does  seem most likely that the influence  of alcohol played 
a part in the situation that led to Mr Ws injury and claim. So, while I appreciate  what he has 
said, I cant say that EA is being  unfair  by declining  the claim.
With the above in mind,  I dont consider that the issues around the costs of this claim are 
something I need to make  a finding on. Regardless of the total amount and whether or not 
Mr W got prior approval,  EA can decline  the claim under the general exclusions in the terms.
Mr W has raised points  around the costs  the medical facility  has tried to charge him. 
I appreciate it would be very stressful receiving such high and unexpected medical bills on 
his return. But these issues are not related to or the responsibility of his insurer in this case.  
So I wont  be commenting further  on this.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 January 2020.
Amy Osborne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8335044