K820x#14complaint
Miss A and Mr M complain that Kindertons Ltd didnt give them an opportunity  to collect  their 
personal items before their car was disposed of.
background
Mr M was involved in a road traffic accident  in January 2019. The car  that Miss A says she 
owns  was declared as a total loss. Mr M instructed Kindertons to carry out the accident 
management service   that is arrange  the car to be collected and repaired or assessed, 
arrange a hire car and arrange  payment in the event that car was a total loss.
Mr M and Miss As car was declared a total loss. They were provided  with a hire car until this 
was determined and a settlement received. On 18 February 2019, Kindertons explained the 
offer to Mr M and got authorisation for the car to be disposed. 
In March 2019 Mr M was chasing Kindertons for payment. Sometime  after this he asked 
when he would be able to collect his belongings. Kindertons  explained  that the car had 
already been disposed  of so he was no longer able to collect  anything.  It did explain that the 
pictures didnt show  any belongings  in the car. And it apologised as it hadnt contacted Mr M 
to explain when the car would be disposed of. Mr M and Miss A complained.  Miss A 
explained the car shouldnt have been  disposed  of with their belongings in it and they both 
provided a list of what they say was in the car for which they wanted to be compensated.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He explained that from the evidence  provided, it 
seems more likely  that the items werent in the car when it was in Kindertons  care.  He also 
explained that there had been  a week  for Mr M and Miss A to empty the car before 
Kindertons collected  it, and the documents  and photos from the time the car was collected 
dont show there were any belongings in the car. He did think Kindertons should have given 
Mr M a timeframe  for when he needed  to collect his belongings, but he felt the apology  was 
sufficient.
Mr M and Miss A disagreed with the investigator  and asked for an ombudsman to make  a 
decision, so the complaint has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
investigator. I think Kindertons has done enough so Im not upholding this complaint.
From the notes that Kindertons have supplied, Mr M was called on 18 February  and gave 
authorisation for the car to be disposed of. The note also suggests that Mr M would collect  
the belongings. The failure here was that Kindertons didnt specify  to Mr M when  he had to 
collect his belongings   as the car was disposed of a few days later.  However  as Mr M had 
authorised the disposal  of the car, and had sent in the ownership  documents  as well as 
accepting the valuation settlement  Kindertons didnt do anything wrong in disposing  of the 
vehicle.
So Ive considered the impact of the mistake that Kindertons made. Mr M and Miss A say 
there were a number  of valuable personal  belongings  in the car. They  provided a list to this 
service and to Kindertons.  But Kindertons  has provided the documents  signed by Mr M when 
Ref: DRN83617282the vehicle was collected from their home  and photos of the car. Neither  the photos nor 
documents show that there were  any personal  belongings  in the vehicle.  And as some  of the 
items listed were bulky, I think there  wouldve  been some mention or evidence of these items  
in the photos and documents.  So I dont think its likely that the belongings that Mr M and 
Miss A have said are missing were in the car when it was collected.
So whilst I understand it has been  frustrating for Mr M and Miss A that they didnt know how 
long they had to collect their belongings from the car, I think the apology from Kindertons  
was sufficient. Mr M and Miss A had the car at their property for a week before it was taken 
for assessment, and they gave  authorisation  for the car to be disposed of. So I dont think  
Kindertons needs  to do anything more for its failure to specify  a time for Mr M to collect any 
belongings.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A and Mr M 
to accept or reject my decision before 25 November 2019.
Charlotte Wilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8361728