K820x#14complaint
Mrs W complained  about how Abbey Insurance Brokers Ltd handled her cancellation of her 
motor insurance policy.
background
Mrs W was unhappy that Abbey  charged  her after she cancelled her policy.  She said theyd 
told her that they wouldnt. She said that if shed known that they would, she would have 
continued with the policy until the end of the policy year and kept driving her car.
She wanted them to waive the charges and apologise to her for the distress theyd caused 
her. She was also unhappy about her insurance premium having gone  up from the previous 
year. Abbey apologised for any miscommunication,  but they thought theyd  informed her as 
best they could on the information she gave them. 
The investigator didnt  recommend that her complaint should be upheld. He thought that 
Abbey had acted  reasonably.
Mrs W didnt agree and so her complaint has been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs W said that when shed phoned Abbey to discuss possibly cancelling  her policy, they 
told her that, as long as there was no claim on the policy, she could cancel without any 
charges. So she was unhappy  when  they asked her at first to pay £188.40. 
They explained how it had been worked  out. It included what  she owed for the period the 
insurer had insured her (known as time on cover)  and Abbeys own cancellation charge of 
£50. But Mrs W felt that they hadnt advised her on her specific  circumstances.
I have listened  to the recordings  of Mrs Ws calls with Abbey. This includes the call when 
Mrs W asked  about cancelling. Its clear  that Abbey did tell her that if she cancelled  there 
would be an insurer charge for her time on cover,  and Abbeys own cancellation fee of £50. 
Abbey wanted  to advise Mrs W on her specific policy and they asked her several  times for 
her name and policy information  so that they could tell her the specific costs  and charges 
that would  apply if she cancelled. But she didnt want to give them  that information. So I think  
that the information Abbey gave  her was reasonable based  on the limited information  that 
she gave them then.
As well as Abbey,  her broker, Mrs W was dealing with her finance  provider. She was paying 
her annual premium through a monthly  instalment finance agreement, so she paid the 
finance provider  monthly by direct debit. After she cancelled the policy, Abbey explained to 
her how they had worked out what she still owed for her insurance.  This was £188.40. The 
investigator explained this to her too. The investigator also established that this included a 
cancellation fee of £40 that the insurer  had charged Mrs W.  He didnt think that was fair 
given that Abbey had already charged a cancellation fee of £50. It seems that the insurer  
then decided to waive that £40 fee. And Abbey  passed this on to Mrs W. So she had to pay 
£148.40 instead. 
Ref: DRN84461322Abbey apologised if she felt that their service had fallen below the expected  standard  and for 
any miscommunication, and I think that was reasonable of them.  But I agree with them that 
their cancellation  charge  of £50 is clear in their terms of business. This Service thinks its 
reasonable to charge a cancellation fee, and that £50 isnt unreasonably high.
I also dont think that Abbey  gave Mrs W poor service. They  responded when she 
complained by phone, they explained why they didnt think theyd done anything wrong, and 
they replied to her written complaint within a reasonable  time. 
Mrs W is also unhappy that the insurance policy  premium had gone up. But, as the 
investigator explained, her premium  amount  is set by the insurer not the broker, and she 
may if she wishes complain to the insurer about that.
I appreciate that Mrs W is annoyed  at the situation.  And I do see that it can be confusing  
when there  are different businesses involved in the sale of, and payment for, an insurance 
policy. But I dont think that Abbey  have done  anything wrong here,  and so I dont ask them  
to do anything else. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  its my final decision  that I dont uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2020.
Rosslyn Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN8446132