K821x#15complaint
Mr W is unhappy that Lloyds Bank  PLC has refused  to refund £50,000  lost as part of a 
scam. He believes the bank should  have done  more to prevent him falling victim  to the scam  
in the first place.
background
I issued a provisional decision on Mr Ws complaint on 20 November 2019.   After 
considering all the evidence and arguments presented by both sides, I was minded to 
conclude it would be fair and reasonable for Lloyds to refund the losses that Mr W has 
suffered as a result  of this scam.
Rather than repeating all I said in my provisional  decision  about  the background and 
circumstances of Mr Ws complaint again here, I attach a copy of my provisional  decision to 
this final decision.   My provisional decision  forms part of this final decision and it details in 
full how and why I reached my preliminary conclusions.  It also details in full the redress I 
was minded to order and why.
Mr Ws response  to my provisional  decision 
Mr W accepted my provisional decision.  He said, I have been determined to fight my case 
and I am extremely grateful for the hard work, attention to detail and comprehensive 
explanation of your provisional decision.  Moreover, your provisional  decision has given me 
hope that my life can begin over again  and that I may be able to redeem my mortgage with 
my life savings and provide an inheritance for my children. 
Mr W also made a number of points in response  to what  was set out in my provisional 
decision, including:  
he was sure that he only told the bank the transfers were for family,  personal  reasons 
and that the whole process of sending  the money  only took five or six minutes
a strong disagreement with the version of events given by Lloyds  staff member - I also 
totally refute  stating that I was transferring  the money for a better interest rate and I am 
disappointed in the staff member's  version  of events
he was absolutely adamant that he wasnt read the full scams  script
that he was extremely  anxious and worried when making  the transfers
Mr W questioned why a senior  member  of staff hadnt been brought  in to ask him about 
the transfers on day one - given their value and that they were out of character for him 
Mr W confirmed hed not been  asked for any evidence of where he was sending  the 
money and also confirming he wasnt advised about the possible effects of removing 
funds from an ISA; and
he also agreed  that he would have  been unable to answer  some  basic  questions  
challenging the purpose of the transfers  and that such  questions would likely have 
revealed the scam before  hed sent any money.
Ref: DRN80542492Lloyds response to my provisional decision
Lloyds didnt accept  the provisional  decision. It took this position for a number of reasons. 
It questioned Mr Ws recollection  of events in branch  and referred to his complaint letter  to 
the bank dated 1 June  2018. It pointed out Mr W had said he was asked by the cashier if he 
really wanted to transfer the funds and was he under any pressure to do so. It also pointed  
out Mr W had said he was told by the fraudster to say the accounts he wished to transfer his 
money too were  in his own name.  And that Mr W had said he did wish to proceed  and that 
he wasnt under any pressure.
Lloyds believes this letter from Mr W is evidence that it asked the right questions  when Mr W 
requested to make the transfers. Lloyds  also believes  this letter demonstrated Mr W was 
read the scam script which referred to the type of scam he was falling victim to.
Lloyds considers  Mr Ws letter showed  that the bank did engage in a deeper level of 
questioning through discussing the potential other  offerings  within [the bank].  
Lloyds maintains that it asked  sufficient  questions when Mr W said he wanted to make  the 
transfers and that it believed he gave  plausible answers, - even when pressed for more detail 
and given specific information about the scam  he was falling victim to. It said that transfers of 
this kind - from a customers account to another provider  - happen on a regular basis.
The bank did refer to the use of the Banking  Protocol  and when it would invoke this. It said it 
would only do so when a member  of staff was left with underlying concerns  which it says 
wasnt the case here.
It also said that it couldnt invoke  the Banking Protocol for all high value transactions  as a 
matter of process  as police would not be able to respond to all such instances. Lloyds made 
the point that it does  invoke the Banking Protocol when it feels it is right to do so.
my findings in light of both parties responses
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. Ive taken account of all that was on 
file before my provisional decision as well as the arguments made by both parties since.  
Having done so, I remain of the view, on the balance of evidence, that Lloyds didnt  do 
enough to protect  Mr W at the point he was making  the transfers. And this is my principle 
reason for upholding Mr Ws complaint. 
I set out in my provisional decision that I believed,  whether it was Mr Ws version of events 
that was more accurate or the banks, the outcome would remain  the same. I remain  of the 
view that, in either version of events, Mr W was not asked enough specific questions, as 
described in my provisional  decision, designed  to get into the detail of the transfers. 
I dont agree with Lloyds  that Mr Ws recollection  that the fraudster told him to say the money 
was being transferred into an account in his name, as detailed in his letter of 1 June 2018, 
sufficiently supports its case,  or that its inconsistent with Mr Ws evidence that he told the 
cashier he was ultimately going to use the money for personal or family  reasons.  But,  either 
way, I dont on the balance of evidence  believe sufficient  meaningful  questions, designed to 
get into the detail of a potential scam, were asked of Mr W that day. 
Ref: DRN80542493Lloyds stated in its response to my provisional decision that its staff member went deeper 
than the standard scam script and discussed  the potential  other  offerings within LBG.  
However, Lloyds has only previously said that Mr W and the cashier  discussed  the seemingly 
comparatively lower interest rates on offer from Lloyds  at the time  which is not quite the 
same. Indeed,  the tone of that part of the discussion appears, on the face of it, to have been 
quite informal.  I say this because the banks  staff members recollections of this part of the 
conversation with Mr W, provided on 9 July 2018, are described  in the following way: 
The payments were  going to his TSB acc and his RBS acc for better interest rates  and they 
chuckled as other banks  do have better  rates with Lloyds recent cuts
So, on the evidence  Ive seen, Im not persuaded its more likely  than not that such  an 
exchange on Lloyds  interest rates, between Mr W and the staff member, represented 
meaningful additional questioning designed  to get into the detail of a potential  scam.
I said in my provisional decision that I believed Lloyds should have given Mr W a more 
tailored response  to his request to transfer a total of £50,000. I said how I believed  that the 
reading of a generic scam script  would not necessarily break the spell for someone thats 
already been convinced  theyre acting in their best interests and, in Mr Ws words, 
extremely anxious and worried. And that can be particularly true when the customer 
believes that branch  staff might be involved.  This position and understanding is recognised 
in Lloyds own internal guidance.  A standard script, simply being  read out, can have little 
impact on a consumer thats caught up in a scam.
Theres little in Lloyds  response to the provisional decision   or in the evidence  it had 
already provided   that persuades me it did much,  if anything, more than read the standard  
scams script. And I cant be sure it actually did that - certainly Mr W continues  to strongly 
refute there was any mention of safe accounts  or the involvement of branch staff.  But in any 
event, whether the script was read or not, I remain of the view that Lloyds didnt do enough  
to protect  Mr W from financial  harm  for the reasons stated  in my provisional decision.
As I said in my provisional decision,  there is a balance to be struck and there are limits to the 
depth of questioning a bank can pursue.  I am not suggesting Mr W should have been subject 
to an interrogation.   However, £50,000 is a lot of money  it was for Mr W.  I believe that 
Lloyds ought fairly  and reasonably to have asked more questions  - essentially to challenge the 
purpose of the payments and ask for more  meaningful detail - than it seems  on balance  
happened that day.  And this is whether Mr Ws or Lloyds version of events occurred.
I cant say whether it would have  been necessary for the bank to call the police on the day 
Mr W was making  the transfers. And Ive not said that it absolutely should  have  taken that 
action. I understand  the banks point that it cant call the police simply because  theres  a high 
value transfer  requested  in branch. 
But I am persuaded that the bank should  have  asked more questions  and probed further at the 
time than,  on the balance  of evidence, I can see it did. I believe had it done so Mr W would, 
more likely than not, have been  unable  to satisfactorily answer  the banks questions   as was 
the case the following day  and it would  have then been reasonable to contact the police. 
Ref: DRN80542494This service has seen training material from UK Finance, featuring the police, regarding the 
Banking Protocol where it quotes the strapline of if in doubt,  call us out. So its clear  that 
the police, and the industry as a whole, understand there will be times when a consumers 
actions are entirely legitimate and yet the Banking Protocol will be fully invoked as the bank 
may have  concerns.
Im upholding Mr Ws complaint and I see no reason to depart  from the outcome set out in 
my provisional decision. I order Lloyds  to:
refund Mr W the £50,000 loss;
pay Mr W the interest  he would have earned on the £50,000 had it remained in his ISA 
account, from the date of withdrawal to the date of settlement*;
pay Mr W £300 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience he experienced.
Lloyds should  be mindful of the considerations around they type of account Mr Ws loss 
originates from  and the restructuring of it  as set out in my provisional findings.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  against Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2020.
Pat Hurley
ombudsman
*If Lloyds  Bank PLC deducts  tax from the interest element of this award, it should provide Mr W 
with the appropriate tax deduction certificate so he might submit a claim to HMRC if applicable.
Ref: DRN80542495Copy of Provisional Decision
complaint
Mr W is unhappy  that Lloyds Bank PLC has refused to refund £50,000  lost as part of a scam.  He 
believes the bank should have  done more to prevent him falling victim in the first place.
background
what Mr W says happened
Mr W says he received a phone call at around 9:00am  on 10 May 2018.   Mr W has an 
ex-directory number and the call was to his landline telephone  number.  The caller claimed he was 
from Lloyds Payment Verification Department.  Mr W says he checked the caller ID against his debit 
card and saw it was the same telephone number  as his bank.   Unfortunately however, unbeknown  to 
Mr W, the caller  was in fact a fraudster.  
The fraudster, posing as the bank, questioned Mr W about two transactions.  He said Lloyds had 
flagged them as suspicious   one was a payment of £456 to a DIY retailer  and the other a payment  
for £1,608 to an electronics store.  Mr W told the fraudster he didnt  recognise the transactions.
Mr W is a carer for his 91 year old mother, who has mild dementia, and also a volunteer coastguard 
officer.  He  says that attention to both that day  caring for his mother  and an emergency  call out 
for work - meant he was in a hurry to leave his house at the time of this call. 
Mr W says that the fraudster  told him he would  make further  checks  and get back to him.  
Mr W then received a series  of calls from the fraudster(s) throughout the course of the day - with the 
scam unfolding further each time. Mr W says he spoke to a number of people - all claiming to be from 
different departments  from within the bank.  He found himself becoming more  alarmed with every call.  
As things turned out, all the calls from the fraudster(s) that day were,  ultimately,  merely chapters of a 
story that culminated in Mr W being told that Lloyds  branches in the Great Yarmouth area were  under 
investigation.  Mr W says he was told that he was one of about fifteen customers where  bank staff 
had compromised accounts.   
Mr W says he was instructed by the fraudster  that the only way to safeguard his money was to go to 
his nearest Lloyds branch and transfer his ISA savings  to safe accounts with two other banks.   Mr W 
was told that these  accounts had been set up in cooperation  with those  banks to stop internal  fraud. 
The fraudster said the police were involved  and arrests were imminent. Mr W recalls being  told it was 
important he should  not contact any bank staff to avoid compromising the investigation  otherwise 
he would lose his and other customers savings.
Mr W says that under extreme psychological pressure  he followed the fraudsters instructions  and 
went to a nearby branch, where he attempted to set up two transfers from his ISA account.  
The payments were  to two different banks and for £25,000 each. The money  had to be transferred 
from Mr Ws ISA to his current  account to enable  the transfers. Mr W made  both transfers on the 
same day, at the same time and with the same staff member from Lloyds.  
Mr W says that, throughout  all this, the fraudster was listening on his mobile phone.
Mr W remembers that the staff member  did ask him some questions  about the transfers. He says she 
asked him what their purpose was.  He also remembers being asked if he was being  pressured  into 
making them.  
Ref: DRN80542496Mr W, acting under the instruction of the fraudster, cannot recall exactly what he said in response to 
the staff member, but he believes he said the transfers were for family or personal reasons.   He 
recalls he was extremely anxious and worried about losing his money by tipping off the branch  staff  
who he had been led to believe were the criminals in this. Mr W says the whole  process took 5 or 6 
minutes to withdraw the money from his ISA and process both payments. 
On the following day, Mr W received another call from the fraudster   again to his landline  telephone.  
And again he says it seemed to be from the Lloyds telephone number.  He  was told his account was 
subject to another attack and that he would have need to transfer  out his remaining funds. Mr W went  
back to the branch to carry out the transfer.   Once more, Mr W says he was told by the fraudster  to 
keep his mobile  phone on.
Mr W remembers that the branch was much busier this time.  In view of this, a member  of Lloyds staff,  
that Mr W believes  was the manager, approached  him in the long queue to see if he could help.  
Mr W says the manager  took him to one side and Mr W told the manager he wanted to make a 
payment of £20,000.  The manager asked what the purpose of the transfer was  to which Mr W 
remembers giving the same or similar response as the previous day.  Mr W also recalls being asked 
by the manager whether he had a reference number  and who owned the receiving  account. 
However, Mr W only had £18,000 in his account and Mr W says the manager wasnt convinced by his 
answers. He says the questions were more  rigorous  than the day before and he couldnt keep up 
the pretence.   Mr W says he was also asked some questions  by the deputy  manager  of the branch.  
Mr W says he finally broke down  all the previous  time believing one or more bank staff might be 
accessing his bank account.
The manager  enacted the Banking Protocol and called the police. Mr W says he then realised hed 
been the victim of a scam  - the questioning of the manager, along with the arrival of the police, had 
broken the spell cast by the fraudster. 
Lloyds initial response of 14 June 2018 to Mr Ws complaint 
Lloyds input  to the events naturally starts when Mr W attended its branch  for the first time on 
10 May 2018.  
It says it questioned Mr W that day about the purpose of the transfers when he asked for them to be 
made. Lloyds  obtained the recollections of the staff member who served Mr W on 10 May 2018.  
These recollections seem  to have been provided in summary form by Lloyds, and confirmed by the 
branch manager, rather than in the staff members own hand. The staff member  says Mr W told her 
he was transferring the money  because he wanted a better  interest rate  a different  reason to the 
one Mr W says he gave.  She  says she remembers  that they chatted about this as Lloyds had 
recently lowered its rates
The staff member also says she read Mr W the banks  scams script The script says:
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                           
The staff member recalls that Mr W appeared calm and showed no signs of distress. Lloyds says that 
a                                                 would have been completed  and Mr W was asked for suitable  
identification to complete the transfers.  The staff member accordingly completed the two transactions  
totalling £50,000.
Lloyds is satisfied that the correct processes were followed by its branch  staff on 10 May 2018 and 
has not therefore  agreed  to reimburse Mr W with the £50,000 he lost. 
Ref: DRN80542497In respect of the attempted transaction on 11 May 2018, Lloyds said the same staff member from 10 
May 2018 helped prevent  this.  In its letter to Mr W of 14 June 2018,  Lloyds said:
The following day you have returned to the branch  to request more  money  be transferred. The same  
process has been followed whereupon  you have  advised  that the money  was being  transferred to 
your family. [Staff members name] recognising that you had completed large transfers the day 
before has highlighted this to her colleague  as a concern.  At this point, the decision  was made  not to 
proceed with the transaction and the branch  manager alerted
I understand this to mean that Lloyds believes that Mr W came into branch  on 11 May 2018 and was 
served by a different staff member to that of 10 May 2018.  But the staff member  who had served him on 
10 May 2018 told the colleague, who served Mr W on 11 May 2018, that Mr W had been in the day before 
making large transfers.  And Lloyds believe this interaction played a part in the scam being  uncovered.
In summary, Lloyds was satisfied that everything possible was done to prevent Mr W becoming a 
victim of fraud. It does not agree that more robust questioning on 10 May 2018 would have overcome 
the deep mistrust  of Lloyds  branch staff instilled  in Mr W by the fraudster and prevented the fraud 
that day.
Correspondence between  Mr W and Lloyds  following Lloyds letter of 14 June 2018
Mr W disagreed with Lloyds version of events and the outcome overall. 
Mr W is adamant he was not read the scam script in full.  He strongly refutes there was any mention 
of the parts about funds being unsafe,  or that the bank/police would  never tell someone to move 
money to a safe account. He says if there had been that would  have been enough for him to question 
what he was doing and ask for help.  Mr  W says he definitely wasnt  read the full scam script.
Mr W is sure he didnt say he was looking for a better  interest rate elsewhere.  He maintains  that on 
both occasions he said he was either sending  the money to friends  or family, or that it was a personal 
matter.  
Mr W says, had the level of questioning on 10 May 2018 been of the same level as on 11 May 2018, 
the scam would not have  succeeded.  To highlight  the level of questioning that took place  on 10 May 
2018, Mr W says the transfer of £50,000 from his account, including the transfer in from his ISA, only 
took 5 to 6 mins.  Mr W says he recalls being very surprised how easy it was to transfer such  a large  
amount of money.
Mr W requested that Lloyds  obtain CCTV of the incidents to prove what  happened on both days. He is 
adamant this would show proper  protocols were not followed on 10 May 2018.
Mr W disputes  that things happened as he believes Lloyds said on 11 May 2018.   He says he didnt  
speak to the same member of staff on the second day and only dealt with the branch manager. 
In response to Mr Ws points, Lloyds did not change its mind that it had done all it could on both 10 
and 11 May 2018. 
It remained satisfied that the events  of 10 May 2018 had not given its branch  staff member 
cause for concern.
Also, given that Mr W has interpreted Lloyds  letter of 14 June 2018 as inferring  the same staff 
member he had dealt with on 10 May 2018 had again served him on 11 May 2018,  Lloyds clarified to 
Mr W that this was not the case. It confirmed  that the staff member of 10 May 2018 had only been 
involved indirectly on 11 May 2018, rather than directly with Mr W.
Mr W brought his complaint to this service as he was unhappy with the outcome reached by Lloyds.
Ref: DRN80542498my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to take into 
account relevant: law and regulations; regulators' rules, guidance and standards; codes  of practice; 
and, where  appropriate, what I consider to have  been  good  industry  practice at the time. 
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process  payments and 
withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions  of the customers account.   And I have taken that into 
account when deciding what is fair and reasonable  in this case.
But that is not the end of the story:
The law recognises that a bank may be liable to its customer if it makes a payment in 
circumstances where it has reasonable grounds (although  not necessarily proof)  for believing  
that the payment  instruction was an attempt  to misappropriate  the funds of its customer  (known 
as the Quincecare  duty).    
Regulated firms  like Lloyds are also required to conduct  their business with due skill, care and 
diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to the interests of its 
customers (Principle 6).  
And as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider  firms should  also have taken 
proactive steps to: 
identify and assist vulnerable  consumers and consumers in vulnerable circumstances, including 
those at risk of financial exploitation (something  recognised by the FCA in recent years and by 
the British Bankers Associations February 2016 report improving  outcomes  for customers in 
vulnerable circumstances ); 
look to identify and help prevent transactions - particularly unusual or out of character 
transactions  that could  involve fraud or be the result of a scam (something  also recognised by 
the British Standards  Institutes October 2017 Protecting  Customers from Financial  harm  as a 
result of fraud or financial  abuse   Code  of Practice , which  a number  of banks  and trade 
associations were  involved in the development of); and
in relation to branch  transactions  follow the Banking Protocol when available.     
This means  that there are circumstances,  irrespective of the payment channel used,  where a bank 
should, in my opinion, fairly and reasonably  take additional steps,  or make additional checks, before  
processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make a payment  altogether, to help protect  
customers from the possibility  of financial harm.  
This is particularly so in light of the environment  created by the increase in sophisticated  fraud and 
scams in recent years  - which banks are generally  more familiar with than the average customer.  
So, taking all of this into account, in this case I need to decide whether Lloyds acted fairly and 
reasonably in its dealings with Mr W when he transferred  £50,000 out of his account in two transfers,  
or whether  it should have  done more  than it did.
Ref: DRN80542499Key question to answer in this case
I believe its accepted  by all that Mr W was the unwitting victim of a deeply  unpleasant and callous 
fraud.  Indeed, Lloyds  itself described what happened to Mr W as an extremely elaborate and 
convincing deception  that has resulted  in a significant financial loss.
So the key question I need to answer, in deciding  whats  fair and reasonable  in this case, is whether  
Lloyds, when  Mr W transferred two payments of £25,000 in quick succession  in one its branches on 
10 May 2018, took sufficient steps,  in all the circumstances of the transfers, to help protect Mr W from 
the possibility of financial harm.
On the balance  of evidence, I dont currently think it did and will explain why.
According to UK Finances figures for 2018, financial fraud in this country has now reached in excess 
of £1 billion  a year.  Approximately  a third of this comes from authorised push payment fraud (APP)  
a rate of around  £1 million  a day.  And this is a figure that has sadly been  growing.  Its against this 
backdrop that initiatives such as the Banking Protocol came  into existence.
One of the objectives of the Banking Protocol is, of course, to disturb this growing pattern of fraud and 
provide more protection to consumers  who have  been  under threat from sophisticated  forms of 
fraud, with social engineering  at its heart, more than ever before. Its also the case, as I touched upon 
in my relevant  considerations section above, that banks are generally more  familiar with fraud - and 
therefore better placed to help spot it - than the average consumer.
I think  its fair to say that the primary concern  of the Banking Protocol is consumer protection  rather 
than, for example, to help financial businesses  avoid  liability. So the skill of bank staff and the types of 
questions that get asked in the particular  circumstances of a transaction  and most  notably when a 
consumer wishes to withdraw or transfer an unusually large or out of character sum amount of money  
- will be important. 
In saying  this, I expect  most people understand there are a limits to how far a bank  can or should go 
when asking questions.   And of course most bank  customers wont be fraud victims.
But, equally,  neither is a generic script or commentary about  fraud, read out to a consumer already 
socially engineered, anxious and in the midst of a fraud, likely to be sufficient in all circumstances.  
This is a point I will return to later in this provisional  decision.   
Nor indeed would  just one or two questions, which are not designed to get into the detail of why that 
consumer wanted  to move  their money, always  be enough. This is particularly so as its well 
established that fraud victims have often  been  coached  into believing that bank branch staff are the 
criminals in the episode and will, therefore, have  been  fed a cover  story for why they are 
withdrawing or transferring  money.  
The quality and specifics of the questions that get asked in the individual circumstances point is 
important.  Through the careful design  of the fraudster, the intention of the consumer, as I am 
satisfied it was in Mr Ws case, will not be to answer honestly when asked.   And banks know this is 
how such frauds work.  The consumer has a different objective at play - saving their money from 
being stolen - which theyve been convinced would  be better met by the cover story provided by the 
fraudster. 
This is a point I note Lloyds  acknowledges in some  of its internal guidance on the practical application  
of the banking protocol.  It says staff should                                                             
                                                                                                                                                                        
                                                                                                                                                                        
                                                                                                                   
Though this extract is from, I believe,  August  2018, its my view that it was in any event good practice at 
the time Mr W made the transfers and is in keeping with the Banking Protocol that applied  at the time. 
Ref: DRN805424910So, its through  these lenses that I have considered  whether Lloyds  has been able to demonstrate 
that, in all of the circumstances, it did enough when Mr W visited its branch on 10 May 2018.  
Ive thought carefully about  whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude  that there were 
enough of the hallmarks of a potential fraud present on 10 May 2018  for Lloyds to have had 
reasonable grounds  for some concern and ask more questions  than it appears to have done that day.  
In all the circumstances of this case, Im satisfied on balance there was.  The  £50,000 withdrawal  
from Mr Ws savings account and onward transfer of that money to two new payees  were unusual and 
out of character transactions for Mr W.  And I think this warranted  further questions  than the evidence 
I have seen suggests were asked  this is whether  Mr Ws version  of events  (in particular  about the 
reason he gave for the transfers and the reading of the scam script) is correct or the banks.  
£50,000 is, by any reasonable definition, a sizable  sum of money.  It  certainly was for Mr W and, as 
noted above, he had to transfer money from his ISA savings, with the help of the staff member, to 
make the payments.  Yet, even if Lloyds version  of what  happened  on 10 May 2018 is correct (and 
the conversation  was about  moving savings to get better interest rates), it does  not appear Lloyds 
asked Mr W further specific questions  designed  to establish the detail of the transfers he was making.
For example, there appears to have been no discussion about any potential  tax implications Mr W 
might have incurred by removing £50,000,  at extremely short notice, from his ISA.  
Mr W couldve been  asked  such things as the type and product name  of the account he was moving  
the money to and what the new rate was  but I havent seen  any evidence he was. And potentially, 
given the nature  of safe account scams, it might  have been  appropriate to ask for some evidence to 
link Mr W with the accounts  he was transferring his money to. 
Nor does Mr W seem to have been  asked  why he was splitting the money between two accounts. 
That also seems potentially unusual if someone is looking  to pursue a better rate elsewhere.  Perhaps 
even why not all of his savings were being transferred  given the allegedly favourable rates  of interest. 
These are other points which I think the bank  might  fairly and reasonably have touched upon  with 
some additional questioning.  Banks dont need to be certain a fraud is happening to ask additional  
questions  they do need to be on the lookout for signs of things being  not quite as presented. 
Given whats set out in the Banking Protocol - around questioning the customer  about transactions, 
being alive to potential cover  stories and considering the elements of known scams  I think  the 
questions asked  on day two by the branch  manager would have been more in line with the kind of 
reasonable and specific questions  to have asked Mr W on day one. 
And given  what happened  on day two  albeit  it with the additional material  factor  of the payments 
from the previous  day - it appears, and I think its more  likely than not, that such questions  would have 
led to a different  outcome. 
From the evidence  Ive seen, I think its more  likely than not that Mr W wouldnt have been able to 
persuasively answer basic questions about where he was transferring  the money  on 10 May 2018.   
I believe his answers would, more likely than not, have left staff concerned and this would ultimately, 
whether through  further questioning or through the involvement of the police, revealed that Mr W was 
being scammed. 
If, alternatively, Mr Ws version  of what happened  on 10 May 2018 (that he was transferring the 
money for personal  or family  reasons) is correct then, again, I dont think  Lloyds should  have 
accepted that without  further  additional questions designed to get into the detail.   And again, I think  
further questioning would, more likely  than not, have revealed the scam.
Ref: DRN805424911Lloyds says that                                                                                                                                             
     However, it has been unable  to provide  Mr Ws copy of this from the time.   Lloyds also says as 
part of the discussion  it read a full scam script  that day - though Mr W strongly  disagrees  with this.  
Ive thought carefully about  this and, ultimately, I think Lloyds should  have given Mr W information  
about scams in a more  tailored and responsive way on 10 May 2018 than, on balance,  I believe 
happened in all the circumstances - whether  the script was read in full or not.
The Banking  Protocol recognises  that such scam scripts may not be enough to break  the spell cast by 
a fraudster. It recognises that:
often  the bank will have to ask more  detailed  and specific questions  to determine whether the 
customer might  be a victim of fraud; and
that customers  are often convinced by the fraudsters  story and so ultimately it may be necessary 
to escalate the matter  to the Police for customers to realise or accept that they are the victim of 
fraud,
So, in light of the heightened environment banks  and their customers  are now operating in when it 
comes to fraud - as detailed  elsewhere  in this decision  and the purpose of the Banking Protocol and 
what I consider  to have been good practice, I think Lloyds  ought  fairly and reasonably to have  viewed 
Mr Ws request  on 10 May 2018 with some suspicion and caution  and asked more  questions  than, 
even by its own account, it did. And I am, on the balance  of evidence, currently satisfied the fraud 
would more  likely than not have been prevented if it had.
I accept, as I have said elsewhere in this decision, there is a balance to be struck and there are limits 
to the depth of questioning a bank can pursue.  I am not suggesting Mr W should  have been subject 
to an interrogation.  However, £50,000 is a lot of money  it was for Mr W.  I believe  that Lloyds 
ought fairly and reasonably  to have asked more questions - essentially to challenge  the purpose of 
the payments and ask for more detail - than it seems  on balance happened that day.
On a final point, I recognise that the growth  of financial fraud in this country puts bank staff in difficult 
positions.  They  have  to make judgements in the moment and they wont get it right every time.  But  
my present  view is that Lloyds  ought fairly and reasonably to have done  more than it did on this 
occasion and that Mr Ws complaint should succeed   this is whether his version of what  happened 
on 10 May 2018 is accurate  or whether  the banks is.
putting things  right
Im presently satisfied that if Lloyds had acted fairly and reasonably it could have prevented the losses 
Mr W incurred.  And therefore,  in the circumstances, that Lloyds should  fairly and reasonably 
compensate Mr W for this.
For the reasons  given,  Im currently minded  to decide it would be fair and reasonable for Lloyds to 
refund the losses that Mr W has suffered as a result of this scam.
In addition, Mr W has told us that he risks losing his house as a result of what happened to him in 
May 2018 and that the events of those two days are never  far from his mind.   Hes said his emotions 
have ranged  from anger to confusion and that hes felt close to a breakdown.  I can fully empathise 
that this has been a terrible  time for Mr W, so Ive thought about whether an award for distress and 
inconvenience is fair in this case.  
As the financial loss Mr W incurred from this unfortunate  episode ought in my view,  more  likely  than 
not, have  been prevented  by Lloyds  for the reasons I have  given - Im therefore  also currently  
satisfied that a payment  for distress and inconvenience  would  be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances.  In deciding whats fair compensation, I have also taken  into account that these events 
ultimately occurred in the first place  through the actions of a scammer.
Ref: DRN805424912So I intend to order Lloyds to:
refund Mr W the £50,000 loss; 
pay Mr W the interest he would have earned on the £50,000 had it remained in his ISA account, 
from the date of withdrawal to the date of settlement;
pay Mr W £300 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience he experienced.
Im conscious  that Mr Ws loss comes from an ISA. There may then be tax implications for him and 
the £50,000 cant be re-credited to an ISA account in one go. But Mr W should  be able to use his 
allowance for this financial year and next to re-credit potentially as much as £40,000 quite  quickly. 
Therell then only be £10,000 outstanding to deposit later. 
Mr W has told us he intends  to use the money next year to pay off his mortgage and so there arent 
any long term implications  of the money not being in an ISA account. And it appears Mr W would still 
be within his tax-free personal savings  allowance  so shouldnt be disadvantaged.
If Mr W feels there are further implications for his savings and the amount of tax he pays  he should  let 
me know so those factors can be taken into account.
If Lloyds is able to backdate the funds and/or re-establish the account  in another way then it should  let 
Mr W know.
my provisional  decision
I intend  to uphold  Mr Ws complaint against Lloyds  Bank PLC.
I now invite  both parties to provide me with any further evidence or information  by 11 December  2019. 
Pat Hurley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8054249