K821x#15complaint
Mr H says Santander UK plc (trading  as Abbey National)  mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out on in a meeting in 2000 at the same  time as 
Mr H applied for a mortgage. It gave  him unemployment cover and he paid a monthly  
amount for it. 
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. Santander disagreed  so the complaint was passed to 
me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Our general  approach to complaints about  the sale of PPI is on our website  and Ive followed 
it here.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Hs complaint.  Ill explain why.
Santander recommended  the policy to Mr H so it had to make  sure the policy  was suitable 
for him. I dont think it was.
 
I say this because  Mr Hs told us his employer had a no compulsory redundancy policy  so 
he would  only have  become unemployed if he took voluntary redundancy or lost his job 
because of something he did wrong.  And in neither of these cases  would he have been 
covered by this policy. So it seems  there  would have  been no circumstances in which  Mr H 
could have claimed under the policy. Santander  asks for documentation  to support Mr Hs 
testimony, but given  the nature of his job at the time, his employer and the fact his testimony 
has been detailed  and wholly consistent throughout I think its fair and reasonable to rely on 
it.  
 
It follows I dont think Mr H wouldve bought the policy  if hed been  properly advised. So Mr H 
has lost out because of what the bank did wrong. 
putting things right
Santander should put Mr H in the position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI. It 
should: 
pay Mr H the amount he paid each  month  for the PPI;
add simple interest to each payment  from when he paid it until he gets it back. The rate 
of interest is 8% a year; and
if Mr H made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Santander can take off what he 
got for the claim from the amount  it owes him.
Ref: DRN84019942 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander  
must give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I uphold Mr Hs complaint. Santander UK plc must pay Mr H 
compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8401994