K820x#14complaint
Ms K says Capital One (Europe) plc (Capital One) mis-sold her a regular payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy to cover her credit  card repayments.
background
Ms K applied for a credit card by post in September 1999. At the same time she took out a 
PPI policy  to cover her credit  card repayments.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Ms Ks complaint  should  be upheld because  he thought Ms K 
wouldve understood he had a choice  in taking the policy and thought it wouldve provided a 
useful benefit.
Ms K disagrees. She says she didnt  consent to have it and it wasnt explained  to her. 
So the complaint has come  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Ms Ks complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Ms Ks complaint and will explain why.
The PPI was applied  for by post when Ms K completed a postal application for a credit card. 
Capital One has given us a copy of the application form Ms K completed.  
I can see that theres a separate  section  on the application form that deals with PPI. Directly 
under this it gives the option to select PPI and the option to not have it. I can see on Ms Ks 
application form a tick has been placed next to the option to have it. 
So I think because Ms K more likely selected to take PPI with a tick she understood she had 
a choice in taking the policy and wanted the cover. If Ms K didnt want  to take out PPI she 
couldve ticked next to the option  declining the policy. 
Because the PPI was taken out through the post I dont think Capital One advised  
Ms K to take PPI. What  this means is that Capital One didnt recommend PPI to Ms K, it just 
gave her information about PPI. This information  needed to be given in a way that was clear,  
fair and not misleading so she could make  an informed  choice  about  buying PPI.
I dont know if Capital  One did give all the proper information that was needed. But even  if 
Capital One did, I think Ms K wouldve still taken the policy because at the time of sale from 
what we know about Capital One policies:
She was eligible for the PPI.
It doesnt look like she wouldve been caught  by any of the main  exclusions in the terms 
and conditions  of the policy which couldve made it difficult  to make a successful claim.
Ref: DRN84743712At the time of the sale Ms K says she wasnt entitled to any sick pay (other  than 
statutory sick pay) and had no other means  of making  her repayments  if she couldnt 
work due to accident or sickness or if she lost her job. The policy  wouldve helped  her in 
these situations,  so I cant see how knowing this information wouldve put her off buying 
it.
Theres nothing to suggest the policy wasnt affordable to Ms K and she could cancel 
the policy  if she no longer wanted it.
So I dont  think it wouldve made a difference in how the information was given to Ms K on 
the PPI. I think she wouldve still taken out the PPI policy  as it was of value to her.
Which means Capital One doesnt have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to Ms K.
But Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI because: 
When the policy was sold, Capital  One expected to get a high level of commission and 
profit share  (more  than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Ms K about 
that. Because Capital One didnt  tell Ms K, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Capital One has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc does not have  to pay back  all 
of the cost of the PPI to Ms K.
But Capital  One (Europe)  plc does  have to pay back any commission and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already  done this, so I dont 
award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 March  2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8474371