K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs E complain  that Barclays Bank UK PLC was irresponsible  to lend to Mr E when it 
knew about his mental  health issues. They ask that Barclays writes off the debt and pays 
compensation for its poor advice  and service.
background
Mr E says he suffers from a severe  mental illness which affects his judgement and decision 
making. Mr E withdrew money from their mortgage  current account (which  Ill refer to as the 
MCA) leaving a debt that Mrs E is jointly liable for. He says when he borrowed the money he 
didnt understand  the consequences. He says he was given a loan by another member of 
the Barclays group, after telling  Barclays about  his mental health problems. He says the 
resulting debts have  caused distress and hardship  for him and his family. Mr and Mrs E say 
Barclays didnt respond when they tried to raise a complaint.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld, saying:
in April 2017 Mrs E told Barclays shed separated from Mr E in November 2016. Funds 
had been taken out of the MCA since then, leaving a debt of about £7,500.
while Mr E says he was advised by branch  staff to withdraw money  from the MCA and 
put it in a low interest ISA, this seemed unlikely. Barclays  has no record  of this. Its not 
reasonable to say that branch staff should have recognised Mr Es mental health 
problems and prevented the transfer. 
In May 2017 the MCA was frozen and the limit was capped  at £8,800 to prevent further 
withdrawals.
Barclays was told about  Mr Es mental health  problems in late July 2017. Barclays  didnt 
offer Mr E further  lending after this.
Mr and Mrs E are jointly  liable for the MCA and either of them can withdraw money  from 
it without the others knowledge or consent.  The money was withdrawn before Barclays 
was told about  Mr Es health problems. Barclays didnt  make an error.
Mr E borrowed from another  business  within the Barclays group. The investigator said 
this business was separate from Barclays and theres no evidence  Barclays  told 
Mr and Mrs E their instructions  would cover other  businesses in the Barclays  group.
Barclays said it could have offered better service. It offered £500 compensation for its 
lack of support  and the delay in responding to Mr and Mrs Es complaint. The 
investigator said this was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr and Mrs E didnt  agree. They both commented on what  had happened and our 
investigators recommendations. Mr E said there are three  core complaints:
the advice  Mr E was given initially  regarding moving funds from an expensive facility  to a 
minimal interest  ISA when he was clearly behaving erratically.
Mrs Es concerns about the lack of knowledge,  support  and action that she received  as 
well as the over limit situation  created  by the wrong  advice  she was eventually  given.
Ref: DRN87432542another member  of the Barclays group lending to Mr E after it had been  advised of his 
mental state.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
Im very sorry for the circumstances here. Mr E provided evidence about his mental  health  
problems and the effect its had. Mrs E says she unable to work due to chronic illness. I 
appreciate that dealing  with debts add to their difficulties. I must  be clear though about my 
role here. I have to consider whether Barclays made an error or acted  unreasonably  and, if it 
has, what it should do to put matters right. 
Ive set out what I think happened, based  on the evidence provided by Mr and Mrs E and 
Barclays. Ive then considered Mr and Mrs Es complaints, focussing on what Mr E has said 
are the core complaints.  
November 2016 Mr E took out a £20,000 loan with Barclays.
19 December 2016 Mrs E withdrew £500 from the MCA. 
20 December 2016 Mr E transferred £3,550 to his ISA account and £2,450 to his current  
account from the MCA. This left the MCA overdrawn by about £6,600.
March 2017 Barclays declined Mr Es application to borrow £8,000.
April 2017 Mrs E told Barclays theyd  separated  and the split was amicable.
April/early May 2017 £2,450 is withdrawn from the MCA. £1,500  is credited to the MCA.
15  26 May 2017 Mrs E withdrew about £1,350 from the MCA. 
Mrs E confirmed a non-amicable split and asked for the MCA to be 
frozen. Barclays noted a marital dispute  and warned Mrs E of the 
consequences of freezing  accounts. 
Barclays froze services on the MCA, requiring both Mr and Mrs E to 
authorise them being re-instated.  The overdraft  limit was capped at 
£8,800 to prevent further funds being taken out. 
June/July 2017 Mr E applied for a further advance on the mortgage,  and then told 
Barclays Mrs E wasnt happy with this. He applied for a loan which he 
said was for school fees.
27 July 2017 Barclays was told about Mr Es mental health  problems. Mrs E asked 
that it didnt increase Mr Es loans. It put a flag against Mr Es name. 
29 December 2017 Mr and Mrs E visited their branch  and asked to raise  a complaint. 
They raised a complaint  in writing in January 2018. 
The advice Mr E was given initially regarding moving funds from an expensive facility to a 
minimal interest  ISA when he was clearly behaving erratically.
The terms of the MCA allow  either  Mr E or Mrs E to withdraw money  without the others 
knowledge or consent. 
Ref: DRN87432543Mr E says he went to a branch and asked staff how he could prevent his wife getting money 
from the MCA. He says he was advised  to withdraw  funds  and put them into an ISA. Mr E 
says he wouldnt have  transferred the money  if he hadnt been advised  to do it. He says its 
not rational to borrow money at a high rate to put into an ISA account at a lower rate. 
Mr E says his memory of his visit to the branch is clear and we (at the ombudsman  service) 
arent qualified  to make judgements about  how his disorder affects him. Hes right.  But I 
must make a decision  here about whether Barclays made an error. Ive relied on what Mr E 
has said about his illness and how it affected him.
Mr E says during the worst parts of his illness he took out loans and credit without his wifes  
knowledge and without understanding the implications. He says all he cared about was 
getting as much cash as possible. From what Mr E has said, it seems  his intention when 
going to the branch was to prevent  Mrs E taking money from the MCA. Transferring money 
from the MCA to an account in his own name  would  achieve this. 
Its unfortunate that Barclays doesnt  have more  information about Mr Es visit. But if all Mr E 
did at the branch was transfer money  between existing accounts this isnt surprising. If Mr E 
talked to staff about the reason for the transfer  I dont think  theyd have  needed to make a 
record of the discussion.  Mr E was entitled  to withdraw money from the MCA.
Mr E says Barclayss  staff should  have  noticed  his erratic and out of character behaviour. At 
this point, Barclays hadnt been  told about Mr Es mental health problems. With the evidence  
available to me, I dont  think  I can reasonably find its staff should  have  been  alerted to a 
problem or refused to act on his instructions. In the circumstances, I dont think  its fair and 
reasonable to require  Barclays to write  off the debt.
Mrs Es concerns about the lack of knowledge,  support  and action that she received  as well 
as the over limit situation created by the wrong  advice she was eventually  given.
Mrs E says it took several  visits to find out what had happened to the money transferred by 
Mr E out of the MCA. She says she was advised to take out the remaining money. Barclays 
froze the MCA in May 2017. The overdraft limit was capped at £8,800  to prevent  further  
funds being taken out. 
Mrs E wanted to ensure Mr E couldnt  withdraw  further funds. Freezing the account and 
capping the limit did this. The terms of the account say interest will be applied.  So I dont 
think Barclays made an error when it applied interest.  
Applying the fixed limit meant the overdraft limit didnt increase as the mortgage was paid. 
So Mr and Mrs E need  to make payments into the account to cover the interest. But I think 
this was the right thing  to do as Mrs Es main concern was to prevent Mr E incurring further  
indebtedness. Barclays wrote to Mr and Mrs E when the interest  took the account over the 
limit. So they were able to make arrangements to pay the interest. 
I havent seen  evidence that Barclays advised Mrs E to take out the remaining  money. She 
was able to make her own decision about this. If Mrs E didnt want to withdraw the money 
she could have asked  Barclays  to freeze  the account. 
Barclays wrote to Mr and Mrs E in mid-2018 saying the account had been close  to its limit for 
some time. They were upset by the letter. But I dont think this was Barclays intention. I think 
the letter was intended to inform them about the account and its terms.
Ref: DRN87432544I understand that Mr and Mrs E paid £1,000 into the account to bring it below its limit so that 
they could take out a new mortgage  product. This hasnt affected  the outcome of this 
complaint. 
Another member of the Barclays group  lending  to Mr E after it had been  advised of his 
mental state.
Mr and Mrs E say they were told when  they visited the branch in July 2017 that the warning 
not to lend to Mr E would  be monitored across  the Barclays group.  Theyre  frustrated that 
Barclays hasnt provided records of this meeting. Mr E was lent money  by a credit card 
issuer in the Barclays group later in 2017. 
Barclays says the card issuer is a separate business. While  Mr and Mrs E say they were told 
the information they gave  Barclays would be available across the Barclays  group, theres  no 
other evidence that Barclays  told Mr and Mrs E this. 
Mr and Mrs E also say they couldnt have known that the card issuer was separate and 
information wouldnt be shared with it. I do understand the point they make. So Ive thought  
about whether  matters  would have been different if theyd been told to contact the card 
issuer directly.
The card account  is in Mr Es name. Barclays says when branch staff asked Mr and Mrs E 
about the credit card debt (including the cash transfer they complain about) Mr and Mrs E 
said they needed the money. The card issuer  has also said it suggested Mr E reduce the 
card account  limit and Mr E said he didnt intend  to do this. This suggests to me that if 
Mr and Mrs E had been told they needed  to contact  the card issuer directly, its unlikely they 
would have done so. So, on balance, I dont think the outcome would have been different. 
Other matters
Mr E says his relationship  manager  was actively assisting him in trying to increase  his 
indebtedness. He says a loan application  was only cancelled  when Mrs E told Barclays  
about his mental  health problems in July 2017.  
I dont know if Barclays would have  offered  Mr E further loans if Mrs E hadnt intervened. But 
once it was told about Mr Es mental  health problems it acted appropriately.  I dont think I 
can reasonably  say Barclays was at fault for discussing Mr Es loan applications with him 
before it was told about his mental  health  problems. 
Mrs E asked that Barclays provides complete and clear guidelines about how it deals with 
people with mental illness and what she should do in future. I dont think  its reasonable to 
require Barclays to provide complete guidelines to Mrs E  how it deals with matters will 
depend on the particular circumstances. And any guidelines could change over time.  But I 
do think its a good idea for Mr and Mrs E to maintain  contact with Barclays  about  the 
support that it can offer.
Barclays says it could  have offered better  service to Mr and Mrs E. It offered £500  
compensation for its lack of support and the delay in responding to Mr and Mrs Es 
complaint. I think this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Ref: DRN87432545my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint as I find that Barclays Bank UK Plcs offer 
of compensation  is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 March  2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8743254