K821x#15complaint
Mr T is unhappy  with how Help Your Claim Limited (HYC) dealt with his claims for mis-sold  
payment protection insurance (PPI).
background
Mr T instructed HYC in 2016  to PPI claims against  Lender L. Because  he hadnt heard 
anything from them, in 2018 he made  the claims against Lender L himself.  A claim was 
successful and HYC invoiced Mr T for their fees.  When these fees werent paid,  HYC  sent 
their invoice to a third party debt collection  agency.
Mr T has complained that HYC didnt deal with his claims in a timely manner, and that 
theyve invoiced him for claims  he did himself.
Our investigator found that HYC hadnt acted  reasonably. She felt HYC  couldve progressed 
Mr Ts claims sooner, and they hadnt  kept him up to date. And because Lender L rejected 
HYCs Letter  of Authority (LOA)  Mr T had signed this more  than six months  before they 
submitted it - she didnt  think it was fair that HYC  charged  their fees because they werent  
authorised to make the claims. She also thought HYC should  write to Mr T to tell him nothing  
was owed, and pay him £100 for the trouble and upset pursuing their fees had caused him.
HYC agreed  with the investigator but Mr T didnt. Mr T has said that HYC didnt submit his 
claim within the legal time  six months  and they submitted his claim in 2019 without his 
further authority.  Because of this, he doesnt believe  he owes  HYC anything and thinks  they 
were wrong to send  their invoice to a debt collection agency.
Mr T also thinks HYC should pay him 100% of the value of his PPI claims with Lender L, 
and pay him loss of interest and compensation for the harassment and stress hes been 
caused.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Its not disputed  that HYC didnt deal with Mr Ts PPI claims for two years,  and when they did 
send them to Lender L, they were rejected because Mr T had signed  the LOA more than six 
months earlier. Because of this, I agree that HYC  arent entitled to any fees and should 
cancel their invoice.
But this doesnt  mean theres  a legal time in which HYC had to make  the claims.  Lender L 
wont accept LOAs thatve  been signed  more  than six months  earlier,  but HYCs LOA doesnt 
have an expiry date. So I cant  agree with Mr T that HYC  were  acting illegally  by submitting 
his claims when they did.
Mr T submitted claims to Lender L himself. So Lender L had an obligation to consider  
whether Mr T had a valid PPI claim against any accounts with Lender L, or against any 
accounts with other  companies in the same banking group.  As Mr T had a successful claim, 
this wouldve  been all he was entitled to receive from Lender L. And, if he disagreed  with the 
outcome of his claims, he had the opportunity to appeal  Lender Ls decision through  the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service.
Ref: DRN83264332So I cant say that Mr T has lost out on the opportunity to have all of his claims against 
Lender L considered. For this reason, while Mr T may be unhappy with the compensation he 
received from Lender L, I dont think its fair or reasonable  to ask HYC to pay him 100% of 
what he considered  his claim to be worth   hes already received this from Lender L.
But HYC sent their invoice to a third party debt collection agency,  and they pursued Mr T for 
these fees. While I understand  this situation  has now been  resolved, and Mr T isnt being  
chased anymore,  being chased  for fees he didnt owe wouldve been stressful  and caused  
some upset. So I agree with the investigator that HYC should also pay Mr T £100 to 
compensate him for this.
putting things right
Help Your Claim Limited should:
Cancel their invoice  for the claim against  Lender  L, confirming in writing to Mr T that 
this has been  done.
Pay Mr T £100 to reflect the stress and upset caused by them passing their invoice to 
a third party debt collection agency,  and chasing  for fees they werent entitled to.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above I uphold Mr Ts complaint. Help Your  Claim Limited must 
follow the directions  above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 January 2020.
Andrew Burford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8326433