K820x#14complaint
Mr A, through his representative,  complains that St James Place UK plc (SJP) wish to 
impose charges  on withdrawals from his pension policies in breach of the law banning  early  
exit charges above 1%.
background
In February 2018,  SJP provided a personal  retirement plan projection for the policies Mr A 
held with it. It also provided valuation statements for the four individual policies. The 
statements showed that two of the policies had an encashment  value of less than the unit 
value. The note to the statement said this would be the case where the encashment value 
included any early  withdrawal charge SJP wouldve taken  if the policy had been encashed or 
transferred on the valuation date. 
In May 2018  Mr As financial advisor  complained on his behalf to SJP. The complaint  was 
that the charges that were to be imposed if the monies in the pension  policies  were  
transferred breached the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Early  Exit Pension 
Charges) Regulations  2016. 
SJP said that the investments had an early  withdrawal charge as set out in the illustrations 
provided at the time they were recommended. It said the charge  was not an early exit charge 
as envisaged  or defined  in legislation. 
Mr A brought his complaint to our service.  Our adjudicator thought  that the charges were a 
clawback of fees waived, rather than an early  exit charge, so she didnt uphold  that part of 
the complaint.  But she thought SJP couldve explained the charges  better  when they were 
queried rather than just saying they werent  an early  exit charge and SJP should pay £150 
for trouble and upset for this. 
Mr As representative didnt agree with her view.  He didnt think  the SJP terms and 
conditions were clear, or that they showed that the early withdrawal charge was a clawback 
of the waived product charge. He also said information about the charges hadnt been 
provided to Mr A. He still thought the charges were in breach of the 1% cap law. 
Our adjudicator asked  SJP for information  about  what was provided to Mr A at the time he 
took out the policies  in relation to its fees.  SJP thought that should  be treated as a new 
complaint, as Mr As representative had suggested  that he wouldnt have taken out the 
policies if he had been aware  of the fees. The advice  to take out the policy, including 
whether the charges made the advice  suitable,  was given by the adviser on behalf of a 
connected, but legally separate, business  SJP Wealth  Management plc (SJPWM).  So it 
was SJPWM who replied to the new complaint.  It provided him with a copy of a suitability 
letter that enclosed  the key features and illustration  that it said showed the impact of fees.  
Our service received a copy of the response, and a copy of a declaration  signed by Mr A in 
2014 saying hed had the contents of the letter and report explained to him. Mr A denied  
ever receiving the suitability report and enclosures  in 2014. He said hed never received any 
information disclosing  the charges.
Mr As original  complaint  came to me for decision from an ombudsman.
Ref: DRN81774342On 14 November 2019 I issued a provisional  decision. My provisional findings were as 
follows:
I can see that Mr A and his representative  genuinely  believe that the charges which SJP 
propose to apply to a switch of Mr As pension  policies are in breach of the law capping  early 
exit charges at 1% for existing policies. But Im afraid its likely Im going to have disappoint  
him, as subject to any comments I receive  which change my mind,  I dont  propose  to uphold 
his complaint. Ill explain why.
In March 2017, the Financial Conduct Authority  introduced a cap of 1% on early  exit pension  
charges in relation to existing pension  policies for members over normal minimum pension  
age. This was a cap imposed by law.
A charge is an early exit charge for the purposes  of the cap where it is:
(a)A charge imposed  on a member of a personal  or stakeholder  pension  scheme;
(b)When that member, having reached normal minimum  pension age, seeks to take,  
convert or transfer  benefits to another pension scheme;
(c)Where the charge  is only imposed,  or only imposed to that extent,  if the member  
takes, converts or transfers  benefits  before the members expected  retirement date. 
The facts  of Mr As complaint satisfy many elements of the definition of an early  exit charge:
The two policies in questions were personal pension  policies; 
At the time, Mr A obtained  the valuation statements showing the proposed  charge he 
had reached normal  minimum  retirement  age, which  is currently 55 years;  
He also proposed to transfer the funds  in the two pension policies to another  pension 
scheme.
The issue  in question  is whether the charge  was to be imposed, or only imposed to the 
extent, that Mr A was transferring his personal  pensions before his expected retirement date, 
which was 75 (although I accept that Mr A disputes  whether he ever nominated  that date).
Ive given a great deal of thought to whether the fact that in Mr As case  the charge would, as 
a matter of fact, be imposed after hed turned 55 and before his expected retirement date of 
75, means that the third part of the definition is satisfied. I dont think that that it does. This is 
because the charge isnt only imposed because the transfer would be before Mr As 
expected retirement  date.  In my view, the use of the word only indicates that there must be 
link between  the charge and the retirement  date. And in this case Im satisfied there isnt. 
The charge  applies  on a reducing basis depending  on how long the pension  investment has 
been held with SJP, it has no link with the expected  retirement age. Indeed SJP has said 
that the charge could be applied after a members  expected retirement date and I see 
nothing to prevent  that.
Mr A says he wasnt given any information about the charge prior to taking out the policies. 
SJP says that he was. SJP provided a copy of a declaration signed by Mr A in early 2014  
saying hed received the suitability letter and report.  But Mr A says he never received those 
documents. In circumstances  where  the evidence is disputed, I have to decide  what  is more  
likely than not to have happened. In this case, given Mr A has signed  the declaration, I think 
it is more likely than not that he was given  information about the charge. I understand Mr A 
has no recollection of receiving the documents, and I dont  doubt  him when he says that. But 
in circumstances  where he has signed  to say that he received them, I dont think it would be 
fair to find that he didnt.
Ref: DRN81774343Im not able to consider the suitability of the advice to take out the pension  policies,  as that 
doesnt form part of the complaint Mr A brought  to this service. Given  this, and my findings 
that the charge isnt an early exit charge within  the meaning of the law, and that Mr A was 
informed of the charge, I dont propose to uphold Mr As complaint. This is because SJP is 
entitled to impose  charges as set out in the policy. I know this will disappoint Mr A, and Im 
sorry for that.
I want to reassure Mr A that Ive carefully  read and considered the whole file. If I havent 
commented on something, it is because it isnt necessary for me to do so in order  to resolve 
the complaint.  For example, Mr As representative  has asked if Im aware  of recent  press  
coverage in relation to the SJP charges. I dont need  to comment  on that to resolve this 
complaint, so I havent. 
In his complaint  to us, Mr A also said that he wanted any advice fees hed paid waived, as 
he hadnt had an adviser for some time. Mr A will need to complain to the business about 
that before he can bring it to us for consideration. Im afraid I cant  deal with it in this 
decision. 
My provisional decision was that I didnt propose  to uphold the complaint. 
SJP didnt have  any comments on my provisional  decision. Mr As representative asked  for a 
copy of the paperwork  Mr A signed,  showing  he was aware  of the charges.  We provided a 
copy of the declaration. His representative made some other comments,  which Ill deal with 
in my findings. 
 
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont propose to 
change my provisional decision.  I know Mr A will be disappointed, and Im sorry for that. 
The central issue in the complaint was whether the charges in dispute were an early exit 
charge within  the meaning of the legislation. I concluded in my provisional decision that they 
werent. Having looked  again, I still think the SJP charge isnt an early exit charge  for the 
reasons Ive given  there, and I adopt those parts of my provisional findings for these final 
findings and decision.
What Mr A and his representative have disputed is whether Mr A was made  aware of the 
charges, so Ive given  further consideration to that issue in this final decision.  
In response to my provisional decision,  Mr As representative said that in his experience  SJP 
clients werent aware of these charges  and our service should make the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) aware of this. I understand this concern.  But my role is to determine  
individual complaints, so Im not able to do this, but Mr A or his representative  is welcome to 
do so. 
SJP say that the terms and conditions of the policy, which included the charges, were 
normally provided with the policy schedule. I think its likely that this is what  occurred as this 
is normal business practice. I understand that Mr A says he doesnt have a copy  within  his 
papers, but I dont  think this necessarily means that they werent  sent, or otherwise provided.  
Ref: DRN81774344After being provided  with a copy of the signed  declaration, Mr As representative also said 
that:
the form Mr A signed merely states  that Mr A has had the contents  of the letter  and 
report explained to him, it does  not confirm he was given  the report or letter or shown 
the charges before signing; and
unless the form Mr A signed  stated the charges it is no proof that he actually knew  
the charges. He is of the assertion  that he was told there  were  no charges so if the 
adviser told him that then that is what Mr A was signing to agree.
As Ive said in the background, the advice to take out the policy, which  includes whether  
those charges made the advice suitable,  was given by the adviser on behalf of a connected, 
but legally  separate, business  - SJPWM. Mr A has chosen not to complain to our service  
about the suitability of that advice, so the only issue Im concerned  with in this decision is  
whether the charges fell within the definition of an early exit charge and were  thus unlawful 
(and Im satisfied they arent for the reasons Ive given) and whether Mr A knew or  shouldve  
known of the charges, such that it is fair to allow SJP to impose them.   
In my provisional decision I suggested that Mr A had signed to say hed received the letter 
and report. That isnt the case, and Im sorry for that. But Im not sure I would agree that the 
declaration Mr A signed could be dismissed as easily as Mr As representative suggests. Mr 
A signed to say that hed considered all relevant information, and I think  that it is more likely  
than not that he received a copy of the documentation because  of that. So even if Im wrong 
in my earlier finding that Mr A was provided with a copy  of the policy terms and conditions, I 
think it is more likely  than not that he was given  information about  the charges,  albeit  by his 
adviser acting in the capacity as agent of SJPWM.  In my view that is part of all the 
circumstances of the case,  and I can fairly  have  regard to it. For these reasons I think it is 
more likely than not that Mr A knew or shouldve known of the charges, and it is therefore fair 
for SJP to impose them.  
His representative later drew my attention to his understanding that the FCA rules state that 
charges/financial promotions should  be fair, clear  and not misleading.  He pointed to press 
coverage about comments by a SJP non-executive director  concerning  the fees. Mr As 
representative suggested the non-executive director had admitted that SJP charges were 
not clear and couldnt be understood  by clients. He suggested this meant that even  if it was 
correct that Mr A had been shown the charges,  if they were  unclear and unable to be 
understood I must find against SJP. 
The FCA rules require  communications and financial promotions to be fair, clear  and not 
misleading. I note what Mr As representative has said about  comments from an SJP NED, 
but I dont think  its relevant to my consideration of whether the early withdrawal charge can 
apply, as this is set out in the terms and conditions. I dont think  there  is a difficulty  
interpreting what the terms  and conditions allow SJP to charge, so I dont think the FCA 
rules mean I must find against SJP. Im sorry to disappoint Mr A. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 December 2020.
Ref: DRN81774345Helen Wheatley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8177434