K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that he lost his no claims discount  (NCD) after taking out an insurance  
policy though  Carole Nash Insurance Consultants Ltd.
background
Mr S took out an insurance policy for his van through Carole Nash in 2015. He renewed  it in 
2016 and 2017.
In 2018 Mr S asked  Carole Nash for proof  of his NCD. Carole Nash sent him a letter  which 
confirmed hed had no claims for the three  years  his vehicle had been  insured through  it.   
Mr S made a complaint to Carole Nash. He didnt think  the claim free letter it had sent him 
was sufficient. He said hed had 12 years NCD before hed taken out the policy, so he felt he 
should now have  15 years NCD.
Carole Nash said the policy hed taken out didnt accrue or earn any NCD. He was informed 
of this when he took out the policy and at renewal the year after.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ss concerns, but didnt think  his complaint should be upheld.  
She said shed listened  to call recordings and had reviewed  the policy documents and 
thought Carole  Nash had given Mr S clear information about the NCD.
Mr S disagreed with our investigators  opinion, so his complaint has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mr Ss complaint.  Ill explain why.
Carole Nash was required  to provide Mr S with information about the policy  that was clear,  
fair and not misleading before he agreed to take it out. Its sent us recordings of the 
conversations it had with Mr S when he first took out the policy in 2015 and when he agreed 
for it to be renewed in 2016 and 2017.
In the first call, the advisor told Mr S that the policy did not use nor accrue any no claims 
bonus.  Mr S asked  if his no claims bonus was protected.  The advisor said no, we dont use 
it. Mr S asked if that meant he would lose his no claims  bonus and the advisor  said if you 
dont use your no claim for two years, youd  lose the lot. He suggested Mr S might want to 
transfer the NCD to another  vehicle,  but Mr S said he already had an NCD on his car. The 
advisor suggested in a years time Mr S might want to insure  his van with a different insurer 
so he would still have  his NCD.
When Mr S renewed the policy in 2016,  the advisor read out the key information  for the 
policy which  included that it would not use or accrue a no claims bonus. He was given the 
same information in 2017 when he renewed the policy again.
Carole Nash has also sent us copies of the documentation it sent to Mr S when he took out 
the insurance. This includes a proposal form which shows the Number of years  No Claims 
Bonus as 0.
Ref: DRN80739522Having listened  to the calls and reviewed  the documentation, I think  Carole  Nash  did provide 
Mr S with clear information about the NCD. So I dont think its done anything wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 January 2020.
Anne Muscroft
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8073952