K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs Hs representative complains that Lloyds Bank PLC wrongly advised them to 
invest £80 a month in an unsuitable 10 year savings plan in 1991.
background
Mr and Mrs H were 33 and 32 respectively, had two young children, and were both in 
professional jobs.  They  had a mortgage and spent money on annual  family trips to New 
Zealand.
Their representative  said they were not looking for capital  growth  but simply to set aside 
some money for regular savings. As such, this recommendation of a 10 year risk-based 
investment in a Managed Fund was out of kilter with their needs. While information  about 
the make-up of the fund at the time may not now be available  it is likely to have had a high 
concentration in equities and probably  foreign  assets - based  on its current make-up.
He said this evidence  strongly indicates  the fund would have posed too great a risk to Mr 
and Mrs Hs money. With base rates at 10% plus theyd have been better advised to keep  
their money in a secure deposit account.
Lloyds did not uphold the complaint and an adjudicator  at this service also felt there was not 
enough evidence  to conclude that the advice had clearly  been inappropriate.
He said Lloyds did not have a record of the discussions at the time or the reasons for the 
advisors recommendation  so it was difficult to assess the merits of the complaint. But he 
didnt feel the advice was obviously or necessarily wrong given Mr and Mrs Hs recorded  
circumstances. He thought they appeared to have sufficient income  to be able to afford  to 
make the regular payments and could choose to stop them if needed. They  did not do so but 
retained the plan for the full 10 years.
Hed seen no evidence  to dispute Lloyds claim that the fund was rated  as low to medium  
risk at the time, and didnt believe this was therefore an unreasonable  recommendation. He 
also noted that the plan included life insurance; something he thought would  have been  
useful to a young family.
Mr and Mrs Hs representative disagreed, and said:
He was surprised  the adjudicator had simply asked Lloyds if the fund was suitable for 
a low/medium level of risk investor,  and accepted its reassurance
The fact that payments  were monthly and so could have been stopped isnt a 
justification for the recommendation. If Mr and Mrs H had done suddenly  stopped  the 
payments any funds would gradually  have been eliminated through  paying  for the 
costs of life cover  and so wouldnt  have met the objectives of a savings  plan
It did not meet Mr and Mrs Hs primary need for a flexible savings plan
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In this case I agree with the adjudicator 
and for the same  reasons.  So I will not repeat the points hes made.
Ref: DRN89023492It is, however, important to explain that my role, when considering a complaint, is to decide 
whether a business clearly did something wrong  or made a mistake, not whether it might 
have done things differently (such as made a different recommendation). In this context I do 
not think there is sufficient  evidence  to safely conclude  that the advisor did offer poor or 
unsuitable advice.
This advice  took place  nearly 30 years ago and in the absence  of key contemporaneous 
notes about the advisors meeting and any discussions I cant  reach  any definite conclusions  
about what was said. Lloyds is not required to keep documentation more than six years  after 
an account is closed  - in this case 2001  and data protection guidance  suggests  it may not 
be appropriate to do so. So I cannot  draw  any conclusions  from its failure  to do so in this 
case.
Ive therefore  considered  whether this advice was clearly inappropriate based  on the 
available evidence, including  Mr and Mrs Hs representatives comments.
 
Their representative  seems to suggest that no-one in their position should be advised to 
make regular payments  into a risk-based investment but instead keep their money in a 
deposit account, particularly if interest rates are high at the time. I cannot agree. 
Over the medium term stock market-linked  investments have significantly outperformed  
deposit account returns even taking account of the periodic upheavals in the markets. That 
is not to say everyone should be advised to put their money at risk of stock  market 
fluctuations and the risk of its value falling.  Merely  that it is often good advice to expose  
some of a clients money to some degree of investment risk, depending  on their 
circumstances. 
In this case I dont think  Mr and Mrs H shouldve  clearly  been advised to take the most 
cautious possible option of keeping all their money  risk-free in a deposit  account.
As Mr and Mrs Hs advisor admits, the current make-up of Lloyds Managed Fund  is not an 
accurate guide  to its asset mix and risk level nearly 30 years ago. Indeed even  the same  
assets might  have had a different risk rating  back then as such  ratings were significantly 
shaped by the recent performance of that asset  (rather than being  set in stone).
I accept that a Managed Fund  was probably not considered a low risk proposition  even back  
in 1991. But I dont think there  is sufficient  evidence to say that Mr and Mrs H should 
definitely have  only been recommended a low risk product. So while  there may be legitimate  
scope for disagreement  as to whether this fund was, or should  more fairly have been 
described, as low - to medium or medium in risk, I cant safely or fairly conclude it was 
definitely an unsuitable fund for Mr and Mrs H to invest in.
Finally, I also believe  that the added life cover was likely to be valuable to Mr and Mrs H and 
was not something  on offer via a typical deposit account. 
Ref: DRN89023493my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 March  2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8902349