K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that Santander UK Plc unfairly  declined  his request to extend  the term of his 
mortgage. Mr A says, because Santander  treated him unfairly, hes had to move  his 
mortgage elsewhere and this has involved extra cost and inconvenience for him.
background
In 2007 Mr A took out a mortgage with Santander  for £64,000. The mortgage was taken out 
on a capital repayment basis over a 25 year term.
Due to changing  work  commitments Mr A needed to move elsewhere  and started  to let out 
his property. Santander gave its consent for this arrangement.
In 2018 Mr A asked  Santander to switch the mortgage to interest only. Santander said it 
wouldnt do this. It was concerned that Mr A wouldnt  have a repayment vehicle in place to 
pay off the interest  only balance left at the end of the term. Mr A then asked if Santander 
would agree to extend the term of the mortgage.  This was another way for Mr A to try and 
lower his mortgage repayments. Santander said it wouldnt do this because  it was concerned 
about how affordable this was for Mr A and whether it was in his best interests.
Mr A was unhappy and complained to Santander.  It gave its final response on 1 June 2018, 
not upholding Mr As complaint. Mr A brought the matter to us.
In the meantime Mr A met with a specialist buy-to-let mortgage broker  and managed to get 
an interest only buy-to-let mortgage elsewhere with a different lender. Mr A repaid his 
Santander mortgage in December 2018.
Our investigator looked into this complaint who thought the complaint should succeed. Our 
investigator thought  Santander should have agreed to waive the outcome of an affordability 
assessment and should have extended the term of Mr As mortgage. He thought, if 
Santander had done that, Mr A wouldnt have needed to move his mortgage  elsewhere  and 
incur a broker fee. He thought it was fair that Santander pay for the £800  broker fee Mr A 
incurred for getting  specialist advice and making  a buy-to-let application. And he thought 
Santander should pay Mr A £200  of compensation for the upset and inconvenience it had 
caused him.
Santander disagreed and asked that an ombudsman look at the matter  again.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision dated 11 July 2019. In this decision I set out why I didnt think  
this complaint should be upheld. I said:
Mr A approached Santander, asking to convert  his capital repayment mortgage to an 
interest only mortgage. Mr As been  clear about why he asked for this. He was no longer 
living in the property, and his monthly  mortgage repayments were higher than his rental  
income. By converting the mortgage to interest only, this would have reduced his monthly 
outgoings considerably and made this venture profit-making.
Ref: DRN86428922Santander wouldnt agree  to switch  the mortgage  to interest only.  I can see why Santander  
wouldnt agree  to this. Mr A had a residential mortgage, even though he no longer lived in 
the property. Santanders  residential  mortgage lending policy required it to check that Mr A 
had a way of repaying the mortgage at the end of the agreed  term. This is broadly 
considered good industry practice  and is something  the regulator would typically encourage. 
Once Santander said it wouldnt agree to Mr A switching the mortgage to interest  only, he 
looked into other interest rates  and asked Santander  to extend the term of the mortgage.
Santander told Mr A it had wanted to check Mr As repayment history  before it would  agree  
to vary the contract.  And, as there  had been recent  missed repayments, it made further 
affordability checks. I can see why Mr A questioned  this whether this was fair. It makes 
sense that by extending the term of the mortgage, his capital repayments would reduce each 
month. So it seems illogical  that Santander could  say this change  would be unaffordable,  
when it would lead to his monthly mortgage  repayments reducing. Santanders also said it 
didnt think extending  the term would be in Mr As best interests. 
There are regulations that have flowed from the Financial  Conduct Authoritys Mortgage 
Market Review (MMR). This has led to a series of major changes, effective  since 2014, in 
the way residential  mortgages are regulated. Its these regulations that our investigator had 
cited in his reasons  for upholding this complaint. 
MMR regulations have  brought  about stricter lending assessments, aimed to protect 
consumers and encourage mortgage lenders to act more responsibly. The transitional 
arrangements are an important part of this regulation. Theyre  intended to make sure that 
existing mortgage  customers, whose mortgages were taken out before the new rules  
introduced in 2014, dont  get treated unfairly  as an unintended consequence of this stricter 
regulation. 
Ive thought carefully about these rules,  and everything that Mr A has said about his current  
situation and his plans in the future. Ive also considered everything Santander has said and 
why it says it declined  Mr As requests.
There has been some debate  about  whether Santander needed to carry out an affordability 
assessment before it would agree to extend  the term of Mr As mortgage. Santander was 
considering a variation to the terms of the mortgage,  and so I dont think it was unreasonable 
to check that this change would be affordable to Mr A. However,  the regulations also allow 
Santander to choose not to decline this request even if it appeared to be unaffordable, if it 
determined it was in the best interests  of Mr A to agree to the variation. But I dont think  this 
case turns  on the interpretation of this regulation.
The wider  circumstances  are relevant in this case.  Mr As situation  had changed  since taking 
out the mortgage in 2007.  By the time Mr A wanted  to vary the terms of his mortgage, he 
was acting as a landlord. He had tenants living  his property,  and he wasnt planning to 
change this arrangement.  Mr A wanted  to try and reduce the costs  of funding his rental 
property, which was effectively operating  as a business. Mr A still had a regulated residential 
mortgage with Santander, and Santander was applying its residential lending  policy  to Mr As 
mortgage. I dont  think it was unreasonable that Santander did this. Even though  it had given 
consent for Mr A to let the property, Mr As mortgage was still a regulated residential 
mortgage agreement, designed  for consumers who live in a property. 
Ref: DRN86428923The mortgage regulations Ive referred  to are intended to protect consumers who are at risk 
of losing their homes, not landlords  who are trying to get a better return on an investment. I 
dont think it would be reasonable to apply the transitional arrangements  to this case. 
Mr As said that he would have preferred to stay with Santander.  Ive thought  about  whether 
Santander could  or should have offered Mr A a buy-to-let mortgage, and if this could have  
saved Mr A inconvenience and the cost of a broker fee. Santanders said that for Mr A to 
take out a buy-to-let mortgage with it, hed have needed to meet with a broker  first and 
explore an application that way. So the cost of meeting with a mortgage  broker  would have 
been incurred  by Mr A, even if hed stayed with Santander. And Mr A didnt incur a break 
cost, for example an early repayment  charge,  as he wasnt in an interest rate product that 
needed to be broken.
I think it was actually very sensible in the circumstances that Mr A met with a independent 
broker to see what options were available to him to refinance his property. Mr As said he 
was prompted  to get advice about his buy-to-let  options because  Santander refused to give 
him a term extension.  Mr A may not have considered  this advice was necessary before, and 
I accept this specialist  advice came at a cost to him. But I think  this advice was needed  for 
Mr A to benefit from getting  access to a mortgage product that was a better  fit for his 
changing needs. 
Im aware that Mr A has now taken out an unregulated buy-to-let interest only mortgage  that 
appears to be a good fit. I dont think Santander is responsible  for Mr A needing this advice 
and so I dont  think it follows that Santander  should be expected to pay for this. I think  it was 
needed because  Mr As circumstances had changed. 
I also dont think Santander  caused Mr A upset and inconvenience by its handling of the 
situation, so I dont think any further  compensation  should  be awarded.
responses to my provisional  decision
Mr A asked me to reconsider  my provisional  decision. Hes said,  in summary:
-Santander lacks  sensitivity  when dealing with customers like him;
-hes had problems in the past with Santander  such as when he experienced financial 
difficulties in 2011/12;
-he was making a loss on his monthly rental payments and so he asked Santander to 
help; and
-hes annoyed that Santander declined  his request on grounds of affordability 
because he doesnt think that reflects his wider  financial  situation.
Mr A said he feels Santander made  decisions to cash in from his circumstances.
Santander accepted my provisional decision and had no further comments.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and further arguments  to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand the arguments put forward by Mr A and I can see why hes disappointed with 
my decision.  However, having reviewed all the evidence and the further comments Mr A has 
made, I havent been persuaded to change my mind  about this complaint.
Ref: DRN86428924Mr As mentioned historic  problems he says hes experienced with Santander. Im conscious 
this complaint comes  at the end of more than a decade of Mr A being  a mortgage customer 
of Santander.  However,  I should make it clear that in determining this complaint, I havent 
taken into account  any other issues Mr As referred to in his past dealings with Santander.  
These are issues that are outside of the current complaint and havent  been investigated by 
us. So I think it would  be inappropriate for me to take wider  concerns against Santander into 
account now in relation  to the current complaint being considered. 
I can see why Mr A questions why Santander needed  to do an affordability assessment. But 
Mr A does also say that he needed  help from Santander because  he was making  a loss 
each month  on his buy-to-let property.  Ive already explained  why I think  it was appropriate 
for Santander to check that any changes to the mortgage contract were affordable  and in Mr 
As best interests before  it would agree to make these amendments.  
Having considered all the information  and the comments made, I dont uphold  this complaint. 
I dont think Santander  acted unreasonably in making the checks  it did and deciding not to 
agree to switch  the mortgage to interest only or extend the term of the loan. And Im not 
persuaded that Mr A has lost out as a result  of Santanders actions.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 September  2019.
Emma Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8642892