K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that Nationwide Building Society  mis-sold  them  payment protection  
insurance (PPI) in connection  with their mortgage  and loan. 
background
In 2000 Mr and Mrs L took out a mortgage and loan with Nationwide  during a meeting at one 
of its branches.  At the same time they took out PPI to cover Mr Ls income and protect their 
mortgage and loan in the event Mr L couldnt  work through accident, sickness or if he lost his 
job.
The policy cost £26.93 per month and provided a benefit of £450 per month,  which covered 
Mr and Mrs Ls monthly mortgage and loan payment.
Upon a successful  claim the policy would have  paid out for both accident/sickness and 
unemployment for up to 24 months per claim.
Mr and Mrs Ls mortgage PPI policy ended in October 2001.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint. The adjudicator said the evidence  
showed that Mr and Mrs L chose to take out the PPI and there was nothing  to indicate theyd 
lost out as a result.
Mr and Mrs L disagree so the complaint comes to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our approach  to handling  
complaints about  PPI on our website, and Ive taken account of whats  relevant here in 
considering this complaint.
Nationwide says that this was a non-advised sale, by which  it means that it didnt recommend 
the PPI to Mr and Mrs L personally or advise them to take it. I dont know what  was said during 
the sale, but Ive not seen anything to show  me clearly that it did make a personal 
recommendation to them.  And based on this services knowledge of Nationwides sales  
practices at the time, I think its more likely than not that the sale was non-advised. This means 
Nationwide did not have to ensure that the policy was suitable  for Mr and Mrs L, but they did 
have to provide  Mr and Mrs L with good  enough  information about the policy  so they could 
make an informed decision about whether to have it or not.
did Nationwide make  it clear to Mr and Mrs L  that they had a choice about  PPI?
Mr and Mrs L say they didnt want or need  the PPI, but it was given to them  anyway.
The PPI policy was sold in July 2000.  Both Nationwide and Mr and Mrs L say the policy  was 
sold following a discussion. Mr and Mrs L are unsure how the discussion took place but 
Nationwide says its records  show it was in a branch. I have the application  form and 
agreements for the mortgage and loan from the time, which refer to the PPI.  
Ref: DRN88595342I accept it is possible Nationwide didnt  give Mr and Mrs L a choice about taking PPI. I also 
accept it is possible Nationwide gave  them  the impression they had to take it out or just gave it 
to them  anyway. But it seems to me more likely  Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs L the opportunity 
to take out the policy or decline  it as part of their mortgage application, and that they chose to 
take it out, but have simply forgotten in the years that have now elapsed. I say this because  
the mortgage and loan application form has a statement saying  we would  like to protect our 
repayments against accident, sickness and/or unemployment. Nationwide has provided us 
with sufficient information to make  a decision on the type and level of cover  we need and Mr 
and Mrs L have signed next to this to say they would. Also,  had they chosen not to purchase  
PPI, or had it been added  to their account without either their knowledge or consent, 
I wouldve  expected  them to query  or challenge  this soon  afterwards.  I think  they would have  
noticed that the PPI cost made their monthly repayments shown on their statements £26 
higher than the monthly cost of the advance they received in the mortgage offer.
This means  Im not persuaded (as I must  be to uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint)  it is more  
likely than not Nationwide presented the policy to Mr and Mrs L as compulsory or that it 
didnt tell them about the policy at all.
So I think that Mr and Mrs L chose  to take out the PPI based on the information Nationwide  
provided to them.
did things  happen  as they should have done  were Mr and Mrs L properly  informed?
if not  have Mr and Mrs L lost out?
I dont have enough evidence to know what information Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs L about  
the PPI at the time of the sale. For example whether the policys costs  and benefits were 
made clear to them and if they were told about  the significant exclusions and limitations  of 
cover. I find it unlikely Mr and Mrs L took the cover out without knowing anything about  it, but 
I dont know if they received everything  they needed to know to allow them  to make an 
informed decision.
So I accept  its possible that things did not happen as they should  have done.  I accept Mr 
and Mrs L may not have  been treated fairly and reasonably.
But I dont think Mr and Mrs L have lost out as a result. I say this because  I find it unlikely 
that Mr and Mrs L would have acted differently and not gone ahead with the cover  if 
Nationwide had done more. My reasons are as follows:
Mr L was eligible  for the cover and all its benefits
Mr L was self - employed and in good  health at the time, so it doesnt appear he would 
have been affected  by any of the key exclusions  / limitations  of his cover  such  as 
existing medical condition exclusions or unusual  employment terms. Self-employed 
workers were covered by the policy with no onerous conditions attached  to claiming,  
compared to employees.
I find it unlikely Mr and Mrs L would  have agreed  to something without having some 
understanding of the cost. And I think its unlikely they would have declined it solely on 
the basis of its cost had it been  made  clearer to them  because  at approximately  £26 per 
month, it appears  to have been affordable.
Mr and Mrs L have argued  that they didnt need the PPI. But it was for them to decide,  based 
on the information they were given, whether they wanted it or not. I think the PPI would have 
been useful to them as Mr L, being  self employed  had no sick pay and Mr and Mrs L say they 
Ref: DRN88595343had no savings. It also covered Mr L if he lost his job, and provided some protection against 
losing the property theyd invested  in for up to 24 months. So they had reason  to choose to 
take the PPI, and I dont think there  was anything that Nationwide  failed to tell them that would 
have caused them not to decide to purchase  it.
So overall, while I accept  there may have been  failings  in the way the policy  was sold and Mr 
and Mrs L may not have  been treated fairly and reasonably by Nationwide  in its dealings 
with them,  I find theyve  not lost out. This is because, on balance,  for the reasons Ive 
detailed above,  I think Mr and Mrs L would have been in the same position if Nationwide had 
done more and properly informed them - I think they would have still taken out the PPI.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Ive decided that Mr and Mrs L have not lost out as a result  of 
taking out PPI with their mortgage, so I make  no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 March  2019.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8859534