K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H say Nationwide Building Society, trading as Derbyshire Building Society 
(Nationwide), mis-sold  them a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
Mr and Mrs H took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 2004.  The policy was free for the first 
six months. After that Mr and Mrs H paid a monthly amount of £41.16 for the PPI. In the 
event of a successful claim, the policy was set up to provide £800 worth of cover.  And this 
was split 75/25% in Mr Hs favour, so £600  for Mr H and £200 for Mrs H. The policy  would 
pay out for up to 12 months for any one claim.
Mr and Mrs H say the PPI was mis-sold. In March 2018 Nationwide  responded and offered 
to partially refund Mr and Mrs H the accident  and sickness  part of the premium   but only for 
Mr H. It said that due to Mr Hs pre-existing  medical  condition the policy  might  not have been 
right for him. But Nationwide  considered  the unemployment part of the policy,  and the 
accident, sickness and unemployment part of the policy for Mrs H was right.  
So Nationwide offered to refund what Mr and Mrs H had paid for the accident and sickness 
part of the policy for Mr H, plus 8% simple  interest as compensation for being  out of pocket 
of this money. Nationwide  advised that this compensation amount came  to £2,640.83. 
Mr and Mrs H disagreed  and thought  the whole PPI policy had been mis-sold. Unhappy  with 
the response, Mr and Mrs H referred the complaint to our service.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. They didnt think  the whole of the PPI policy  was 
mis-sold, and agreed that just the accident  and sickness element wasnt  right for Mr H. And 
as Nationwide  had refunded the premiums for that part of the policy,  they thought its offer 
was fair. 
Mr and Mrs H disagreed  with the adjudicators opinion, so the complaint was passed  for an 
ombudsman to consider  and issue a final decision.
Following a Supreme  Court case in August 2017, The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
provided new rules and guidance on how businesses should approach compensation for PPI 
when a consumer  complains about  the sale of PPI. It referred to a two-step  approach. 
The first was that a business should  look to see whether a policy was mis-sold and whether 
the consumer  would  not otherwise have bought  the policy they did. 
And if the policy wasnt mis-sold, the second  step was to look to see whether  the level of 
undisclosed commission (and profit share) received by the business  created an unfair 
relationship between the consumer and the business.
While the complaint was awaiting  an ombudsmans decision, Nationwide got in touch to say 
that it still considered  it hadnt fully mis-sold Mr and Mrs H the PPI policy.  But in light of the 
new rules and guidance, Mr and Mrs Hs complaint  was affected. 
Nationwide confirmed that it did charge a high level of commission  on the premiums 
Mr and Mrs H paid. It offered to refund the commission and profit  share it received that was 
above 50% of the premiums for the unemployment element of Mr Hs cover, and the 
Ref: DRN84332442commission and profit share it received  that was above 50% of the premiums for Mrs Hs 
accident, sickness and unemployment policy.
It didnt offer to refund any of the commission for Mr Hs accident and sickness element  as it 
had already offered a full refund of those premiums which included any commission 
charged.
One of our adjudicators, in light of what Nationwide  had said, looked at the complaint again. 
They thought its offer was a fair way to resolve matters.
Mr and Mrs H still felt that the policy was mis-sold and wanted a full refund of everything  they 
paid towards PPI.
As the matter hasnt  been resolved its been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Hs case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs H applied for the mortgage  over the phone.  Mr and Mrs H were then sent the 
semi-completed mortgage application  and PPI application form to complete and return.
Due to the time that has passed  there isnt a copy  of the call recording or a call script that the 
adviser would  have relied on. But this isnt surprising, it was 15 years ago and businesses  
arent obliged  to keep records indefinitely. This means I dont know what was said by the 
adviser and I dont know how the PPI policy was presented to Mr and Mrs H.
But as I said above,  Nationwide has provided some  of the paperwork that was competed. So 
I have relied on this in making my decision.
Within the mortgage application there  is a section for PPI. It lists the different options  
available for PPI. These are accident, sickness  and unemployment cover,  accident and 
sickness cover only and unemployment cover only. There are also two options where a 
consumer can state if they have their own insurance and do not wish for PPI or whether they 
just did not want  PPI and understood the mortgage  payments  would not be protected.
I can see that Mr and Mrs H have ticked within this section to confirm  that they were  
interested in accident, sickness and unemployment  cover and unemployment  cover  only.
There is also a PPI application form. This looks like it has been completed by the adviser as 
it is pre-printed. The first section is about  Mr and Mrs Hs details as the applicants. The next 
section is about  the amount of benefit  required. It explains that Mr and Mrs Hs monthly  
mortgage repayment was £458.60  and the monthly benefit required was £800. The monthly 
benefit was to be split £600 for Mr H and £200 for Mrs H. And the last section is what actual 
cover is required. Accident, sickness and unemployment cover has been ticked, with a 30 
day waiting period.
Ref: DRN84332443After careful consideration of the paperwork I have seen, I think  it is most  likely that PPI was 
presented to Mr and Mrs H as an optional product and they would have been aware that 
they had a choice as to whether they wanted  to take it. And I think  they chose to take it at 
the level they required.
I havent seen  anything to suggest Nationwide assessed Mr and Mrs Hs individual 
circumstances such as their employee  benefits,  other insurances  polices  held and from this 
provided a tailored recommendation  for PPI. So, on balance,  I think this was most likely a 
non-advised sale. This means Nationwide didnt  have  to make sure the policy was right for 
them. But it had to provide Mr and Mrs H with enough information so they could make an 
informed choice as to whether to take the policy.
Mr H had a medical condition at the time of taking out the PPI. This meant  that it was 
unlikely he would have  been able to claim for that condition in the future, as the PPI policy  
didnt allow for claims to be made where it related to a pre-existing medical  condition.  
Nationwide concluded  that the accident and sickness part of Mr Hs policy  wasnt  likely to be 
of use given he had a pre-existing medical  condition. From reviewing  this, I agree. It was 
unlikely that if Mr H made a claim for his condition that it would have been successful. So I 
think the accident and sickness part of the PPI wouldnt have been useful to Mr H. 
is Nationwides offer of compensation  fair?
Given the above, it follows that I think  Nationwides offer to partially  refund Mr Hs accident 
and sickness premiums  that Mr and Mrs H paid is fair.
what about the remainder of the PPI policy?
Having considered Mr and Mrs Hs circumstances I dont think  the rest of the PPI policy was 
mis-sold. I think  that the unemployment cover  still provided valuable  protection to Mr H and 
the policy was still useful for Mrs H. So I think they would have taken it out. Ill explain why.
Taking a mortgage  is a large long term financial commitment  and if repayments arent met 
there are serious consequences and borrowers  could  potentially stand to lose their home. 
The PPI would have  paid out for up to 12 months  for any one claim if Mr or Mrs H lost their 
jobs. So I think Mr and Mrs H would have found the cover useful if he was unemployed for a 
lengthy period.
The PPI would have  also paid out for up to 12 months for any one claim if Mrs H was unable 
to work due to an accident or sickness. I cant see that she would  have been  affected by any 
exclusions or limitations similar to Mr Hs circumstances  where  he had a pre-existing medical 
condition.
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs H about  the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it should have  been. But Im satisfied  that they likely  chose to take out the PPI - so it looks 
like they wanted  this type of cover. It seems to me it was only the accident and sickness 
part of Mr Hs policy wasnt of use to him.
Nationwide have offered to refund  what Mr and Mrs H had paid for the accident and sickness 
part of the policy for Mr H. I think that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN84332444This means  Nationwide  doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs H.
what else have I considered?
Nationwide will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs H because in 2017, 
following a Supreme Court judgment, the FCA, issued some new rules about how 
businesses should  deal with complaints about  PPI.
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit  share from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium   and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties.  So to put that right,  the FCA said that 
businesses should  pay back  the amount of commission  and profit share that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium.
Nationwide has said that the level of commission and profit share it received  did create an 
unfair relationship. So to put things right its offered to refund the commission and profit  
share it received  that was above 50% of the premiums for the unemployment element of 
Mr Hs cover, and the commission  and profit  share it received  that was above 50% of the 
premiums for Mrs Hs accident, sickness and unemployment policy.  It also included 8% per 
year simple  interest to compensate Mr and Mrs H for the time they were  out of pocket. 
Mr and Mrs H say they should get back  a higher percentage of the commission.  
Mr and Mrs H say they should get back  any commission and profit  share that was charged 
that was over 20% of the PPI premium.  But in this case  Nationwide  has made  Mr and Mrs H 
an offer of compensation in relation to the level of commission it received that is in-line with 
the methods set out by the FCA.
So Nationwide has done what  the rules it must follow tell it to do. 
Ive thought about whether theres anything about  Mr and Mrs Hs particular complaint and 
circumstances that means Nationwide should do something different to put right the 
unfairness caused by not telling them about  the amount of commission and profit  share it 
got. But I dont  think there  is. 
In this case I think Nationwides offer for the level of commission and profit share thats been 
made is a fair way to resolve  this complaint. So I wont be telling Nationwide to do anything 
more.  
what the business needs  to do
Nationwide has to pay back  to Mr and Mrs H any commission and profit  share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium for the unemployment element  of Mr Hs PPI policy.
Nationwide also has to pay back to Mr and Mrs H any commission and profit share it got that 
was more than 50% of the PPI premium  for Mrs Hs PPI policy.
Nationwide should  also pay back  to Mr and Mrs H any extra interest they paid because  of 
that.
Nationwide should  also pay Mr and Mrs H 8%* simple interest  on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs H can claim back  the tax if they dont pay 
tax.
Ref: DRN84332445my final decision
The accident  and sickness element  of the PPI policy for Mr H was mis-sold.  
Nationwide Building  Society offer to refund Mr and Mrs H for that part of the policy is fair.
The remainder of the PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Nationwide  Building Society does not 
have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs H.
But Nationwide Building Society does have  to pay back to Mr and Mrs H any commission  
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium  of the remaining parts  of 
the PPI policy. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 May 2019.  
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8433244