K821x#15complaint
Mr M has complained about The Prudential Assurance Company Limited. He says it delayed 
a pension transfer which resulted in him receiving a lower transfer value.
background
Mr M had the benefit of a deferred  individual annuity policy from a previous employer. In 
September 2017 he was offered a transfer value  of just over £1,000,000. Mr M had recently  
used the services of Prudential to transfer another, smaller,  pension  into a Prudential 
Retirement Account. He decided  to consult with Prudential to transfer this pension.  He met 
with Prudential in October  2017 to discuss the transfer and a fact-find  was completed.  This 
recorded that Mr M was worried  about  the transfer value going down and that he would 
prefer the certainty of the current transfer  value.  But upon receiving further specific 
information about the pension in December 2017, Prudential  realised that it didnt have the 
necessary authorisation to advise on this particular pension  contract.  
On 18 December 2017, Prudential emailed Mr M to explain that it wouldnt be able to 
arrange the transfer at that time, but said they would be in a position to do so in early 2018.
Mr M contacted Prudential in March  2018,  and then in July 2018 Prudential  responded and 
confirmed it was now able to proceed  with advising on the transfer.
The transfer was completed in November  2018,  by which  time the transfer value had fallen 
by over £50,000.
Mr M complained about the time taken to transfer the policy. Prudential  accepted it could 
have been more efficient in arranging  the transfer  but said it was completed  within  its service 
level agreement.  There was no guarantee period for the transfer  value, so Mr M said that the 
transfer ought to have  been prioritised as time was of the essence,  but Prudential  said it 
wouldnt have been fair to prioritise  Mr M ahead of other customers.
Mr M was also unhappy with the amount  he paid in fees for the transfer  and doesnt  believe 
it fairly reflects  the work completed.
Prudential provided  several responses  to Mr Ms complaint  and accepted that there  had 
been some  service failings, including an error in how the ongoing  advice charge had been  
set up. Prudential also felt the transfer couldve been completed more  efficiently and offered 
to pay Mr M £550 in total to acknowledge this.
Mr M didnt  agree and referred his complaint to this service.
An investigator considered the complaint and decided  that it should  be upheld. She felt that 
Prudential hadnt  explained clearly that Mr M didnt need to wait for the transfer to be 
completed. It hadnt been made clear that although  Prudential couldnt advise on the transfer 
it could have been completed  with other  advisers. She set out how redress  should be 
calculated.
Mr M accepted that view but Prudential didnt. It said, in summary:
The fact-find from the October  2017 meeting had recorded that Mr M held a defined 
benefit plan. On receiving further information  it was discovered that the contract was 
Ref: DRN88798042a deferred annuity and not a defined benefit  arrangement. Mr M was contacted and 
told that Prudential  could not currently advise  on this type of contract. He was not 
told that this was a product that awaited  FCA approval before any transfer could take 
place. The email  message clearly  stated that Prudential couldnt  advise at this time 
but may be able to do so in early 2018.  So it was clear that Mr M was free to seek 
advice elsewhere.
The adviser recalls that she was clear in explaining to Mr M the risks involved with 
waiting. He was told that the transfer  value could  fall. Mr M had made it clear that he 
didnt want to go elsewhere and that he would prefer to wait.
There was no guaranteed transfer  value available from the pension plan.  It was 
always going to be calculated at point of transfer. Therefore the transfer value 
offered in 2017 and the one in 2018 were  at a point  in time.  Arbitrarily picking a 
date in March  as when the transfer  could have  been  effected  could easily  result in a 
poor (or conversely  over generous) compensation.
The paperwork sent to Mr M dated  13 December 2017 clearly states the transfer 
value is not guaranteed and the final payment is based on market conditions.   If Mr 
M felt that time was of the essence he could  have sought advice elsewhere.  The 
information from the scheme  clearly states he needs  to get appropriate  financial 
advice and they must be authorised to give advice  on transfers to defined 
contribution arrangements.  Mr M was made aware it was an authorisation issue  for 
Prudential and he would  have  understood that other companies were  authorised  in 
this area.
The fact Mr M was willing to wait in December 2017 gives  the impression that he was 
willing to wait for Prudential to give the advice.  He even confirmed that he would like 
to go ahead once  Prudential was in a position to continue, which enforces  this 
position.
 Having explained  to Mr M that Prudential were not able to deal with his pension in 
2017, it is not clear  what else Prudential could  have done.  It was Mr Ms choice  to 
wait. 
The investigator didnt  change her view and so the case has been referred to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered the evidence, Ive reached  the same conclusion  as the adjudicator.  I 
uphold this complaint.
Ive considered everything Prudential has said, including its response to the view.  But 
essentially, Im not satisfied that Prudential set out with sufficient clarity that although it 
couldnt advise  on this transfer in December 2017,  the transfer could have been made with 
other advisers. Im satisfied that if the position had been made clear Mr M would most  likely 
have decided to seek advice elsewhere  and gone  ahead with the transfer sooner. He would 
therefore have  secured  a higher transfer  value. I agree  with the investigator  that its fair to 
assume a transfer  could  have been completed in March 2018.
Mr M was taking  advice from Prudential. It had already completed a pension transfer for him. 
It is apparent that at the meeting in October  2017 it was understood that Mr M held benefits 
in a defined benefit scheme which Prudential could have advised him on. With further 
Ref: DRN88798043information in December 2017, it transpired that the contract was actually a deferred annuity 
contract which Prudential  apparently  wasnt  authorised  to advise on. 
Prudential says that it explained  that the restriction on transfer was due to its lack of 
authorisation although there doesnt  appear to be any documentary  evidence of this. But Mr 
M says that he understood there was a wider  regulatory issue which  meant the transfer 
couldnt go ahead.
If there was a full explanation given to Mr M of the restrictions on the transfer,  Im not 
satisfied that he had fully understood it. And I think it ought to have been apparent to 
Prudential from his correspondence that Mr M potentially had a different understanding.  I 
also think there should have been a clear and unambiguous explanation that he could take 
advice elsewhere  and proceed  if he wished.  
Ive considered the exchange of emails  from December 2017. I think its worth setting them 
out in some detail.
This is what  Prudential said:
We have now received information back from the pension scheme, who have confirmed  that 
the pension that you have  is not actually a defined  benefit pension but is in fact deferred 
annuity contract,  and therefore  this means  that currently Prudential are not able to advise on 
this type of contract, although we will be in a position to advise early 2018.
So Prudential did say that currently it was not able to advise. But it didnt expressly say that 
this was due to an authorisation issue and it didnt go on to explain that Mr M could go ahead 
with other,  authorised, advisers if he wished to. It wasnt a full explanation.
In response Mr M said:
To the untutored eye, it looks like a pension  to me. Clearly  the nuances  are lost on me. 
And, So the valuations  I have received to date are for what  exactly?, and, if you can give 
advice early in 2018  on this 'type' of pension then great. I'm finding  this v frustrating to say 
the least.
He also said that he sensed some wriggling by the pension  provider.
Im satisfied that it ought to have been apparent  to Prudential  from this exchange of emails 
that Mr M didnt have a full understanding of the reasons  why it wasnt proceeding with the 
transfer. There was no clear and express reference  to the limits on its authorisation. Mr M 
referred to a lack of understanding  of the nuances  and suggested there may be some  
wriggling by the pension provider. But the issues had nothing to do with the pension  
provider. He also queried why he had been given transfer values, effectively  asking why 
there were transfer values  if he couldnt  transfer.
Ive seen nothing  in this exchange which shows that Prudential made it clear that the 
restriction on transfer was due to its lack of authorisation and not due to wider issues.  Im 
satisfied that it ought reasonably to have  understood from Mr Ms response that there was 
the possibility  of misunderstanding  on his part, and any potential  misunderstanding ought to 
have been eliminated by a clear and unambiguous  statement of the correct position. Even if 
it thought Mr M understood that it was restrictions on its authorisation that prevented  it from 
Ref: DRN88798044going ahead, his email  response ought to have caused them  to question that, and go on to 
make the position  clear  in my view.  
Im satisfied that Prudential ought to have told Mr M, in clear terms, that he could take advice 
elsewhere if he wished  to proceed with the transfer at that time. Mr M was relying on 
Prudentials expert  advice and he was entitled to clear, unambiguous advice and 
information.
Im satisfied that if Mr M had been fully informed of the correct  position in December 2017  it 
is more likely than not that he would have  instructed  advisers that were authorised to 
complete the transfer of his annuity  contract. I base this conclusion on the fact that the fact-
find itself recorded  that Mr M was worried that the transfer value may go down and that he 
would much prefer the certainty of the current TV, rather than the uncertainty of future  
values. He also expressed his frustration with the situation in his email  message which  Ive 
referred to above.
Had Mr M instructed other advisers,  I think its likely the transfer could  have been  completed 
in March 2018 as the investigator  said. It was actually completed in around four months from 
Prudential restarting the process in July 2018 and its accepted  that it could have been 
handled more  quickly. So an assumed period of three months is reasonable in my opinion.
Putting things  right
In assessing what would  be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr M as close  as possible  to 
the position he would probably  now be in if he had been given clear information in December 
2017 that he couldve gone ahead  with transfer.
Im satisfied that the position Mr M would be in is as if he had secured  the transfer value 
available to him on 18 March 2018  rather than the one he did secure.
Prudential should  compare the actual  value of Mr Ms pension investment with the fair value. 
The fair value  is what the pension investment would now be worth  if the transfer had taken 
place on 18 March and the value transferred in had been the transfer value available on 18 
March 2018.
If the fair value is greater  than the actual  value there  is a loss. If the actual value is greater 
there is no loss.
If there is a loss, Prudential should pay an amount into Mr M's pension  plan, sufficient to 
increase its value to the fair value.
The payment should  allow for the effect of charges and any available  tax relief. Prudential 
shouldnt pay the compensation  into the pension plan if it would conflict  with any existing 
protection or allowance. If Prudential is unable to pay the compensation into Mr M's pension 
plan, it should  pay that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it 
would have provided a taxable  income.  Therefore the compensation should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise  have been  paid.  The notional 
allowance should  be calculated assuming Mr M would be a basic rate tax payer at his 
selected retirement age. So the reduction  would equal the current basic  rate of tax, however, 
if Mr M would have  been able to take a tax free lump  sum, the reduction should  be applied to 
75% of the compensation.
Ref: DRN88798045Prudential must provide  details of the calculation to Mr M in a clear, simple format.
I agree  with the investigator that the proposed award for the trouble and upset caused by the 
delay in transferring  of £550 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances, so I dont make  any 
further award.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  The Prudential Assurance Company Limited must calculate and pay 
redress as set out above. It must  also pay Mr M £550 to the extent it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 June 2020.
Keith Taylor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8879804