K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains about National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) over its handling of his 
account opening and closure.  He wants NatWest to consider his appeal against the decision 
and he is unhappy  with the way he was dealt with when he called to appeal.  
background
In April 2018 Mr B applied to open  an account  with NatWest over the telephone. He was 
advised that his account had been opened  and he was told his new account number and 
sort code.  
Two days later, NatWest completed its account opening checks  and decided  to close  the 
account. It wrote to Mr B immediately and advised him that the account  was being closed. 
The letter gave Mr B details about how to appeal  the decision and a telephone number to 
contact. 
No transactions  had taken place on the account. 
Mr B called NatWest and asked if he could  appeal the decision.  He says he was told that he 
could not appeal and that the decision was final. He says that two calls he made were cut off 
and he wanted  to make a complaint about the call handlers. 
NatWest opened  a complaint for Mr B and sent him its final response two days later. 
This said that the terms and conditions of the business allowed NatWest to close  an account 
for any reason  and it did not have to give that reason  to the customer.  It said that it could  not 
find recordings of the calls that Mr B had complained about being cut off and so upheld  this 
part of Mr Bs complaint.  It said it had provided  feedback to the relevant department. 
Mr B was not happy with that response  and contacted us. He said that he knew  a family  
member had committed fraud using his account some time previously and he thought  this 
was the reason for the account  closure. He felt that the bank had treated him poorly and had 
not taken into account his learning difficulties. 
One of our adjudicators has looked into this matter and set out her view to the parties.  This 
was that the business had not done anything significantly wrong and she did not recommend 
the business take any further action. 
Mr B was not happy with that view and asked  for an ombudsman decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have, in particular,  looked at the banks terms and conditions and have  listened  to the 
available call recordings, of Mr Bs calls to NatWest and his conversation with our 
adjudicator. 
I understand that Mr B feels that he has been treated poorly and that it was unfair  that his 
account was closed. He also feels he should  have been allowed to appeal  the decision and 
that he was not dealt  with properly when he called to request this. 
Ref: DRN86911122I appreciate that Mr B was disappointed to have his account closed without  more  
explanation, but as the adjudicator explained,  NatWest is entitled to decide  who it wants  as 
its customers. It was explained to Mr B during one of his calls that an account being  opened  
is subject to checks, and in this case during those checks NatWest decided it did not want  to 
open the account. This is permitted by NatWests terms and so I cannot  conclude that 
NatWest was wrong to close  the account.  I appreciate that this will be disappointing  to Mr B.
In relation to Mr Bs attempts to appeal the decision,  he has said that the account  closure  
letter offered  a right of appeal but Mr B was not permitted  to appeal when he called. NatWest 
has not provided a copy of the closure decision letter so I must rely on Mr Bs account that 
the letter offered  a right of appeal. This was unhelpful information to include in the letter, 
particularly as the advisers  Mr B subsequently  spoke  with were consistent  in explaining that 
the decision to close the account  was final and could not be changed.  I understand that this 
would be frustrating for Mr B, but I agree with the adjudicators view that even if there  had 
been an appeal  it is unlikely that it would  have changed the decision. 
Mr B also complained that his calls were cut off when he called to try to appeal. NatWest  
upheld this part of his complaint and provided  feedback to the relevant department. I think  
this was a reasonable step. 
As a result, I note that there have been  some failings by NatWest, in relation to the advice 
that Mr B was given  about the availability of an appeal, but these were secondary to the 
initial decision to close Mr Bs account.  
The key point is that NatWest was entitled  to make  the decision to close  the account and did 
not have to allow an appeal. I therefore  think that, the secondary failings made  by NatWest, 
while frustrating, were  not so serious  to justify me directing compensation being paid. 
I understand that this decision will be disappointing  to Mr B, but I hope that my reasons are 
clear. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint and do not ask National 
Westminster Bank Plc to do anything further.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 April 2019.
Laura Garvin-Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8691112