K820x#14complaint
Mr K has complained TSB Bank  plc wont pay the costs of repairing his car. He made  a 
claim to TSB under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
background
In January 2018 Mr K bought a second-hand car. The car was just over five years old and 
nearly 30,000  miles were  registered on the clock. Mr K paid £4,767 using his TSB credit  
card.
About four months  later Mr K was concerned about  vibration he was getting from the pedals. 
He took the car back to the dealer. He found  the warranty didnt cover what would be 
considered as issues arising from fair wear  and tear. He had to pay for an assessment to be 
carried out and was told repairs would cost him more than £600.
Mr K was unhappy with this conclusion so got an independent report  carried  out. This 
confirmed there was vibration coming through  the pedals but this was not excessive. Mr K 
felt this shook his trust in the dealer hed bought the car from. He also discovered there was 
a safety recall on the car so believed the dealer had acted illegally in selling him the car. He 
took complaints  to trading  standards  when he found  the dealer wouldnt deal with the issues  
he raised.
As he couldnt get any further, Mr K brought his complaint to TSB as he felt they were liable 
for sorting  out the problems.  He laid out what compensation would be acceptable.
TSB considered this claim  under section 75. They didnt believe there was any breach of 
contract.
Mr K brought his complaint to the ombudsman  service.
Our investigator considered the wealth of evidence Mr K provided. She didnt think there  was 
a case of misrepresentation as Mr K claimed so wouldnt be asking TSB to do anything 
further.
Mr K didnt agree with this outcome. Hes asked an ombudsman  to consider his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached a similar 
conclusion to our investigator. Ill explain why.
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  allows a customer to claim a refund  of money 
for goods or services they paid to a supplier  when entering into an associated  credit 
agreement, like Mr Ks credit card agreement with TSB. Specific conditions apply to those  
claims. TSB need  to consider whether there  was a breach of contract or misrepresentation 
that led to Mr K making this purchase.
Its worth  clarifying Im not deciding TSBs liability under section 75 of the Consumer Credit  
Act. We certainly  take into account  the relevant law and that includes section 75. But we 
decide cases by considering what is fair and reasonable, as statute requires  us to do. What 
Ref: DRN85414652Im deciding is whether  TSB did enough in considering Mr Ks complaint. And if they didnt, 
what else should they now do.
If there was a misrepresentation or breach of contract in the supply of the goods then its fair 
to ask TSB to put things right. 
was there  a misrepresentation or breach of contract  in the supply of goods?
Mr K brought a second-hand car but he was looking for this to be in a good condition. He 
went to what he thought was a reliable  dealer. After conducting a test drive, he felt he was 
getting a good deal.   
So he was particularly  disappointed to find a few months later that the warranty he bought  
didnt cover what the dealer thought repairs would cost and were classified as fair wear and 
tear.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015  means that goods bought must be of a satisfactory quality. 
This includes goods being serviceable, durable and of appropriate quality according to their 
age and other aspects.  They also need  to be fit for purpose. This covers  second-hand 
vehicles as well as new. 
What I can see is that Mr K went to have  the car independently assessed.  This assessment 
confirmed it wasnt the mounts as the dealer had suggested leading to the vibration. He was 
advised to proceed with further checks it could  be costly.
So I believe  theres  no evidence that there was a breach  of contract based on the evidence 
Ive seen and the checks Mr K arranged to have conducted.
It was after this occurred,  Mr K first became aware  that his car was subject to a voluntary 
safety recall. This related  to the airbags. Mr K felt that the dealer had acted illegally in selling 
the car to him. I can only say that aspect is a matter  for trading standards  rather  than our 
service. Im considering whether TSB did anything wrong when considering  Mr Ks section 
75 claim.
When we consider if the car was misrepresented, we also go on to consider whether that 
misrepresentation had a material impact  on Mr K and would he have decided not to buy the 
car if hed known about the safety  recall.
Theres no dispute at the time of purchase Mr K wasnt  made aware of the safety recall 
notice. So Im satisfied  that in itself constitutes a misrepresentation. The dealers have said 
this was because  they also werent aware of the recall but that doesnt change the facts.
However if they had been and had informed Mr K, what do I think  may have happened?  
Mr K was keen on the car and it had relatively low mileage for its age. I expect hed have 
been happy to have  the repairs in line with the recall notice carried out free of charge  which  
would then allow him to have  his car.
Im aware this is not what  Mr K is saying now. Thats not surprising as hes had reasons 
subsequently to question the dealer  but at the time of purchase he wouldnt necessarily have 
felt the same.
Ref: DRN85414653Overall I dont believe this misrepresentation would meet the test to say that this would have 
stopped Mr K from buying the car.
Im satisfied TSB dont  need to do anything further with this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Ks complaint against TSB 
Bank plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 July 2020.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8541465