K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2003. Mr W says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold  him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Halifax has shown us a copy of the application form. I can see it is a printed  form which  
wouldve been used  during a branch  meeting.  So I think Mr W applied  for the credit  card and 
was sold the PPI during a branch meeting.
The credit card application was signed  by Mr W in 2003. I can see the application  form 
contains a section about PPI. I note a box has been  marked with a cross to add PPI to the 
account. 
The cross was printed  on the application form and Ive thought about this. The application 
form contains details  of Mr Ws circumstances  at the time. So I think the form was likely 
completed during  a discussion, then printed and passed to Mr W to check  and sign.  I think  
its likely  the PPI was discussed and accepted by Mr W during this conversation. I also note 
the PPI remained  on Mr Ws account for some  time,  during which  the premiums  wouldve 
appeared on his monthly statements. If Mr W didnt  ask for the PPI or didnt  want  it, Id 
expect him to have  questioned it at an early  stage. But Ive seen no evidence that he did.
Overall I think  Halifax made it clear that Mr W didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose 
to take it out  although I can understand why he cant remember  this after so many years.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr W so it had to check that the PPI was right for him and 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time,  I think that it was. For example he 
wasnt affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover and he seems  to have 
had a need for the cover. 
Mr W has told us hed receive full sick pay from his employer for up to six months followed 
by half pay for a further six months.  But the PPI couldve paid a monthly benefit for up to     
12 months if Mr W couldnt  work.  And the benefit  would be paid in addition  to any sick pay. 
So I still think Mr W would have found  the policy useful  if he became unwell, particularly if he 
was unable to work  for a prolonged period.
Mr W has told us he had some savings but the policy benefit  would  mean he could keep  his 
savings intact  or use them  towards  other  living costs  if he couldnt work. The PPI would also 
have paid a monthly  benefit if Mr W had lost his job. 
Ref: DRN86686502Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And it seems  
like it would have been useful for him if something  went wrong. It also looks  like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put Mr W off taking 
out the cover. 
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mr W paid for it. But Halifax  has already paid Mr W back  some of the cost of the PPI. I dont 
think it needs to do anything more. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr W to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 February  2019.
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8668650