K821x#15Complaint
Mrs L complains  that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited  unreasonably 
declined a claim on her pet insurance  policy. All references to Red Sands  include  its agents. 
Background
In September  last year, Mrs L took her dog to the vet. During the visit, the vet wrote a 
prescription for some tablets. Mrs L says she ordered the tablets from an online dispensary 
on 1 October 2018 and they were despatched the following day by second class post. 
Mrs L estimates she received them on 5 October  2018 at the earliest,  based  on the 
dispensarys guidance on delivery  timescales. 
Mrs L submitted a completed  claim form for the cost of the prescription and the cost of the 
tablets to Red Sands on 2 January  2018, which Red Sands received on 3 January 2018. 
It noted that the dates of the treatment given on the claim form were 22 September 2018 to 
2 October 2018. It declined the claim, relying  on a condition  which  required Mrs L to submit 
a completed claim within 90 days of treatment. 
Mrs L raised a complaint  about Red Sands decision. She said that the 90 day clock should  
run from the date she actually received the tablets. And in that scenario, her claim would 
have been brought in time. Red Sands  reviewed the complaint but didnt change its stance. 
It said the terms of the policy were  clear, and it had already  explained to Mrs L during a 
previous claim that the 90 day clock ran from the date of first treatment. 
Mrs L remained unhappy. She highlighted that Red Sands had eventually agreed to pay her 
previous claim, even  though it was submitted late, because it was for a course of treatment 
that had spanned more  90 days. So, she thought it was applying  the time limit inconsistently.
Our investigator felt the complaint should be upheld. She pointed  out that the regulators 
rules only allow Red Sands to decline a claim  for a breach  of condition if it can show  it has 
been prejudiced by the breach. She didnt  think there had been any prejudice to Red Sands 
in this case, so she felt the claim should  be paid with interest, regardless of whether or not it 
was brought in time. Red Sands didnt agree, so I need to make a final decision.  
Ref: DRN83568982My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided to uphold  it. 
Ill explain  why.
The 90 day time limit was highlighted in Mrs Ls policy summary. There  are also two 
references to it in the full policy wording. The first says Red Sands wont  pay for: 
any treatment if a claim has not been submitted within 90 days  of the treatment. 
The second  requires that:
a fully completed claim must be returned  to us within 90 days  of the date the 
treatment being  claimed  for was actually carried out. 
Treatment is defined in the policy as:
any examination, consultation,  advice, tests, x-rays, slides,  ultrasound, MRI, 
medication, surgery or nursing care provided  by a vet practice  or member of a 
professional organisation acting under their direction. 
Its up to Red Sands to demonstrate, on balance, that the time limit was breached if it wants 
to rely on this to decline the claim.  If it can show  this, Red Sands also needs  to show  that it 
was prejudiced by the late notification of the claim.  Thats because the regulators Insurance 
Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) says that an insurer shouldnt reject a claim for a 
breach of a conditions  unless the circumstances of the claim are connected to the breach.
If Red Sands  cant satisfy both of these tests, it cant use these terms to decline the claim.
The terms suggest the clock should start when advice or medication  is actually  provided.  
The vet wrote the prescription more than 90 days before  Mrs L submitted her claim, so the 
claim for the cost of this arguably was brought out of time. But I dont consider that the 
tablets were provided until they were available for Mrs L to use. Red Sands hasnt sent us 
anything to contradict  Mrs Ls testimony  that she received them  on 5 October 2019. 
So, I dont think its been able to show that this aspect of the claim was brought late.   
Even if I was persuaded Mrs L had breached the 90 day time limit, I still dont think it would 
be fair for Red Sands to rely on that to decline her claim. Thats because Im not satisfied 
Red Sands  was prejudiced by the late notification.  The cost of the prescription and tablets 
hadnt changed, and the documentation that Red Sands  needed to validate  the claim was 
still available. Red Sands has said that claims need to be submitted within  certain timescales 
because all claims activity has an impact on the premiums offered at renewal. But it received 
full details of Mrs Ls claim  in January 2019,  and her renewal  date wasnt  until April 2019.  
So, it had all the information it needed  about  the claim  well in advance of the renewal.    
Ref: DRN83568983My final decision
I uphold this complaint  and direct Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited to pay 
Mrs Ls claim subject  to the remaining terms and conditions, including  any applicable 
excesses and / or co-payments. If Mrs L has paid the invoices, interest* will need to be 
added at a rate 8% annual simple from the date she paid them  to the date of settlement. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 February  2020.   
Mike Walker
ombudsman
*If Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe)  Limited considers that its required by HM 
Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that interest it should tell Mrs L how much 
its taken off. It should also give Mrs L a certificate  showing  this if she asks for one, so she 
can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Ref: DRN8356898