K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, will not refund some disputed  
transactions.
background
In December 2018, Mr D contacted Halifax to say that there  had been  some transactions 
from his savings account which he did not recognise.  They were all made to one account in 
the name of J.
Halifax looked into the payments but did not uphold Mr Ds complaint.  It said it was holding  
him liable for the transactions because they had all been made via his online banking   after 
J had been set up as a new payee  in July 2018.   Halifax had sent Mr D a text message alert 
when this had happened.
So, Mr D came to this service and asked us to look into matters for him. He explained that 
he hadnt looked at this account balance for about five months which  is why he had not seen 
the nine transactions which he was now complaining of.  He was unclear with regards the 
test message alert  but finally conceded he had received it but had not read it at the time.  
He thought someone working for Halifax was behind this fraud.
Our investigator did not think she could ask Halifax to do anymore for Mr D  so he asked for 
his complaint to be passed to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint  but based on what I have seen, I will not 
be asking Halifax to refund these transactions.
Generally speaking, Halifax is required to refund unauthorised transactions  the relevant 
regulations say this.  However, Mr D can be held liable  for them  if the evidence suggests  that 
its more likely than not that he made or authorised them  himself.
As the investigator  explained  there are two limbs to authority.  The first is that the 
payments need  to be authenticated.   The  second  limb is that Halifax needs to show Mr D 
consented to the payments.
From the evidence I have  seen, I am satisfied that the payments were  authenticated.  They 
were made following a log on to Mr Ds online banking.  In order to access this, a fraudster 
would have needed to know personal  information which  only Mr D would have  knowledge of.  
Mr D says he has never shared this information  with anyone  and neither  has he allowed 
anyone to use his phone  to access his online banking app there.
So, as I am satisfied the payments were  authenticated, I need to consider whether the 
evidence suggests  that Mr D consented to them being made.  For the following reasons,  I 
think he did:
-The payee J was set up on 2nd July 2018.  At the time, a text was sent to Mr D to 
alert him of this.  Mr D now accepts he saw the message but did not read it.  I think  
its unlikely that he would ignore a message like this from his bank.
Ref: DRN82721442-The payments  were all made  via Mr Ds online banking. Mr D says no one else has 
access to that.
-Mr D says that during  the period of five months, he had not looked at the balance on 
this account.  But  his history shows a number of transfers in and out of his accounts  
as well as days where he logged  into his online banking.  It seems  odd that he would 
be moving money between his accounts and not notice the depleting balance 
because of payments  being made  to J.
-If a fraudster managed to gain access to Mr Ds online banking in July 2018, it would 
be unusual behaviour for them to wait until December before  they transferred all of 
Mr Ds money  out of his account.
I dont think Mr D provides a plausible or credible account of whats  happened here.  In the 
circumstances, I cant  see anything to suggest Halifax  has treated him unfairly.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2020.
Shazia Ahmed
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8272144