K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Santander  UK Plc (Santander) mis-sold them a monthly 
premium mortgage payment protection insurance  (MPPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs C were sold a MPPI policy in 2007.
Although the mortgage was in joint names,  the policy only covered Mr C. It would have 
provided a monthly  benefit for up to 12 months if Mr C were  to become unemployed. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mr and Mrs Cs complaint  should  be upheld.  Mr and Mrs C didnt 
agree with our adjudicator and so the complaint has been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Mr and Mrs Cs case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. I will now explain 
why.
First of all Ive considered whether Mr C was eligible  under the policy.  Based on Mr Cs age, 
residence and employment  at the time of the sale, Im satisfied he was eligible.
Santander had to make it clear to Mr and Mrs C that the MPPI was optional  and needed their 
consent before it could  be applied to their account.  Mr and Mrs C say the policy was added  
without their knowledge or consent.
From the evidence available to me, it appears that the policy  was sold on the phone. 
However, Santander dont have a call recording or a transcript of the call  this is 
understandable given  the length of time since the sale. But what it means is that I cant know 
for sure what took place  during  the sale. 
So Ive thought carefully about what Mr and Mrs C and Santander have told us and looked  to 
the other documents and information available to me from around the time of the sale to help 
me decide what is more  likely to have happened. 
I note first of all that Santander  have confirmed that MPPI wasnt a compulsory product. I 
can see that this policy  wasnt taken out at the same  time as the mortgage  was originally 
taken out. And in fact it wasnt even taken out when Mr and Mrs C re-mortgaged in 2006. 
Instead it was taken out in 2007 in connection with a further advance.  
Santander have  provided us with a call script  which was dated  a few months before the sale 
of this MPPI.  This shows that Mr and Mrs Cs consent would have been required before the 
policy could have been applied to the account.   I think that this script is similar to what  the 
representative would have followed at the time of this MPPI policy  was sold. And I havent 
seen sufficient evidence  to conclude that the representative didnt follow this script. So I think  
Ref: DRN86551842its more likely that MPPI was added  to the account  because Mr and Mrs C chose to take it 
out. 
I have also seen other documents, such as the welcome  letter, demands and needs 
analysis which show that there was a discussion about MPPI and these indicate that Mr C 
chose to take out unemployment cover only. 
So all in all, while I appreciate what Mr and Mrs C have told us, I think  its more  likely that 
MPPI was presented  as optional and that it was only applied  to the account because  
Mr and Mrs C chose to take it out. 
Santander accept  they advised  Mr and Mrs C to take MPPI. This means they had to take 
adequate steps to ensure  it was suitable for them. Mr C says that the policy wasnt  suitable 
for him because he had to leave his job in May 2007 in order  to care for his wife. The policy 
excluded claims for unemployment/carer  cover if the person covered under the policy  was 
aware at the start of the policy that there was a need or likely to be a need in the future that 
their family member  would  need a carer. The policy started in March 2007.
Ive thought about this carefully.  But I havent seen sufficient evidence to conclude that Mr C 
would have been aware at the time of the sale that he was going  to leave his job to care for 
his wife. Mr and Mrs C had taken  out a further  advance on their mortgage and so were  
taking on a larger financial  commitment  secured  on a valuable asset. Im not sure they would 
have done this if Mr C knew  he would soon be unemployed.  And given that Mr C only took 
out unemployment cover, as opposed to accident, sickness  and unemployment, I think  there  
would have been some  discussion about  MPPI  but it doesnt look like Mr C made Santander 
aware that his circumstances  might change. If he had, I think  its unlikely  Santander would 
have provided  a further advance. So I dont think Santander were wrong to recommend this 
cover based  on the information available to them. And I havent seen any other  significant  
exclusions or restrictions which would  have made  the MPPI unsuitable  for Mr C. 
Mr and Mrs C havent told us that they had sufficient other  cover  in place if Mr C were  to lose 
his job. The documents from the time of the sale suggest that he didnt have any other 
means of repayment  if were to lost his job. So the MPPI would have provided suitable cover 
if Mr C were to be made redundant. 
I havent seen  any evidence which suggests the MPPI was unaffordable for Mr and Mrs C at 
the time of the sale. And Mr and Mrs C could have  cancelled  the MPPI at any time without  
losing out financially if they no longer wanted  or needed it. 
So I think the MPPI was suitable for Mr and Mrs C at the time of the sale. I appreciate  that 
Mr and Mrs C have told us their circumstances changed, but it would have  been  their 
responsibility to consider  whether or not to continue with the policy  because  of this change. 
They can also check with the insurers if they would be willing  to consider a retrospective  
claim.
As well as checking that the MPPI was suitable  for Mr and Mrs C, Santander  also had to 
give them  clear information  about the MPPI   in particular about  the costs,  benefits and main 
exclusions in the policy  so that they could make  an informed decision about whether or not 
to take it out.
Its possible the information Santander gave  Mr and Mrs C wasnt as clear as it should  have 
been but this in itself doesnt  mean the policy was mis-sold as I have to go on and consider 
Ref: DRN86551843whether better information would have put them off taking it out. And I dont think  it would 
have. I say this for the same reasons I think the MPPI was suitable for them.
So having  taken everything into consideration, I dont think Santander mis-sold 
Mr and Mrs C this MPPI policy.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint against Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 April 2019.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8655184