K821x#15complaint
Mrs M and Miss M are unhappy with the way they were treated by AXA PPP Healthcare 
Limited.
Mrs M brings this complaint and is the main policy holder. Miss M is named as a dependent 
under this policy. As this complaint concerns Miss M, for simplicity, Ive referred to all 
submissions as being made by her personally. 
background
The background to this complaint is set out under my provisional  findings  a copy  of which 
is attached below. But for clarity, Ill explain whats happened so far. 
Miss M needed a synacthen test and so arranged this under her private medical insurance 
policy with AXA on 16 May 2018. This was approved the same day along with some  further  
diagnostic tests with another  specialist. 
However, the booking  of the synacthen test couldnt be confirmed until the specialists 
invoice had been paid. Miss M said she had provisionally booked this for 1 June and so she 
let AXA know by email  on 17 May that it needed to settle the invoice upfront. AXA didnt 
respond to her. 
Miss M got in touch with AXA around a week later to find out what  was happening  and it 
explained that it doesnt pay invoices  upfront  or before treatment  has taken place. AXA said 
itd discuss this with the specialist before coming back to her.
AXA ended up paying the fee upfront  and Miss M was able to have the test on the day shed 
chosen. Miss M was referred for further diagnostic tests  which AXA authorised  although 
there was some confusion  around where Miss M could have these. She was given 
conflicting information which caused  her to complain. 
AXA paid Miss M £150 compensation  to say sorry. Miss M didnt think this was enough and 
so brought her complaint  to this service. Our investigator thought  this offer was fair, but I 
took a different view. In my provisional findings, I explained that I was intending to uphold  
Miss Ms complaint and increase the amount of compensation AXA had paid. I awarded a 
further £100, less the £30 shopping vouchers AXA had already paid. I felt that award was 
fair given  the level of trouble and upset caused. 
Miss M accepted my findings,  but AXA didnt. It made a number  of arguments  all of which  
Ive summarised below  AXA said;
The specialist chasing Miss M for the payment was aware  that AXA wouldnt pay 
upfront for treatment costs which is why the invoice wasnt  addressed  to it;
It agreed to speak with the specialist to resolve  this issue and had attempted  to 
speak with him on a number of occasions since first being told about it;
AXA was concerned that it was unable to find any record  of the provisional booking  
when it contacted the treating hospital,  and that the specialist was attempting to 
charge for something he shouldnt;
It ended  up paying the fee as a goodwill gesture to Miss M. It said the specialists fee 
wasnt covered under  the policy and;
Ref: DRN84646672AXA did make a mistake when it told Miss M is would cover the further diagnostic 
treatment at her preferred  hospital  but this was to her advantage  as it shouldnt 
have done this; 
And so its for me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Im upholding Miss Ms complaint for mainly the same reasons Ive explained  as part of my 
provision decision.  AXA has made  a number  of further representations, but I dont consider 
them all to be relevant  to the particular  circumstances  of this case. And so Ill only respond to 
those I consider to be material  to this complaint. 
AXA said the specialist  was aware that Miss Ms policy didnt cover her for the specialists 
fee for the synacthen test and this was perhaps  why he didnt address the invoice to it 
specifically. But I find this contradictory to its earlier position where  it said the specialist was 
acting outside  of the charging arrangement it had with it by expecting AXA to pay upfront 
prior to completing the treatment. 
Further, if AXA knew this was the case  as its said it did retrospectively   it doesnt 
satisfactorily explain why it didnt tell Miss M this at the time,  or why it attempted to reach the 
specialist to rectify the issue.  AXA also said it had concerns that the specialist was trying to 
charge for something he shouldnt. And so there were  a number of reasons offered by AXA 
to this particular  point and so Im less persuaded by its position  here.
When Miss M first made AXA aware of the invoice on 17 May no action was taken on it. And 
so she chased  a response  almost a week later on 23 May. But it wasnt  until another  week 
after this, on 31 May,  that any meaningful progress happened. AXA said it had been  trying to 
resolve the issue in the background by attempting to speak with the specialist but Ive not 
seen any evidence of this. Instead, there appeared to be nothing  happening on her claim 
until she called again on 31 May as it was only then that there appeared to be some activity  
with AXA trying to reach the specialist and returning Miss Ms call.  
AXA said it was unable  to find any evidence of Miss Ms booking for 1 June  but to be clear, 
the hospital had refused to make  the booking until the fee had been paid. The provisional  
date was with the specialists  secretary rather than the hospital itself.
AXA has accepted  there was crossed  wires in terms of the further tests that followed with 
another specialist.  It had essentially  given  the correct information  during the first call about  
this and said Miss Ms preferred choice wasnt available. Miss M was happy  to have her 
treatment at another facility, only the new treating specialist didnt think  this was right 
because her facility was partnered with AXA. 
Miss M called AXA back to challenge what  it had previously told her about her initial choice 
and was subsequently told she could have  her further treatment at her initial  choice facility.  
AXAs explained the reason for the confusion was down to a nuance  with this facility and I do 
understand the point its made  here. But for the purpose of my final decision,  I must consider 
Miss Ms customer  journey  and the overall  impact this has had on her in particular. 
Ref: DRN84646673AXA has highlighted that she benefited from having  her treatment  at her first choice facility, 
but Im not entirely persuaded by that. Miss M asked to be treated  there  because  thats  what  
the specialist initially recommended. She was happy to be treated elsewhere and this was 
evident during  the phone call she had with AXA. 
The reason  Miss M challenged AXA was because up until that point in her customer journey 
the service had been poor. And so she was further  upset by the prospect that AXA had 
made another mistake in handling her claim. When AXA then gave her the conflicting 
message about  the treatment facility this caused her further trouble and upset.
Overall, I think AXA could  have handled things better than it did. I also think  it could have 
been more proactive in handling Miss Ms concerns and given much  clearer answers. Im 
persuaded by the impact Miss M said this had on her at the time and why she felt let down 
by the insurer.  Miss M said she paid for the policy to give her peace of mind  should 
something go wrong and that she found this not to be the case.
my final decision
Im upholding Mrs M and Miss Ms complaint  for the reasons Ive explained and so AXA PPP 
Healthcare Limited must now;
Pay Mrs M and Miss M £100 compensation  for the overall  trouble and upset caused 
(less the £30 shopping vouchers its already  paid).
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M and Miss M  
to accept or reject my decision before 26 October 2019.
Scott Slade
ombudsman
[copy of provisional decision]
background
Miss M has private  medical  insurance  cover  through her familys policy. She was referred to have 
some tests to help determine her condition. These tests were scans. Miss M called  AXA and her claim  
was accepted. But there were some problems.  
Miss M said although AXA accepted her claim,  it didnt liaise effectively  with the treatment provider.  In 
particular, Miss M had difficulty  booking  the appointment because AXA wouldnt pay the specialists 
fee upfront. Miss M said she was caught  between  the two parties with seemingly no way of resolving 
this issue  as she was being passed back and forth between them.  She would  like the family policys 
premium back  for that month and her excess. 
AXA accepted it had caused  Miss M problems.  It ignored one of her emails were she tried to resolve 
the issue.  It also acknowledged that Miss M had to chase it on two other separate occasions and that 
in one of those  calls, she was given  incorrect information about where  she could go for further  
treatment. AXA apologised for the poor service  and paid Miss M £150  compensation. 
Ref: DRN84646674Our investigator thought this was fair. She said it was in line with the recommendation  she would have 
made had there  been  no award made in this case.  
Miss M didnt agree. She said that its not about  the money, rather, she felt that she was entitled to a 
better level of customer  care than she received.  She would still like AXA to return  the familys 
premium for that month and her excess. And so its for me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, Im upholding Miss Ms complaint and AXA must 
pay her an additional £100 for the trouble and upset it caused. Ill explain why.
Miss M was caught between her insurer  and its provider when  it came  to the particular circumstances 
of this complaint. Shed acted in good faith and gave her insurer plenty of notice that she intended to 
receive treatment  from a particular  consultant at the hospital. There were a number of attempts made  
by Miss M to try and resolve this issue, but I believe AXA should have taken  responsibility for its role 
as her insurer and resolving  a dispute  with one of its approved specialists.
The issue was simply in that the specialist  wanted AXA to pay upfront for the appointment and until 
this happened, it would not allow Miss M to book  her appointment. She explained  this to AXA a 
number of times, but nothing appeared to happen until the 11th hour  a day before her intended  
appointment. AXAs  position  until then was that Miss M should tell the provider that it never  pays 
upfront before a treatment  as this is its policy. And so I was surprised  to see that when  AXA finally 
spoke to the provider, it had agreed to pay the consultants fee upfront. It was only after this had 
happened that Miss M was able to confirm  her appointment.
Miss M explained this gave  her added worry as shed had to arrange for her mother  to take time off 
work to take her to her appointment Miss M is a young  lady who was already understandably nervous 
about her upcoming treatment and simply didnt need the added stress  of having  to act as a go-
between for AXA and the treatment provider. 
I note Miss M made a number  of phone calls to AXA during this time. Some  were  to try and fix the 
issue of booking  the appointment  and others were to do arranging further treatment with another  
specialist. 
Miss M called AXA to ask whether she could have this treatment completed at another  hospital. Shed 
been told about this provider in particular  by the previous consultant and so she wanted to go there.  
Shed also identified that this was on AXAs  approved network  of providers and so she felt reassured 
that this was the right place  to go. 
However, when she asked AXA about  it, she was told that provider  was not part of its network  and 
that she should select  another place. This information was incorrect. Miss Ms first choice was on its 
approved network  and this further added to her anxiety over her condition and treatment.  
Overall, the customer  journey was not a positive  one for Miss M and AXA has also accepted this. But 
the compensation its already  paid, I feel, doesnt fairly  reflect the level of trouble  and upset  Miss M 
experienced. She had to make a number of phone calls to AXA and the treatment provider to sort the 
first issue  this should  have  been sorted by AXA.  Miss M also had an email completely ignored and 
AXA wasnt proactive in calling her back to discuss the issue. 
Miss M eventually  spoke to someone  who took ownership and managed to sort her problem  but 
there was still a big impact on Miss Ms experience up until that point. And so I think a further £100 
compensation for the overall trouble and upset  caused  is fair.
Ref: DRN84646675Scott Slade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8464667