K820x#14Complaint
Mr and Mrs T say Bank of Scotland Plc, trading as Halifax (Halifax) mis-sold them  a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Background
Mr and Mrs T took out a PPI policy alongside  their joint mortgage  in May 1996. 
Mr and Mrs T paid a monthly amount of £14.94 for the policy.  The PPI covered Mr T only,  
and if he was too ill to work, or made  involuntarily redundant  it would  have paid a monthly  
benefit of £300 for up to 12 months per claim.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs T disagreed  with the adjudicators  
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ts case. Having done so, I wont be 
upholding Mr and Mrs Ts complaint and Ill explain why.
Halifax had to make it clear to Mr and Mrs T that the policy was optional.  And it had to get 
their consent  before  it added PPI to their account.
The sale took place  a long time ago, so neither party has been able to provide much 
information. Because of this, I need  to decide  what I think  is most  likely  to have happened 
when the PPI was sold.  
Over the years, weve seen a number of Halifax cases involving various  methods of sales 
from around the same period Mr and Mrs T would  have been sold their PPI. Using  what I 
know generally of Halifaxs sales practices at the time, I think  its more likely than not Mr and 
Mrs T would have been given an option to take out the PPI and that Halifax would have 
gained their consent before adding it to their mortgage.
Mr and Mrs T havent said whether  they received any advice and Halifax  hasnt been  able to 
confirm this either. As a result, Halifax has treated the sale as though it did give advice and I 
think thats fair because  it puts more responsibility on Halifax.  It means that as well as giving  
Mr and Mrs T enough information about  the policy, Halifax also had to check the policy was 
suitable for them. So, Ive considered the case  on the basis that advice was given  and 
having done so, the policy appears  to have been right for them. Although, Ive mainly 
focused on Mr Ts circumstances as he was the one covered by the PPI.
Mr T was eligible  for the policy and he doesnt seem to have been affected by any of the 
terms which might have  made it harder for him to make a claim, such as having a pre-
existing medical condition or unusual employment circumstances. 
Ref: DRN81002262Mr T says he was entitled to at least six months full sick pay and that he had a life insurance 
policy in place. Ive thought about what Mr T has said, but the policy would have paid out in 
addition to any sick pay Mr T received  and potentially  for longer. Mr T could have made 
repeat claims subject to a requalification  period. And the life insurance policy  provided  
different cover to the PPI  it wouldnt  have helped him if he was off sick from work, or if he 
was made  redundant. So, considering Mr T was the main income earner and that he didnt 
have any other way to make their mortgage repayments once his sick pay ran out  I think 
the policy could  have been  useful  to them.
I also havent seen  anything to suggest  the policy was unaffordable  for Mr and Mrs T at the 
time it was taken. And it could have been cancelled at any time without penalty. So, taking 
everything into account, I dont think Halifax was wrong to recommend the PPI to Mr and 
Mrs T.
Its possible Halifax didnt give Mr and Mrs T all of the other information they needed  I dont 
know if the PPI cost and benefits were made clear. But Mr and Mrs T chose to take out the 
cover when they didnt  have  to, so they seem to have wanted it and I think  its unlikely theyd 
have agreed to take the policy without any idea of what it cost or what the benefit  would be.
The mortgage was a big and long-term  commitment, secured against  Mr and Mrs Ts home.  
And the repercussions  of not keeping up with repayments could  have been  serious.  So, I 
think the policy could  have been useful  to Mr and Mrs T and I dont think their PPI was mis-
sold.
Mr and Mrs Ts representative  has raised a number  of what I consider to be general 
complaint points, which it says applies to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a 
claim that we are not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance for handling PPI 
complaints; these policies represented  poor value because of the number of significant 
exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty of utmost  
good faith meant Halifax should have disclosed the poor value and explained  the 
significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the chances  of making 
a claim.
But Mr and Mrs Ts representative  has not said how these points apply to the specific  facts 
and circumstances  of Mr and Mrs Ts individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr and Mrs Ts particular 
case. But these  points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  - for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint.
Ref: DRN81002263Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 August 2021.
Hanna Johnson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8100226