K821x#15complaint
Mr R complains that Uncle Buck Finance LLP lent to him in an irresponsible manner.
background 
The background to this complaint was set out in my provisional decision of 6 November 
2019, an extract of which is attached  and forms part of this final decision, so I wont  repeat 
that information here. 
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I explained  why I thought that Uncle Buck  shouldnt  have given  
Mr R loans seven to 12 and what I thought  it should  do to put matters  right.   
responses to my provisional  decision
Mr R accepted my provisional  decision but queried  why I proposed  to uphold his complaint  
about loans seven to 12 but not about  loans 13-15. 
Uncle Buck  acknowledged receipt of the provisional  decision and didnt provide any further 
comment.  
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R has queried why Ive upheld his complaint about loans seven to 12 but not about  loans 
13-15. As I set out in my provisional decision, theres three  periods  of lending here. There 
was a gap of almost  seven months in lending  between Mr R repaying loan 12 and taking out 
loan 13. I think  that broke the chain  of borrowing. So, Uncle Buck  could treat Mr R as a new 
borrower from loan 13. In the circumstances here, I dont think  it would have been 
proportionate for Uncle Buck to ask Mr R for the amount of information needed to show  that 
loans 13-15 were  unsustainable. 
I remain of the view that Uncle Buck shouldnt have given Mr R loans seven to 12 and I see 
no reason to depart from the conclusions  I reached  in my provisional decision. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold Mr Rs complaint  in part. I now require Uncle Buck Finance LLP to:
refund  all interest and charges Mr R paid on loans seven to 12;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the 
date they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
deduct from the refund above  any capital  sum still due in relation to loan 15 and 
pay Mr R the balance,  if any. If there  remains an outstanding balance owed to 
Uncle Buck in relation to loans 15, it should agree an affordable repayment plan 
with Mr R;
Ref: DRN86661852the number  of loans taken from loan seven  onwards means any information  
recorded about them is adverse. So all entries  about loans seven to 12 should  
be removed from Mr Rs credit file.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask  Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 February  2020.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
 
Ref: DRN86661853extract of provisional  decision
complaint
Mr R complains that Uncle Buck Finance LLP lent to him in an irresponsible manner.
background
Uncle Buck  gave Mr R 15 loans between March 2014 and March 2018.  Loans one to seven 
were payday  loans, repayable in one payment. Loans eight to 15 were  instalment loans, 
repayable in three, four or six, monthly repayments.  Mr R repaid loans one to 14 but he 
hasnt repaid the final loan. A summary of Mr Rs lending with Uncle Buck is attached  as an 
appendix to this decision.
Mr R says that Uncle Buck failed to identify that he had become dependent  on payday loans 
and that the loans  made his position worse. Mr R wants  a refund of interest and charges, 
with interest and adverse information  removed  from his credit report.
In response to Mr Rs complaint, Uncle Buck offered a partial  refund  of interest  and charges, 
with interest for the one-month consecutive loans  in excess  of three. It said that it would 
use the refund to reduce the outstanding balance on the final loan. Mr R didnt accept that 
offer.
One of our adjudicators  assessed Mr Rs complaint.  He thought that Uncle Buck  shouldnt  
have given Mr R any of the loans  because it should  have been  aware  that Mr R was having 
problems managing his money.  The adjudicator  also said that from loan five, the overall  
pattern of borrowing  suggested that Mr R had become reliant on short-terms  loans.  He set
out what he thought Uncle Buck should  do to put matters  right.
Uncle Buck  didnt agree with the adjudicator  and responded at some length. It said,  in 
summary:
Its to Mr Rs detriment  to remove all or negative information from his credit 
report as hell lose positive information that shows he repaid  on time or early.
If it removes entries  from Mr Rs credit file, other lenders will not have the 
benefit of them.
Its earlier  offer relates to loan seven.
There were  significant  gaps in borrowing.
Mr R wasnt  reliant  on short-term borrowing.
The pattern of Mr Rs borrowing showed  a decrease in the number of loans.
Theres no evidence of a persistent increase in Mr Rs borrowing until the 
last two loans.
Mr R didnt tell it that he was in financial difficulty.
Relying on one factor in Mr Rs credit  report is likely to give a distorted view 
 its underwriting  is sophisticated and thorough.
Applicants should be accurate and truthful  and take some  responsibility for 
their borrowing.
Even if a credit  file contains certain  adverse  information it would still 
consider the application.
Repeat lending  doesnt automatically mean  that the lending is unaffordable.
It didnt lend to Mr R irresponsibly.
It offered to write off Mr Rs remaining balance of around £885.
Ref: DRN86661854Mr R didnt accept Uncle Bucks offer. As there  was no agreement between  the parties, the 
complaint was passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant  rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Uncle Buck  needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice, this means that it should  have carried  out proportionate checks to make  sure Mr R 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things, such as how much  was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Uncle Buck should  fairly and reasonably  
have done more to establish that any lending  was sustainable for the consumer.  These 
factors include:
    the lower  a customers  income  (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to 
make any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of 
income);
    the higher the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher  repayment from a particular  level of income);
    the greater  the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period 
of time during  which a customer has been given  loans  (reflecting the risk that 
repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was 
becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending  itself 
clearly demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Uncle Buck  was required to establish whether Mr R could  sustainably repay his loans  not 
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.  
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this 
is the case. This is because the Office  of Fair Trading  Irresponsible Lending guidance and 
later the Consumer Credit  Sourcebook (CONC)  defines sustainable  as being without 
undue difficulties and in particular, the customer should be able to make repayments on 
time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to 
meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly  and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments  without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence and information  provided in 
this context and what this all means for Mr Rs complaint.
Ref: DRN86661855When Mr R first took out a loan with Uncle Buck he repaid it quite quickly and didnt ask to 
borrow again for six months. I think  loan two started  a new chain of borrowing. Theres  also 
a gap of almost seven months between Mr R repaying loan 12 and taking out loan 13. Ive 
thought carefully  about this. I think that gap of almost seven months broke  the chain of 
borrowing. So, Im dealing with three separate periods of borrowing here: loan one; loans
two to 12 and loans  13-15.
I dont think that Uncle  Buck  was wrong  to give Mr R loan one, loans two to five in the 
second chain  of borrowing or loans 13-15 in the final chain of borrowing. Given the 
repayment amounts,  what was apparent  about Mr Rs circumstances at the time and his 
history with the lender at those points, I dont  think it wouldve been  proportionate for 
Uncle Buck  to ask Mr R for the amount of information needed to show the lending was 
unsustainable.
Uncle Buck  carried out a credit check before loan one. The information a prospective 
lender can obtain  from a credit check isnt in the same detail as an individual  can see from 
his or her credit report. Whilst the credit check showed some indebtedness and a default, I 
dont think that Uncle Buck needed  to do more  at that stage. I dont think that there was 
anything in the information Mr R provided  or the information Uncle  Buck shouldve been  
aware of, which  meant it wouldve been  proportionate to start verifying  what Mr R said 
about his finances at these points.
For loan six, I think Uncle Buck shouldve taken  steps to build a more  detailed picture of Mr 
Rs financial  situation. But I havent  seen anything in the information provided  which  
suggests that Uncle Buck  wouldve  known that Mr R wouldnt  have been able to sustainably 
make the repayments  for that loan. So, in addition to the loans Ive mentioned  above, I 
dont think that Uncle Buck was wrong to give Mr R loan six.
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Uncle Bucks lending history  with Mr R, with a view 
to seeing  if there  was a point  at which Uncle Buck should reasonably  have seen that 
further lending  was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Uncle  Buck should have 
realised that it shouldnt have provided  any further loans.
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Rs case,  I think that this point was reached  by 
loan seven. I say this because by loan seven, Mr R had taken seven loans in just over 
seven months with very little break. Uncle  Buck  ought to have realised  at this point that Mr 
Rs indebtedness wasnt getting any better.
Mr R wasnt making  any real inroads  to the amount  he owed Uncle Buck.  Loan  12 was 
taken out over two years  after loan two, which was the first loan in that chain of borrowing. 
Mr R had paid large amounts of interest to, in effect,  service a debt to Uncle Buck over an 
extended period.
I think that Mr R lost out because Uncle Buck continued to provide borrowing  from loan 
seven to loan 12 because  these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Rs 
indebtedness by allowing  him to take expensive  credit  intended  for short-term use over an 
extended period  of time. And the sheer  number  of loans was likely to have had negative 
implications on Mr Rs ability to access mainstream credit and so may have kept him in 
the market for these  high-cost loans.
So I intend to uphold  Mr Rs complaint about loans  seven  to 12 and Uncle Buck  should 
put things right.
Ref: DRN86661856putting things right   what Uncle Buck needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr R paid on loans seven to 12;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the 
date they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
deduct from the refund above  any capital  sum still due in relation to loan 15 and 
pay Mr R the balance,  if any. If there  remains an outstanding balance owed to 
Uncle Buck in relation to loans 15, it should agree an affordable repayment plan 
with Mr R;
the number  of loans taken from loan seven  onwards means any information  
recorded about them is adverse. So all entries  about loans seven to 12 should  
be removed from Mr Rs credit file.
my provisional decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  I intend  to uphold Mr Rs complaint in part and to direct
Uncle Buck  to take the steps Ive set out above.
Ref: DRN86661857appendix  summary  of Mr Rs lending with Uncle Buck
date £ amount
borrowedno. of repayments
at the outsetdate repaid
15 March 2014 300 1 9 March 2014
25 September 2014 150 1 30 September 2014
330 September 2014 250 1 31October 2014
416 December 2014 100 1 24 December 2014
530 December 2014 300 1 3 February 2015
620 February 2015 200 1 31 March 2015
77 April 2015 350 1 30 April 2015
820 July 2015 250 3 30 September 2015
99 October 2015 300 3 24 December 2015
105 January 2016 300 3 31 March 2016
1124 June 2016 300 3 30 September 2016
1215 October 2016 300 3 30 December 2016
1327 July 2017 200 3 31 October 2017
1410 November 2017 500 4 28 February 2018
159 March 2018 900 6 outstanding
Ref: DRN8666185