K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
March 1997. Mr M1 says Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold the PPI to him and the late    
Mr M2. 
background
Mr M1 and Mr M2 took out a mortgage  with BoS in 1997. At the same  time they were sold a 
PPI policy. 
The PPI policy covered only Mr M1. The policy covered him against being  unable to work  
due to accident, sickness or involuntary  unemployment. The policy  cost £15.98  per month  
and wouldve paid a monthly benefit of £300 for up to 12 months in the event of a successful 
claim. The policy was cancelled in 2007.
An adjudicator didnt think the complaint should  be upheld.  Mr M1 disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion. So, the complaints  been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
BoS hasnt been  able to send us the paperwork from the sale.  This isnt unusual  and its 
understandable in view of the time that has gone by since the sale took place. But where 
there is limited information,  I will make my decision  based on whats more likely to have 
happened, taking into account the evidence available, what  both parties have told me and 
what we know about these types  of sale.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Mr M1 has told us he cannot recall the PPI being  discussed with him at all. Hes told us he 
cannot remember taking  the policy out.
BoS cannot tell us how the policy was sold to Mr M1, as it was sold at the same time as the 
mortgage I think it is likely to have  been  sold during a meeting at a branch.
From experience I think its unlikely the policy could have been set up entirely without          
Mr M1s  input. There would have been  some  questions around eligibility that would need to 
have been answered before it could have  been  put in place. Mr M1 would have needed to 
sign an application or direct debit  instruction.  And the premiums would have likely been 
taken from Mr M1s bank account and have appeared  on his bank statements. If this wasnt  
the case they would have  appeared instead on the yearly mortgage statement. And the 
policy was in force for some years  before it was cancelled.  
Weighing everything up I think  its most likely Mr M1 was made aware  of the PPI in 1997 and 
he chose to take it out. Although at the time it was likely to have seemed a relatively 
straightforward transaction  and memories do fade over time. So, after so many  years I can 
understand why Mr M1 might not recall this.
Ref: DRN86141392BoS has told us that its adviser should have  recommended the PPI to Mr M1. In which  case 
it had to check that the PPI was right for him and based on what  Ive seen  of his 
circumstances in 1997 I think that it was. I say this because:
Mr M1 was not affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. For example, 
he didnt have any medical conditions that wouldnt have  been covered. And he wasnt in an 
unusual employment  situation which might not have been covered. So, hed have been able 
to make a claim on the policy if he needed to.
Mr M1s  employers wouldve paid him some  sick pay if hed become too unwell to work. But 
this particular policy wouldve paid a monthly benefit in addition  to any sick pay, and for up to 
12 months. This is likely  to have been longer than Mr M1s full sick pay would last. So, I still 
think Mr M1 wouldve found  the benefit  useful if he had become too unwell to work, 
particularly if he was unwell for a prolonged period.
And if Mr M1 lost his job the monthly benefit  would mean he could  use any redundancy pay 
or savings  for other living costs. 
Mr M1 cant  recall being given any information  about the policy.  I cant know  after all these 
years exactly what he was told or given at the time. Its possible the information BoS gave 
Mr M1 about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve been. But I think he chose to take it out        
- so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And it seems like it would have been useful for 
him if something went wrong.  Ive not seen any evidence  that it wasnt affordable.  So, I dont 
think better information about  the PPI would  have put him off taking out the cover. 
Mr M1 had another policy in place which gave him life cover.  But this was a different type of 
cover to PPI, so the PPI didnt duplicate cover  he already had in place.
In summary,  I think its likely BoS made Mr M1 aware the policy  was optional, and he chose 
to buy it. From what Ive seen it looks as if the policy BoS recommended was right for him. 
And I dont  think any clearer or more  complete  information wouldve made him act differently 
and decline  it.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award  against  Bank  of 
Scotland plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M1 and the 
representatives of Mr M2s estate to accept or reject  my decision before  3 May 2020.
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8614139