K821x#15complaint
Mrs B complains that NewDay Ltd didnt carry out proper affordability checks for three credit 
card accounts provided to her between 2013 and 2015.
background
Mrs B was given a credit card in November 2013  with a credit  limit of £1,000. NewDay then 
gave Mrs B further credit cards with limits of £1,000  in February  2015  and December  2015.  
Mrs B complained to NewDay  in early 2019  saying  that she should  not have been  given  
these cards as no affordability  checks were  carried out. Mrs B said that she has been  
diagnosed with a spending  addiction and that she owes a substantial  amount of money to 
several creditors. Mrs B mentioned that she became unemployed in 2018  and has relied on 
her husband  to make payments to NewDay  under a debt management plan. 
NewDay didnt uphold  the complaint but in doing so only referred to the first credit card.  It 
subsequently offered  Mrs B £50 for not investigating  her complaint properly. 
One of our adjudicators looked  at Mrs Bs complaint. She didnt think NewDay  had done 
anything wrong  and didnt think the credit cards had been irresponsibly lent. Mrs B disagreed  
with our adjudicator  and asked for an ombudsmans  decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our approach  to 
unaffordable and irresponsible  lending complaints on our website and Ive considered this 
while deciding Mrs Bs complaint. 
I note that NewDay  didnt actually give Mrs B the first credit card but bought the account in 
the following  year. However, it seems that NewDay accepts  that we can look at the decision 
to lend as it has referred  to the lack of information for this application due to the passage  of 
time, rather than explaining to us that they arent  liable for this part of the complaint. So, I will 
be looking  at all three lending decisions in my decision. 
The rules  and regulations at the time of each application required a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment  of whether Mrs B could afford to repay what  she owed in a 
sustainable manner.  This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability  
assessment or affordability  check. The checks had to be borrower focused  so 
consideration was needed  on whether Mrs B repaying the credit sustainably would cause 
her difficulties or adverse consequences for her. 
In practice this meant that NewDay had to ensure that making the payments wouldnt cause 
Mrs B undue difficulty or adverse consequences. In other words, it wasnt enough for 
NewDay to simply  think  about  the likelihood of it getting its money back, it had to consider 
the impact of any repayments on Mrs B. Checks also had to be proportionate to the 
specific circumstances of the credit card application. In general,  what constitutes a 
proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a number of factors  including  but 
not limited to  the particular circumstances of the consumer (e.g. their financial history,  
current situation and outlook, and any indications of vulnerability or financial difficulty) and 
the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. 
Ref: DRN85249092In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have  
been more thorough: 
 the lower a customers  income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult  to make any 
repayments to credit  from a lower  level of income); 
 the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more  difficult  to meet  
higher repayments  from a particular level of income);
 
 the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact that the total 
cost of the credit is likely to be greater  and the customer is required to make  repayments for 
an extended period).  
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed  a proportionate check 
should have been for a given application   including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of 
this in mind when looking at the decisions to give Mrs B the three  credit  cards.  
The initial credit card application in 2013
NewDay says that they no longer have copies of this application or the checks  that were  
carried out before Mrs B was given the card. This isnt necessarily surprising due to the 
passage of time since the application and considering that businesses  generally arent 
required to keep records indefinitely and mostly  only do for six years or so. 
This obviously presents  some difficulties in determining whether a proportionate check  was 
carried out at the time. Our adjudicator  looked  at some bank statements for an account held 
by Mrs B to help determine  what her financial situation likely was. That of course can only go 
so far in determining whether anything looked concerning when Mrs B applied  for the card.  
Ive looked at those bank  statements and there  doesnt appear to be anything of particular  
concern that showed Mrs B was struggling  financially at the time. Bearing in mind  this was 
the first time Mrs B applied for a card with this particular business,  and the limit given was 
relatively low, and also bearing  in mind I havent  seen  anything else that would likely have 
caused concern  about the application, I dont think it was unreasonable  for the credit  card to 
have been given to Mrs B. 
The second  credit card application  in February  2015
NewDay says that Mrs B declared  her net monthly  income to be £2,400 and that she had 
access to her partners income. They say also that they carried out a credit  check  
which showed nothing  of concern.
Ive seen a copy  of the information NewDay relied on including the credit  check. The credit 
check showed that there wasnt  any indication that Mrs B was in arrears on her existing 
credit accounts or that any of these had been  defaulted. So there  doesnt  appear to be any 
particular concerns that Mrs B was struggling to repay her existing  credit  commitments.
Ref: DRN85249093Ive also considered Mrs Bs account  management  of her first credit card as this might  have  
provided some indication that she wasnt  in a position to take on more  credit.  I note that 
there were a few missed payments in the early  part of 2014. That in itself isnt an indicator of 
financial stress,  although it of course could be an indicator. I havent though seen any 
particular problems with repayment in the six months leading  up to the second  card 
application.
The expectation for providing Mrs B with the credit facility was that she would repay what  
shed borrowed plus the interest due within a reasonable  period of time. That isnt defined  as 
such and will depend on the circumstances of each case. That said,  I think that Mrs Bs self-
declared income together with there not being  anything of concern on her credit file (which 
Mrs B accepts was true) and the account  management of her existing card leads me to think  
that it was reasonable and proportionate for NewDay to provide Mrs B with a credit limit of 
£1,000. 
The third credit card application  in December 2015
NewDay says that Mrs B declared  her annual income to be £25,000 and that she again 
confirmed that she had access to her partners income. They  also again say that they carried 
out a credit check which showed nothing of concern.
Ive seen a copy  of the information NewDay relied on and, as far as the credit check, there 
was again nothing of concern shown. There were  no defaults or arrears  on her existing 
credit commitments.  At this stage, Mrs B had been given total credit limits of £3,000 across 
each of her cards. So, consideration  must  be given  to that here as Mrs B had by now in 
effect tripled her total credit limit across all three  cards.  
However, Ive not seen  any indication that Mrs B was struggling to take on this extra  credit. 
The credit check Ive mentioned is part of that. And there doesnt  seem to have been any 
indication that Mrs B was struggling to repay her existing credit limits with the other two 
cards. That of course doesnt mean that it was automatically appropriate to give Mrs B 
further access to credit.  But Ive seen that Mrs B wasnt simply paying minimum payments 
on her existing cards. There were  some months where she paid off the full balance and 
some where she paid above  the minimum payment. Taking this and the information that 
NewDay considered  into account, I think that it was reasonable  and proportionate  for 
NewDay to agree to this credit card application. 
So, for the reasons Ive given above, I do not uphold  Mrs Bs complaint about the decision to 
give her the three credit cards. 
I realise that Mrs B has said that she suffers from a spending addiction  and that this has 
been exacerbated by the decisions  to give her three  credit cards.  However, I dont think 
there were any indicators  from the checks that NewDay carried  out and the information they 
saw in 2015 (and those that may have been  carried out in 2013) that this was apparent.  
I also havent seen  that Mrs B made  NewDay aware of her condition which might have 
prompted them to act sooner or differently. It seems  more  likely to me that Mrs Bs situation 
changed when  she was made  unemployed in 2018 and wasnt  then able to meet her 
repayments.
Ref: DRN85249094It also looks like, judging  from the account statements for all three cards,  that NewDay  
agreed to put a repayment plan in place and for interest to be stopped  once Mrs B made 
them aware of her situation. So, I think  NewDay  acted fairly here and treated  Mrs Bs 
situation positively  and sympathetically.
Finally, NewDay has offered Mrs B £50 for not investigating her complaint properly. I will 
leave it to Mrs B to decide whether  she chooses  to accept this, although I would add here 
that NewDay should stand by this offer. 
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 May 2021.
Dan Picken
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8524909