K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a store  
card in 2003. Mrs F says Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold her the 
PPI.
Mrs F took out the store card and PPI in a shop  but FICL  has taken responsibility for the 
sale, and for this complaint, so I will refer to FICL in my decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Fs case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Mrs F says that she didnt know she had taken  out PPI and just signed where she was 
told  as indicated  by a cross. FICL  has sent in a copy  of Mrs Fs application form, and I 
can see that she has signed twice  once  for PPI, and the other agreeing  for the card. I 
can see that there are crosses  next to where Mrs F has signed, however, its also clear 
that one of the signatures is to protect repayments with PPI, and that it is an optional  
extra. Mrs F says that she wasnt told to read the application   so she just signed it. But I 
cant uphold her complaint for this reason. Mrs F was entering in to a financial contract  
and I would have  expected her to read what she was signing. And considering the 
evidence, I think that FICL did enough to make it clear that the policy  was optional,  and 
Mrs F signed to select it. 
FICL  didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs F so it didnt have to check  if it was right for her. 
But it did have to make  sure Mrs F got the information she needed  to decide if it was 
right for her. 
Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs F about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type 
of cover.  Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like 
she was affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover - so it would have  
been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So 
I dont think better  information  about  the PPI would  have put her off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mrs F has said, but these  points  dont change  my decision, 
and for the reasons set out above, I dont think the policy was mis-sold.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 June  2019.
Ref: DRN88927612Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8892761