K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy with the way Ageas Insurance Limited dealt with a claim under 
their home insurance  policy.
background
In May 2018  Mr and Mrs M made a claim to Ageas after a car was driven  into the front of 
their house,  causing much  damage. Ageas accepted the claim and appointed a contractor 
to carry  out repairs.
After the repairs were finished, Mr and Mrs M said they noticed  that a replacement 
double glazed window  had a noticeable  scratch from side to side inside the two 
panes of glass.
They also said the block paving on their driveway  was covered in hardened  cement 
which they couldn't clean off and the television aerial lead was left hanging outside 
instead of being  led into the living room.
Ageas arranged for the driveway to be power  washed but otherwise didn't accept liability.  
Mr and Mrs M didn't think the power  washing had improved the driveway.
Mr and Mrs M brought their complaint  to this service. I issued a provisional decision 
explaining why I was minded to uphold the complaint in part. An extract  from my provisional 
findings are set out below:
With regard to the double-glazing  Mr and Mrs M say there's a scratch  on the inner  
surface of one of the two panes of glass. They've had a quote to replace it. Ageas 
said its contractor  couldn't  see the scratch when it went to the property. I've had a look 
at the photo Mr and Mrs M have  provided and unfortunately  for them, I can't see it 
either. So I don't think Ageas acted unreasonably  in refusing  to pay for replacement  
glass.
Mr and Mrs M have  been quoted £1,200  to clean, power wash  and reseal  their driveway.  
They say the driveway is covered with spots of cement  because the builders failed to 
protect it properly. Having compared  photos  of the driveway  taken just after the accident  
with ones taken after the works were completed, I can't see a difference. So I'm not 
persuaded there's any damage for Ageas to repair.
Mr and Mrs M weren't  happy that the cable from their satellite dish was left hanging 
outside their property and they had to pay to have it run through  into their living  room.  
Ageas said Mr and Mrs M's satellite dish hadn't been damaged  by the accident and 
they'd changed what  they had previously. It didn't think it wasn't  liable for the cost of 
drilling through the brick  to connect  the cable to the television.
I haven't seen  any evidence  that Mr and Mrs M have upgraded their television aerial or 
satellite dish. They simply paid someone  £60 to run a cable from their satellite dish into 
their property. It appears from the photo of their damaged  living  room  that a cable was 
coming in there  before from outside.  So I think Ageas should  have reinstated this. In 
order to treat Mr and Mrs M fairly it should  reimburse  them  for the cost of this work plus 
simple interest  at the rate of 8 per cent from the date of payment.
Ref: DRN81779672Mr and Mrs M's premium went up £100 after this claim. I can understand that this would be 
annoying when  the claim wasn't  due to any fault on their part. But taking  non-fault claims 
into account when  assessing the risk presented isn't an unusual  action  for insurers to take.  
So I don't think  Ageas has treated  Mr and Mrs M unfairly  in this respect.
Ageas accepted my provisional decision. Mr M didnt accept it. He thought  it implied hed 
told lies. He also said the property  had been sold for £10,000 less than it would have done 
without this damage. He thought the costs should have been recovered  from the person 
whod driven  into the property.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I havent  upheld  all of Mr and Mrs Ms complaint, that doesnt mean I think theyve 
been untruthful. I have to decide on the evidence before me what  I think  is most likely to be 
the case. Unfortunately for them  the evidence wasnt  sufficiently convincing  for me to uphold  
all of their complaint. But Id like to make  it clear that I have no concerns about any 
dishonesty on their part.
Im sorry  they feel they havent got the best price  on the sale of their property. But for the 
reasons explained above, I dont think that was Ageass fault.
Its up to insurers whether they seek to recover the costs of a claim from third parties.  
Theyre under no obligation to do so. In any event that has no bearing on the repairs Ageas 
should have carried  out to Mr and Mrs Ms property.
Having taken into consideration  the feedback from Mr M, I see no reason to change my 
provisional findings and they now form part of this final decision.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part. I require  Ageas Insurance Limited to reimburse Mr and Mrs M 
the £60 they paid to have their television aerial reconnected  plus simple interest at the rate 
of 8 per cent a year from the date of payment. If HM Revenue  & Customs requires Ageas to 
take tax off this interest. it must give Mr and Mrs M a certificate  showing how much tax it's 
taken off if they ask for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 October  2020.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8177967