K822xcomplaint 
Mr and Mrs S have  complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc (RSA) has unfairly 
increased the cost of their pet insurance policy each year.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The cost of pet insurance tends to increase as the pet gets older, and the cost of medical 
treatment increases. Other policies available in the market place will often exclude cover for 
any existing medical  conditions the pet has when the policy is taken out or renewed.  So 
generally ongoing and recurring  conditions arent  covered.
But some pet insurance policies,  like the one Mr and Mrs S took out, will continue  to cover 
any medical conditions  claimed for in previous years, provided the policy  is renewed each 
year. These are sometimes referred to as lifetime policies, as ongoing or recurring conditions 
will continue to be covered for the lifetime of the pet, if premiums  carry on being paid. The 
yearly cost of these lifetime policies  can go up significantly at renewal, particularly if a claim 
is made. 
RSA should have made these longer-term cost implications clear  to Mr and Mrs S. It has 
accepted the information  it gave Mr and Mrs S about the policy  wasnt  as clear  as it should 
have been. And RSA has offered to pay them £500  compensation  for the trouble and upset 
theyve been caused as a result of this. I think this offer is fair and reasonable compensation 
in the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ss complaint.
Mr and Mrs S have  told us theyre not happy with the offer RSA has made because they are 
unable to shop  around for equivalent cover  now their pet has medical history,  so they have 
no choice but to keep paying  the increasing  premiums if they want  their pet to be covered. 
The offer doesnt  resolve the issue of ongoing  premium increases that make the policy  
unaffordable.
Businesses are entitled to decide  how much to charge for the insurance cover they provide, 
and I dont have  the power to tell a business  what its insurance should cost.  I would be, in 
effect, determining  or telling a business how it should operate   and thats not my role. So I 
cant say the cost of Mr and Mrs Ss policy is too high, they should have been charged less 
for the policy or that they should  be charged less in the future.
While Mr and Mrs Ss premium has seen  significant  increases, I havent seen any evidence  
to suggest RSA has treated them differently to how it would have treated any other 
policyholder in the same position.  So I cant tell RSA to charge  them  a lower  premium going 
forwards.
I understand this situation has caused  Mr and Mrs S a significant amount of distress as, due 
to their pets medical history, they cant find equivalent cover elsewhere.  And I recognise  the 
likely continuing increases in the premium in future years means they may not be able to 
afford to continue with the policy.
But the thing RSA did wrong was not give Mr and Mrs S the information  they needed to 
understand they could end up in the position  they now find themselves in. Where I find 
Ref: DRN88793062something has gone wrong,  Ill look at whats likely  to have happened if it hadnt, to see if a 
consumer has lost out.
Had Mr and Mrs S not taken out a policy that offered lifetime cover, theyre  likely  to have 
been in a position where they had either  no insurance, or a policy  that offered less cover. 
Leaving them in a position where  their pets medical  conditions werent  covered. 
I think its unlikely better  information  about  the possible future costs of the policy  would have 
resulted in Mr and Mrs S having cover for ongoing  conditions at a fixed or capped  premium  
this type of policy typically didnt exist. So it wouldnt be fair for me to put them  in this 
position. 
The compensation RSA has offered recognises  that better information about  the longer-term 
costs of the policy could have avoided  some of the upset and distress  Mr and Mrs S have 
experienced. It is a significant award  and I think it fairly compensates  Mr and Mrs S for the 
trouble and upset  theyve  been caused.
my final decision
I think Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plcs  offer to pay Mr and Mrs S £500 compensation is 
fair and reasonable. I dont require it to do anything further.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 March  2020.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8879306