K820x#14complaint
Mr H complained because  Santander  UK Plc wouldnt refund him for cash  machine 
withdrawals, totalling  £2,000, which he said he didnt  authorise.
background 
Mr H rented a flat from September 2013 to August 2016. In August 2016  Mr H went  to prison 
for just over a year. He said that he left behind  his bank cards, and an address book in which 
hed written down  his PINs. The only account he had money in was the Santander  one. Mr H 
said that when  hed moved into his flat, hed seen that the previous tenants  belongings had 
been put in bin bags  and left outside  the flat. So he believed that the same  would have  
happened to his belongings too, when he left in August 2016.  
On 23 February 2017, a payment for £2,000 was credited to Mr Hs Santander  bank 
account. 
On 26 February, the banks automated  system recorded that a balance  check  was made  at a 
cash machine. The person  doing  this used the card, and Mr Hs PIN, in order to access this 
information. 
Between 2 March and 19 March, ten cash machine  withdrawals were  made,  each for £200.  
These all used Mr Hs card, and his correct PIN. 
On 25 September  2017, Mr H complained  to Santander. He provided  proof  that hed been in 
prison, and said that he hadnt authorised the £2,000 withdrawals.  
Santanders fraud department investigated. It didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. Santander said 
that it didnt accept that someone would have  taken Mr Hs card and waited six months 
before trying  to use the card. And it said it was highly unlikely that a fraudster whod carried 
out the balance enquiry wouldnt then have gone on to take out the maximum amount 
straightaway. But Santander accepted that, when it asked Mr H if hed contacted the police 
about possible CCTV, hed travelled  twelve miles to visit the police station to ask about  
CCTV. Santander paid Mr H a goodwill payment  of £75 in recognition that hed incurred 
costs trying to resolve the matter. 
Mr H wasnt satisfied and complained to this service.  
The investigator didnt  uphold Mr Hs complaint.  She said there were three possible ways the 
transactions could  have  happened: 
-As Mr H had been in prison, it was clear  he hadnt  made  the disputed transactions  
himself.
Ref: DRN86299842-If an unauthorised third party had made the transactions,  theyd have had to have 
had Mr Hs card and known his PIN. If someone  had gone  through the rubbish when 
Mr H had left his flat, they could have obtained those. But Mr H had also said an 
unauthorised person  could have monitored  the post, and seen a letter  saying £2,000 
was going to be credited. The investigator  thought this was unlikely, because itd 
have meant that an unauthorised third party had monitored the account for over six 
months in the hope of more money  crediting the account.
-So the investigator concluded  that it was most likely that Mr H had given his card to a 
third party  and told them his PIN, and told them when the £2,000 credit was due.
Mr H didnt accept this. He said that as his belongings had been left in the front garden, any 
future rubbish would have been put in the same place, and someone could have seen a 
bank statement poking out of a box. Theyd then come back  and look again.  It had been  
beyond Mr Hs control as hed been  in prison.  And he said that hed got in touch with the 
local police, and asked  about CCTV  which he wouldnt have done if hed had anything to 
hide. He believed  the investigator  should have looked at the fact that hed asked the police 
for CCTV.  
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
The relevant  regulations  for disputed transactions at the time of Mr Hs dispute are the 
Payment Services Regulations 2009.  Generally speaking, these say that a consumer is 
liable for authorised transactions, and the bank  for unauthorised transactions. Authorised 
transactions dont  necessarily have to have been  done by the consumer in person, but are 
about whether  theyve  given consent  to the payment.
Mr H was in prison at the time of the March 2017 disputed  transactions.  So its clear he 
didnt carry out the withdrawals at the cash machine in person. This leaves  two options: an 
unauthorised third party, or someone  Mr H authorised by giving them  the card and PIN. Ive 
considered which of these is more likely to have  happened.
Mr H has told us that he believes  his belongings would  have  been  put in rubbish bags by the 
landlord, and left outside his former  flat, where  someone could  have got the card and PIN in 
August 2016.  And he believes the third party could then have gone back  in February 2017, 
and could have  found a letter to Mr H which said that £2,000  was going to be paid in.
I cant say for sure what  happened to anything Mr H left in his former flat in August 2016. But 
if, as he says, someone stole his Santander card and PIN, its very surprising that theyd 
have waited, and regularly monitored the property and its rubbish, till a letter  arrived  six 
months later with the news  that £2,000 was to be paid in to Mr Hs account. I dont consider 
a fraudster would have waited so long,  and regularly monitored the property and its rubbish 
till February 2017. Its just not a normal pattern of fraudster behaviour.   
Ive also looked  at the computerised  records of the ten disputed withdrawals. There  were no 
failed PIN attempts and all the transactions  went through with the correct  PIN. Thats  not 
surprising if a third party  had stolen Mr Hs PIN as he says. But what  is very unusual  is that 
any fraudster wouldnt take out everything that was in the account  as fast as possible. Its 
very unlikely  they would take out £200  at a time,  gradually over several weeks. This again  
just isnt a normal  pattern  of fraudster behaviour.
Ref: DRN86299843So I consider its most likely that what happened  was that Mr H authorised the transactions  
by giving someone access to his card and PIN, and letting them  know when the £2,000  
incoming payment was expected.
Ive gone on to look at Mr Hs argument  that if hed had anything to hide,  he wouldnt have 
gone to the police in autumn  2017 to ask whether  there  was any CCTV. The records  show  
that Santander initiated this by asking Mr H if hed been to the police to ask about CCTV. I 
understand Mr Hs argument, but I think it was always going to be unlikely that CCTV, even if 
present at the location, would have  been  available after such a long time. 
Ive also borne in mind  that Ive seen  no record to say that Mr H got in touch with Santander 
when he went to prison in August 2016,  to say that hed had to leave his card and PIN 
behind, so please would the bank cancel both and make  sure no withdrawals were  made.  
Under the Payment  Services Regulations,  consumers  have  responsibilities about the 
security of cards and PINs. That includes notifying the bank in situations like Mr Hs where 
hed lost control of his card which he left behind in August 2016.  It also includes taking 
reasonable steps to keep security information  like PINs safe. Mr H told our investigator that 
the PIN was disguised,  but in his address  book  under P for PIN. So even if an unauthorised 
third party did obtain Mr Hs card and PIN, it would be hard to say that Mr H had met the 
requirements of the regulations by not stopping the card and PIN in August 2016.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 February  2020.
Belinda Knight
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8629984