K820x#14Complaint
Mr W is unhappy as he feels Towergate  Underwriting Group  Limited werent clear in 
detailing the terms  and conditions of his property owners policy.
Background
In December 2018 a house Mr W owned  was accessed by the police  in reference to the 
tenant living at the property. The police  had damaged the front door when accessing the 
premises. So, Mr W contacted his insurer to make a claim for his loss.
Mr W was told his claim wasnt covered  because there was an exclusion that applied  to his 
policy  which noted loss or damage  as a result of confiscation, detention  or seizure wasnt  
something the insurer would pay for. Mr W felt this was unfair  and raised a complaint  about 
that insurer and its decline of the claim.
Mr W also raised a complaint about the information provided to him when he took out the 
policy. And that is the subject of this complaint. Mr W said the above exclusion had not been 
made clear to him when the policy  was sold. Or in the policy  documents sent to him following 
the sale.
The policy documents were sent to Mr W via email. And he has explained  this email included  
a link to access his policy documents.  But the link took him to several subsequent links.  And 
he needed to choose the relevant  insurer  from these  links,  as well as the type of policy,  to 
get to the correct policy wording. Mr W has explained when he did do this, he couldnt locate 
the above exclusion. And he felt needing  to follow a series of links wasnt  a reasonable way 
to make the terms and conditions of the policy clear.
In addition to this, Mr W highlighted  that when discussing  the sale of the policy  with 
Towergate, the advisor couldnt locate the exclusion either, and this advisor  had 
acknowledged this wasnt good enough.
Towergate responded to Mr Ws complaint. It said it was satisfied the policy wording had 
been made clear  to Mr W when he initially took out the policy,  as well as at renewal. But it 
acknowledged that its advisor being unable to find the policy terms when  asked was 
inconvenient. So, it offered Mr W a refund of £25  which it said was a customer  service  fee. 
Because Mr W remained unhappy with Towergates response,  he referred his complaint to 
this service for an independent review.
Our investigator didnt  think this complaint  should  be upheld. She thought the information 
Towergate had given when it sent Mr W the policy documentation  was clear. She noted the 
policy schedule detailed  the name  of the policy, and the insurer  of it. So, Mr W would have  
been able to find his documents using the links sent to him. Our investigator also thought  the 
£25 offered was fair and reasonable, to acknowledge  the inconvenience  caused to Mr W 
when the advisor  couldnt find the relevant wording in the policy.
Mr W disagreed.  He said that the fact the advisor was unable  to locate the wording 
illustrated the information was unclear. And he wanted this service  to listen to the call 
recording of that conversation.  Mr W also noted the name of the insurer  for his policy wasnt 
clear, nor was the type of policy he had.
As Mr W disagreed this complaint has been  referred to me to decide.
Ref: DRN89546152My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold this complaint.  Ive explained my reasons why below.
As above, Mr W feels the policy wording wasnt made clear to him when he purchased  his 
insurance policy. So, hes explained he didnt know the terms and conditions  of his cover   in 
relation to police  causing  damage when forcing  entry to his property.
Because Mr W has raised these concerns, I've needed to consider whether Towergate 
provided Mr W with access  to his policy documents, and whether they were clear in detailing 
the terms and conditions of the cover Mr W had purchased.
To do this, Ive reviewed  the information  Towergate  sent to Mr W when his policy renewed in 
June 2018. This is the relevant policy documents, as the claim that led Mr W to feel his 
policy wording wasnt explained  correctly was following the renewal of his policy. And at the 
renewal, Towergate  needed to ensure it provided Mr W with information  that was clear, fair 
and not misleading  so he could decide  whether he wanted to continue with the cover.
Looking at the information provided, I do think the terms and conditions were provided  to Mr 
W by Towergate  and were made sufficiently clear each year.  So, Im satisfied  Towergate  
acted fairly.  And Im not requiring Towergate  to take any further action in respect of this 
complaint.
Mr W was sent information relating to his policy in June 2018,  when his policy  renewed.  He 
was provided with a policy  schedule  as I would expect. This detailed the name of the 
insurer for his policy and noted that the policy  was a residential landlords policy. So, I think  
when Mr W received this document it was made clear what the name  of the policy was, and 
who was the insurer providing the cover.
The information Mr W received also said please  select the link below for your policy 
documents. When clicking on the link, Mr W was asked  to select his insurer, and the type of 
policy he had  residential. This brings  up Mr Ws policy documentation. 
I understand Mr W feels being provided with a link, and then needing to navigate  through the 
options provided was confusing. But Mr W was given  the name of his insurer,  and the type of 
policy he had. And in his renewal confirmation  email, the name  of the insurer  is also 
mentioned. So, I think  it would have been  clear which links Mr W needed to choose. It isnt 
unusual for a broker to provide details of a policy this way  and I dont think  it restricted  
Mr W from reading his documents.  So, Im satisfied Towergate acted fairly here.
The policy documentation detailed what was covered by his policy   such as damage  
caused by the emergency  services when it was entering a property, to prevent loss or 
damage. And there  were details of an exclusion  of cover for loss or damage caused  by the 
emergency services when seeking confiscation. So, I think  this fairly gave Mr W the 
information he would have needed  in respect  of these terms.
Ref: DRN89546153Mr W has also explained that he felt Towergate should have detailed  all the terms and 
conditions of the policy to him, rather than just sending the policy booklet. And anything that 
Towergate failed  to mention should then be covered  rather  than excluded.  Whilst I 
understand what Mr W is saying here,  I dont  agree.  It wouldnt be possible for Towergate to 
list all relevant terms, conditions and exclusions within a policy,  when a policyholder is 
choosing to take out cover. It would  only be expected to highlight any unusual or particularly 
onerous terms to Mr W. Because  the terms in relation  to emergency services cover  and 
confiscation werent  unusual, or onerous, I wouldnt have expected Towergate to highlight  
them. The policy booklet  is sufficient to provide the necessary information.   
Mr W has highlighted that he spoke to a representative from Towergate  on the phone.  
During this conversation,  the representative couldnt  find the relevant policy  exclusion  and 
agreed it wasnt good enough that they couldnt  find it at the time. I havent  listened to a 
recording of this telephone call  because there isnt one available. But I dont think  this 
makes a difference to my decision  on this case.
I say this because  there  is no dispute  that this representative couldnt  find details of the 
exclusion Mr W was asking about in the policy booklet, as they should have (the exclusion 
was in the booklet). Towergate has accepted this wasnt the level of service  Mr W should 
have received. And as a result  of this, it has compensated Mr W an amount of £25. 
As there is no dispute that there was a mistake  made, as above, Ive needed to think about  
whether the compensation offered to Mr W for this error is fair. And Im satisfied it is. By 
offering this compensation I think Towergate has fairly acknowledged the frustration Mr W 
would have felt because of content of this call. So, I dont require Towergate to do anything 
more.
My final decision
Towergate Underwriting  Group Limited  has already  made an offer of £25 to settle  this 
complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. So, Towergate  Underwriting 
Group Limited should pay this if it hasnt already done so. I dont require it to do anything 
further than this.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 July 2020.
Rachel Woods
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8954615