K820x#14complaint
Ms M is unhappy as she feels Dynamo  Cover Limited (Dynamo) mis-sold a roadside  
assistance policy to her.
background
Ms Ms car broke down whilst she was travelling on the motorway. So, she contacted her 
roadside assistance insurer for help. It attended the scene of the breakdown  and completed 
some repair work on Ms Ms vehicle so that she could  continue her journey. At this point 
Ms M said she was told her policy only provided her with cover for one call out a year. 
Ms M said she wasnt told this at the time she purchased  her policy.  So, she felt Dynamo,  
who she purchased  her policy through, had mis-sold the policy  to her. Ms M said if she had 
been aware the policy only provided for one call out per year, she wouldnt have taken the 
policy out.
Dynamo considered  Ms Ms concerns about  the sale of her policy.  And it concluded it hadnt 
done anything  wrong. It said Ms M had taken her policy out online, through  a well-known 
price comparison  website,  and that it had been made clear to her that the policy only 
provided for one call out. It said Ms M selected  this cover,  and she ticked  a box to confirm 
she had read the terms and conditions of the policy,  So, it said it hadnt mis-sold the policy  to 
her.
Ms M didnt agree. So she referred  her complaint  to this service  for an independent  review.  
Our investigator considered the complaint  and didnt think  it should be upheld. He said the 
fact the policy  provided for one call out only was made clear  during the online sales  process. 
So he didnt think Dynamo had mis-sold the policy.
Ms M didnt agree. She said she wasnt told when  she purchased  the policy that it would end 
once her car had been repaired. And that she wasnt given any clarity on what  might happen 
where a policyholder, who had already received  one call out, needed to claim again. Ms M 
also felt that a call out should include transport to take her to a safe destination. 
Because Ms M didnt agree this complaint has been  referred to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold this complaint.  Ive explained why below.
Ms M has said her roadside assistance  policy was mis-sold to her. Ive considered  whether  
this was the case. Im aware  Ms M took her policy out online, so she didnt seek  advice or a 
recommendation on what sort of policy would most suit her needs. Instead, the policy was 
taken out on a non-advised basis.
When a policy is taken  out on a non-advised basis a broker must ensure  information given 
about the policy is clear, fair and not mis-leading. So Ive thought  about  this when deciding if 
Ms Ms policy was mis-sold to her.
Ref: DRN83060182Ms M said she wasnt made aware  that her policy would only provide for one call out a year. 
But Ive had a look at the online sales process Ms M would have  followed.  And I can see that 
the price comparison  website provides a table, which clearly explains how many call outs 
each policy  would provide a year. In terms of the policy  Ms M has taken out, I can see this 
table explained  that the policy  provided for one call out a year. 
Dynamo has also provided me with a further  screenshot which shows a webpage  Ms M 
would have seen  when purchasing her policy. This describes the key details of the policy.  
And it highlights that the cover provided for one call out a year. 
Given the above, I think the number of call outs the policy provided cover  for was made clear 
to Ms M before she bought the policy. And I dont think the sale of the policy  was unfair  or 
mis-leading. So, I dont think the policy  was mis-sold  to her.
Ms M has said she wasnt told the policy would end once this call out was used, or informed 
of what she would need to do going  forward. But, I wouldnt  expect the Dynamo to do this 
when it sold the policy to Ms M. The policy explains  what it does cover. And it would be for 
Ms M to decide what she wanted to do once this cover was exhausted. 
my final decision
In light of the above, my final decision is that I dont  uphold  this complaint. So, I dont  require 
Dynamo Cover Limited to do anything more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 June  2019.
Rachel Woods
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8306018