K822xcomplaint
D, a limited company,  complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc sent correspondence to an 
incorrect address.
background
HSBC accepts that it wrongly  changed  the address  details for D following a call on 7 
September 2018. Two items of correspondence including a bank  statement for D were sent 
to that address. D contacted HSBC  on 27 September  2018 about the missing items and the 
address was changed back. HSBC has paid D £100 in compensation and given it £100 of 
shopping vouchers.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld and D paid a total of £300. D as 
a company had no use for the vouchers and he said that HSBC should  pay it the equivalent 
amount in cash. HSBC agreed to do this and pay the appropriate postage for the vouchers  
to be returned.
D did not agree. It said that compensation of £300 only covered the time spent on this matter  
and out of pocket  expenses. The director had four days  of stress and worry about possible 
identity fraud. It thinks HSBC could have  asked the recipient of the information to return  it 
rather than destroy the papers to give more  certainty.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry  to hear about this error which HSBC says arose out of a clerical  mistake by a 
member of staff. It says it has provided appropriate feedback and training.  I think  its taken 
appropriate action  to address the data breach.
I need to make clear  that this is a complaint  by D a separate legal entity to the directors.  I 
can only look in this complaint at the impact on D and a company cannot suffer  distress. I 
appreciate the concern about  the potential for identity fraud but there is no evidence of any 
financial loss. So I am dealing here with the inconvenience caused to D.
The recommended  total award  by our investigator  for this is £300. We dont often make 
specific awards for the time spent  in dealing with a complaint but look at the overall impact.  
Here I dont doubt that D was inconvenienced  and the director had to spend time on its 
behalf following  this up with HSBC. I accept that to a company shopping vouchers may be of 
limited use. It seems HSBC cant simply  cancel these and they have to be returned.  This will 
be added  inconvenience  to have to return these  to receive an equivalent amount of 
compensation. And these will need  to be sent special delivery. I am going to recognise this 
including the postage  costs with additional  compensation of £25.
Ref: DRN82555072my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and require HSBC  UK Bank  Plc to pay D a further 
£225 - making  a total of £325 - on the basis that it returns  the £100 vouchers as agreed. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 June 2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8255507