K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that RCI Financial Services Limited  (RCI) took too long to provide him with 
a settlement figure  for his car finance. He also says they didnt respond to a subsequent 
complaint he made to them  about  that issue.
background
I issued my provisional decision in January 2019.  In it I said that unless I received further 
information that changed my view, I was intending to uphold  Mr Hs complaint. An extract 
from that provisional decision is set out below:
background
Mr H had a hire purchase agreement with RCI that hed used to fund his car. He needed a 
settlement figure because  he was ordering a new vehicle. He says he called on their 
automated telephone line on 10 March  and again on 15 March 2018  but the statement didnt 
arrive. Eventually he contacted customer  service on 19 March via email.  He asked for a call 
back but received  an email response  to explain the settlement figure  had been posted  first 
class. He eventually  received the settlement figure  on 21 March which he says was 11 days 
after he asked for it and meant that the collection of his new car was delayed by six days. He 
says this caused him significant inconvenience.
RCI say they didnt receive  a complaint from Mr H and this explained why they hadnt 
responded. They said they did receive his email  request to provide a settlement figure  but as 
the email address, the request was sent from, wasnt the same  as the email they had on file 
for Mr H, they sent a reply by first class post instead  of by email.  They  checked their phone 
records but said they had nothing on file since 2015  so they didnt  agree  that Mr H had 
called them at all. They explained that calls were automatically logged but it could be that 
Mr H terminated his calls before he reached an advisor. RCI explained that customers  were  
able to request  a settlement via their interactive voice system phone  line; via email; on the 
web portal; though  a manufacturers dealership or via a customer service  agent and they 
said had Mr H called them they would have been  able to resolve  the issue  more swiftly.
But Mr H was still disappointed and he referred his complaint  to this service. Our investigator 
didnt think there was evidence to suggest  RCI had done anything wrong. She wasnt 
persuaded that RCI had been contacted and she wasnt  persuaded that theyd had a letter of 
complaint from Mr H that they should  have responded  to. She also noted that whilst it was 
clear Mr Hs collection of his car had been delayed by six days, hed not demonstrated hed 
been financially  disadvantaged so she didnt think RCI needed to take any further  action.
But Mr H was still dissatisfied. He said that the call records hed supplied clearly  showed he 
had called RCI on the dates in question  and that their automated  telephone system  was 
therefore flawed.  He said he had emailed RCI with his complaint on 16 April and he attached  
the email. He said the delays were RCIs fault and he should therefore  be compensated and 
he asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Ref: DRN85963332I dont currently agree with the investigators view of this complaint. 
Im persuaded that Mr H did try to get a settlement figure and that he did complain to RCI 
about their failure  to comply. Please let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
RCI say they didnt receive  any calls or a letter of complaint and theyve provided their call 
logs for us to review  that dont show a record of the calls Mr H says he made.
But Mr H has provided his call records and its clear  he made  calls to RCI on both 10 March 
and 15 March as he has suggested. On 10 March  he spent 5 minutes 33 seconds on the call 
and on 15 March he spent  a further 3 minutes and 17 seconds  on the call. Ive checked the 
number he used and its correct and its also clear his call was answered as a time is 
recorded on his phone  log. 
When I called the number, Mr H did, its clear that to spend that amount of time on the call I 
would have had to enter my agreement number at the very least. This was requested within 
the first minute, so it would seem reasonable to suggest Mr H progressed his automated  call 
and a record should be available  but it isnt. I dont think  thats Mr Hs fault and I think its 
likely, given the fact he called the right number and spent so much time on the line, that he 
thought he had requested a settlement.
I note that RCI have confirmed that it is possible for customers to order  a settlement via their 
automated phone service  and I think its likely  Mr H therefore thought  he had. It appears a 
similar situation occurred on 15 March. I can see that Mr H spent more time on the call then 
but I can also see he tried three  times. Its clear that Mr H was keen to get a settlement 
figure and was actively pursuing  one. If hed been  concerned he hadnt made a request I 
think he would have  taken  further  action such as emailing the business. I say that because  
he did just that, a few days  later when it was clear the statement hadnt been  sent.
So I am persuaded that its most likely  Mr H did make a call and get through  to a point  where 
he at least thought he had ordered  the necessary settlement. And its clear  RCI didnt  
respond to this request.
Im also persuaded  that its most likely  Mr H sent a complaint to RCI. Ive seen the email; 
checked the email  address and date and these seem correct.
Mr H has been inconvenienced by RCIs failings. He had to wait longer than he wanted to for 
his new car and for the resolution of this issue. Ive not seen any evidence of financial loss to 
Mr H. But its fair that RCI compensate him for the poor service  he received and the 
subsequent distress and inconvenience caused. I think in the circumstances  a payment of 
£150 is reasonable.
Ref: DRN85963333my provisional decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  Im intending to uphold this complaint and to ask RCI 
Financial Services Limited  to pay Mr H £150 to compensate him for the poor service and 
subsequent distress and inconvenience hes been  put to.
my findings
Mr H accepted my decision but RCI didnt.  They  explained that the call logs identified  that 
Mr H had called them but they said this didnt  mean  the calls had been answered. They 
explained that when Mr H first called them on 10 March, the average  waiting time before a 
call to be answered was 5 minutes  and 31 seconds  and that when he called on 15 March  the 
average waiting  time was 4 minutes and 43 seconds. They said they no longer had 
information on their system  to show whether  the calls were answered  or not. And they added 
that my view had been formed  on a balance of probability that Mr H at least thought hed 
requested the information but they said this was an assumption and it was just as probable 
he hadnt selected the right option  to have his settlement sent to him. And they went on to 
suggest there was no proof hed experienced any financial loss.
Ive thought about what RCI have  said and have considered all of the information in this 
complaint again  but Ive not been  persuaded to change my provisional decision.  
I can understand that the call waiting time may have  been  broadly in line with the amount of 
time Mr H spent  on the phone and I now understand that this may not necessarily have  
meant Mr Hs call was answered. But this was an automated  phone  service and I dont think  
Mr H needed to wait for his call to be answered. RCI have suggested he may have simply 
chosen the wrong option: so it doesnt  seem like Mr H would have  needed to wait to talk to 
an agent and Im not persuaded hed have to have  waited at all if it was simply a matter  of 
selecting an option.
But even if Im wrong and this wasnt an automated  line, and Mr H did have to wait for it to 
be answered, Im persuaded that its more likely  he did get through  and request a settlement. 
I say that because if he hadnt  made a settlement request  I think it likely he would have  
taken further action that day; such as emailing  the business. And Im supported in this view 
because, when it became clear a settlement figure hadnt arrived,  he did email the business: 
three days later. 
Mr H has been inconvenienced by RCIs actions. I accepted, in my provisional decision,  that 
there was no evidence of financial  loss but he has experienced poor customer  service and 
Im therefore  suggesting RCI compensate him for that.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell RCI Financial Services  
Limited to pay Mr H £150 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience caused by 
the poor customer service  he received. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2019.
Ref: DRN85963334Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8596333