K821x#15complaint
Mrs T has complained about the delays that arose  when she sought  advice  from JKFS  (UK) 
Ltd about transferring her existing pension  provisions  to a new Personal Pension Plan (PPP) 
arrangement.
Mrs T considers that she has lost out as a result of the delays  caused  by JKFS (UK) Ltd and 
is seeking compensation for her losses.
Mrs T is also unhappy that JKFS (UK) Ltd no longer  wants  to act as her adviser.
background
In October  2016 Mrs T met the business to discuss the possible transfer  of two sets of 
deferred pension  benefits that she had with two former employers - employer N and 
employer C.
The transfer from the scheme  with employer N was processed in a timely  fashion and Mrs T 
has no concerns about the advice that she received  in respect  of that transfer.
Mrs T is however complaining about  the delay in receiving the advice about a possible 
transfer from employer  Cs pension scheme. 
Employer Cs pension  scheme was a final salary scheme that was significantly underfunded.  
On 7 October 2016 it had provided Mrs T with a transfer value figure  of over £146,000. It had 
however set out that the full transfer value  of the benefits in the scheme would normally be 
worth about  £212,000. There was a reduction in the transfer value on offer of over 30% due 
to the scheme  being underfunded.
The reduced transfer value was guaranteed  for a period of three months and the guarantee 
would expire on 7 January 2017.
 
The business met Mrs T on 17 October 2016.
Before being able to make  a recommendation to Mrs T the business had to refer the 
proposed transfer  to a Pension  Transfer Specialist (PTS). This was so that a Transfer Value 
Analysis (TVAS) report could be produced. This would assess  whether the advice should be 
to transfer or not. These are generally  complex calculations and may require the experts 
involved getting additional information  from the Occupational Pension Scheme (OPS) 
administrator. There was no certainty that the calculations would show that the transfer 
should go ahead. 
A draft of the TVAS  report was only produced on 14 December 2016. The recommendation 
from the PTS was that the transfer  should not go ahead as the amount offered by the OPS 
was too low. The final version  of the report was produced on 29 December 2016.
Mrs T received this advice  on 29 December  2016 and was told that if she still wanted to 
transfer against the companys advice  this decision would need to be set out in a letter to the 
business. She wrote to the business  on the same  day and this letter was received by it on 4 
January 2017.
Ref: DRN84811122Having received the statement from Mrs T the business then put together all of the papers 
required for the OPS  administrator.
However by the time that the OPS administrator received the signed papers the guaranteed 
transfer value  had expired. 
When Mrs T received an updated  transfer value some months later the amount being offered 
had fallen by about £13,000. This was because the pension scheme had revised the basis  to 
be used when determining transfer  values.
Mrs T then complained to the business  about  the delays. She believed that if the advice had 
been provided faster she would have been  able to receive the higher transfer value.
The business rejected the complaint and it was then referred to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service where it was looked at by an adjudicator. The adjudicator felt that the transfer  could 
have been completed faster and upheld  the complaint proposing a method of determining  
redress.
The business did not agree with the adjudicator and asked for the complaint to be referred  to 
an ombudsman. It explained  that it had given  the advice that it had been  employed to give to 
Mrs T, and that had been not to transfer.
The business stated  that it had not expected Mrs T to reject  its advice and when  she did it 
was concerned to ensure that it had done  everything  that the regulator would require. It did 
not want to face a claim for mis-selling at a time in the future. It was the first time that it had 
provided advice  on a pension transfer that was then rejected by the individual.
It also stated that it was unfortunate that their adviser had been away  on annual  leave and 
that Mrs T had also been away  on a holiday  in the crucial period.
The adjudicator looked at the submissions that had been made and concluded that the 
complaint should  still be upheld.
The business rejected the findings of the adjudicator and asked  for the complaint to be 
looked at by an ombudsman.
In my provisional decision dated  29 November 2019  I reached  a different conclusion to that 
of the adjudicator. I have attached a copy of this document to this, my final decision.
The business accepted the provisional  decision.  Mrs T did not and in an email  dated          
10 December 2019 she set out the reasons why she disagreed with the conclusion that I had 
reached.
She stated  that she was not surprised that the discussions  that she had with the business 
about the TVAS  report concluded that she should not transfer. She decided  that despite  this 
she was going  to transfer because she was financially secure  and that she felt that the 
pension held greater  value to her as a lump sum rather  than a monthly pension payable for 
life. She states  that she was not financially dependent  on the pension.
In response the points  that Mrs T made on the provisional decision the business  has noted 
that the complaint from Mrs T had changed  from there were  unreasonable delays in handling 
Ref: DRN84811123Mrs Ts requests to lack of working to instruction or, the delays created by the business 
caused a failure  to transfer.
The business states that it was engaged  by Mrs T to give advice. They were not engaged to 
facilitate the transfer  under all circumstances. There was no timetable agreed to provide the 
advice requested.
The business received clarification from the PTS on 10 January 2017 and notified Mrs T of 
this on the same day. The business  believed that it had followed the required processes and 
these had to be completed before the transfer  could take place. 
Finally the business  noted that as the transfer had still not taken place and no loss had yet 
arisen. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The transfer value  that was offered to Mrs T was produced on 7 October 2016 and was 
guaranteed for three months so it would  expire on 7 January 2017. After this date it would 
not be known  whether  the transfer  value on offer would  increase or decrease.
Before a business can advise on pension transfer  it is required under the Regulators  
Handbook to ensure  that the transaction is reviewed by a pension specialist. It is also 
required by the regulator in COBS  19.1.1C  to:
(2) Before making  the personal  recommendation the firm must: 
(a) determine the proposed arrangement with flexible  benefits to which the retail 
client would move; and
(b) carry out the appropriate pension transfer analysis  and produce the transfer value 
comparator7.
I note that transfer  value  analysis and the recommendation not to transfer was sent to Mrs T 
on 29 December 2016. The reason  for this recommendation was that the reduced transfer 
payable of £146,000 would need to achieve  a return of 18% just to match the value of the 
benefits that were  being given up. This was so high that it would have been expected  that, 
on retirement, after transferring Mrs T would  have been significantly worse  off. 
I have seen no evidence  that Mrs T was in ill-health or that she has a significantly reduced 
life expectancy that would impact on the value of the benefits payable  from the OPS. 
Mrs T was told at that point that if she wished to transfer against the businesss advice  that 
this would need to be confirmed in writing. This letter was received by the business  on 
Wednesday 4 January  2017. In my opinion  there  was insufficient time at that point to get all 
the required forms completed and sent to the OPS administrator by Friday 6 January 2017  to 
meet the deadline, which was on Saturday 7 January 2017.
Ref: DRN84811124I consider the business followed the regulators rules in getting the TVAS. It took some time 
to obtain, but that is not unusual. I also consider  the business acted reasonably  in asking 
Mrs T to clarify that she wanted to go ahead, despite  its advice. The business did not get 
that clarification until two days before the deadline.  As I have concluded  this was insufficient 
time to arrange the transfer,  it follows that I dont consider  the business  was at fault and so I 
dont uphold Mrs Ts complaint. 
Finally I note that Mrs T is unhappy that the business does not want  to carry on acting as her 
adviser. The Financial  Ombudsman  Service cannot require that a client-business  
relationship continues where  there  has been a breakdown of the relationship between the 
parties. I therefore cannot uphold this part of the complaint.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint against  JKFS (UK) Ltd and I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 February  2020.
Adrian Hudson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN84811125Copy of Provisional Decision dated  29 November 2019
complaint
Mrs T has complained about  the delays that arose when she sought advice from JKFS (UK) Ltd about  
transferring her existing pension provisions  to a new Personal Pension Plan (PPP)  arrangement.
Mrs T considers that she has lost out as a result of the delays caused  by JKFS (UK) Ltd and is 
seeking compensation for her losses.
background
In October 2016 Mrs T met the business to discuss the possible transfer of two sets of deferred 
pension benefits  that she had with former employers  - employer N and employer C.
The transfer  from the scheme with employer  N was processed in a timely fashion and Mrs T has no 
concerns about the advice that she received  in respect of that transfer.
Mrs T is however complaining about  the delay in receiving the advice about  a possible transfer from 
employer Cs pension scheme. 
Employer Cs pension scheme  was a final salary occupational pension  scheme (OPS)  that was 
significantly underfunded. 
On 7 October 2016 the OPS  had provided Mrs T with a transfer  value figure of over £146,000. It had 
however set out that the value of the benefits in the scheme would  normally be worth about  £212,000. 
There was a reduction in the transfer value on offer of over 30% due to the underfunding.
The reduced  transfer  value  was guaranteed for a period  of three months and would expire on 7 
January 2017.
On 17 October 2016 Mrs T met the business.
Before being able to make  any recommendation  to Mrs T the business had to refer the proposed  
transfer to a Pension Transfer Specialist (PTS). This was so that a Transfer  Value Analysis (TVAS)  
report could be produced.  This would  assess whether the advice  should be to transfer or not. These 
are complex  calculations and may require the experts involved getting additional information  from the 
OPS administrator.
A draft of the TVAS report was only produced  on 14 December 2016. The recommendation from the 
PTS was that the transfer  should not go ahead as the amount offered  by the OPS  was too low. The 
final version of the report was produced on 29 December  2016.
Mrs T received a copy of the final report on 29 December 2016 and was told that if she still wanted to 
transfer against the companys  advice that this would  need to be set out by her in a letter to the 
business. She wrote  to the business on the same  day and this was received by it on Wednesday  4 
January 2017. The forms would all have had to be with the OPS administrator  on the Friday  6 
January 2017 to meet  the deadline of 7 January 2017.
Having received  the statement from Mrs T the business then put together all of the papers required 
for the OPS  administrator.
However, by the time that the OPS administrator had received the signed papers the guaranteed 
transfer value had expired.  
Ref: DRN84811126When Mrs T received  an updated transfer value some  months  later the amount being offered  had 
fallen by about £13,000. There was a delay in producing the new transfer value because  the pension 
scheme was revising the basis to be used when determining transfer values.
Mrs T then complained to the business about  the delays that had arisen  in providing her with the 
advice that she required  under the legislation  so that the transfer could  go ahead. She believed that 
had the advice been provided faster she would have been able to receive the higher transfer  value. 
(Even if the advice from the business was do not transfer).
The business  rejected the complaint and Mrs T then referred  it to the Financial Ombudsman  Service 
where it was looked at by an investigator. The investigator felt that the transfer could have been 
completed faster and upheld the complaint proposing  a method of determining redress.
The business  did not agree  with the investigator and asked that the complaint be referred to an 
ombudsman. It explained that it had given  the advice that it had been employed  to give to Mrs T and 
that had been do not transfer.
The business  stated that it had not expected  Mrs T to reject  its advice  and when  she did it was 
concerned to ensure  that it had done everything that the regulator would require.  It did not want  to 
face a claim  for mis-selling  at any time in the future particularly given the reduced transfer value 
currently being offered. It has explained that it was the first time that it had provided advice  on a 
pension transfer that was then rejected by the individual.
It also stated  it was unfortunate their adviser  had been away on annual leave and that Mrs T had also 
been away on a holiday  in the crucial period.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint and having done so I am minded to reach a different conclusion to 
that of the investigator.   
It is clear that the transfer  value that was offered to Mrs T was produced on 7 October 2016 and was 
guaranteed for three months so it would  expire on 7 January 2017.  For the transfer value quoted to be 
accepted all of the required  paperwork and disclaimers would have to be with the OPS administrator  
by 7 January 2017. If all the papers were not with the administrator  by this date the transfer value 
would need to be recalculated and it could  not be known whether the new transfer value offered  
would increase or decrease.
It is important to realise that when advising on a pension transfer  the business  is required to follow the 
rules that are set down in the regulators handbook. COBS 19.1 deals with Pension Transfers, 
Conversions and opt-outs.
This sets out that:
(1) 7A firm must make  a personal recommendation  when it provides advice on conversion  or 
transfer of pension  benefits .
(2) Before  making  the personal recommendation  the firm must: 
(a) determine the proposed  arrangement with flexible  benefits to which the retail client 
would move; and
Ref: DRN84811127(b) carry out the appropriate  pension transfer analysis and produce the transfer value 
comparator7.
(3) The requirement in (2)(b) does  not apply  if the only safeguarded benefit involved is a 
guaranteed annuity rate7.
(4) The firm must take reasonable steps to ensure that the retail client understands how the 
key outcomes from the appropriate pension transfer analysis and the transfer value 
comparator contribute  towards  the personal recommendation.
It is also important  to note that COBS 19.1.6 states:
When advising a retail  client  who is, or is eligible  to be, a member of a defined benefits  
occupational pension scheme or other scheme with safeguarded benefits  5whether  to 
transfer, convert 5 or opt-out, a firm should start by assuming that a transfer, conversion 5 or 
opt-out will not be suitable.  A firm should only then consider a transfer, conversion 5 or opt-
out to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on contemporary  evidence,  that the transfer,  
conversion or opt-out is in the clients  best interests
So the presumption  from the start is that the advice  should  be not to transfer. 
In this case the draft report that was received from the PTS on 14 December 2016 was that the 
transfer value was too low and that the advice was not to transfer. If Mrs T transferred it was apparent 
that she was immediately losing £70,000 which  was the difference between  the value of the benefits 
and the transfer value offered.
The final version of the report was produced on Thursday 29 December 2016. Mrs T was told that if 
she still wished to transfer  then the instruction had to be set out in writing.
Mrs T did write to the business the same day to confirm that she had received their advice but that 
she was going to ignore  it and that she wished to transfer out of the OPS on an insistent customer  
basis. For the transfer to go ahead at the quoted value all of the papers  and application forms had to 
be with the pension administrator before Saturday  7 January 2017. 
I note that this letter  was received by the business on Wednesday 4 January 2017.The  business then 
referred the case back to its pension expert as it was concerned that if it facilitated a pension transfer 
on an insistent customer basis it could be penalised  later and could be held liable for the £70,000 
reduction if Mrs T complained in the future.
In my opinion  this was not an unreasonable  step for it to take as the decision to transfer (giving up 
£70,000) to invest in property appeared to be financially  imprudent. The firm would have realised  that 
Mrs T was losing at least £70,000 by transferring (as this was the reduction being applied to the 
normal full transfer value). 
It is of course possible that the future loss could have been  even greater if the normal full transfer 
value was not generous. The business would have been aware that if it facilitated Mrs Ts transfer on 
an insistent  customer basis this might well have been considered not to be in her best interests and 
that she could complain in the future to the Financial  Ombudsman Service. It has confirmed that this 
was the first time that someone was going to ignore its advice.
Ref: DRN84811128The adviser  was keen to help Mrs T but wanted to ensure that it could  not be held liable  for a mis-sale 
in the future.
In my opinion  it was not unreasonable for the business to verify what  steps it had to follow  from the 
PTS. It was aware that Mrs T was giving up benefits worth £210,000 for a transfer value that was 
£140,000. So that by transferring out she was suffering an immediate loss of some £70,000.  The 
advice that it was giving not to transfer did therefore appear to be appropriate.  It might be that in 
future a full transfer could be payable if the funding in the OPS  had improved.
Mrs T appears at the time, and now, willing to give up her valuable benefits in the OPS for a 
significantly lower amount  than they are actually  worth. The regulations require that the business 
provide suitable advice to Mrs T even if she is going to ignore  their advice.  The regulations set out 
above state  that the starting position in a normal transfer is not to transfer. In this case  the advice  was 
even more  appropriate as there was a huge reduction in the normal  transfer payable  because of the 
underfunding position in the OPS.
If the business  had not taken the steps that it did to explain why its advice had been not to transfer 
there was a danger Mrs T might have  transferred  without  knowing the full facts  and the business 
would be putting itself at risk of having a complaint against it upheld at a later date. 
I appreciate that after the original transfer value  expired the new transfer value quoted was some 
£13,000 lower. However, I have to consider  the position of the business. It had obtained  the required 
report from a PTS that clearly stated that their recommendation  was that this transfer should  not go 
ahead.
If Mrs Ts transfer value  report had been produced  faster,  by the expert, the transfer might have been 
completed before  the guarantee  period  had expired. However, in my experience, a period  of three 
months to get a TVAS  report produced  is not generous.  Many such reports do take longer than three  
months to produce.  Added to that, I do not think it was unreasonable  for the business  to take some 
time, after Mrs T had said she wanted to proceed despite the businesss  advice, for it to further 
explain its position and clarify her instructions.  
If Mrs T still wants to transfer out on an insistent customer basis, but the business no longer wants  to 
arrange it, then she will need to find a new adviser  willing to arrange the transfer (possibly)  on an 
insistent client basis.  
 
I am minded  to conclude that the business is not liable for the reduction in the transfer value quoted 
by the scheme and I am therefore minded to make no award.
my provisional  decision
I am minded  to reject this complaint and to make no award.
Adrian Hudson
Ombudsman
 
Ref: DRN8481112