K821x#15complaint
Mr Gs complaint is that London Stone  Securities  Limited (London Stone) misrepresented 
an Enterprise Investment  Scheme (EIS) investment that it promoted  to and arranged for 
him in 2014.
background
Mr G invested in the EIS  named,  Oxford Renewable Fuel Limited (ORFL)  in March 
2014. He acquired  25,000 £1 shares  in ORFL  and in addition to paying  £25,000  for them  he 
also paid, separately,  £500 in commission. He says: 
He learnt, from a fraud court case in 2018 (which  featured  ORFL) that London Stone 
had received around 50% in commission (on his investment) from ORFL  which  had 
not previously been disclosed to him.
This ought to have  been disclosed in the course of London Stones promotion and 
arrangement of his investment, and ahead  of his investment  in ORFL.
He would not have invested in ORFL if such disclosure had taken place.
There is a court compensation order in which he was given a maximum award of 
£7,617.41 (out of the £25,000 he invested) and, to date, he has received £6,886.55  
from the award. The compensation is from liquidation of ORFLs available assets,  he 
is not certain that any additional payments will be received but if they are he does not 
expect them to exceed the maximum award  level. [Evidence of the payments 
received from the award was shared with this service.]
As a result  of his ORFL  investment he achieved income tax relief of £2,847.40 for the 
2012/2013 tax year and tax relief of £2,783.75  for the 2013/2014  tax year. [Evidence 
of this was also shared  with this service as was an email from HMRC which said the 
tax relief will not be reclaimed from Mr G, on the basis that his 2014 EIS investment 
failed in the 2018/2019 tax year, beyond the relevant three  years  termination date.]
His complaint seeks to recover his £25,000  investment minus the total of what he has 
received from the compensation order and the tax relief he achieved.  He wishes to 
be returned to his pre-investment  position.
Initially, London Stones position  was that:
Mr G invested in ORFL on an execution only basis and it did not provide investment 
advice in this respect.
The investment  was unregulated and was not arranged  through  London Stone, so 
this service does not have jurisdiction to consider  the complaint. [Reference was 
made to the investment being arranged by a separate and unregulated firm  London 
Stone Green Limited  to whom Mr Gs commission payment  cheque was made  out.]
An ombudsman issued  a decision  on our jurisdiction to consider the complaint and, in the 
main, said:
We have jurisdiction  to consider complaints  about regulated  activities, and arranging 
deals in investments  is a regulated activity.  Arrangement of Mr Gs ORFL investment 
is what he has complained about  so he has complained  about  a regulated activity.
The letter (from  February  2014) sent to Mr G in promotion of the ORFL investment 
was sent by London Stone on its headed  paper; it referred  to London Stones inability 
to give advice on the investment; the letter also refers to London  Stone Green 
Limited as facilitating the investment; but the email that Mr G subsequently received  
Ref: DRN88857102(in March  2014) with regards to payments for the investment  was from London  
Stone; the email  instructed  him to make  two cheque payments (the £25,000 
investment payment, made out to ORFL, and the £500 commission payment made  
out to London Stone Green Limited) and to send both cheques  to London Stone; 
overall evidence  supports  the conclusion that London Stone was the firm involved in 
the regulated  activity  or arranging Mr Gs ORFL investment, so this service has 
jurisdiction to consider  his complaint.
London Stone maintained that its role had been  confused with that of London Stone Green  
Limited. In terms of the merits of the complaint  it mainly said: 
Neither firm advised Mr G so neither firm has responsibility for suitability of his 
investment; nevertheless,  it has presented  a detailed  case  to assert that the ORFL  
investment was suitable for him in the context of his tax benefit objective  and of a tax 
matter he sought to address at the time;  it has also presented  a case  to assert  that 
promotion of the ORFL investment was appropriate for Mr G.
Neither firm received the commission from ORFL that has been alleged.  If London 
Stone Green Limited received such commission that would have been disclosed to     
Mr G at the time. [This  service subsequently  shared, with London Stone, police 
evidence which showed that the relevant  commission was paid by ORFL to London 
Stone Green Limited, London  Stone  thereafter  accepted that such  commission  
appears to have been received.] 
Based  on Mr Gs investor profile,  the tax matter he sought to address and the 
potential tax benefits from an EIS investment, he would  have invested  in ORFL 
regardless of any commission paid by ORFL  to London Stone Green Limited.
The compensation Mr G seeks, and the notion of returning him to a pre-investment  
position, does  not take into account  the potential for the court proceedings to remit 
further refunds  of capital to him; it, unfairly,  does  not include deductions for the 
benefits of potential Capital Gain Tax (CGT) relief  and additional income tax relief  
he could still claim (against future gains he might generate) on the basis  of his loss in 
the ORFL investment; and it treats the matter as one in which the investment was for 
gains, it was not, it was mainly for the potential tax benefits.
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint,  concluded that it should be upheld and 
agreed with the redress sought by Mr G. She noted evidence of the commission  payment 
that was received from ORFL (amounting to around  45% of Mr Gs investment) and the 
absence of evidence  that this commission arrangement  was disclosed to him prior to his 
investment. She also considered that commission at this rate significantly reduced  the 
amount of his capital  that was invested, so this factor  would more  likely (than  not) have 
influenced his decision had the arrangement been  disclosed to him. 
The investigator accepted that Mr G would probably have continued with an EIS investment 
or a similar tax benefits related investment, but said he is unlikely to have done so with 
ORFL specifically (given the commission arrangement).  She also accepted  that redress 
should not cater for the notion  of gains, given the nature of such investments and the level of 
risk associated with them.  However, she considered that he should be returned to a pre-
investment position  (whereby  the court award  and tax relief  he has received are offset 
against his invested capital and £500 commission payment, and the balance  is paid to him). 
To address any potential  for future recovery  by Mr G and from the liquidation  of ORFL  of 
other parts of his capital the investigator proposed that the parties can agree to assign  his 
investment to London Stone; or, if that is not possible, London Stone can request an 
Ref: DRN88857103undertaking from Mr G to pass on to it any such future recovery.  Mr G agreed with the 
investigators findings and redress proposals  including the idea of providing the 
undertaking she mentioned. London Stone asked for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have reached the same 
conclusions expressed  by the investigator for broadly similar reasons.
Like the previous  ombudsman,  I consider  that there  is sufficient evidence  to establish 
London Stones  role in promoting the ORFL  investment to Mr G and its role in arranging  the 
investment for him. London Stone  and London Stone Green Limited  appear  to have shared 
the same  director and premises. I do not suggest  they were  the same  legal entity,  but 
despite any specific role the latter played in the matter there  is sufficient evidence  to suggest 
it was minimal and to show  that promotion  and arrangement of the investment mainly 
featured the former (that is, London  Stone).
As the investigator  said, there is evidence of the 45% (roughly)  commission that was paid 
from Mr Gs investment and there  is a lack of evidence to support London Stones claim that 
this would have  been disclosed to him prior to the investment.  I have not seen evidence of 
such disclosure. The conclusion, on balance, that follows  is that London Stone misled  him 
about the arrangements for the investment. I also agree with the investigators  point that the 
potential effect  of such a level of commission on capital invested (and any gains)  would more  
likely (than not) have  discouraged  Mr G from investing in ORFL. 
Even if the investment was mainly  for potential tax benefits and did not prioritise  the pursuit 
of gains, it is noteworthy that London Stones  letter to Mr G in February 2014 included  the 
following   the companys projection  is to exit the market in 2017-18 at £117m  thereby 
offering an 11 x return for EIS investors  [my emphasis]  so a part of the investments 
promotion appears to have  related  to gains.
Mr Gs complaint is about misrepresentation of the ORFL investment by London  Stone.  I 
have noted London Stones arguments  about  suitability and appropriateness,  but they do not 
appear to be relevant.  There  is no claim that it was responsible for the former and its best 
argument for the latter does not dilute the misrepresentation it committed. Overall and on 
balance, I uphold Mr Gs complaint.
fair compensation
In deciding what will be fair compensation I agree  with the notion of returning Mr G, as close  
as possible, to a pre-investment position. As I said above, I consider that he would probably 
not have invested in ORFL if the commission arrangement had been disclosed  to him  but, 
as the investigator  said, he would probably  have invested in either another EIS investment 
or a similar tax benefits related investment. 
However, in the absence  of a basis to determine how such  an alternative investment  
promoted to and arranged for Mr G in a transparent manner and without the type of 
commission arrangement  in the ORFL  investment  would have behaved,  I consider  that 
returning Mr G to his pre-investment position (including discounts  for the benefits he has 
received thus far as a result of the ORFL  investment) will achieve fair compensation to him.
Ref: DRN88857104I understand London Stones arguments about  potentially unknown future tax benefits that 
might arise  in relation  to any acceptance by HMRC that Mr G lost £25,000 of capital in 
ORFL. However, I consider this element sufficiently addressed by the investigators 
proposals  which I use as part of my orders below  for either  an assignment of the 
investment to London Stone or, if that is not possible, an undertaking from Mr G. An 
assignment should remove the possibility  of Mr G receiving  any such  future  benefits and, 
otherwise, an undertaking obliges him to pass on any such benefits to London Stone.
redress orders
To compensate Mr G fairly, London  Stone must:
Pay Mr G the capital  he invested  in ORFL minus the total of all the tax relief he has 
received and all the court compensation (or recoveries of parts  of his capital) he has 
received. Evidence of these receipts  appears  to have been shared with London 
Stone, but if it requires  their re-submission Mr G should re-submit them to it. 
Pay interest on the above compensation  at the rate of 8% simple per year from the 
date of this decision  to the date of settlement, if the compensation is not paid within 
28 days of London Stone  being  informed about  Mr Gs acceptance of this decision.
Pay Mr G a refund of the £500 commission payment he made for the ORFL 
investment, plus interest at the rate of 8% simple per year from the date the 
commission was paid to the date of settlement.
Provide a calculation  of compensation to Mr G in a clear and simple format.
Income tax might  be payable on any interest awarded.
If it is possible for Mr G to assign ownership  of his ORFL holding  to London Stone, I order  
both parties to engage in the necessary arrangements  to achieve this. It would not be fair for 
Mr G to incur  any costs  associated with this  given that he is not responsible  for the 
misrepresentation that led to this successful complaint (and redress)  so London Stone  
should cater  for any costs associated with such an assignment.
If it is not possible for Mr G to assign ownership of his ORFL holding to London Stone, he 
must give London Stone an undertaking that he will pass on to London Stone any further 
recoveries of capital  invested in the holding and the monetary value of any future tax relief  
he receives in relation  to the holding.  If there  are costs  associated with such  an undertaking, 
for the reasons given above London Stone should  cater for them.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold Mr Gs complaint. I order London  Stone Securities 
Limited to pay him compensation as detailed above and to provide him a calculation of the 
compensation in a clear and simple format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 March  2020.
Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8885710