K821x#15complaint
Mr G complains about Arrow Global Limited  (Arrow Global) and its agents for pursuing a 
debt against him which he did not recognise. He believes he should be reimbursed  all 
money he has paid against the debt, and that he should be compensated for the distress  
and inconvenience  he has experienced over the life of the debt.
background
I set out the background  to this matter and my provisional view in a provisional decision 
issued in April 2020. A copy  of that decision is attached. 
In that decision,  I set out that I considered  that over all Arrow Global had not done anything 
substantially wrong  in pursuing  the debt against  Mr G, as Mr G had owed the debt and this 
had been purchased by Arrow  Global.  I did, however, consider that Arrow Global had been 
slow to respond to Mr Gs queries and requests  for information. I therefore considered that 
Arrow Global  should pay a total of £150  compensation to Mr G to recognise that these 
delays had caused him additional distress. 
My provisional decision has been shared with the parties for their comments. 
Arrow Global  has not responded  to the provisional  view. 
Mr G has submitted comments, disagreeing with the way that I have described the 
background to the complaint, and with my provisional decision.  
He argued that I have  reversed the burden of proof which requires Arrow Global to 
demonstrate that they were properly owed  the debt. He feels  that if Arrow  Global cannot 
provide proof of the origins  of the debt then Arrow Global  should repay to him the money he 
has paid towards the debt. He also considers that Arrow Global were misleading and 
threatening in their correspondence to him, about legal proceedings. 
Mr G has made other comments,  relating to information not sent to him by Arrow  Global,  and 
he has indicated that he cannot see why I reached the provisional view that £150 
compensation was appropriate in the circumstances.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Mr G does not agree with my provisional view, and I have considered his 
additional arguments. 
His main argument is that he was advised  in relation to the legal proceedings that Arrow 
Global held the legal burden  of proving the debt.  Mr G thinks that if Arrow Global was not 
able to prove the debt then he should be repaid the money he has paid towards the debt.
I should be clear that our process is not the same  as the legal proceedings that Arrow  Global  
initiated against Mr G. 
Ref: DRN87029442In taking a claim to court, Arrow Global would have to demonstrate  various details about the 
debt, and it appears that they were unable  to do that, and so stopped the legal action. 
Arrow Global  stopping the claim is not the same as acknowledging that there was no debt 
owed. It is simply  an acknowledgement that they had decided  not to pursue the claim. This 
may have  been  because  of a lack of evidence, or other reasons,  but it does not mean that 
money paid to them already was inappropriately paid. 
Mr G has, in fact, acknowledged  that he owed a debt to his previous bank,  H, and this was 
either from a managed  loan, or from a current account. He acknowledges that he was paying 
regularly to reduce  this outstanding debt, and that he believed it was properly owed  to H. 
Arrow Global  bought  the debt from H, and so the debt properly transferred to them.  
The remit of this service is not to determine the enforceability of the original debt, but it is to 
look at whether a financial  business  has acted fairly and reasonably. If it hasnt, we can look 
at making an award of compensation  that is fair and reasonable. 
Mr G acknowledges that he owed  a debt to H, and that debt was sold to this business.  Arrow 
Global then pursued recovery of the debt, until it stopped the proceedings and wrote  off the 
remaining debt. I do not think  this was unfair or unreasonable. 
I also think that it would be unfair  if Arrow Global was required to repay  the payments that Mr 
G had made  towards  a debt which he genuinely  owed.
Mr G has commented that he thinks that Arrow Global was misleading  in the amounts it 
claimed for the debt. I do not agree.  I can see that Arrow Global has explained what costs  it 
included in the debts, and that it made clear what it was seeking through the court process. 
Mr G has queried  how I arrived  at the level of compensation of £150, as an increase from 
the amount Arrow Global offered him (£50). This is because I considered that Arrow Globals 
responses to Mr G were either delayed, or were  not sufficiently clear, and that this would 
have caused Mr G a degree of distress and inconvenience, in addition to that distress he felt 
as a result  of Arrow  Global pursuing the debt. I considered that there  was an additional effect 
upon Mr G, but that the majority of his upset was not due to the service failings. I therefore 
think that £150 is in line with other awards we would make  in similar circumstances where a 
consumer has received delayed or unclear correspondence. 
Mr G has made other comments relating to individual details of my provisional view.  I have  
considered these comments, and these do not materially  affect my provisional  view. 
I therefore adopt my provisional decision, as supplemented by the above  information, as my 
final decision. 
I understand that Mr G will be unhappy  with this decision, but I hope that it clarifies why I 
have reached that view,  and why I do not agree  with his additional  points. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, and contained in my provisional decision,  I partially  uphold  
Mr Gs complaint, regarding delays and lack of clarity in communication. 
Ref: DRN87029443I direct  Arrow Global Limited to pay to Mr G a total of £150  compensation for his distress  and 
inconvenience. Any compensation already paid to Mr G can be deducted from this total. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 July 2020.
Laura Garvin-Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8702944