K820x#14complaint
Mrs B says Barclays  Bank UK Plc mis-sold her a payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy 
with a credit  card in 2003. She says she wasnt told much about the PPI.
background
Our adjudicator who looked at this case said the complaint about the PPI being mis-sold 
shouldnt be upheld. 
Mrs B has already received some money  back for the commission  Barclays  received from 
selling her the PPI. However, she still thinks she was mis-sold the PPI in the first place and 
disagrees with the adjudicator. The complaint has been passed  to me for an ombudsmans 
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint about the mis-sale.
These events took place  a considerable time ago and I certainly  dont doubt Mrs Bs 
recollections about being mis-sold the PPI are genuinely and honestly held. Records show  
that she actually  applied for her credit card through the post. We know  this because weve  
been sent the postal  application  form she filled out and signed.
Theres a question on it asking her to choose  whether she wants this type of policy. Mrs B 
ticked the yes box and so in my view this document does clearly  demonstrate  that Mrs B 
must have  wanted  the policy at the time.  And because she specifically selected  the cover, 
its clear to me that she consented to the PPI.
Because this was a postal application, it wasnt  an advised sale. But Barclays still had a 
responsibility to provide  information that was clear, fair and not mis-leading. 
I think the postal  application form would have  been accompanied by some  information 
about the terms and conditions.  As she most probably filled in the form in her own time 
without any input from Barclays, I think she probably had enough information and time in 
which to make her own informed choice. 
I can certainly see how Barclays couldve made improvements  to the application form to 
make it clearer.  But Im afraid this doesnt  change how I view the case  and I still think she 
would have gone on to buy the PPI policy.
This is because the evidence  points to her wanting  the cover. I also think Mrs B was eligible 
for the cover and not caught by any of the main exclusions we tend to see in these types 
of policy. The cost of the PPI was 79p for every £100 of balance outstanding on her credit 
card and I dont think this would have been unaffordable for her.
Ref: DRN88793362Mrs B would have probably benefitted  from some sick pay with her job. But as Ive already 
said, this wasnt an advised sale, so the choice  about having PPI was for her to make.  In 
the event of a successful  claim, the policy wouldve  paid off 10% of her outstanding  balance 
for up to a year and I think  this is most likely  why she specifically chose to have PPI when 
she filled out her application form. 
Taking all these things  into account,  I can see how the cover was of use to her.
Im sorry  to disappoint Mrs B but I think the evidence shows  she most likely  chose  the policy 
and would have  known it wasnt something  she needed to have. This means Im not 
upholding her mis-sale complaint.
Barclays has already  paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs B because when the 
policy was sold, it expected to get a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 
50% of the PPI premium).  It should  have told Mrs B about that. Because  it didnt, that was 
unfair.  To put that right,  it has already paid back the amount of commission  and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK Plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs B.
But Barclays  Bank Plc has already paid her for the commission and profit share  it got that 
was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 July 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8879336