K820x#14complaint
Mr W says Nationwide Building  Society mis-sold him payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policies in 1999, 2001 and 2004 when he took out loans.
background
Mr W applied  for a loan in 1999.  He was sold PPI at the same  time. The loan was for £6,000, 
and was to be repaid  over 36 months. The premium  for the PPI policy  was £635.72. It was 
added to the main  loan so the total borrowed by Mr W was £6,635.72.
In 2001 Mr W took out another loan.  Part of which was used to clear the previous loan. Mr W 
borrowed £15,000 to be repaid over 84 months.  The premium for the PPI was £4,069.45. It 
was added to the loan so the total borrowed was £19,069.45.
In 2004 Mr W took out a further loan, again  part of it was used top clear the existing  loan.   
Mr W borrowed £15,800 to be repaid over 72 months. The PPI premium  was £2,578.22 and 
was added to the loan so he borrowed £18,378.22.
Finally in 2007 Mr W borrowed  £16,300.86, part of which was again used to clear the 
previous loan. This time Mr W took the loan without PPI.
The PPI policies covered Mr Ws loan repayments  for up to 12 months if he lost his job. And 
if Mr W became  too unwell to work it would cover  his loan repayments until he returned  to 
work or until the loan was repaid. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mr Ws complaint should be upheld.  Mr W disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account here.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ws complaint. Ill explain  why. 
Mr W and Nationwide have told us the loans and PPI were  arranged during telephone calls,  
with Mr W then being sent the paperwork  to check,  sign and return.
After so many years  it isnt surprising that Nationwide hasnt got copies of the call 
recordings. This isnt unusual  and its understandable in view of the time that has gone by 
since the sales took place. But where  there  is limited  information, I will make my decision 
based on whats more  likely to have happened, taking  into account  the evidence available,  
what  both parties have told me and what we know about these types of sale.
Nationwide has sent us copies of all three loan agreements signed  by Mr W.
I can see that the loan agreements  describe the PPI as being  optional. I also see the policy  
premium, interest, total amount payable and the monthly cost of the PPI are all set out 
separately to the main  loans. So from the paperwork available  it looks like Mr W was told the 
Ref: DRN88587982policies were optional  and how much they would cost him if he paid the loans off over the full 
term.
Mr W has himself acknowledged  that the paperwork tends to show  he had a choice about  
taking the PPI. But Mr W says he was told on the telephone during all three sales  that he 
had to take out PPI or the loans would not be agreed. And furthermore if they were not 
agreed then hed have trouble getting the loans elsewhere as the decline decision would 
show on his credit records.
Ive thought about this but Nationwide has been  able to show  what it calls a script that it 
says its telephone representatives  wouldve used at the time.  What Ive seen is more  of a 
process for the Nationwide representative to follow than a script. But it does show the 
representative wouldve  been told to give quotes for the loan both with and without PPI and 
make it clear  the PPI wasnt  compulsory.
I dont know how closely the Nationwides representatives followed the process, but I do 
think its likely it gives some indication of how the calls wouldve been structured. And I have  
to take into account  that these calls took place many  years ago and memories do fade.
For me to uphold this complaint Id need to be persuaded that its most likely Mr W was 
incorrectly told he had to take the PPI on three  separate occasions  over a five year period, 
and then in 2007 was told he could  take a fourth loan without PPI.
While I accept its possible Mr W was told he must  take the PPI to get the loans,  I think  its 
more likely Mr W was told the policies were  optional and he chose to take them out. 
From what  we know of the way Nationwide sold PPI over the telephone I dont think  it is 
likely Nationwide  gave Mr W a personal  recommendation  to take out PPI. So it didnt have to 
check if the policies  were suited to his circumstances and needs. But Nationwide  did have to 
give Mr W enough clear information so he could decide for himself  if the PPI was right for 
him. 
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mr W about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But I think  he chose to take out the PPI - so it looks  like he wanted  this type 
of cover.
Based on what Ive seen  of Mr Ws circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for him if something went wrong. 
It also looks like the PPI was affordable and the credit agreement  showed the monthly  cost 
of the policy. So I dont think better information  about the policy  would have put Mr W off 
taking out the cover.  
Ive thought about everything Mr W has told us, including that his employer wouldve paid 
him some sick pay if he became too unwell to work.  But the particular policies sold by 
Nationwide wouldve paid a monthly  benefit  on top of any sick pay and couldve continued to 
pay out for the remaining  term of the loans  if Mr W couldnt return to work.
And although Mr W told us he had some savings,  he was taking out loans rather than use 
his savings. So I think he wanted to keep any savings intact.  And the PPI wouldve allowed 
him to do so if he couldnt work.
Ref: DRN88587983Mr W has said his parents  couldve  helped  him if he fell into difficulties. Ive no doubt Mr Ws 
family wouldve wanted to help. But this type of help isnt guaranteed and Mr Ws family 
might not have been in a position to help when he needed it most.
So I still think the PPI wouldve  been  useful to Mr W if he couldnt  work, particularly if he was 
unwell for an extended  period.
In summary  I think its most likely  Nationwide made it clear the policies were  optional and   
Mr W chose to buy them. I think its possible Nationwide couldve given  clearer  information. 
But even if Nationwide  had given Mr W all the clear  information it shouldve,  I still think  he 
wouldve gone ahead and taken out the PPI.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award  against  
Nationwide Building  Society.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2019.
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8858798