K820x#14complaint
Mr J complains he was mis-sold a mortgage by an appointed representative of 
Legal & General Partnership Services Limited.
background
Mr J already had a mortgage when, in 2005, he took advice from L&G.  Acting on that advice, 
he re-mortgaged, switching lender and consolidating some unsecured debt, as well as 
raising additional capital. He paid an early repayment charge (ERC) to his previous  lender.
Mr Js now advised by a claims management company (CMC).  Acting on his behalf, it says 
the mortgage advice was unsuitable. It said he shouldnt have been  advised to re-mortgage  
and incur the ERC, which would have expired soon after anyway. He didnt need to 
consolidate his unsecured  debt.  And it said the term was shortened unnecessarily, which  
because the mortgage was interest  only  wouldnt have made any difference  to his 
payments, and he had no repayment vehicle. It also said he was overcharged for the advice 
and legal fees he paid.
L&G said the mortgage was suitable.  And it said Mr J knew  about the ERC, and knew  he 
could avoid it by waiting a few months   but specifically  wanted to proceed straightaway  as 
he needed to raise funds to finalise his divorce. Its now offered to refund the commission it 
received for referring Mr J to a specific solicitors  firm, together  with £100 compensation.
Our investigator didnt  think the advice was unsuitable, so the CMC asked  for an 
ombudsman to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think this mortgage was unsuitable for Mr J. Ive seen no evidence that either this 
mortgage or his previous one were  on interest  only terms. The illustration and offer are for a 
repayment mortgage. Its clear Mr J needed to raise additional funds for his divorce, and the 
mortgage was an effective way of raising  the sum he needed. And while I havent seen the 
previous mortgage  offer,  the record of suitability suggests the term was extended slightly,  
not shortened.  So I dont  think  the complaint the CMC makes about this is accurate. The 
term was set to Mr Js retirement age, striking  a balance between  keeping the payments 
down each month and not extending the term too far. I dont  think  that was unreasonable.
While there  was no immediate financial imperative to consolidate his unsecured debt, I think 
its clear it wasnt  a standard  personal loan  it was unsecured borrowing linked to, and for 
the term of, the previous mortgage. Im aware  from my wider  knowledge of the industry,  and 
in particular the other lenders products, at the time that if the main  mortgage was paid back, 
the no longer  linked unsecured loan would face an interest rate premium of, in most cases, 
an additional  5  8% per year. But consolidating the loan instead  reduced its interest rate to 
the new, lower, mortgage rate. This made  the loan cheaper to service  both each month  and 
overall. I dont think it was bad advice to do this.
Theres a hand-written note on L&Gs  file, signed by Mr J, saying that he was aware he 
could avoid the ERC by delaying completion,  but that he needed to complete sooner to 
Ref: DRN88799352finalise his divorce. And I can see from the solicitors completion statement that £17,000 
raised from the mortgage was paid to Mr Js ex-wife on completion of the mortgage. I think  
this shows that Mr Js priority at the time was to raise the necessary  funds  to complete the 
divorce, and explains  why he was prepared to incur an ERC to do so. In that context, I dont 
think the advice  to arrange the mortgage Mr J wanted was unsuitable.
As regards  the fees paid, I dont think L&G is responsible for the solicitors costs,  and Ive 
seen no evidence that a comparable mortgage  with a free legal service incentive was 
available to L&G to recommend. I think the fees the broker charged were  set out and 
explained to Mr J, and he agreed to pay them. And, ultimately, he received the service he 
paid for. I note the offer L&Gs made in respect  of the commission,  and I dont think  it needs  
to do anything further in this case.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I think the offer Legal & General  Partnership  Services  Limited 
has made to settle  this complaint is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. I dont 
require it to take any further action.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 April 2020.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8879935