K821x#15complaint
Mr R complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC has refused to make  a chargeback, and 
has turned  down his section  75 claim, for a disputed transaction.
background
Mr R said that he hired  a car whilst  on holiday.  He said that he was asked to pay for a fuel 
deposit, and was told that the company would place a hold on an amount of money on his 
card to cover any insurance excess.  He said that he made a payment for £161.56 using his 
credit card. The payment was done by chip and pin. Mr R said he was then asked to pay for 
the fuel deposit. So he asked what he had already paid for. Mr R said he was then told that 
he had paid for the companys additional insurance.  
Mr R told us he didnt want the additional insurance. Hed already purchased  insurance  
separately, to cover  the cost of any excess he might be charged,  at a considerably lower 
cost. Mr R said that he told the agent this at the time, but was told that the money wouldnt 
be refunded. 
Mr R said that he wrote to Tesco to ask it to refund  this money. He considered that he had a 
valid section 75 claim. He also pointed out a number of errors he said that Tesco  made 
when advising him over the phone about whether it could consider his claim.
Tesco said that it wouldnt process  a chargeback claim  for Mr R, because  he had authorised 
the transaction and it couldnt  see that the car hire firm offered  a cancellation option with this 
insurance. And it said that as it was unable to say conclusively that there had been  a 
misrepresentation, then it wasnt  able to say it had any liability under section 75.
Mr R said that this response was utterly inadequate  to address the detailed complaint that he 
had made.  He said that Tesco had applied the wrong standard  for deciding  if there  had been 
any misrepresentation. He said it had also ignored his detailed  evidence on that point. It had 
preferred to decide that no misrepresentation was proven,  although it hadnt spoken  to the 
car hire firm at all, and he had shown that this particular car hire firm had a long history  of 
the same  unfair trading  practice. 
Mr R complained to our service. He wanted Tesco to pay back the money  he was charged, 
and to pay compensation. 
Tesco wrote  to us about this complaint.  It didnt  think it had done anything wrong. It said that 
Mr R had the opportunity  to review the amount before  agreeing to the purchase. As the 
transaction was chip and pin, Tesco  didnt  think a chargeback would succeed. And it said 
that it would  need to see some evidence that a misrepresentation  took place. There might be 
aspects of the car hire firms policy that Mr Rs previously purchased  policy didnt cover.  So it 
wasnt beyond the realms  of possibility that Mr R had taken the second policy out for 
reassurance.
Tesco said there was no way to establish  what was discussed when Mr R was at the car hire 
office. So it said it didnt  believe  there  was enough  evidence for it to assist with the dispute.
Our investigator didnt  uphold this complaint. He said that he wasnt persuaded that a breach 
of contract  or misrepresentation had taken place. And he said that he thought  a chargeback  
request had no reasonable prospect of success.
Ref: DRN84538992Mr R didnt agree with that. He sent further  arguments about how he thought that we, and 
Tesco, shouldve addressed this complaint. And he asked for his complaint to be passed to 
an ombudsman, so it came to me for a final decision.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I proposed  to uphold it. 
This is what  I said then: 
-Mr R had sent detailed legal arguments to support his views on this complaint. I thanked  
him for those. Id read them carefully,  but I said I wouldnt attempt to set them out in full. 
-Mr R paid for additional insurance  on a hire car using a Tesco credit card. Under section  
75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  he can claim against  the credit  provider, Tesco, if 
theres either a breach  of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier of goods  or 
services. He did that. Tesco said it wouldnt pay his claim. What  I had to consider was 
whether Tesco has properly taken into account  its obligations to Mr R as his credit  card 
provider. Those obligations  include those under section 75.
-Mr R told Tesco, and us, that he made  a payment he believed was for a fuel deposit. He 
said that this payment  was misrepresented to him, and he didnt realise  until after the 
payment was made that it was actually for additional insurance. He showed us that he 
already had additional insurance, which he understood to cover  substantively the same 
points (although he hadnt been  able to evidence  this further,  for the simple  reason that 
he wasnt given any details of what this extra insurance he paid for actually covered, and 
he hadnt been able to find any details  of this cover  online).
-Mr R told Tesco that hed been  induced to make  this payment by a misrepresentation by 
the car hire firm. 
-Tesco didnt investigate this complaint.  It just said that it couldnt know  what  had 
happened, so it couldnt help him. 
-I didnt think I could  fairly decide  that Tesco had properly taken into account its 
obligations to Mr R under section 75 in this case, because it hadnt accepted what  Mr R 
said, but also hadnt tried to investigate this matter itself. I thought that Tesco  had made 
a mistake here. 
-But I said that in order to ask Tesco to pay Mr R back what he paid the car hire firm, I 
would also have  to reach the view that it was more likely  than not that Tesco would, if it 
had investigated  this issue fairly  and reasonably, have concluded that it was more likely  
than not that Mr R was induced  by a misrepresentation  to enter into this contract. In 
other words, that Mr R only paid this money because the car hire firm wasnt clear and 
truthful about what the payment  was for. 
-I noted that Mr R had shown us he had already bought alternative insurance cover. And 
hed been consistent  in what he said about  what went  wrong  when he made  this 
disputed payment. He was making quite a serious accusation about  the behaviour of the 
car hire agent, but he had also shown that what he said the car hire agent did was 
something that it seemed to have been  prosecuted for more  than once  already.  
Ref: DRN84538993-The only argument  against Mr R seemed  to be that he signed  the car hire agreement. 
But he said that he signed for car rental, not for the additional insurance. And this was 
car hire for a holiday. The document he signed was in a language he doesnt speak.
-Taking account of all the evidence Id seen, I thought  that it was more likely that if Tesco  
had properly discharged its obligations to Mr R, it wouldve decided  that Mr R only made  
this payment because  of a misrepresentation that the car hire agent made to him. I 
thought that if it had done a full and proper investigation, it wouldve been likely to decide 
that it should pay Mr R this money back.
-So I thought  that Tesco should  pay Mr R the amount of £161.56 that he disputed.
-Tesco decided not to investigate this issue, and I said I thought  it made a mistake  when 
it did that. Mr R had also pointed out that he was given some very poor advice over the 
phone about whether  Tesco could  consider  his complaint. So I thought that Tesco  should 
also pay Mr R £100 in compensation,  to make up for the trouble and upset that its poor 
service had caused him. 
I invited the parties  to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Mr R said he was happy with the provisional  decision, and had nothing to add. Tesco sent us 
a detailed reply, objecting to my decision.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I havent changed my mind.
Tesco said that Id decided that if it had investigated the claim further,  then it wouldve 
reached a different conclusion. But Tesco said it was unsure what  new information it might  
have gleaned  if it had done a further investigation  on the matter. It said that Mr R could 
provide extensive  legal arguments or bad reviews of the retailer,  but the bottom line was that 
this was a simple case of verbal misrepresentation. i.e. Mr R feels that he was told he was 
paying for one service,  but got another. 
Tesco said that it would concede that from a legal perspective, there  is no real difference  
between a verbal misrepresentation or a written one, but it said that either would need to be 
proven for a claim to be upheld under section 75 of the Consumer Credit  Act. Tesco  said 
that it was fair to say that it was never  going to be possible to conclusively prove what  
happened at the time of purchase. And Tesco didnt think there had been any further 
information provided to say otherwise.  So it didnt think it was reasonable for it to be 
penalised.
Tesco said that it didnt  feel that the fact the credit  agreement was in a foreign language, or 
that Mr R had already  purchased a similar  insurance  policy should be taken into 
consideration. He was in a foreign country, and it would be his own responsibility  to ensure 
he was signing documentation  he was happy  with. Tesco  said that the fact that he didnt 
understand it should not negate this. 
Also, Tesco said it cant  be held liable for instances of buyers remorse. A consumer can 
purchase something which they later decide  they dont want  or need, however this alone  
doesnt prove a misrepresentation  has taken  place.
Ref: DRN84538994Tesco said it appreciated that Mr R feels strongly,  and he was disappointed  to find Tesco  
wasnt in agreement with him. But, due to a lack of evidence to support his claim clearly from 
the outset of the claim, Tesco didnt think it shouldve handled this claim in any different way.
I dont agree that Tesco did nothing  wrong in this case. Ill explain why not.
Tesco says it doesnt think  it shouldve done  anything differently. It hasnt mentioned  the 
advice it gave Mr R before he pursued his claim.  So I think  its worth noting that in my 
provisional decision I accepted that Mr R was given poor advice over the phone  about 
whether he could pursue this claim against Tesco. Mr R expressed  concern that someone  
less familiar with their rights wouldve been deterred by this.
Tesco then says that Mr R has to prove his claim,  and variously refers to a lack of evidence 
or proof. It says there was no way to conclusively prove what  happened at the time. 
I think this raises two questions  what is Tesco supposed to take into account when it 
makes a decision, and how is Tesco supposed  to reach that decision? I think Tesco has 
made a mistake about both these things. Ive touched on these points briefly in my 
provisional decision, but as Tesco hasnt agreed, Ill explain  them  in a little more  detail here.
Tesco said there was no evidence, so nothing could  be proved. But Tesco  has overlooked 
the fact that Mr R has told us what he says happened. Thats  one of the things that Tesco  is 
supposed to take into account.  
What I think Tesco shouldve done in this case,  to discharge its responsibilities to Mr R, was 
firstly to ask the car hire firm for its side of the story.  Tesco didnt do that, and Ive said I think  
this was a mistake.
If Tesco had investigated,  it would then need to weigh  up what  both sides  said,  to decide if it 
thought that there had been a misrepresentation. 
Tesco says that theres  no way to prove  what happened. And there probably is no way to be 
absolutely sure, beyond any doubt. But a section 75 claim  doesnt  require Tesco  to be 
absolutely sure, beyond any doubt. 
Tesco just has to decide whats more likely than not to have happened. I think it couldve 
done that, and it didnt.  
And I think if it had looked at everything that Mr R said, asked the car hire firm for its side of 
the story,  and then fairly  assessed what it thought  was more likely to have  happened, that it 
would probably  have reached  the same conclusion  as me. Its more  likely that there  was a 
misrepresentation. 
Tesco said it didnt think it should  be penalised for what it has done.  I havent  agreed that its 
done nothing wrong. But I also want to make  clear that my decision,  and my award, isnt 
intended to penalise Tesco. The award  is intended to put Mr R, as far as possible, in the 
position that hed have  been in if Tesco hadnt made  any mistakes.  Thats why Ive asked 
Tesco to pay him back  the money  that I think he lost through this misrepresentation, and 
which I think, if Tesco had approached  this properly, it wouldve paid him. 
I can undo the effect of the mistake  over the outcome of Mr Rs claim, by asking Tesco to 
pay that money now. I cant undo the effect  of the stress this case, and the subsequent 
Ref: DRN84538995complaint, has caused Mr R. So, instead,  Ive asked Tesco  to pay Mr R £100. That isnt to 
penalise Tesco either. Its to compensate Mr R.
Ill now make  the award I proposed.
my final decision
My final decision is that Tesco Personal Finance PLC must  pay Mr R £161.56  to repay  his 
disputed transaction,  and £100 in compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 May 2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8453899