K820x#14complaint
Mr V has complained about the way the Society  of Lloyds (SOL) handled a claim made 
under his Tyre and Alloy  Wheel Insurance policy.
background
Mr V purchased the policy in March 2016   it provided cover  for three  years  for the cost of 
repairs to his vehicles  tyres and wheels. Under the policy terms, the alloy wheels could be 
repaired up to 10 times.
In March 2018 Mr V damaged both rear wheel alloys and submitted a claim  repairs were  
carried out in April 2018 and it was recorded  as two repairs. In June 2018 Mr V complained 
about the quality of the repair work. He said the alloy wheels had visible  white spots  and 
discolouration. He also told SOL hed damaged one of the alloy wheels again.
As Mr V had re-damaged one of alloy wheels, SOL told him the guarantee of the earlier 
repair work was no longer  valid. SOL said Mr V would need to record  two additional repairs  
to have the new damage and earlier repairs rectified.
Mr V complained, saying  he hadnt been  provided  with any details of the guarantee. He 
didnt think it was fair for SOL to record two further  repairs. SOL agreed the earlier  repair 
work was substandard and it also couldnt evidence that Mr V had definitely been  given  the 
details of the guarantee. So, it agreed  to rectify  the damage and offered him £75 
compensation. It said only one extra repair would need to be registered for the new damage.
Mr V remained unhappy  and referred his complaint to our service.  He didnt think it was fair 
for SOL to record any new repairs and said despite the earlier  repairs  being rectified, the 
discolouration remained.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She thought SOLs  offer was fair and she 
wasnt satisfied that the evidence  Mr V had provided demonstrated any noticeable 
discolouration. So, she didnt think SOL needed to do any more  to put things right.
Mr V asked for a final decision on the matter. He said the investigator shouldve  asked him 
for clarification if the evidence hed provided  of the discolouration  wasnt  sufficient. He also 
said the compensation offered wasnt fair.
I gave Mr V the opportunity to provide further evidence,  such as photographs,  to 
demonstrate that the repairs had left his alloy wheels discoloured.  But Mr V said he no 
longer had any suitable photographs that would  show this. He maintained that SOL shouldnt 
have recorded  any new repairs  given it agreed to rectify the earlier repairs.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding it as 
I think SOL has already  done enough  to put things  right.
Mr V remains unhappy that SOL has registered a new repair for the damage  reported in 
June 2018. He says that as SOL agreed the earlier repair work was substandard, it would 
Ref: DRN82395562need to repair both alloy wheels again  in any event. So, to him it seems unreasonable  for 
SOL to record any new repairs against  the policy. 
Ive considered this carefully but overall  I think it's fair that SOL has recorded three wheels 
as having been repaired. This is because Mr V initially damaged two wheels, which were 
repaired. While SOL agreed the quality of the repair work on the first two was substandard, 
Mr V had damaged  one of the wheels  again  so it was correct  to record  a third repair.  Even  if 
the work  had been completed  to a high standard at the first attempt, Mr V wouldve still 
needed to claim for three wheels. This effectively puts Mr V back into the position  he 
wouldve been in had the earlier repairs been  satisfactory.
Mr V says that the repair work carried out in April 2018 and when it was rectified  later on was 
still substandard. This is because the rear alloy wheels are now a different colour to the front 
alloy wheels. He believes SOL should  be held responsible for this and says the £75 offered 
isnt enough for him to rectify the discolouration.
I know Mr V feels strongly that SOLs  repairs have  left his alloy wheels discoloured. But 
I havent seen  enough evidence to say that this is the case. I've seen colour photographs of 
the damaged  rear alloy wheels that were  provided  when the original claim was made in 
March 2018. Mr V also provided a black and white photo demonstrating the white  spots left 
on the alloy wheels  when he complained in June 2018. But this doesnt demonstrate the 
difference in colour that Mr V alleges.  He hasnt provided any colour photographs from 
before the alloy wheels  were repaired or immediately after the repairs were carried out. And 
in the absence of photos from the time, it isn't possible  for me to distinguish  any difference in 
colour or determine  that any discolouration is the result of faulty workmanship.
Overall, I think the compensation offered by SOL fairly reflects  the inconvenience to Mr V in 
having to have the repair work carried out in April 2018 rectified. And I havent  seen 
sufficient evidence of any discolouration attributable  to SOLs repairs. So, I dont think  I can 
reasonably ask SOL to do any more to put things right.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 March 2019.
Hannah Wise
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8239556