K822xcomplaint
This complaint is about payment protection insurance (PPI) policies taken out or amended 
with a mortgage and further  advances between 1993 and 2002. Mr and Mrs R say 
Lloyds Bank  Plc mis-sold them the PPI.
background
I sent Mr and Mrs R and Lloyds a provisional  decision  on 27 February 2019 to explain why I 
didnt think the policies had been mis-sold  but did think Lloyds should pay back some  of the 
cost of the PPI. An extract  from my provisional decision is set out below:
When selling the PPI, Lloyds had to make it clear  to Mr and Mrs R that they had a choice 
about it.
1993, 1995 and 1997 sales
Mr and Mrs R initially took out PPI with a mortgage  in 1993. The PPI policy was then 
amended when they took out a further advance  on the mortgage  in 1995. Mr and Mrs R then 
took out a new PPI policy with a further  advance on their mortgage in 1997.
There isnt very much  information  available about  the sales. Mr and Mrs R havent given us 
much detail about what happened  when  the policies were sold. And Lloyds hasnt been able 
to send us any evidence from the sales showing Mr and Mrs R chose to take the PPI. Due to 
the amount of time that has passed since the sales though, I dont think this is unreasonable.
But what  it does mean is that, because of the limited  information available,  I dont think  
theres enough evidence for me to say that Lloyds made Mr and Mrs R think  they had to 
have the PPI. So I think its likely it made  it clear  to Mr and Mrs R that they had a choice 
about it, and that they chose to take it.
2002 sale
Mr and Mrs Rs original PPI policy was then amended again when they took out a further 
advance on their mortgage in 2002.
Lloyds has sent us a copy of Mr and Mrs Rs application form for the further  advance. This 
included a section  on PPI, with yes and no boxes to be ticked  to show whether they 
wanted to take it out. And the yes box has been ticked.
Based on this, I think Lloyds made it clear to Mr and Mrs R that they had a choice  about  the 
PPI. And that Mr and Mrs R chose to take it, knowing they didnt have  to.
all sales
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs R, so it had to check that it was right for them.  
And, based on what Ive seen of Mr and Mrs Rs circumstances  at the time, I think  that it 
was. For example, they dont appear  to have been affected by any of the exclusions to or 
limits on the PPI cover. And the policies couldve paid out for longer than Mr and Mrs R have 
told us they wouldve been entitled to full sick pay.
Ref: DRN84931522Mr and Mrs R have said that Mr R was paying  reduced rate national  insurance contributions, 
so he couldnt  have claimed for unemployment  benefit on the policies. But from what theyve 
said it appears Mr R started paying  the reduced  rate sometime  after the sales,  in 2003. So 
the policies would still have been  right for Mr R when they were  sold.  And Lloyds didnt have 
to make sure the policies  continued to be right for Mr and Mrs R, just that they were right for 
them when they were sold.
As well as checking it was right for them, Lloyds had to give Mr and Mrs R clear  information 
about the PPI. Its possible  the information  it gave them wasnt as clear as it shouldve  been. 
But a mortgage is a serious  financial commitment  and Mr and Mrs Rs property couldve 
been at risk if theyd  failed  to make their repayments. So I think  they couldve found  the 
protection the policies offered appealing.  And, for the same reasons I think it was right for 
them, it seems  like the PPI would have been useful for Mr and Mrs R if something  went 
wrong. It also looks like it was affordable.  So I dont think  better  information  about the PPI 
would have put Mr and Mrs R off taking it out.
Which means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs R.
Weve previously told Mr and Mrs R that Lloyds didnt need  to refund any of the commission 
paid on their PPI policies either, as their mortgage  became a regulated mortgage before 
6 April 2008 and so the FCAs new rules  and guidance didnt apply.
But Lloyds has now confirmed that Mr and Mrs Rs mortgage  didnt  become regulated before 
6 April 2008. And so Lloyds will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs R 
because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premiums) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs R about that. Because Lloyds  didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs R, that was unfair.
To put that right, Lloyds has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premiums - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
I said Id consider any further information  Mr and Mrs R and Lloyds  sent me, but neither of 
them sent in anything further.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Rs case.
As Mr and Mrs R and Lloyds didnt have send in any further  evidence  or arguments, I still 
think the conclusions  I set out in my provisional decision are correct, for the same reasons.
Ref: DRN84931523putting things right
Lloyds should  pay back to Mr and Mrs R any commission and profit  share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premiums. Lloyds should also pay back to Mr and Mrs R any extra 
interest they paid because of that.
Lloyds should  pay back to Mr and Mrs R the extra they paid each month because  the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. Lloyds should also 
pay Mr and Mrs R 8%* simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs R can claim back  the tax if they dont pay 
tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  Plc doesnt have to pay back  all of the cost 
of the PPI to Mr and Mrs R.
But Lloyds Bank Plc does  have to pay back to Mr and Mrs R any commission and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 May 2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8493152