K821x#15complaint
In summary,  Mr G has complained that DTW Associates Limited  (DTW),  trading as 
Auto Advance Logbook Loan, provided  him with a loan when he wasnt able to afford it. 
background
In November 2017 DTW provided Mr G with a loan for £800 repayable  over 78 weeks.  It was 
a high interest loan with an interest  rate of 290.10% APR. The total charge for the credit was 
£1,152.34, which meant  the total amount repayable by Mr G for the £800  he was borrowing, 
was £1,952.34. The weekly repayments were  £25.03. 
In its response to Mr Gs complaint, DTW said his declared income was £1,160 a month 
which was verified through electronic verification of his bank account. It went  to explain that 
as his expenditure was below the average for a single person with no dependents, it made 
an assessment based on his application  data using national statistics and credit data. It said 
that looking at account data from his bank, that his account had on average,  exceeded the 
amount a month needed to cover  all existing  outgoings, credit  commitments and the monthly  
payment for the loan which was £100.12.  
DTW said the loan was approved on the basis of this income verification and its enhanced 
expenditure data.  It no longer had access to the report  it saw at the time the loan was 
approved. Based on the notes it had, it couldnt see that his credit report  contained any 
detrimental information at that time.
Mr Gs concerns were investigated by one of our adjudicators.  He thought  proportionate  
checks for Mr Gs application should  have included  obtaining a detailed understanding  of his 
current and most recent financial  circumstances- including  verifying the information. He went  
on to say that Mr G had provided  evidence of his financial circumstances at the time he 
applied for the loan.  
He said the credit report showed he had around  seven accounts  enter  default in the months  
prior to applying for the loan. He had an active account with a short-term lender and had 
entered into a repayment plan. As no response  was received from DTW, the case has been  
passed to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to considering unaffordable and irresponsible  lending complaints  
on our website - including the key relevant rules, guidance, good  industry  practice and law. 
And Ive considered this approach when deciding Mr Gs complaint.
Having reviewed everything Ive been  provided with, Ive decided to uphold  Mr Gs 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
There are several questions that Ive thought about when deciding if DTW  treated Mr G fairly  
and reasonably when it provided  him with the loan.
1)Did DTW  complete  reasonable  and proportionate checks  to satisfy itself that Mr G 
would be able to repay his loan in a sustainable way? 
Ref: DRN805036522)If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks  have shown  at the time? 
3)Ultimately,  did DTW make a fair lending decision?  
4)Did DTW  act unfairly or unreasonably in some  other way?
Did DTW  complete reasonable  and proportionate  checks to satisfy itself that Mr G would be 
able to repay his loans  in a sustainable way? 
The rules  that DTW had to follow, required it to carry out checks  that would enable  it to 
reasonably assess,  whether Mr G could afford to repay the loan he was wanting to take out. 
This is often  referred to as an affordability assessment.
The rules  dont set out what  specific checks it needed to carry out, but it did set out that 
those checks needed to be proportionate to the circumstances of the application. I think  what  
this meant  in practice, was that the scope and extent of DTWs checks  needed to reflect the 
nature of the loans, bearing  in mind things such as the amount of credit,  the interest rate, the 
duration of the loan,  the monthly  and total amount repayable, and any indications  of 
customer vulnerability.  
The checks  DTW had to carry out as part of its affordability assessments, needed to be 
borrower focussed. What I mean by this is that the checks needed to consider whether 
paying the loan back would cause  Mr G any difficulties or have any adverse consequences 
for him. It would also need to take into account factors  such as the amount of money being 
lent, the term of the loan and the monthly repayments, total charge for the credit and the 
interest rate being charged. This isnt an exhaustive list. 
And as a result of the above I think a reasonable and proportionate check needed  to be 
more thorough if Mr G had a low income.  This would reflect  that it could be more  difficult  for 
him to make  the loan repayments with a low income.  
It would also need to be more thorough the higher  the amounts he had to repay, as it would 
be more difficult to make higher loan repayments  on a given income. 
The length  of the loan term would  also be relevant,  partly because  where  the loan duration is 
longer, the total cost of credit was likely to be higher. It would also be relevant because there 
is greater risk of a negative change in circumstances  affecting Mr Gs ability to repay, where 
repayments need to be sustained over a longer period. 
With these principles in mind Ive thought about  whether DTW completed reasonable and 
proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr G would be able to repay  his loan in a 
sustainable way.
In summary,  then, the circumstances of the loan application are as follows:
Mr G was applying for a high-cost credit product which had an APR of 290.10% 
The total cost of the loan was very high, particularly when viewed as a percentage of 
what Mr G borrowed.  
Mr G was on a relatively low income.
Individually and taken  together,  there  are several  risk indicators here. So, I think that it was 
important for DTW to have  conducted  checks which gave it a thorough  understanding of Mr 
Gs financial position, and to scrutinise  the information it gathered carefully, asking  follow-up 
questions where  necessary, before  agreeing to lend.
Ref: DRN80503653DTW has said it did carry out some checks before it agreed to provide Mr G with the loan. In 
This seems to have  been on the basis of Mr Gs completed application form, credit file and 
some electronic verification of his bank account.
DTW has provided information from its files regarding the loan application. This included 
application information, notes, credit agreement  and a statement. Its surprising given the 
information it has provided, that it hasnt been able to provide a copy  of the credit  report  and 
income and expenditure verification checks that it carried out. 
If it had carried out income and expenditure verification checks, I think  taking into account  
the information DTW had recorded about Mr G, this should have led it to make further 
enquiries about his income and expenditure.  
I say this because  the information Mr G appears to have declared about  his monthly 
expenditure seems  relatively low to me. And DTW has accepted it was below the national 
average for a single person such as Mr G. It has said that as a result,  it used national  
statistics and credit data to assess the affordability  of the loan for Mr G.
Whilst I accept  that statistical data can in some  circumstances be useful,  I think  the 
information DTW had about Mr Gs financial circumstances should  have led it in this 
particular case,  to interrogate Mr Gs financial circumstances in a borrower  focussed  fashion 
rather than relying on statistical data. 
I say this because  I think  there  were  a number of flags that should have alerted DTW to 
carry out reasonable and proportionate checks.  For example, it has said Mr Gs monthly 
expenditure was recorded  as £355.  Out of that £100 was attributable to rent and £30 for food 
and groceries. 
Both of those figures seem to me to have been very unlikely to have been  correct. I say this 
because expenditure of £30 a month on food doesnt seem  to be a realistic amount to me 
and nor does a monthly rent of £100.  And I think its implausible that there  would be no 
allowance in his expenditure schedule for recreation and leisure spending  which was what  
was DTW  had recorded. 
So, it seems  to me given  Mr Gs relatively  low declared net income  of £1,160  a month, that 
an electronic check which  verified  his income  as being sufficient to support expenditure of 
£3,234 a month to cover  all existing outgoings, credit  commitments and the repayments  for 
this loan, should have been  questioned.  
And I think the disparity between the figures  provided by the checks  carried out by DTW and 
the information declared by Mr G, should  have prompted further  checks to have been made 
by DTW.
From what  Ive seen therefore, I dont  think DTWs checks were  reasonable or proportionate 
in this case. 
What would reasonable and proportionate  checks have shown at the time?
I think DTW  should  have ensured  that the scope  and extent  of its checks  were  adapted  to 
the circumstances of Mr Gs application.  This was a high cost loan being  taken out by an 
individual with a relatively low declared  income. And the repayments  would form a 
reasonable proportion of his monthly outgoings  for 78 weeks.  
Ref: DRN80503654Mr G has given this service  a copy of his credit  report to provide a better understanding  of 
his circumstances  and the potential impact  on him of taking out this loan. This shows that 
that he had seven accounts  enter into default  in the months before he applied  for the loan. 
The outstanding default balances varied between £2,157 and £79. And by November 2017 
he was unable to make any repayments towards  these accounts.
If DTW had carried out the credit  check that it says it did, I think  the history that Ive 
summarised should have alerted it to the fact that Mr G was unlikely to have been  in a 
position to sustainably repay  the loan. Given the number  of relatively recent  defaults  that had 
occurred, this further lending was only likely to exacerbate  an already difficult  financial 
position for him. So, I dont think the loan was affordable for Mr G and I dont think DTW  
should have provided him with this loan.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  my final decision is to uphold  Mr Gs complaint about  
DTW Associates Limited. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 April 2021.
Simon Dibble
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8050365