K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs N complain that CLS Finance Ltd mishandled  their request to voluntarily 
terminate their hire purchase agreement.
background
In December 2014 Mr and Mrs N entered into a four year hire purchase agreement  for a 
used car. Under  the terms and conditions of the agreement Mr and Mrs N were  entitled to 
end the contract  and hand back the car with nothing  further to pay once theyd paid half the 
total amount payable.
In January 2018 Mr N rang CLS Finance about  voluntary  terminating the agreement. It was 
agreed that when  he had decided on a date he would make further contact to arrange return  
of the car.
There followed calls between Mr and Mrs N and CLS Finance  during which  renewing the 
finance agreement  so that another  car could be acquired was discussed.  Mr and Mrs N were 
passed to the Sales Team. And arrangements were made for Mr N to visit a dealership in 
July 2018 using his existing car as a part exchange. Mr and Mrs N were  approved  for 
refinancing.
Mr N told the dealership he was looking for a particular make and model of a car but the 
dealership wasnt  able to find anything that suited his requirements.  Mr N asked to hand  the 
car back instead and to terminate the agreement. The dealership declined Mr Ns request.
Mr N complained to CLS Finance that hed been denied his right to voluntary terminate the 
agreement and leave  the car at the dealership.  He said that he had been told he could either 
renew the finance or voluntary terminate the agreement at that appointment.
There followed some  email  correspondence  between Mr N and the CLS Finance. Mr N was 
unhappy at the tone and content of some  of those emails.
CLS didnt uphold  Mr and Mrs Ns complaint. It said that the appointment at the dealership 
had been for the purpose of renewing the finance into another car and that there  had been  
no agreement to proceed with a voluntary  termination at that point and hand  the car back.  It 
said that the Collections Team dealt with all voluntary terminations and the Sales Team dealt 
with renewals. And as Mr and Mrs N had raised  renewal on several  occasions  the 
Collections Team had transferred them to the Sales Team for their renewal  to be handled by 
the right team.  It said there  was no note that Mr and Mrs N had raised voluntary termination 
with the Sales Team.
CLS said that the manager at the dealership  hadnt  been aware that Mr and Mrs N had 
wanted to voluntary terminate. It had considered the appointment to be for renewal only so it 
hadnt been unreasonable to decline to take the car when it hadnt  got confirmation  from 
CLS Finance  that a voluntary termination had been agreed.
CLS Finance  said that it hadnt been rude in its correspondence  with Mr N and that he had 
misunderstood the phrase plain  English  taking it as a reference to his assumed lack of 
understanding of the English language.
Ref: DRN82549012CLS Finance  confirmed  that Mr and Mrs N were entitled to voluntary terminate the 
agreement.
Mr and Mrs N were unhappy  at CLS Finances response to their complaint. They complained  
to this service.
Our investigator said that listening  to the calls between CLS Finances Collection Team and 
Mr and Mrs N she was satisfied that Mr and Mrs N had been clear they wanted a new car. 
The Sales Team  didnt record their phone calls so the content of those calls couldnt be 
verified.
The investigator said to decide what was likely to have happened  she would take into 
account the usual process,  together with the evidence  that had been provided  and what  she 
thought was reasonable. As the Sales Team didnt deal with voluntary terminations and the 
calls with the Collection  Team had been about renewal she didnt think voluntary termination 
had been raised  with the Sales Team. The investigator said she thought  the purpose of the 
appointment at the dealership had been to renew the finance agreement. And that the 
dealership hadnt acted  unreasonably in declining  to allow Mr N to terminate  his agreement 
at that appointment and leave the car with them.
The investigator said she didnt think CLS Finance had declined Mr and Mrs Ns right to 
terminate as it had confirmed they were  still entitled  to do so. It was just that the voluntary 
termination at the appointment  with the dealership hadnt been  appropriate.  So she didnt 
think CLS Finance had acted unfairly  to Mr and Mrs N.
However, the investigator said that looking at the email correspondence  although she didnt 
think CLS Finance had meant to cause offense the tone of the email had been inappropriate. 
She said that CLS Finance shouldve been more professional in their response.  She said 
that an award of £50 compensation to Mr N for the distress and inconvenience  caused for its 
failure to maintain an appropriate level of customer service in tis emails was fair and 
reasonable. 
Mr and Mrs N say they are disappointed in our investigators opinion. CLS Finance says that 
any compensation to Mr N is inappropriate.  It says the emails to Mr N were addressing his 
allegation of being racially profiled and that it was appropriate to challenge  his assertion.
As the parties were unable tom agree the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen that once Mr and Mrs N had reached the point of having paid 50% of the total 
amount of credit payable  under the agreement they raised the option of voluntary 
termination. 
CLS Finance  says that voluntary termination is handled by the Collections Team while 
renewing a finance agreement  is handled by the Sales Team.
Listening to the calls that were  between Mr and Mrs N and the Collections Team I think its 
clear that they had wanted to acquire another car and renew the finance.  I appreciate  that 
Ref: DRN82549013there is a note about Mr N enquiring about  voluntary  termination in January  2018 but I didnt 
hear this topic being raised again in the calls to the Collections Team.  So I think  it was 
reasonable for Mr and Mrs N to be passed  to the Sales Team  to discuss  renewing  the 
agreement.
Ive been told that the Sales  Teams  phone calls arent recorded. Mr N says he raised  
voluntary termination  with this team when discussing his options. But CLS Finance says if 
that had been raised  Mr N wouldve  been  passed back to the Collections Team.  Mr and Mrs 
N appear to only have dealt with the Sales Team. So I think from the evidence that Ive seen 
that CLS Finance  reasonably expected  Mr and Mrs N to renew rather  than voluntary 
terminate. It had approved them for further finance. So I dont  think  it was agreed  that if Mr N 
was unable to find a suitable  car when visiting the dealership that he would  then 
automatically be able to voluntary terminate and leave the car behind. Looking  at CLS 
Finances usual processed I also think this wouldve been a highly unusual  arrangement  for 
the Sales Team  to have been  made.
So I dont  think the dealership acted  unfairly in declining to accept the car back at the 
appointment in July 2018. I also think that CLS Finance had been clear  that Mr and Mrs N 
had the right to voluntary terminate. And although Mr N wasnt able to hand the car back at 
that appointment I dont think I can reasonably say that CLS Finance was preventing him 
from voluntary terminating the agreement. It was just that handing the car back  to the 
dealership at that particular time wasnt appropriate.
Mr N complained to CLS Finance. Ive seen the emails between  it and Mr N. I dont think that 
some of this correspondence  maintains the level of professional customer service  that would 
be reasonably  expected  from CLS.  Mr N was annoyed at what  he considered to have been  a 
waste of his time trying unsuccessfully to return the car and terminate the agreement. He felt 
his rights as a consumer  werent being  recognised. 
Ive seen that in an email  CLS Finance says to Mr N that it Gave  you an answer. It was a 
straight answer written  in plain English. Mr N replies that he is unhappy at the reference  to 
his understanding of English in writing.  CLS Finance responds that it doesnt accept that Mr 
N was racially profiled  and says it finds the suggestion extremely  offensive. 
While I accept that CLS Finance didnt intend  to be rude to Mr N I think  the tone and 
phrasing of the email  containing the phrase  plain English gave the impression  of being curt 
and reasonably open to misinterpretation by Mr N. Mr N was expressing frustration and I 
dont think its unfair  to have expected a more  professional response. So I think it was the 
unfortunate wording  of the earlier email that had caused Mr Ns response. I think that £50 
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  caused to Mr N by the response to his 
emails is fair and reasonable.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Im asking  CLS Finance Ltd to pay Mr N £50 compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience  caused  to him by the email  correspondence.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 June  2019. 
Ref: DRN82549014Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8254901