K821x#15complaint
Mrs P complained about a number of loans  she took out through a company called 
Cashbridge Corporation Ltd, trading at the time as Credio. Mrs P says she was lent to 
irresponsibly and the loans caused her financial problems.
To keep  things simple  Ill refer mainly to Credio throughout this decision.
background
We now know that Mrs P took out some 8 loans from Credio  between  October  2015  and 
April 2016. Ive enclosed  a summary of Mrs Ps borrowing with Credio, based on the 
information it provided to us. It can be found  in the appendix at the end of this decision. 
One of our adjudicators looked  into the complaint and said they thought  it should  be upheld  
from the point of loan number  4 onwards. Credio initially  said it agreed with this but it has 
since failed to settle the complaint so it has come to me for an ombudsmans  final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. Ive followed this approach when thinking  about  Mrs Ps 
complaint.
Credio needed to take reasonable steps  to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice  
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to ensure that Mrs P could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks ought to have  taken into account a 
range of different factors, such as the amount being lent, the total repayment amount  and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks  
might be reasonable  and proportionate. However,  certain factors  might point to the fact that 
Credio should have fairly  and reasonably done more  to establish that any lending  was 
sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. So Credio  was required to establish  
whether Mrs P could  sustainably repay  the loans, not just whether the repayments  were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Ref: DRN85121132Of course,  the loan repayments being affordable on this basis might be an indication  that 
Mrs P could sustainably make the repayments.  But it doesnt automatically follow that this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without 
undue difficulties and in particular, the customer should be able to make repayments on 
time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments as well as without having to borrow  to 
meet the repayments. So, it follows that a lender  should realise, or it ought to have  fairly  and 
reasonably realised, that a borrower  wont be able to make their repayments  sustainably if 
they are unlikely to be able to make them without borrowing further.
Credio implied it carried out certain  checks before agreeing to lend to Mrs P, including 
assessing her income, expenditure  and creditworthiness.  It says that all this information 
showed that she would be able to make the loan repayments she was committing to.  
Ive looked carefully  at all this and also applied what Ive said above,  about the length of the 
lending relationship, to the circumstances of loans 1 - 3. And I dont think its clear enough at 
this particular point  that what Credio would have would have seen, from those  checks, would 
have suggested  that loans 1 - 3 were  unaffordable.  
I accept that Mrs P may have already been otherwise indebted at this point. However, 
theres no clear record of the type or depth  of financial checks that were carried  out at that 
time. So I dont agree  that Credio knew its lending was unsustainable  for Mrs P for loan 
numbers 1 - 3. I therefore dont uphold this part of the complaint.
However, I think from the point of loan 4 onwards, the situation  was different. By then, Mrs P 
had applied  for all 4 loans directly  after one another. And looking at the amounts she was 
asking to borrow, and her relatively  low income,  this should have easily exposed that more 
searching and comprehensive financial checks by Credio were called for. I think any 
reasonable assessment would have flagged up that Mrs P was in a potentially  vulnerable  
financial situation.
Theres no evidence that Credio did anything different however, such  as trying to establish 
whether her self-declared income and expenditure was correct or whether she was indebted 
to other  lenders.  Had it carried out appropriate  checks, it would have seen that Mrs P was 
indeed having  difficulties managing money and that she had other short-term loans. Our 
experience of short-term  lending  tells us that consumers who have difficulty  managing their 
money are less likely  to be able to sustainably repay  loans. In short, Credio  shouldnt  have 
lent her any more money because it was irresponsible  to do so. I therefore uphold  the 
complaint from the point  of loan number 4 onwards.
I also think the emerging pattern of repeated  lending  from the point of loan 7 onwards  in this 
case should have  caused Credio  to see Mrs P wasnt merely borrowing to deal with short-
term cash-flow problems; she was borrowing very regularly,  to address shortfalls in her 
income and to meet an ongoing need. Loan  7, for example, was taken out after 6 months of 
continual borrowing. So, she was having to consistently take out high interest, short-term 
lending over a sustained period and the indebtedness  caused by this type of borrowing was 
harmful, in my view. Credio ought to have realised  Mrs P was at risk of not managing  to 
repay the loans  sustainably  or getting into financial  difficulties. So Im also upholding  this 
complaint for this additional failure in respect of loans 7 and 8. Credio repeatedly  lent to Mrs 
P in an unsustainable manner because:
 
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging her indebtedness by allowing her to 
take expensive  credit intended  for short-term use, over an extended time period; and
Ref: DRN85121133the length of time over which Mrs P borrowed  was likely to have had negative 
implications on her ability  to access mainstream credit and so kept her in the market 
for these high-cost  loans
putting things right
In order to put things  right for Mrs P, Credio should:
refund  all interest and charges Mrs P paid on loans 4 - 8;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
remove any interest and charges still outstanding on loan 8 and treat any payments 
Mrs P made towards this loan as payments towards  the capital;
if reworking Mrs Ps loan 8 account as Ive directed results in her effectively having 
made payments  above the original  capital borrowed, then Credio  should  refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments,  from the date 
the overpayments would have arisen,  to the date of settlement. 
if reworking Mrs Ps loan 8 account leaves an amount of capital still to be paid, then 
Credio can use the total refund  to offset  this. And if there is still an outstanding capital 
balance then I would remind  it that it should  take a sympathetic view when seeking to 
agree an affordable  repayment plan with Mrs P for the remaining capital
remove any adverse information  recorded  on Mrs Ps credit file in relation to loans  4, 
5 and 6.
the loans 7 and 8 mean any information recorded about them is adverse. So all 
entries about loans  7 and 8 should be completely removed from Mrs Ps credit file;
if Credio has sold any debt it should  attempt to buy it back or otherwise ensure these 
directions are strictly complied with.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Credio to take off tax from this interest. It must  give Mrs P a certificate 
showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
I partially uphold  Mrs Ps complaint and I direct  Cashbridge Corporation Ltd to put things 
right for Mrs P as set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 May 2020.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN85121134Appendix
Loan Taken Out Repaid Amount Repayments Made
1 23/10/2015 27/10/2015 £50 £62.72
2 27/10/2015 01/11/2015 £75 £91.30
3 02/11/2015 03/01/2016 £100 £133.28 (£33.32 x 4)
4 03/01/2016 23/01/2016 £120 £137.85
5 24/01/2016 05/02/2016 £150 £171.20
6 09/02/2016 01/04/2016 £170 £225.12 (£56.28 x 4)
7 05/04/2016 14/04/2016 £200 £226.76
8 19/04/2016   Unknown £150                      Unknown
Ref: DRN8512113