K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs Fs complaint arises out of the redemption  of a mortgage  with Barclays  Bank  UK 
Plc. Because of a mistake  by Barclays solicitors, they received a refund of almost £10,000. 
Barclays recouped  this from Mr Fs savings account with the bank. Mr F has dealt with the 
complaint throughout.
Mr F wants Barclays to repay the money taken from his savings. He said that, by the time he 
was made  aware  of the error, hed already planned on how he was going to spend  the 
money. Alternatively, Mr F wants Barclays to grant him a further advance of £10,000.
In this decision, the solicitors were the agents  of Barclays. So where I refer to Barclays  in 
this decision, it also includes the solicitors.
background
Whats happened  here isnt in dispute,  so Ill summarise the facts briefly.
Mr and Mrs F were  re-financing their Barclays mortgage onto a new product. An early  
repayment charge  (ERC)  of £9,894 was due to Barclays  on closure of the first mortgage,  but 
as Mr and Mrs F were  taking out a new product, Barclays agreed to waive the ERC. At 
completion on 8 February 2018 Barclays solicitors made a mistake  they deducted the 
ERC amount of £9,894  from the settlement figure,  not realising that, in the redemption  
statement, Barclays had already deducted  this. As a result, the surplus  of £9,894  was sent to 
Mr and Mrs F. 
Barclays asked Mr and Mrs F to pay this back.  But Mr F told Barclays  that more than two 
months had passed  and that hed already spent the money. Because  this was an error  by 
Barclays and its solicitors,  Mr F didnt think he should have to repay  it. He told Barclays  its 
your problem make it go away and do it quickly please.
In the absence of any repayment  proposals from Mr F, on 15 June 2018 Barclays used its 
right of set-off and deducted the money  from Mr Fs Barclays savings account. Unhappy  
about this, Mr F complained to Barclays.
Barclays didnt agree that Mr and Mrs F should  be allowed to keep the £9,894, so it didnt 
uphold the complaint about that. But Barclays acknowledged that the way it dealt with the 
complaint could have been better. It paid Mr and Mrs F £600 compensation for this. 
Mr and Mrs F also complained to Barclays solicitors, and they paid compensation of £150 
for the error  it had made.
Mr and Mrs F complained to us. An investigator looked at the complaint  but didnt think  it 
should be upheld.  Mr F has asked for an ombudsman to review  the complaint.
I summarise the additional points Mr F has made:
Barclays took too long to realise it had made a mistake;
he assumed that Barclays redemption figure was correct,  and so spent the money;
it applied pressure  on him to repay the money,  and when he didnt, Barclays 
deducted it from his savings account  without  his approval;
Mr F has now had to borrow extra  money,  due to having spent the surplus  Barclays 
sent him;
Ref: DRN86463012we have only fined  Barclays £600;
the Financial Ombudsman Service has taken a ridiculous amount of time to make a 
decision and then just agrees with [Barclays].
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive some disappointing 
news for Mr and Mrs F  Im not upholding the complaint. These are my reasons.
I dont think Barclays took too long to realise  it had made a mistake.  The error  came to light 
internally on 2 March  2018.  After  an internal  investigation, it was established what had 
happened by mid-April  2018. I see that in an email dated 21 April 2018  Mr F says he was 
contacted by the solicitors on Tuesday or Wednesday of the previous week. 
Where a mistake is made by a financial business, what  I have to do is to consider what the 
respective parties  positions would have been if the mistake hadnt been  made.  In this case, 
a mistake by the solicitors  meant  that Barclays was almost £10,000 short  on closure  of 
Mr Fs previous mortgage account, and Mr and Mrs F had about £10,000 more than they 
should have received from the proceeds of their remortgage.  I note that theyd told the 
solicitors theyd expected  to receive about £58,000 from the remortgage,  but instead were 
paid over £70,000.
My overarching duty under our enabling legislation, the Financial Services and Markets Act 
2000, is that Im required to do whats fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances  of the 
case. And in the circumstances specific to this case,  I cant  see that it would be fair or 
reasonable to allow  Mr and Mrs F to keep the surplus funds.  If the mistake hadnt  been 
made, Mr and Mrs F wouldnt  have had that money at all.
On the complaint from Mr F says: I think that it would be an interesting contractual Legal 
case whereby a mortgage is settled in accordance with the completion statement. Surely  any 
subsequent recovery  of money  should be between Barclays  and Optima? I dont know  if 
Mr F is a qualified  lawyer  but I am. So I will clarify  the legal position in relation to this 
complaint. 
There are clear legal  principles supported by case law establishing  the doctrines of what  is 
known as unjust  enrichment and restitution. A party that has been unjustly enriched  is 
under a legal  obligation  to reverse the position (known as restitution) so that there has been  
no detriment to the other party.
The law of restitution applies when one person has been unjustly enriched by another,  due 
to a payment  mistakenly made to them. The fact that the recipient  honestly believes they 
were entitled  to receive money is not a valid defence. This rule of law applies equally to 
banks and private individuals. 
There are very limited circumstances  in which someone who receives money  by mistake 
wouldnt be required to repay it. But it is no defence  to say that the money  has already been 
spent or earmarked for spending. This is particularly  so where  the recipient is made aware of 
the error,  but then fails to take any action to repay the money which  they then know they 
should not have had. 
Ref: DRN86463013Nor would it be fair  and it is no legal defence  to argue, in the circumstances of this case,  
that just because Barclays is a large multi-national bank with substantial resources it should 
simply absorb and write off the loss of £10,000.  That wouldnt be fair or reasonable. If the 
situation was reversed and by mistake  Mr and Mrs F paid £10,000 more than they had to, I 
think its unlikely theyd  think it was fair for Barclays to argue  it was allowed to keep the 
money, because it was Mr and Mrs F whod made the error.
Once Mr and Mrs F became aware  of the situation, they were under a duty to make  
restitution by reimbursing  Barclays for the overpayment.  But Mr Fs response  was that this 
was down to Barclays and the solicitors  to sort out between themselves, and he intended to 
keep the money.  Because restitution wasnt made within a reasonable time of Mr and Mrs F 
knowing the true position, Im satisfied Barclays acted reasonably  in exercising its right of 
set-off to recoup the funds from Mr Fs savings account.
Mr F is also unhappy at the length of time Barclays complaints team took to deal with his 
complaint. But complaint-handling isnt a regulated activity, so thats not something I can 
comment on. Barclays has paid Mr and Mrs F £600  compensation  for trouble and upset in 
relation to this matter.  Mr and Mrs F have also received £150 from the solicitors. I think this 
is fair in all the circumstances and I dont require Barclays to do anything  further.
In this respect, I must  explain to Mr F that we arent a regulator and so we dont have any 
power to fine Barclays. The £600 compensation is for trouble and upset caused by the 
mistake  its not a penalty or a fine Barclays has to pay for misconduct.
Given Mr Fs stated  dissatisfaction with both Barclays and the Financial  Ombudsman  
Service, if he and Mrs F reject this decision it wont be legally binding on them or Barclays.  
Mr and Mrs F will then be free to pursue their grievances against Barclays through  the 
courts, should they wish to do so. They may want to take legal advice before embarking on 
any court  action.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint  because Im satisfied  the compensation of 
£600 paid by Barclays Bank  UK Plc is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this 
case.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 March 2019.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8646301