K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs A say Newcastle Building Society  (NBS) mis-sold them  a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy for their mortgage  in 1993 and again with a further advance in 1998.
background
This complaint is about a regular premium  PPI policy taken out with a further advance  on a 
mortgage in 1993 and later amended in 1998  to cover more additional borrowing. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think we should uphold the complaint about the 1993 sale. But they 
did think the complaint  about the policy being  amended in 1998 should be upheld. NBS 
disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs As case.  
1993 sale
I dont think this policy was mis-sold  and Ill explain  why below.
Theres not a lot of information available from the sale to show me how PPI was presented  
to Mr and Mrs A. Mr and Mrs A say the cover was added without them knowing about it. 
NBS say it would have made it clear there  was a choice in buying  PPI  and it would have 
got their consent  before  adding the cover. Where theres a dispute  about what happened, I 
have to base my decision on what I think is most likely to have happened  taking into 
account all the evidence thats  available.
Because theres limited information available,  its difficult for me to know what happened.  
NBS has sent me a copy of a sample application form from around the same time 
Mr and Mrs A were  sold the PPI. I think  its likely  Mr and Mrs A would have had to complete 
something identical or very similar to this in order to get the cover.  The wording on the form 
suggests that the cover was optional when  taking a mortgage. And I think it likely  
Mr and Mrs A would have signed  to confirm they wanted to buy it. So without  further 
information, I cant fairly say that the PPI wasnt presented as optional  or that the cover 
was added without  Mr and Mrs A knowing about  it.
I dont think NBS recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs A  so it didnt have to check  it was 
right for them. But it did need  to make sure it gave them enough information about the cover 
so they could decide for themselves if they wanted  to buy it. 
Ref: DRN85780922Although I agree that NBS might  not have  done everything it needed to do when pointing out 
some of the main features  of the policy. I dont think better information would have put 
Mr and Mrs A off buying the cover. I say this because Mr A was eligible to buy the cover. 
And I dont  think hed have been affected  by any of the main  things that might  have made  it 
difficult for him to make a successful claim. Mr A told us he was employed and in good 
health. He says he would have got some sick pay if he was away from work due to illness  
and he would have  had some savings. But the policy would have paid out in addition to 
Mr As employment benefits  and savings, so the cover  could  have proved useful to him if he 
had an accident,  became  ill or lost his job.
It isnt clear if NBS made the cost of the policy clear to Mr and Mrs A but taking everything 
into account, I think if Mr and Mrs A had properly understood  the cost and benefit  provided 
they wouldve  thought the policy  potentially useful.
So overall, Im not satisfied that NBS did everything  it needed  to when it sold this policy to
Mr and Mrs A. But I think they knew they had a choice about  taking the PPI and I think they 
would still have taken  out the cover at this time if theyd been  properly  informed about  it.
1998 amendment  to the policy
I think Mr and Mrs As PPI policy was mis-sold here,  and Ill explain why.
NBS have said that this policy was a continuation  of the policy that was sold in 1993. And I 
agree that this is likely  to be the case.  Even  though this wasnt a new sale of the policy,  the 
cover was still being amended to take into account  the additional borrowing. And NBS still 
have a duty to make  sure the information about  the policy was presented to Mr and Mrs A in 
a way that was clear   any of the main exclusions and limitations to the cover  ought to have 
been brought to Mr and Mrs As attention. And I dont  think NBS did this.
I say this because  Mr A became a director of a company prior to this PPI being amended. 
And I can see from the information  provided that he considered himself to be a self-
employed director. NBS have said that directors  are employees of companies, but this isnt 
always the case. And I have no reason to disbelieve the information that has been provided  
from around the time the PPI was amended. 
Ive looked at the terms of the policy and I think it would  have been difficult for Mr A to make 
a successful unemployment claim. 
I dont think Mr and Mrs A wouldve  continued  with the policy  if NBS had given them enough 
information about it  and highlighted  the main exclusions of the policy  to them.  So, I think 
Mr and Mrs A have  lost out because  of what NBS did wrong when it amended this policy in 
1998. 
NBS have referred back to a document Mr and Mrs A signed to say theyd read the terms 
and conditions of the cover. But this doesnt change my decision.  I say this because  I cant  
see anywhere that the particular term relating to self-employed people was highlighted to 
Mr and Mrs A. And I think it would seem  unusual that theyd continue with the cover  had they 
have known that part of the policy wouldnt have been of any use to them.
Ref: DRN85780923Ultimately NBS was duty bound to sufficiently bring significant terms to the attention  of 
Mr and Mrs A. Im not persuaded it did this. And I think Mr and Mrs A has lost out because of 
this. If NBS had done what  it was supposed  to I think it likely  that Mr and Mrs A wouldnt 
have bought the PPI. And so theyve lost out by paying for something  they wouldnt have 
otherwise paid for. So NBS should  put them back into the position  they would otherwise 
have been in.
As such I think  this complaint about the policy being  amended in 1998  should be upheld.
putting things right
Please note that the below ought  to be calculated from when the policy was amended in 
1998:
NBS should put Mr and Mrs A in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out PPI. 
The policy should  be cancelled,  if it hasnt  been  cancelled already, and NBS should:
Pay Mr and Mrs A back  the amount they paid each month  for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The 
rate of interest is 8% a year from then on.
If Mr and Mrs A made a successful claim under  the PPI policy,  NBS can take off what  
they got for the claim  from the amount it owes them.  
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires NBS to take off tax from this interest.  NBS must give Mr 
and Mrs A a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if they ask for one. Mr and Mrs A 
can claim back the tax if they dont  pay tax.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr and Mrs As complaint about the policy  
amendment in 1998.
But I dont uphold the complaint about the sale of the PPI from 1993.
Newcastle Building  Society should put things  right by doing  what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 March  2019.
Sophie Wilkinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8578092