K822xcomplaint
Mrs P complains about Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limiteds settlement of her 
pet insurance claim.
background 
I set out the background  to this complaint and my provisional conclusions by way of a 
provisional decision  a copy of which is attached and forms part of this final decision. 
I explained why I thought  the term annual condition limit was clear in Mrs Ps policy terms 
and conditions. I also explained why I didnt think it was fair for Red Sands to deduct the £99 
excess fee from the £500 annual condition limit. And I concluded  that Red Sands needed  to 
pay Mrs P an additional  £99.
I invited Mrs P and Red Sands to provide any more evidence or arguments they wanted to 
submit before I made  my final decision.  Red Sands  accepted my provisional decision, but 
Mrs P did not. Mrs P asked for confirmation that Id listened to the call recordings on file.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.
I note Mrs Ps comment about whether Ive looked at everything on file and listened to the 
calls between her and the broker of the policy. I can assure her I have but this information 
hasnt changed  my decision. As I said in my provisional decision, Ive looked at the term 
annual condition limit and based on the information  available;  I explained why I didnt think  
the term was unclear.  So I have no reason to depart from my provisional  decision.
my final decision
I uphold Mrs Ps complaint in part.
I order Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited pay Mrs P an additional £99. They  
should also add simple interest  at 8% per year from the date this element of her claim should 
have been paid to the date they send  this further payment*. 
Ref: DRN84788772Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 July 2019.
Leanne McEvoy
ombudsman
*If Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe)  Limited considers that its required by HM
Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that interest it should tell Mrs P how much
its taken off. It should also give Mrs P a certificate  showing this if she asks for one, so she
can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN84788773copy provisional decision
complaint
Mrs P complains about Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limiteds settlement of her pet 
insurance claim.
background
In 2014, Mrs P took out an annual basic  pet insurance  policy with Red Sands  which renewed each 
year, to cover  her dog. Last year, Mrs Ps dog was rushed  to the vets for emergency treatment.
When Mrs P went  to make a claim, she was told there was an annual condition limit of up to £500. 
Therefore, Red Sands wouldnt cover the full cost of the claim Mrs P wanted to make.
Mrs P said when she read her most recent policy  document; she thought  she wouldve been able to 
make a claim of up to £3,000 for this treatment.  Mrs P says the policy terms arent clear and had she 
fully understood  the policy limits, she would  have  chosen  alternative cover. Mrs P asked for Red 
Sands to pay any additional costs, up to £3,000, for the emergency treatment her dog underwent.
Red Sands  say each year the policy was renewed, Mrs P was sent the policy terms and conditions  in 
addition to her policy schedule. They say the policy schedule confirms the annual condition limit as 
£500 and the annual policy limit as £3,000  (total  annual  amount for all conditions). So they felt the 
information given to Mrs P about the policy  limits were clear.
Red Sands  assessed Mrs Ps claim  and paid £401 towards the total cost of it. They deducted the £99 
excess fee from the annual condition limit cost of £500.
Our adjudicator looked  into this complaint. He concluded that although there was no explanation of 
the term annual condition limit that it wasnt unclear as it was clear  there were two types of policy  
limits. He also said the benefits of the policy  remained the same from 2014 (when  Mrs P first took out 
the pet insurance policy)  through  to 2018 (when Mrs P made  the claim)  so she had opportunities  to 
question the level of benefit in case of a claim.  Mrs P didnt agree. She said Red Sands failed to 
provide an explanation of the terms and remains  of the opinion that the terms were unclear. So the 
complaint has been passed  to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Under ICOBS 2.2.2 Red Sands have an obligation to provide their customers  with information  that is 
clear, fair and not misleading. So Ive considered  this rule when  deciding whether  I think  the 
information Red Sands  provided to Mrs P about her pet insurance policy was clear.
Red Sands  have sent me a copy of Mrs Ps policy  schedules from 2014 to 2018. Theyve also sent 
me a copy of some  of the policy terms and conditions  that would have been sent alongside  the policy 
schedules which Ive carefully  looked at to decide if I think the policy information  was clear to Mrs P.
On the policy schedule, I can see it included  a box called Summary of cover.  This section included a 
breakdown of the policys maximum benefits under  the heading  vet fees per condition. This includes 
three types of cost:
Lifetime Condition Limit  N/A
Annual Condition Limit - £500
Annual Policy Limit (ie. total annual amount for all conditions) - £3,000
Ref: DRN84788774At the top of each policy schedule, it says Please  read the documents  carefully  to ensure that what  
we are offering  meets  with your individual requirements.
From looking  at the fees on the policy  schedule, I think the annual  condition limit of £500 was 
reasonably prominent in the policy  therefore, I think the term was clear. Its clear that these are the 
costs per condition as it falls under the vet fees per condition heading. The annual policy limit 
includes an extra line to clarify this is the total annual amount for all conditions. I cant  say that this 
information is ambiguous  theres a clear distinction between the two types of limit one being  the 
policy limit (which is the total annual amount for all conditions) and one being the amount paid out for 
a condition in a year.
Ive also looked at the policy terms and conditions that Red Sands have sent me from 2015 to 2018.  I 
can see they include a section on costs  for vet fees and the different types of cover it provides.  Ive 
looked at the information under the basic cover heading as this was the cover chosen by Mrs P.
In this section, I can see it provides the cost of the annual condition limit and annual policy limit.  I 
appreciate Mrs P says the policy doesnt include a definition of what  annual condition  limit means.  
But I dont think it needs to because I think the wording  is clear enough in itself. As Ive mentioned, I 
think its clear that there  were two types of limits that applied to the insurance  cover Mrs P chose to 
have. And I think the difference between the two limits  was clear.
Mrs P says in the policy  documents, there was an asterisk next to annual condition limit and annual  
policy limit so she thought there would have been some explanation  of what the terms mean. Red 
Sands explained the asterisks refer to the information about the excess and co-payment (if 
applicable) at the bottom of that section. If Mrs P was unsure  at any point,  I think she couldve 
contacted Red Sands to clarify her policy  benefits before  each renewal. But I dont have  any 
information to show me Mrs P contacted Red Sands to clarify the policy benefits  at any point during  
the time Mrs P had the policy.
Based on this, I think the policy schedule and the terms and conditions set out the annual condition 
limit of £500 clearly. And I dont  think Red Sands did anything wrong in providing Mrs P with 
information about the condition limit.
Ive also looked at whether Red Sands have settled Mrs Ps claim  fairly and in line with the terms and 
conditions. I can see the claim  Mrs P made was for over £1000. So Red Sands said it would  only pay 
£500  the annual condition limit  and they then deducted the policy excess  for that meaning Mrs P 
was paid £401.
Mrs Ps claim was more than the £500 annual  condition  limit so I think  its fair that, as the limit 
suggests, the most Red Sands pay her is £500. From the policy schedule, I can see Red Sands were  
entitled to apply a £99 excess. However, I dont think its fair to deduct this from the £500 limit. I say 
this because this would mean a consumer could never claim the full limit if they needed  to make 
claims up to or more  than this amount in a policy year. I think it would be fair to deduct the excess  
from the full claim amount and then apply the condition  limit. That means  Mrs P should  have been 
paid £500.
I understand Red Sands  have already paid Mrs H £401 for her claim. So they should pay her an 
additional £99, plus interest.
Ref: DRN84788775my provisional  decision
Im intending  to partly  uphold  this complaint.
Im intending  to require Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited  pay Mrs P an additional 
£99. They should also add simple interest at 8% per year from the date this element  of her claim 
should have been paid to the date they send this further payment*.
Leanne McEvoy
ombudsman
*If Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe)  Limited  considers that its required by HM
Revenue & Customs to take off income  tax from that interest it should  tell Mrs P how much
its taken  off. It should also give Mrs P a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she
can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN8478877