K821x#15complaint 
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. Mr C says 
Lloyds Bank  PLC, trading  as TSB,  (Lloyds) mis-sold him the PPI. 
background
Mr C complained to Lloyds about  the sale of the PPI. Lloyds replied  to say it hadnt mis-sold 
him the policy. Unhappy  with Lloyds response  Mr C asked this service  to step in.
Our adjudicator didnt think we should uphold the complaint. Mr C disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint was passed to me.
I issued my first provisional  decision  in May 2018  explaining why I didnt  think  the PPI had 
been mis-sold. Mr C disagreed with this and provided further  information  for me to consider 
before I reached my final decision. 
I issued my second provisional decision  in December  2018, a copy  of which is attached  and 
forms part of this final decision. In my second  provisional decision I explained why I was still 
not intending to uphold  Mr Cs complaint. In summary, based  on the limited information 
available, I didnt  think there was enough evidence to suggest Lloyds had done something 
wrong.
However, I did find that Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit share (more than
50% of the PPI premium)  - so it should have told Mr C about that. Because Lloyds didnt tell
Mr C, that was unfair.
So I said that Lloyds  needed to pay back to Mr C any commission  and profit share it got that 
was more than 50% of the PPI premium. And Lloyds needed to pay back  to Mr C any extra 
interest he paid because of that.
Lloyds didnt respond to the provisional decisions.  Mr C has provided further comments  in 
response to my second provisional decision. 
Mr C maintains the following points; 
the policy was sold in 1995 and not 1972.  Mr C says Lloyds have  muddied  the waters  
by suggesting  that the policy commenced  in 1972 as it would have been clear  to 
Lloyds that it was not possible for a Gold Card  protection  policy  to be issued before a 
Gold Card had been issued.  
the importance of the date is that the policy was not suitable for him and shouldnt 
have been sold to him in 1995  due to his employment circumstances and potential  
management buy-out  of the company he worked for, which meant  he went on to 
become self-employed.
my findings 
Ive again reconsidered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
Ref: DRN86024862complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Cs case.
And having done that, Im still not persuaded that the policy  was mis-sold. Ill explain why. 
Mr C maintains that the credit card account upgrade application  in 1995 is when the policy  
started. He said the first premium was charged  in May 1995 and that he later queried this, 
and another charge, as he was unsure  of what they were for.
As set out in my second provisional decision in December 2018,  there  are questions over 
when the policy was actually sold - whether in 1972  or 1995. I considered whether the policy 
having been sold in 1995, would have made a difference to the outcome of the complaint  
and I didnt think that it did. 
Mr C has clarified  after reviewing the credit card upgrade application form that the 
handwriting is his and that he must  have  quickly filled in the form. Albeit he has commented 
that the tick in the PPI box is unlike the ticks in the other boxes on the form. Ive thought 
about this, but Mr C signed  the credit card upgrade application form. And as Mr C was 
applying for an account  upgrade, I think it more likely than not that he would have read the 
application form to make sure he agreed  to the information contained within  it before he 
signed it. So, had the PPI been sold in 1995 Im satisfied it would have been the result of 
Mr Cs decision  to take it knowing he didnt  have to.
I want to assure Mr C that I acknowledge his strength of feelings around the date the PPI 
was sold and why he feels Lloyds shouldnt have sold him the policy  in 1995. But as Ive 
previously explained  in my second provisional  decision, having looked at what  are likely  to 
have been the most  relevant policy terms and conditions over the course of 1995 and 1996,  I 
havent seen anything that would  have made  it more  difficult  for Mr C to make a claim  - even 
if he did go on to become self-employed. So, even if Lloyds was aware  that Mr Cs 
employment circumstances were about to change,  I still think  the policy was suitable for him. 
Ive thought about everything Mr C has said - including  what hes said about Lloyds having 
sold him other PPI policies alongside  loans in the early 2000s. Hes told us Lloyds 
compensated him for these because of the management  buy-out. However,  this decision is 
about the sale of PPI with the credit  card upgrade and so I cannot comment  on the other PPI 
policies taken out alongside  other products. 
Mr C has also said Lloyds had a continuing responsibility to make sure the PPI policy 
remained suitable - not only at the outset but on a continuing basis,  particularly paying 
attention to a change  of circumstances. While I acknowledge Mr Cs comment about this, 
Lloyds didnt have  a continuing duty to check the policy remained suitable. This said, had 
Lloyds recommended the policy to Mr C it would have  had to check that the PPI was right for 
him, based on his personal circumstances at the point of sale.   
As Ive mentioned  previously in my second  provisional decision, on this occasion, I dont 
know whether Lloyds would have advised  Mr C to take PPI had it been sold in 1995 as there  
are question marks over when the policy in question was actually sold.
But I dont think this is crucial to the outcome because, had Lloyds recommended  the policy,  
I think it would have  been a suitable recommendation for Lloyds to have made given what  I 
know about Mr Cs circumstances in both 1972 and 1995. It follows that once the policy  had 
Ref: DRN86024863started it would have been  the responsibility  of Mr C to make sure the policy remained 
suitable for him. 
Id like to assure Mr C that Ive thought carefully  about everything hes told me, but for the 
reasons Ive already explained,  Im not persuaded these change my decision. 
what the business needs  to do
Lloyds has to pay back to Mr C any commission and profit share it got that was more than
50% of the PPI premium. Lloyds should also pay back  to Mr C any extra  interest he paid 
because of that.
Lloyds should  re-work the credit  card account and pay back  to Mr C the difference  between 
what Mr C owes  and what he would have owed if the commission  and profit share it got 
hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Lloyds  should also pay Mr C 8%* simple 
interest (15% before April 1993) if he paid off his credit card at some  point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr C can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay 
tax.
 
my final decision 
For the reasons  given  above, I dont think the PPI policy was mis-sold. So Im not persuaded 
that Lloyds has to pay back the entire  cost of the PPI to Mr C.
But I do think that Lloyds  has to pay back to Mr C any commission  and profit share  it got that 
was more than 50% of the PPI premium.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 March  2019.
Staci Rowland
ombudsman
copy of 2nd provisional decision
complaint
This complaint is about  a credit card payment  protection insurance (PPI)  policy. Mr C says
Lloyds Bank  PLC, trading as TSB, (Lloyds) mis-sold him the PPI.
background
Mr C complained to Lloyds about  the sale of the PPI. Lloyds replied  to say it hadnt mis-sold him the 
policy. Unhappy with Lloyds  response Mr C asked this service to step in.
Ref: DRN86024864Our adjudicator didnt think we should  uphold the complaint. Mr C disagreed  with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint  was passed to me.
In May 2018,  I issued my first provisional  decision  and I invited both parties  to respond and send me 
any additional  evidence they wanted me to think about.
In summary,  based on the limited information available,  I didnt  think there was enough  evidence  to 
suggest Lloyds had done something wrong.
However, I did find that Lloyds  got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than
50% of the PPI premium)  - so it should  have  told Mr C about  that. Because Lloyds didnt tell
Mr C, that was unfair.
So I said that Lloyds needed  to pay back to Mr C any commission  and profit share  it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. And Lloyds needed to pay back  to Mr C any extra  interest he 
paid because  of that.
Lloyds didnt respond to the provisional decision. Mr C responded  with a number of points. Some  of 
these points dont appear to be the responsibility  of Lloyds as they concern events  that took place  
after the sale of PPI. So I havent considered  these in my findings. But if Mr C wants  to pursue  these 
further, he can make  a complaint to the insurer  in the first instance.
The points Mr C makes  in regard to what  he believes  was the sale are:
the policy  was sold in 1995  and not 1972  as suggested.
the policy  was not suitable for him and shouldnt have been sold to him due to his 
employment circumstances and a future buy-out of the company he worked  for, which meant 
he went  on to become self-employed.
my provisional  findings
Ive reconsidered all the available  evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
PPI on our website  and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Cs case.
And having done that, I still dont currently intend to uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Mr C maintains the policy was sold in 1995, so Ive considered whether this would have made  a 
difference to the outcome  of the complaint  and I dont currently think it does.
Lloyds has given me a copy of the credit card upgrade  application form that Mr C went through  in 
1995. Having looked at the form, there was a section on optional features. PPI was one of them  and 
the box for it was ticked.  Its possible Mr C didnt fill the form in himself. But he did go on to sign the 
form, agreeing  to the upgrade and PPI. So had the PPI been  sold in 1995,  I think that wouldve been 
the result of Mr Cs decision to take it knowing he didnt  have to.
In 1995, Lloyds would  have sold PPI in one of two ways: with or without a recommendation.  When a 
business sold PPI having  recommended it, the business had to make sure the policy was right for the 
consumer. It also had to give them  clear information about the policy. But if the business  didnt 
provide the consumer  with advice, it only had to give them the clear information they needed  to decide 
for themselves whether the policy  was right for them in light of their circumstances.
Ref: DRN86024865On this occasion, I dont  know whether Lloyds would  have advised  Mr C to take PPI had it been sold 
in 1995 as there are question marks over when  the policy  in question was actually  sold.
But this isnt crucial to the outcome because, had Lloyds  recommended the policy, I think  it wouldve  
been a suitable recommendation  to have made given what I know about his circumstances at the 
time.
Im aware Mr C feels Lloyds shouldnt have sold him the policy in 1995, knowing he would shortly be 
self-employed after he completed a management buy-out  of the company he worked for. This 
happened in 1996. Mr C says Lloyds was aware of his intention to carry out the buy-out for a long 
time as it was Lloyds that was providing  the secured borrowing for this.
However, having looked  at what are likely  to have been the most relevant policy terms and conditions 
over the course of 1995 and 1996, I havent  seen  anything that wouldve made  it more  difficult for him 
to make a claim   even if he did go on to become self-employed. So, even if Lloyds was aware that 
Mr Cs employment circumstances were about  to change, I still think  the policy  was suitable for him.
In addition  to making  sure the policy was suitable for Mr C, had Lloyds recommended it in 1995, 
Lloyds also had to provide him with clear information. Its possible Lloyds wouldnt have  done. But 
even if it didnt, for the same reasons I think a recommendation to take PPI in 1995  wouldve been 
suitable for Mr C, I dont think  better information about  the PPI would have put him off taking out the 
cover even had the policy been sold when he says it was.
Whats more, as I suggested  in my first provisional  decision,  had the policy been sold in 1972,  which 
is when Lloyds has assumed it was, there is very little information available to show what happened 
around that time. So, with that being the case, and because  there were a narrower  set of 
requirements on Lloyds than those set out above,  Im not inclined to reach a different outcome in this 
case whether  the policy was sold in 1972 or 1995.
As a result,  Lloyds doesnt  have  to pay back the entire cost of the PPI to Mr C. But Lloyds will pay 
back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr C because:
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - 
so it should have  told Mr C about that. Because Lloyds  didnt tell Mr C, that was unfair.
To put that right, Lloyds has offered to pay back the amount of commission and profit  share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this case.
what the business needs to do
Lloyds has to pay back to Mr C any commission  and profit share it got that was more  than 50% of the 
PPI premium. Lloyds should also pay back to Mr C any extra  interest he paid because  of that.
Lloyds should re-work the credit card account  and pay back to Mr C the difference between what  Mr C 
owes and what he wouldve  owed if the commission and profit share it got hadnt been over 50% of 
the cost of the PPI. Lloyds  should also pay Mr C 8%* simple  interest (15%  before April 1993) if he 
paid off his credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic  rate tax off this interest. Mr C can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont currently think the PPI policy  was mis-sold. So Im not persuaded  
at present that Lloyds  has to pay back the entire cost of the PPI to Mr C.
But I do currently think that Lloyds has to pay back to Mr C any commission and profit share  it
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.
Ref: DRN86024866
Ref: DRN8602486