K820x#14complaint
Miss W complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax)  declined a contactless  
payment.
background
In February 2019  Miss W ordered drinks from a coffee  shop  and paid contactlessly   using  
her Halifax  card. The payment was declined. Miss W tried to pay a second time using chip 
and pin which was successful.
Miss W says she was caused embarrassment and distress when the payment was declined. 
She complained to Halifax but felt that the complaint handler was rude to her. Miss W asked  
Halifax for a transcript of the call but says this hasnt  been provided  to her.
In its final response Halifax said it hadnt  declined the contactless payment and suggested 
Miss W take the matter  up with the coffee shop.
Miss W wasnt happy with the response  and complained to this service. Shes unhappy that 
the contactless payment was declined without explanation and feels  that the card terminal 
should have asked her for chip and pin straightaway. Miss W is also unhappy about the way 
in which  Halifax dealt  with her complaint.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She said there  was no evidence  to suggest that 
Halifax had declined the payment and that the display on the card terminal was outside  of 
Halifaxs control. The investigator said she had listened to the complaint call but didnt feel 
that the agent had been  rude.
Miss W didnt agree.  She felt that her payment had ben declined  by Halifax  and not as a 
result of a technical glitch. She remained unhappy  that Halifax had failed  to provide her with 
a transcript of her complaint call and said shed requested this twice.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand how embarrassing  it can be when a card is declined.  I also understand how 
frustrated Miss W feels because she can see from her receipt that her contactless payment 
wasnt authorised.
Its not always the case that the bank is responsible for declined payments. There are a 
number of other reasons why a payment might  not be authorised., including (amongst 
others) exceeding the daily limit for usage, using  the card in a place  where it isnt usually  
used or failure  of the card terminal  to connect  to the authorising bank.
Halifax has said that it didnt block or decline Miss Ws card and that it doesnt  have  any 
record of the transaction on its system. This suggests to me that its more  likely than not that 
there was a problem  with the card terminal connecting to the authorising bank. I cant  fairly 
hold Halifax responsible for this because card terminals are provided by a third party.
Ref: DRN81424362For the same reason,  I cant fairly  hold Halifax responsible for the messages which  are 
displayed on the card terminal or printed  off on the receipt. 
I appreciate that Miss W is unhappy  about the way in which Halifax handled her complaint.  
Ive listened to the call dated 27 February  2019.  I understand  that Miss W was distressed 
when the agent told her that Halifax hadnt  declined the payment. However, I dont think  the 
agent was rude to Miss W.
I agree  that Halifax couldve  made it clearer to Miss W that she needed  to make a special 
request for the call transcript. Its still open to Miss W to do so. But I should say that, having 
listened to the call, Im of the view that the transcript wont alter the decision Ive reached.
Im sorry  to hear that Miss W experienced embarrassment but on the available evidence Im 
unable to say that Halifax  has done anything wrong,  so I wont  be asking it to do anything  
further.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 October  2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8142436