K820x#14complaint
Mrs F complains about a default recorded  by Barclays Bank UK PLC on her credit  file. She 
says she couldnt  get the mortgage she wanted  because of the default.
background
Mrs F and her ex-husband  had a joint mortgage  with a lender that was later taken over by 
Barclays. They repaid  the mortgage in 2003. The account had a linked Reserve  Account  
that became an ordinary  bank account  once the mortgage had been repaid.
Barclays took over the account in 2007. There was a small balance  remaining on the bank 
account, and it eventually defaulted  in 2014. Mrs F only became aware of this when she tried 
to arrange a mortgage in February 2019.  
Barclays accepted  that it hadnt kept Mrs F informed  of the position  on her account  when it 
took over responsibility  for it in 2007. It cleared the balance and removed the default from 
her credit file. Barclays also offered compensation of £175  for the trouble and upset  caused,  
which it later increased to £240.
Mrs F didnt  accept Barclays  compensation offer. She said shed missed  out on the 
mortgage she wanted because of Barclays error, and had to arrange more expensive  
borrowing. She considered Barclays should cover her additional costs. 
Our investigator thought Barclays offer was fair. He wasnt persuaded that Mrs F had 
suffered any loss, even  though she hadnt secured  the original mortgage she wanted.
Mrs F didnt  agree with the investigators conclusions. She said Barclays  actions had 
restricted the mortgage options available  to her. Shed had to put a considerable amount of 
her savings towards the house purchase, to make her eventual  mortgage repayments 
affordable. As such, Mrs F didnt consider Barclays compensation properly reflected the 
financial loss she considered shed suffered.
A second investigator reviewed Mrs Fs complaint. But she wasnt  persuaded that Barclays 
default was the sole reason Mrs Fs original mortgage application  failed. So she didnt 
recommend Barclays should compensate Mrs F for the financial loss she said shed 
suffered. 
The second  investigator considered the compensation offered by Barclays was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.
Mrs F didnt  respond to the second investigators conclusions,  so the complaint has been  
passed to me for a final decision.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays accepts that it shouldve kept Mrs F informed  about the position on her account 
when it took over in 2007. Had it done  so, its unlikely  that the default wouldve been  
recorded on Mrs Fs credit file.
Ref: DRN88213952Barclays has cleared  the account balance, and removed the default from Mrs Fs credit file. 
Its also offered £240 for the trouble  and upset caused. But I need  to decide whether 
Barclays should pay anything more for the loss Mrs F says shes suffered.
Mrs F considers Barclays didnt act quickly enough  when  she first complained.  She says that 
if it had acted promptly the default  couldve been  removed in time for her to get the mortgage  
she wanted. 
I understand Mrs F first complained on 8 February  2019 and that Barclays  replied on 25 
February. I dont think thats an unreasonable amount of time for Barclays  to have  looked  
into Mrs Fs complaint and take action. And even if it had acted sooner, I dont think I can 
safely say that the default wouldve been removed in time for Mrs F to get the mortgage she 
wanted
I understand the original mortgage Mrs F wanted  had monthly repayments of £895 over 22 
years. When  that mortgage application was turned  down, Mrs F got a quote from a different 
lender. Weve been told that the monthly  repayments were £1,135 over 16 years. 
Mrs F says she couldnt afford  the monthly  repayments for the second mortgage. So she 
paid £50,000 in capital to make the repayments  more manageable. 
For me to conclude that Barclays is responsible  for any financial loss Mrs F has suffered, Id 
need to be satisfied that the only reason her original mortgage application  failed was 
because of the default that remained on her credit  file in error.
Mrs F has previously offered to provide  her credit file, but to date I havent  seen  it and so I 
must reach my decision on the information  I do have. This shows  that that Mrs Fs mortgage 
application was made in joint names  with her current partner. So the lender wouldve taken 
his credit record into account when assessing the application.
I also note that the decline letter from the original lender said:
As part of the risk assessment  process,  we operate  an automated  credit  scoring  system  and 
regrettably the application has not achieved the required score.
There can be any number of factors that affect  an applicants credit  score - including  historic 
management of credit and existing borrowing, as well as any recorded defaults. As Ive 
already said Mrs Fs partners credit record wouldve also been  taken into account by the 
lender. 
When I take all of these  points into account,  I dont  think I can safely  say that the default  
recorded by Barclays  was the only reason Mrs Fs application failed. Which means I wont be 
asking Barclays to compensate Mrs F for the financial loss she considers it caused. .
Mrs F has referred  to interest  shes paid on a loan one of her relatives arranged  to help her 
while her house  sale was progressing. But I understand that this may be looked at as part of 
a separate complaint, so I wont  make  any findings on that point in this final decision.
Ref: DRN88213953I appreciate that it will have been  distressing  for Mrs F to discover the default on her credit 
file. So I can understand why she might  consider Barclays offer of £240 isnt enough. But as 
Ive already explained, I havent seen enough evidence  to persuade me that the default was 
the sole reason  Mrs Fs application failed. So it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to ask 
Barclays to compensate Mrs F for the financial loss she considers shes  suffered. 
The compensation Barclays has offered is for the trouble and upset  this matter has caused. 
When I take account of awards by this service  in complaints of a similar nature, Im satisfied 
that £240 is fair and reasonable.
my final decision
My decision  is that Barclays Bank  UK PLC should  pay £240 to Mrs F if it hasnt already done 
so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 April 2020.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8821395