K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains as a director of D, a limited company, that Liverpool Victoria Insurance 
Company Limited  (LV) refused a claim on Ds business protection insurance  and voided  
the policy.
background
Mr P is a director  of D, a company that runs a retail business.  He bought a business 
protection policy for D in January 2016, which was renewed in 2017  and again in 2018. 
In August  2018  there was some flooding at the business premises  and Mr P made a claim in 
respect of damage and loss caused by the flooding.
When LV investigated  the claim it refused to pay and decided  to void Ds policy. LV said that 
when Mr P bought  the policy for D, he should  have declared that hed previously been a 
director of another  company that went into liquidation and was wound  up. And LV said if it 
had been told about this it would  not have offered the insurance to D.
On behalf of D, Mr P complained to LV and then to this service. LV didnt change its decision 
and our investigator didnt  think the complaint should be upheld.  He said Mr P had 
misrepresented the risk and he was satisfied LVs underwriting  evidence confirmed that 
insurance would not have  been offered if there  had not been  a misrepresentation. He agreed  
with LV that there had been a reckless  breach,  so LV didnt need to refund the premiums to 
D.
D is represented by solicitors, who provided further comments to the investigator.  They didnt  
agree the underwriting  evidence was clear that cover would never have been offered, and 
said there was no evidence to show the breach had been deliberate or reckless; it was 
simply a mistake by Mr P. They also said the investigator had referred to the Insurance Act 
2015, but that wasnt in force when the policy first started, and would only apply at the later 
renewals.
The investigator accepted that the law had changed  but said if anything the previous law had 
been stricter. He didnt change his view.  So Ds solicitors  asked  for an ombudsmans  
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ds solicitors have pointed out, the law changed in 2016. Under the law in force  at the 
time when  the policy was sold in January 2016 (the Marine Insurance Act 1906) both the 
customer and the insurer had a duty of utmost good  faith.  So that duty applied  when the 
policy was sold. When the policy was renewed, the relevant law was the Insurance  Act 2015,  
under which theres  a duty to make  a fair presentation of the risk. This duty applied  at each 
renewal of the policy. 
Although the law changed,  in general terms the position was broadly similar; when buying  or 
renewing the policy the insured party  in this case,  D  was required  to disclose every 
Ref: DRN80821382circumstance they knew, or should  have known, which would influence a prudent insurer  in 
deciding whether to underwrite a risk or what premium to charge.  
In addition to the legal position, the documents  provided to D made clear how important it 
was to provide  relevant information. Mr P himself accepts that he was under a duty to 
provide material evidence. And he was specifically asked to confirm that within  the last 10 
years neither  he nor any directors  or partners in the business had been officers of a 
company that had been declared insolvent,  had a receiver or liquidator  appointed, or entered  
into arrangements with creditors.
Taking into account the statements in the form that Mr P was asked to confirm, the warnings  
about disclosing  information and the need  to say if anything  was incorrect, and the wider 
legal duty to disclose anything that would influence the insurers  decision about offering 
cover, my judgment is that Mr P knew (or should have known) that LV would have wanted to 
be told about the earlier insolvency. So this should have been disclosed. By not telling LV 
about this, D mispresented the risk and failed to meet its legal duty  whether the duty of 
utmost good  faith  or the duty make  a fair presentation of the risk.
If the insured party fails to disclose this kind of circumstance, and the insurer can show it 
would not have offered the policy if it had been disclosed, its entitled  to void the policy. And 
if the breach was deliberate or reckless, it doesnt  have to refund the premium to the insured.
Ive considered whether LV has shown the failure  to disclose insolvency would have made  a 
difference. The underwriting evidence shows the starting point in these circumstances is that 
the risk would be considered unacceptable and the underwriter has confirmed this. So cover 
wouldnt be offered. 
Ds solicitors have  referred to a court judgment  concerning the weight to be placed on 
evidence from an underwriter given  after the event and the fact this evidence  should be 
tested. I have considered  this. But looking  at the underwriting evidence Im satisfied what  the 
underwriter has said is consistent with the guidance LV was following at the time. So I think 
its reasonable to rely on their evidence.
The solicitors say even  if thats the case,  Mr P simply made a mistake;  there  wasnt a 
deliberate or reckless  breach.  LV says he was reckless. Having considered this carefully I 
agree this was reckless.  An insolvency  is a significant event. Although it was some  years 
earlier, I dont think its something one would simply forget. In my judgment, its something  
Mr P must have  been  aware of, and failing to disclose it in these circumstances was 
reckless. So LV doesnt have to repay the premiums.
Taking account of the relevant law, the policy  terms and all the circumstances,  I think LVs 
decision was fair.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Ref: DRN80821383Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P, on behalf  of 
D, to accept or reject my decision before 25 December 2019.
Peter Whiteley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8082138