K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs T have  complained about  Ageas  Insurance Limiteds handling of their car 
insurance policy.
Reference to Ageas  includes  their agents.
background
Mr and Mrs T have  had their car insurance  with Ageas for a number of years.  Mr T was the 
policyholder and Mrs T a named driver. Their  policy renewed on 5 October  each year 
through an insurance broker.
The premium for the policy year that started on 5 October 2015 cost £346.29. I should say 
that all the premium figures  I refer to in this decision dont include add on benefits or interest 
because Mr and Mrs T paid by finance. In January  2016, Mr and Mrs T changed the car on 
their policy and their address. Ageas charged  them a pro-rata additional premium of £175.21  
for those  changes.
In July 2016, Mr and Mrs Ts car suffered minor  damage while  I understand it was parked  
and unattended. Mr and Mrs T claimed on their policy.  The cost of repairing their car was 
£720.64. Mr and Mrs T paid an excess of £300  and the remaining £420.64 was paid by 
Ageas. Ageas recorded the incident  on a shared insurance database  as being a fault claim 
against the policy.
In September  2016, Mr and Mrs T were sent a renewal offer for the policy  year starting  on 
5 October 2016. It said their renewal premium was £542.88. The premium took account of 
the fault claim made in the previous policy year. But a few days before the policy was due to 
start, Mr and Mrs T changed address and told Ageas.  Ageas  recalculated their premium  and 
said the new address  reduced their annual premium  by £85.47.  As Mr and Mrs T didnt pay 
for their policy in advance  but did so by instalments, they didnt get a refund but a reduction,  
which I understand was reflected in the reduced  monthly instalments they paid. So, the 
overall cost of the premium for the policy starting  on 5 October  2016, according  to Ageas, 
was £457.41.
In September  2017, Mr and Mrs T received a renewal offer. It said their renewal premium for 
the policy year starting on 5 October 2017 was £943.83. The renewal notice also said that 
their premium for the previous policy year had cost £800.44. Mr and Mrs T found  the renewal 
quote to be excessive and they knew the amount said to be what they paid the previous year 
was wrong. Mr and Mrs T were also unhappy  about a number of other  things, so, they 
complained. They said Ageas told them that they could reduce their premium for the 
October 2017 policy if they paid the £420.64  that Ageas  paid to repair  their car following their 
claim in July 2016.
Mr and Mrs T paid Ageas  the £420.64.  Thats referred to in the insurance industry as buying  
back the claim. Once that happened, Ageas said they changed the classification of the claim 
from a fault claim to a non-fault claim on the shared insurance database. And Ageas 
recalculated Mr and Mrs Ts renewal premium for the policy  year starting  on 5 October 2017, 
as £343.92.
In their response to Mr and Mrs Ts complaint,  Ageas  said that there  was a technical issue 
that caused their renewal  letter  to say the premium paid for the previous year was £800.44. 
Ref: DRN80663222Ageas said that figure should  have  been  approximately £494.45.  Ageas also said that their 
renewal offer of £943.83 for the policy year starting on 5 October 2017 was wrong. They  said 
it should have  been £800.17. Ageas  said they hadnt taken into consideration Mr and Mrs Ts 
change of address  on 3 October 2016.  As the new address was considered  a lower risk it 
reduced the premium.  So, while the correct premium offered should have been £800.17, 
because Mr and Mrs T bought back the claim and the incident was changed to a non-fault 
claim, the renewal premium reduced  to £343.92.  Ageas later said they had made another 
error and the actual  renewal premium should have been £464.77 but they didn't ask Mr and 
Mrs T to pay the difference. Ageas said Mr and Mrs T therefore benefitted by paying  around 
£120 less for the renewal policy.
As Mr and Mrs T remained unhappy they brought their complaint  to us. I should  say that 
before they did so, they complained about  the broker  involved in their policies. And it was 
during the complaint about their broker that it came to light that Mr and Mrs T were due a 
refund for their policy that started on 5 October 2016. When  Mr and Mrs T bought  back  the 
claim and the July 2016 incident changed  to a non-fault  claim,  Ageas should have 
retrospectively recalculated their premium for the October 2016 policy.  Ageas did that and 
refunded Mr and Mrs T £115.21  sometime after our adjudicator gave his view in June 2018 
on the complaint  about the broker. That meant that the total cost of the premium for the 
policy that started on 5 October 2016 was £342.20.
One of our adjudicators looked  into Mr and Mrs Ts complaint. She felt that Ageas actions 
were reasonable. As Mr and Mrs T didnt agree with our adjudicator, the complaint  was 
passed to me to decide.
My provisional decision was issued on 12 March 2020. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im intending to 
uphold this complaint in part. Ill explain why.
errors in the calculations  of premiums
Mr and Mrs T became concerned after they received Ageas offer for the 5 October 
2017 policy renewal. What  followed  after that was a lot of correspondence between  
Ageas and Mr and Mrs T. There have been  a number of errors by Ageas which  has 
caused a great deal of confusion. Ageas  errors have, understandably,  caused Mr 
and Mrs T to lose faith in them and to doubt  the accuracy of the premiums they were 
charged for the policy renewals in October  2016 and 2017.
The information about the 5 October 2016 policy is as follows:
Ageas  said the cost of the renewal  premium offered in their September  2016 offer 
letter was £542.88.
Ageas  said when Mr and Mrs T notified  Ageas  of their change  of address on 
3 October 2016, the renewal premium was recalculated and reduced by £85.47.  
That would mean the cost of the annual premium would have reduced to £457.41 
(£542.88  £85.47).
But Mr and Mrs T said the premium didnt reduce by £85.47. They said that figure 
was wrong as it included the total interest that would have been charged because 
they were paying in instalments. Mr and Mrs T said the change of address 
Ref: DRN80663223reduced the premium  by £76.34, which meant the cost of the premium for that 
policy year was £466.54 (£542.88  £76.34).
Ageas  later said that once Mr and Mrs T bought back  the July 2016 claim, the 
premium was again recalculated to take into account the claim had changed from 
a fault to a non-fault  claim. Ageas said the recalculation  meant the annual 
premium reduced by £115.21  to £426.67. That would suggest  the annual  
premium after the reduction for the change  of address was £541.88 (£426.67  + 
£115.21). I think Ageas are mistaken because the original  premium  before the 
reduction for the change of address was £542.88. So, after reducing the original 
premium for the change  of address using either Ageas figure  of £85.47  or Mr and 
Mrs Ts figure  of £76.34, the premium  would have been either £457.41 (£542.88  
 £85.47) or £466.54 (£542.88  £76.34). That would  mean  the final annual 
premium after the reduction for the claim  being non-fault  would have been  either  
£342.20 (£542.88  £85.47 - £115.21)  or £351.33  (£542.88   £76.34   £115.21).  
I think when calculating the reduction for the claim changing to non-fault  Ageas 
did so by wrongly using the starting  point  as the original premium  (albeit  
mistakenly using £541.88  rather than £542.88) rather than using the starting point 
as the premium after a reduction  for the change of address  was made.
Ageas  later said based on the actual premiums the October 2016 premium  
should have been  approximately £494.45.
In their renewal offer dated  13 September 2017,  Ageas said Mr and Mrs T had 
paid £800.44 for the policy that started  on 5 October 2016. In a letter to Mr and 
Mrs T dated 11 October 2017, Ageas said the renewal offer had said the 
premium paid for the previous  year was £844.
The information about the 5 October 2017 policys premium is as follows:
The cost of the renewal premium  offered  in Ageas September 2017 offer letter 
was £943.83.  In a letter to Mr and Mrs T dated 11 October  2017, Ageas  said the 
renewal offer said the premium was £905.83.
Ageas  said when they offered  the renewal premium they failed to take into 
account the 3 October 2016  change  of address. And had they taken that into 
consideration, the premium offered should  have been £800.17.
Ageas  later said they had made  an error and the premium offered should have in 
fact been £664.50  and not £800.17. Although in a letter dated 16 March  2018, 
they said the figure should have been £626.50.
After Mr and Mrs T bought back the claim sometime after September  2017 and 
Ageas recalculated the premium, Ageas said the total cost of the premium  was 
£343.92, which is the amount I understand Mr and Mrs T paid. But Ageas  later 
said that was an error  and the total cost of the premium should  have been 
£464.77.
As can be seen from the above, Ageas have at different  times  given different figures  
for the 2016 and 2017 premiums. This has caused  a lot of confusion and has made  it 
difficult to understand  what  the correct calculations should have been. Because  of 
the errors,  Mr and Mrs T have  spent a significant  amount  of time trying to work out 
what has gone on. I too have spent a substantial amount  of time trying to work out 
what has happened. Ageas accept that errors  were made  but they said ultimately Mr 
and Mrs T didnt  lose out. In fact they feel Mr and Mrs T were  better  off by around 
£120 because  they paid £343.92 for the 5 October 2017 policy instead of £464.77. 
But given the confusion,  I cant  be satisfied  thats  the case. 
Ref: DRN80663224I should also say that our service asked Ageas to provide details of how the 
premiums were calculated so that we could check to see they were reasonable. That 
information is commercially sensitive and its not something thats disclosed to 
consumers. I know  Mr and Mrs T wanted  to see that information. But given its 
sensitive nature insurers dont give that information. But they do provide it to our 
service for us to consider.  In this case Ageas told our service  that they couldnt  
provide that information because they dont  hold [the information] that show how the 
premiums are set. Im therefore not able to satisfy myself  that the premiums charged 
were reasonable.
Whats certain is that the renewal offer of £943.83 for the October 2017 policy  was 
wrong. It was almost three times  the amount (£343.92) Mr and Mrs T actually paid 
and more than twice the amount (£464.77)  Ageas  said was the correct  figure. Given  
the past errors, for example the fact that Ageas  didnt automatically recalculate the 
October 2016 premium  as a result of the July 2016 claim changing to non-fault  until 
our service  got involved, I think that if Mr and Mrs T didnt challenge the October 
2017 premium offered  and paid it, they would have been substantially  out of pocket. 
Its obvious to me that Mr and Mrs T have spent  a substantial amount of time in 
considering all the information and trying to make  sense  of everything. And the 
information they have provided has helped me greatly in trying  to understand what 
has gone on. For example, Ageas said the October  2017 premium hadnt initially  
taken into consideration the change of address made on 3 October  2016  because  
Ageas werent  made aware of it. But Mr and Mrs T correctly pointed  out that Ageas 
must have  been  aware of the change of address, because Ageas had reduced  the 
October 2016 premium  to take account  of it. So, something clearly went  wrong.
For the reasons  explained above, I intend to uphold this part of the complaint. It is 
clear that this matter  has been a source  of distress and inconvenience  for Mr and 
Mrs T, especially as it has been  ongoing  for over two and a half years. And, as Ive 
already mentioned, theyve had to spend a lot of time and effort in challenging the 
information provided by Ageas. I have dealt  with what  I think  is the appropriate level 
of compensation  at the end of this decision.
calculating premiums
Mr and Mrs T are, understandably, confused as to how premiums are calculated. I 
think they believe premium increases are done  on a percentage basis from one year 
to the other. But thats not the case.  So, I think it might help if I give some general  
information about how insurers set premiums.
When a customer applies for a policy the insurer  will ask questions and gather 
information. The purpose of that is for the insurer to assess the risk that customer 
poses. In other words,  the insurer will try to work out whether the customer or a third 
party is likely to make  a claim  on their policy. Depending on the level of risk, the 
insurer will decide whether or not to offer that customer insurance. And if the insurer 
does offer cover, the cost of the premium will reflect the risk.
When calculating premiums, insurers take into consideration a very large  number of 
risk factors.  It might  help if I give just a few examples of the many  factors  insurers 
consider: the type of car insured; where the car is kept; the policyholders occupation; 
the policyholders  age; the type of licence the policyholder has; the length of time the 
car has been owned; the number of years the policyholder has been  driving;  and past 
Ref: DRN80663225driving incidents the policyholder has been involved in. Different  insurers will have  
different views on what presents a risk and the extent of those. Thats essentially a 
matter of commercial judgement, balancing  risk against the need  to compete with 
other policies on offer,  and not something  we would usually think its fair to interfere 
with.
And one of the reasons  why different insurers charge different premiums for the 
same risk is because insurers have different views on risk. So, different insurers give 
differing levels  of importance to different factors. For example, one insurer might 
consider the insured car to be a high risk car and therefore charge a higher premium 
to reflect  that risk. But another insurer might not consider that particular car to be 
high risk, so their premium might be lower. Insurers base their views on risks using 
statistics and other data.  In Mr and Mrs Ts case, when they changed address in 
October 2016, Ageas reduced the premium to reflect that change in risk. Ageas 
would have considered that the new address posed  a lower risk than the previous 
one. If they thought the new address was a higher risk they would have charged 
more to cover that risk.
But its also important to know that sometimes where there  has been no change in a 
policyholders circumstances  the existing  risk factors might change which could 
impact the premium. I will give an example  to illustrate this, although its not what  
happened in Mr and Mrs Ts case.  A policyholder lives at an address in a certain area 
and keeps their car at that address overnight. When the policy was taken out in 2018 
that address was considered as being  low risk because the statistics the insurer 
relied on showed that the number of car related crime in that area was low. But say 
during the subsequent months  there  was a sudden spike in car thefts  in that area 
where cars were stolen  overnight. The insurer will look at the number of incidents  
and the claims made by affected policyholders. So, when the policy  comes  to renew 
in 2019 the insurer might rate the risk of the policyholders address as being high. 
And to reflect that increased risk they are likely to charge a higher  premium. This is 
just one example  of where a policyholders  circumstances hasnt changed but the 
premium has. Equally,  the change in risk might work to a policyholders  advantage  
and the premium might reduce to reflect  that.
There are also other factors that impact  the cost of a policy.  Where a broker is 
involved often commission will be paid which is often factored into the overall cost of 
the policy; insurance premium tax (IPT)  is included;  and there can be general 
inflationary increases.  But when a policyholder  complains  about the cost of their 
premium, what  we do is look to see if the insurer has calculated the premium fairly.  In 
that I mean we look to see if the policyholder has been treated in the same  way as 
others with the same  circumstances. Thats why we ask the insurer to show  us how 
they calculated  the premium(s). As mentioned above, Ageas didnt provide that 
information to us. So, I cant confirm whether or not Mr and Mrs T were  treated in the 
same way as other policyholders.  But I can say that generally, having a recent fault 
claim is considered by most insurers as increasing  risk, so it does tend to increase 
the cost of the premium compared to a policyholder who doesnt have a recent fault 
claim.
In this case, Mr and Mrs T bought back the claim so the fault claim was changed to a 
non-fault claim. While  having a non-fault claim is less serious in the eyes of most 
insurers, some insurers  do consider a policyholder with a recent  non-fault  claim to 
still pose a higher  risk when compared  to policyholders without a recent  non-fault 
Ref: DRN80663226claim. For that reason some insurers do charge more for policyholders with non-fault 
claims. And often most insurers require a policyholder with a non-fault  claim to 
declare that for a period of five years following the claim.  
Mr and Mrs T were  not told that making a claim would affect future premiums
Mr and Mrs T were  unhappy that when  they reported the damage  to their car Ageas 
didnt tell them that claiming  on their policy would increase their future premiums. In 
my experience, most  policyholders know that making a claim on their policy is likely 
to lead to increased  future premiums, especially where the claim is a fault claim.  
Although I acknowledge that Mr and Mrs T said they didnt know  that.
It might help if I explain that the term fault claim  can be somewhat misleading.  
Within the context of motor insurance it means  that an insurer has had an outlay 
(paid to settle  a claim) which  they havent  been able to recover  from another party. 
So, even though Mr and Mrs T might not have been to blame  for the incident that 
caused the damage to their car, because Ageas paid part of the repair cost and there 
was no other  party  they could  claim  back  from, the claim was recorded  as a fault 
claim. This is normal insurance industry practice.
Mr and Mrs T also said that had they been  told the claim would cause their premium 
to rise, they wouldnt have  claimed on their policy but would have had the car 
repaired themselves.  And they would have had the car repaired for less than the 
£720.64 Ageas  approved repairer (AR) charged. I should say that while  Mr and Mrs 
T believe  they could have had the car repaired for less, I think the cost charged  by 
Ageas AR was below  the market rate given insurers have preferential rates  with 
ARs. And while it may have been  possible  for Mr and Mrs T to have their car repaired 
for cheaper,  ARs used  by insurers tend to repair vehicles to a high standard  because  
insurers guarantee repairs for a number of years. But I should also say that, in my 
experience, even minor repairs can run into hundreds if not thousands of pounds. 
And it's not unusual for policyholders to be surprised by the final repair costs. 
Unless a policyholder making a claim specifically asks an insurer  whether claiming 
on their policy will impact their premiums,  I wouldnt expect an insurer to explain  that. 
So, I dont think Ageas did anything wrong.
buying back the claim
Mr and Mrs T also felt that Ageas should have told them sooner that if they bought 
back the claim the incident wouldnt  be recorded as a fault claim. Ageas didnt tell 
them that until after September 2017, when Mr and Mrs T questioned the renewal 
premium and asked  if there  was a way of reducing  the premium.  In my experience  
most policyholders  dont  ask to buy back a claim. And where  the cost of repair  is 
higher than the excess, as in Mr and Mrs Ts case, I wouldnt expect an insurer to 
suggest to a policyholder that they could pay the cost of the claim to avoid a fault 
claim being recorded. I don't think it is a usual occurrence and is almost  always  
something that is instigated by the policyholder who is likely to know  that it is 
something thats possible. So, I dont  think Ageas not telling Mr and Mrs T about the 
buy-back possibility when they made  the claim was unreasonable. But, that being 
said, I think Ageas were responsible for the chain of events that led Mr and Mrs T to 
buy back the claim.
Ref: DRN80663227I understand that Mr and Mrs T only bought  back the claim because they were told it 
would reduce their October 2017  premium  by having  a non-fault  claim as opposed to 
a fault claim. And the reason they wanted to reduce  the premium was because they 
were told the premium for October 2017 was £943.83, which they felt was too high. 
That premium was indeed  too high as Ageas  accept  that figure was wrong. Ageas 
said the correct  premium offered should  have  been  £664.50 (or £626.50) once the 
change of address  on 3 October 2016  was taken into account.  The difference  is 
substantial as its around £300.  Had Ageas offered Mr and Mrs T the correct 
premium, although  higher  than the previous years premium  (which would have been 
either £457.41 or £466.54), perhaps  Mr and Mrs T wouldnt have been  alarmed 
enough to want  to find ways in which they could reduce the premium.  I dont  know  
what they might have done  but if Ageas gave them the correct information they would 
have been faced with the choice of: either paying  £420.64 to buy back the claim and 
thereby reduce the October  2017 premium  to £464.77; or not buy back  the claim and 
pay £664.50 (or £626.50) for their premium.  Mr and Mrs T said they feel they would 
have been financially better off by not buying  the claim back  and instead having 
higher premiums going forward. I dont know if that would have been the case  
because most insurers Im aware  of ask about  claims  a policyholder has had in the 
past five years. And fault claims tend to attract higher premiums during that period. 
So, I think if Mr and Mrs T didnt buy back the claim they would have potentially  had 
higher premiums for the following five years. But Ageas should have given Mr and 
Mrs T the correct information and figures  for them to have made an informed  choice, 
but Ageas  didnt  do that.
no claims bonus (NCB)
Mr and Mrs T were  surprised that their premium increased as a result of making a 
claim given  their NCB was protected.
NCB discount is something  that most car insurers offer a policyholder as an incentive 
for them not having any claims on their policy. So, once an insurer  calculates the 
premium a policyholder  is to pay for the policy year ahead, a discount will be given  to 
effectively reward the policyholder for having no recent claims.  Often  the more NCB  
years a policyholder  has the bigger the discount  will be. Although most insurers  I 
know of do have a limit of how many  years can be counted. 
Having a protected NCB means  it won't  be wiped  out or stepped  back  following a 
fault claim.  But having a protected NCB  doesnt mean a premium won't ever increase  
following a claim. NCB protection  only protects  the discount element  it doesn't mean 
that the premium  won't be affected  by a change in rating.  Thats because an insurer 
will set the base price of a policy on the basis of the risk factors Ive mentioned 
above. And, generally, once the price  is set a percentage NCB discount will be 
applied to the premium  depending on the number of NCB years the policyholder has. 
So, if say the risk factors change (such  as the policyholder  has a new fault claim) and 
the premium increases,  the NCB discount  will still be given at the previous rate but 
the overall premium  would still be higher.
Where a policyholder  makes a fault claim  the insurer will not credit them  with a NCB 
year for the policy year in which the fault claim was made. But in Mr and Mrs Ts 
case, because  they bought back the claim  which  meant the claim changed  to a non-
fault claim,  my expectation is that, providing  they had no other  fault claims within that 
policy year,  Ageas credited  them  with a NCB year.  So, their NCB remained intact.
Ref: DRN80663228the record on the shared insurance database
I understand from Ageas that once Mr and Mrs T bought back  the claim Ageas 
changed the record on the shared insurance  database from a fault claim to a non-
fault claim.  But given Mr and Mrs T paid for the entire repair  cost the record on the 
database should have been changed to notification  only. I understand that Mr and 
Mrs T dont  want any record on the database. But insurers have an obligation to 
ensure that incidents are recorded  accurately  on the database. So, Im not intending 
to ask Ageas to remove the record completely. But I intend to require Ageas to 
amend the record  to notification only, if that hasnt  already been  done.
I am aware  that some  insurers when pricing premiums treat non-fault  claims and 
notification only in the same way. Im also aware that some insurers dont charge 
more if a policyholder  has a non-fault claim or notification only marker on the 
database. I understand that after Mr and Mrs T bought back their July 2016 claim, 
Ageas recalculated their October  2016 and 2017 premiums on the basis  that they 
had a non-fault claim. Ageas should confirm whether or not they rate non-fault  claims 
and notification only markers. They should also confirm whether or not had they 
recalculated the October 2016  and 2017  premiums on the basis that Mr and Mrs T 
had a notification  only marker the premiums would have been  lower than the 
premiums on the basis of there being  a non-fault claim.  Ageas  should therefore 
recalculate the premiums  for the two policy years that started in October 2016 and 
2017 and provide those  figures.
compensation
For the reasons  explained above, I intend to uphold this complaint in part. Ageas 
have made  a number  of errors and have  provided  numerous different figures  which 
has caused a great  deal of confusion. I cant even be certain  that the final figures 
given by Ageas are accurate.  But what is clear  to me is that Mr and Mrs T have 
experienced distress  and inconvenience as a result  of Ageas errors. It is clear  they 
have spent a great  deal of time and effort in trying to decipher the information and 
different figures  to work  out what has happened  and what went wrong. I therefore 
intend to require Ageas to pay them £500  compensation. 
The parties were invited to comment on my findings. Both Mr and Mrs T and Ageas  
accepted my provisional decision. 
Ageas confirmed that they rate non-fault and notification only claims the same, so the claim 
being non-fault as opposed to notification only didnt cause Mr and Mrs Ts premiums to be 
any higher when Ageas recalculated the premiums for the 2016 and 2017  policy  years. 
Ageas said that they couldnt  change  the non-fault claim marker on the shared insurance  
database to a notification only claim because originally Mr and Mrs T reported a fault claim 
which was later bought  back. Ageas also said that Mr and Mrs T would still have to disclose  
the claim.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my decision remains  the 
same. 
Ref: DRN80663229But I would like to address Ageas comment about the marker on the shared insurance 
database. While its correct that the claim  was initially a fault claim, once Mr and Mrs T 
bought back the claim  Ageas recovered their outlay so it was no longer a fault claim. The 
correct classification is notification only so I require Ageas to amend it to that.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint in part and require Ageas Insurance  
Limited to:
Pay Mr and Mrs T £500 compensation  for the distress and inconvenience they 
experienced. This should be paid within 28 days of us telling them that Mr and Mrs T 
have accepted my final decision. If Ageas pay later than this they must also pay 
interest on that amount from the date of my final decision  to the date of payment at a 
rate of 8% a year simple.1
Amend the shared  insurance database  to show the claim as notification only.
Mehmet Osman  
ombudsman 
1 If Ageas consider that they are required  by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, they should tell Mr and Mrs T how much they have taken off. Ageas should  also give them a 
certificate showing  this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate. 
Ref: DRN8066322