K820x#14complaint
N, a company, represented by Ms C, has complained about Allianz  Insurance  Plc which 
provides property insurance cover for a number of blocks of residential flats in one 
development. There was an accident  outside the flats and all residents had to be 
evacuated. Allianz said it wouldnt settle a claim made by N for alternative  accommodation  
for all of the residents, only for some.
background
There was an accident near the development which N manages. The accident caused a 
potential major safety risk for the development and everyone had to be evacuated. Some  
tenants were reluctant  to leave and doors for some flats were  forced  by the police  in order  
to rouse  the residents and/or make them leave.
N had contacted Allianz and whilst  the event was on-going, a loss adjuster was appointed 
and attended  site, speaking to Ns representative.  Ms C said the adjuster agreed that all out 
of pocket costs for the relocated  residents  could  be paid. Allianz, with reference to the 
policy wording, later vetoed that agreement. It said that it would cover costs for those  whod 
had their doors forced   whilst it was arguable it was still the uninsured event (accident) that 
had caused the need for them to leave, it could reasonably be said that the damage to the 
doors made the home  uninhabitable, generating a need for staying elsewhere. It also said it 
would only charge one excess, rather than one for each block within the development.
N said, as per the adjusters initial advice, cover should be provided for all. It pointed  to the 
policy wording for alternative accommodation  which referred not just to the need for the 
property to be uninhabitable, but also to where access  to it is prevented.  That was the case, 
N said, for all residents  none had been  able to go home. Whilst some  had stayed in a 
shelter, organised  in response to the crisis, others had stayed with friends  and family or at 
local hotels. Even once the police allowed them home, there was no hot water, N said,  
meaning the property  was uninhabitable.
Allianz wasnt minded  to change its decision.  N complained to us.
Our investigator felt the policy wording would allow for cover when the property couldnt  be 
accessed, as well as in the situation  where damage  had made it uninhabitable. So he 
thought that cover should be provided  for all residents.
Allianz disagreed  and prior to the complaint being passed for an ombudsmans decision 
another investigator considered it. He said that as Allianz had agreed to settle the claim for 
those residents whod  suffered damage, and as no resident had been able to return  home, 
the fair and common sense approach  would  be for Allianz to settle the claim for all 
residents.
Allianz didnt agree  with the interpretation  of the policy wording, it said the policy  wording 
clearly required damage  to have occurred to the property insured and for this to have made  
the property uninhabitable  and/or inaccessible. It argued it had already acted fairly by 
applying only one excess. It said it viewed the accommodation costs  for residents who 
didnt suffer damage to their flats to be an uninsured loss. But it was currently  pursuing 
recovery of the insured  loss and N was welcome, it said, to join in that action  in respect of 
uninsured loss suffered.
Ref: DRN81248502The complaint was passed  to me for a decision to be made. I didnt think it should  be 
upheld so I issued  a provisional  decision to share  my reasoning with both parties. Allianz  
said it accepted  my decision. The representative  for N said it had been decided  to 
reluctantly accept my findings  it wouldnt be in its interest to pursue the case. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I said provisionally:
The policy  wording says:
Where as a result of Damage the buildings of a Residential Property are rendered  
uninhabitable or access is prevented to such Residential  Property the insurer  will provide 
alternative accommodation.
The policy defines  certain terms, including Damage:
Accidental loss or destruction  of or damage to Property Insured. In this case  the Property 
Insured is the development.
The development itself was not damaged during the incident that caused  the residents  to 
be evacuated. Damage was caused to property owned by a third-party. In response  to the 
potential safety  risk caused by the incident  the authorities did cut all power  and services  to 
the flats, making  them uninhabitable, and completed a mandatory evacuation, thus 
preventing access to the property.
A property  not having hot water, by itself, wouldnt usually make it uninhabitable. In any 
event, I understand  the lack of hot water was due to the third-party  damage,  not any 
damage to the property  insured.
I accept the two situations  the accident and what happened to the residents   are heavily 
linked. But the fact they are linked, doesnt  mean  there is reasonably and necessarily cover 
for everyone  that was affected.
I also understand that N feels  the policy offers cover where either  damage caused  the 
property to be uninhabitable, or when access is prevented (regardless of damage). But
I dont agree that is a reasonable reading  of the policy term. And, if that were  its meaning, it 
would be an exceedingly  unusual term. All property  insurance policies which I am aware of 
offer cover for alternative accommodation only where damage  covered by the policy  has 
made the home uninhabitable or, sometimes, inaccessible.
Im also not persuaded it would be fair to say that Allianz has to offer cover  to all residents, 
just because it has already agreed  to provide it for some. I note Allianz  has said it would 
provide cover for those whose doors had been forced. And I accept  that, on a strict 
interpretation of the situation, Allianz could have  argued that the security  issues  caused by 
individual doors being forced by the police, was really only secondary  to the evacuation  
order. Therefore, in my view, it was acting fairly by agreeing to make settlement for those 
residents. Providing  that type of benefit of doubt to a situation in order to ensure a fair 
outcome results is exactly what this service  encourages insurers  to do. Im not minded to 
say that just because Allianz afforded those residents the benefit of the doubt, further 
Ref: DRN81248503settlements for other residents should  also fairly be made.
I wasnt present to hear what the loss adjuster told N. But it is clear  the adjuster,  when  
discussing the claim with Allianz, did initially believe there would be cover for all residents in 
this instance.  It is unfortunate that he was wrong in this respect.  But I cant  see that this 
advice prejudiced Ns actions in anyway,  thus causing it to suffer a financial loss it 
otherwise wouldnt  have done.
In summary  I think Allianz interpretation  and resultant application  of the policy wording 
which led to its restricted claim settlement was fair and reasonable. Im not minded to make  
it change its position  or provide further  settlement.
As both parties have  accepted my findings  there is no need for me to change or move away 
from them. My provisional findings are now the findings of this, my final decision.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  I dont make any award against Allianz Insurance Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 August 2020.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8124850