K820x#14complaint
Ms J complains that Capital One (Europe) plc (Capital One) allowed her to go over the credit 
limit on her credit card on a number of occasions.  She also thinks  the card was mis-sold to 
her because she says it was supposed to build up her credit score, but she thinks she 
incurred extra charges as a result  and that this has had a detrimental  effect  on her credit  file. 
She wants the charges to be refunded. 
background
The background to this complaint, and my initial conclusions, were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 24 February 2020 - a copy of which is attached and forms part of this final 
decision.
In my provisional decision I explained  why I thought this complaint should be upheld  and 
invited both parties to send any additional comments  or evidence they wished to make. I 
said I thought  that Capital  One had acted responsibly in giving Ms J the first credit card. I 
also said it wasnt obliged to make  her aware  that shed exceeded her credit  limit and it 
shouldnt have to refund any charges  as a result of that matter.  
But I didnt think Capital  One had acted fairly in providing a second line of credit with a much 
higher limit. I said it should  repay  the interest and charges that had been  applied to the 
second card and pay Ms J £100 for the distress and inconvenience  caused.  
Ms J said she accepted the findings  and didnt have  anything  further  to add. But Capital One 
disagreed. It said that it didnt believe  Ms Js complaint had been about irresponsible  lending 
and therefore  it hadnt addressed that issue. 
I thought that the issue of irresponsible lending had been part of the original  complaint.  I 
asked Capital One if it had anything further  to support its claim or had any further  points to 
raise following the provisional decision.  But Capital One didnt respond.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As neither party has provided any further 
submissions for me to consider, I see no reason  to change  the conclusions  I came to in my 
provisional decision.
Capital One said it didnt believe Ms J had included  a complaint about irresponsible lending  
within her overall complaint, so it hasnt been able to address  that matter.  
In her first complaint email to Capital  One, dated 27 January 2019, Ms J headed the email  
irresponsible  lending-card should not have been  provided due to poor credit history 
complaint. And in its response Capital One stated weve  also passed your complaint  
regarding irresponsible  lending  to our specialist team  to investigate this further  and will 
respond to you separately within 56 days.
In its final response letter  Capital One said Were  sorry you feel weve  lent to you 
irresponsibly, by opening two accounts for you and then increasing  their credit limits when 
your credit history was poor. While we appreciate the inconvenience caused,  weve looked 
at your situation again and can't uphold your complaint, with our reasons detailed below. 
Ref: DRN85283602Within its explanation Capital One concluded that As such,  there were no indications from 
your application  that there were concerns about whether the card we gave you was 
affordable and also Based  on the above approach  and the information  we took into account  
at the time of your applications, we believe our decision to open these accounts was 
appropriate.
So, taking all of the above statements into account I cant agree that Ms Js complaint didnt 
include the question  of irresponsible lending  or that Capital One didnt have  the opportunity 
to answer it. Capital Ones final response letter  clearly identified  the problem of whether its 
lending had been responsible or not. It then confirmed it had assessed Ms Js affordability 
and carried out sufficient checks to ensure it was appropriate to issue her with both credit 
cards.
I think its clear  that Capital One did answer  Ms Js complaint and in my provisional  decision 
I set out my reasons for why I dont think the second credit card was lent responsibly.  Capital 
One hasnt provided  any response to explain why it disagrees with that decision so theres 
no reason for me to reconsider  my position.
my final decision
For the same reasons  Ive already given in my provisional decision, I uphold  Ms Js 
complaint against  Capital  One (Europe) plc.
Capital One (Europe) plc should repay  all interest  and charges applied to the second credit  
card account  from the date it was first issued until the date the account was settled, and it 
should pay 8% simple interest on that refund. It should also pay Ms J £100 for the impact 
this matter has had on her and it should amend any adverse information reported to the 
credit reference agencies as a result of that particular lending.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 June  2020.
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
copy of provisional decision
complaint
Ms J complains that Capital One (Europe) plc acted irresponsibly in allowing her to take out two credit 
cards and authorising  transactions  which meant she exceeded the credit limits on a number  of 
occasions. She says the cards were supposed to build  up her credit  score, but she thinks  she 
incurred extra charges as a result and that this has had a detrimental effect on her credit file. She 
wants the charges  to be refunded. 
background
Ref: DRN85283603Ms J took out a credit card with Capital One in February 2015 with a credit limit of £300. The card was 
supposed to help build up her credit score.  Capital One says Ms J met her repayments  so when she 
applied for another  card in June 2017 it was happy to approve an application for that card with a credit 
limit of £750.
After she received the second card, Ms J exceeded its (higher) credit limit each month from 
September to December 2017. This led to her incurring further  charges  which she said affected her 
credit history.  So she complained and asked for the charges  to be refunded.  She also complained 
about the sale of both cards and that Capital  One allowed her to exceed the credit limit through  
certain transactions. 
 
The outstanding balances on both cards  were repaid by February 2018. 
Capital One didnt uphold the complaint.  It said it had made a commercial  decision to authorise 
transactions which might allow  Ms J to go over her credit limit, and although she had exceeded the 
limit on five occasions  it didnt think it had done anything wrong. 
Capital One also said it had been satisfied  that Ms J could afford  the credit limit it had offered her 
when she first applied. It had been aware of her credit history and she had satisfied its affordability 
assessments.  It said most of Ms Js repayments  had exceeded the minimum  required and were  
made on time so she showed herself to be creditworthy and thats why it approved a second card in 
June 2017. It did apologise for not closing  her accounts on the date they were fully paid off but said it 
had now closed them and would arrange for her credit file to be updated. 
Ms J wasnt happy with that outcome so she brought her complaint to us where one of our 
investigators looked into the matter. 
She said the complaint  shouldnt be upheld. She said Capital One had made Ms J aware of the 
charges and fees through its terms and conditions, and through her monthly statements. She thought 
theyd been applied fairly. She also said Ms J had used a mobile app to manage her accounts  and felt 
she would have been aware, through this, of her outstanding balance   as well as having  that same 
facility when  using ATMs. For that reason she thought Ms J could  have checked her balance  at any 
time and had a responsibility to manage the account so it didnt exceed  the credit limit.
Ms J didnt agree.  She said she didnt think she should have  been given the two cards because shed  
been on a low income and in debt at the time.  She said she had to borrow money to pay off the cards 
and other  loans she had in order  to make repayments  on the Capital One cards.  She provided some 
screen shots of her credit report from when  she applied  for her cards but the investigator didnt think it 
proved that Capital One had lent irresponsibly to her.
As Ms J still didnt agree she asked for her complaint to be referred  to an ombudsman so its been 
passed to me for a review.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Did Capital  One lend Ms J the first card responsibly?
Ms J says she shouldnt have been given  credit cards because of her low income and the level of 
outstanding debt. She says this was irresponsible lending  from Capital  One.  So Ive looked  carefully 
at the application process involved here as I would have expected  Capital One to have completed 
reasonable and proportionate  checks  when deciding if Ms J would  be able to repay  the credit it 
Ref: DRN85283604offered in 2015. And I would also have  expected it to have made  a fair decision to lend based on 
those checks. 
In this case I can see Capital One confirmed  Ms Js income, employment  status and her credit file so I 
think its checks were  proportionate  for the relatively low amount of credit it offered. And while I can 
see Ms J had previously  defaulted  on some credit agreements, these  were historic and the 
outstanding balances had been significantly reduced over the years. So I think Capital One performed 
sufficient checks to understand  whether Ms J could afford credit at the level it did and I think  that was 
a fair and reasonable decision.
Should Capital One have allowed cash withdrawals which  allowed Ms J to exceed her credit limit?
Ms J says Capital  One continually allowed  her to withdraw cash and make transactions which  meant 
she exceeded  her credit  limit. She says it shouldnt  have allowed this, especially for so called credit 
repair cards  as this made her credit  history worse. But Capital One says its terms and conditions 
dont state  that transactions will be declined  if they take a customer over their credit limit. 
And in most  cases  if a transaction  is below a certain limit, Capital One dont have the opportunity  to 
authorise or decline  it  so its not able to affect  that situation anyway. 
Ive carefully considered Capital Ones credit card terms and conditions  and theres  no suggestion 
that Capital One is obliged to make someone aware that its going  to exceed their credit limit following 
a transaction  although it says it reserves  the right to do so in certain circumstances. But its clear the 
responsibility lies with the consumer, as the terms and conditions say when purchases, cash 
withdrawals, credits to your account and balance transfers are added together-along  with interest and 
all other fees, charges and expenses-the total must not go over your credit limit.
Ive also taken  into account that Ms J would  have been able to check her account balance when  
making cash withdrawals  at ATMs and on her phone when accessing  the mobile  app to make a 
transaction. So, overall, I dont think Capital One was obliged to make Ms J aware that she was 
exceeding her credit  limit and I dont think it should refund any charges  incurred as result of that.
Did Capital  One lend Ms J the second card responsibly?
Having said that I think Capital One acted responsibly  when issuing  Ms J her first card,  Im not of the 
same opinion  regarding the second application.  Ill explain why.
After she was given the first card Ms J made 12 cash withdrawals using  the card.  This led to over 
limit charges being applied on a number  of occasions.  In addition she exceeded her credit limit on 
nine separate occasions  between getting  the first and second  cards.  Ms J only paid off the 
outstanding balance on the card one month before  she applied for the second card  and shes told 
us that she had to borrow money from elsewhere to do that, although  I accept Capital  One wouldnt 
have been aware of that at the time.  
But I dont think Ms J was managing her card properly and by continually exceeding the credit limit 
and using the card to withdraw cash I think she was displaying warning  signs of suffering financial 
problems. That said, I think Capital  One followed  its processes correctly when  considering if Ms J 
should be given a second  card, and Ive seen evidence that it carried out the same kind of checks that 
it did when it approved the first card. But that doesnt mean that these processes  led to a fair outcome 
in the individual circumstances here. 
The information about what Capital One specifically relied on before  choosing to lend here is limited. 
But whatever it considered, I think the information available to it showed  that Ms J was struggling with 
her existing card and would be likely to struggle with a further line of credit. This was a credit  card that 
didnt have any immediate  benefit, such as lower interest rates  for example  but offered her credit of 
over twice the credit  limit that she had previously struggled to manage.
Ref: DRN85283605Ive also seen  how Ms J took out a significant number of lines of credit after she received her first 
credit card from Capital One.  At least eight of these agreements could have been payday loans  from 
the information Capital One gathered from Ms Js credit file. This supports that if Capital  One had 
made further investigation into Ms Js situation  in 2017, then this would  have suggested that it wasnt 
fair to provide her with further  lending.
I think,  based  on all the evidence Ive seen, Ms J wasnt able to manage her £300 credit card limit, 
although I accept it was fair for Capital One to lend to her in the first place. But I dont think  it was fair 
to give her a second line of credit   to the value of £750, in the circumstances.  
Ms J had managed  to clear the balance  on her first card at the time of the applying for the second 
one, so in effect- Capital One agreed to her having £1,050 of available credit.  From  what  Ive seen 
that decision wasnt fair or reasonable on Ms J.
my provisional  decision
I intend  to uphold  Ms Js complaint against Capital One (Europe) plc in part. 
Capital One (Europe) plc should repay all interest  and charges applied  to the second credit  card 
account from the date it was first issued  until the date the account was settled, and it should pay 8% 
simple interest  on that refund.
Capital One should also pay Ms J £100 for the impact this matter has had on her and it should  amend  
any adverse  information reported to the credit  reference agencies as a result of that particular lending.
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8528360