K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that West Bromwich  Building  Society (West Bromwich) mis-
sold them  a regular  premium mortgage payment protection insurance  (MPPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a regular premium  MPPI  policy taken out by Mr and Mrs S to 
cover their mortgage. Mr and Mrs S were jointly covered under the policy.  Mr and Mrs S 
say the policy was sold to them when they first took out their West Bromwich mortgage in 
1985. West Bromwich says its records show the policy was taken out in June 1990 and 
cancelled in March  1994 
Our adjudicator thought Mr and Mrs Ss complaint  should be upheld because it wouldve 
been more difficult  for them to make a successful claim under the policy  because  of 
Mr Ss work situation. West Bromwich didnt agree.
As agreement couldnt be reached, Mr and Mrs Ss complaint was passed to me to 
decide. West Bromwich said that if Mr S was unable to work his main  job due to accident  
or sickness, he probably wouldnt have been  able to work his other jobs either.  It also 
said, if he was made  redundant from his main job, he probably wouldnt have lost his other  
jobs at the same time as they appeared to be casual jobs,  so he wouldve still been  
entitled to the unemployment benefit.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on Mr and Mrs Ss complaint  in December 2019. I said I was 
minded to partially uphold their complaint and invited Mr and Mrs S and West Bromwich to 
let me have  anything  else they wanted  me to consider before I issued a final decision. I said 
that West Bromwich should  pay Mr and Mrs S compensation based on the PPI starting in 
June 1990.
West Bromwich  didnt  have anything further  to add. 
Mr and Mrs S said they had provided  evidence to show when the PPI started. Firstly, a letter  
from their solicitors dated 15 June 1985 showing  it was a re-mortgage and secondly the 
letter from West Bromwich dated 6 March  1985  clearly saying that the insurance  is 
obligatory in accordance with the mortgage.  They say they never had buildings  insurance 
through West Bromwich.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ss case.
Having looked  again at the documents that Mr and Mrs S have referred me to Im still 
partially upholding their complaint. Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN80285052when the policy was sold
As some of the evidence is either incomplete or contradictory here, I have to make  a 
decision on what I think is most  likely  to have  happened  based on whats available.
Mr and Mrs S first thought  that their West Bromwich  mortgage and PPI started  in the early  
80s. They then accepted  theyd got this wrong  and produced a letter from March 1985.  This 
letter mentioned the completion of their mortgage. It also referred  to Insurance  Cover taken 
out in accordance with the terms of the Mortgage. Mr and Mrs S said this was PPI. 
In response to my provisional decision,  Mr and Mrs S said that the 1990 mortgage was a re-
mortgage. The letter Mr and Mrs S have highlighted in their response to my provisional 
decision is in fact dated 15 June 1990 , not 1985  as they say, but I think  this is just a 
typographical error. This letter does refer to a re-mortgage. I accept what Mr and Mrs S say 
that they re-mortgaged through West Bromwich  in 1990. I cant know  if Mr and Mrs S ever 
had buildings  insurance through West Bromwich, they say they didnt. They said they 
remember they had PPI from the outset with West Bromwich, supporting  their position that 
the PPI mustve been added in 1985.  
West Bromwich  said it didnt start selling PPI until 1984 and that the insurance  referred  to in 
this letter  was most likely building insurance.  It says for data protection reasons, it no longer 
holds records as far back as 1985. West Bromwich sent in a copy  of its systems records  
showing that there was PPI on Mr and Mrs Ss mortgage account  from June  1990  to March 
1994.
Either way, the sale of this PPI occurred a long time ago, either in the mid 80s or early 90s. 
Understandably, the paperwork from the time is no longer  available given the passage  of 
time. 
Its completely understandable that Mr and Mrs S recollections werent at first accurate as to 
the date they first thought  they took out their mortgage. This all happened many  years ago, 
and I accept they are doing their best to remember events. I also think its possible that given 
the passage of time and that memories  understandably fade over time,  they may not be able 
to recall everything that happened back in 1985. The letter  they refer me to from West 
Bromwich isnt enough, in my view, to show that the insurance being referred to is more 
likely PPI. 
Its also understandable that West Bromwich no longer holds all Mr and Mrs Ss mortgage  
and PPI records given  how long ago this took place. Looking at the microfiche records it still 
has these show that PPI was opened in June 1990.  I think these records  are likely to be 
reliable; they were made at the time and before this complaint was known about. The date 
also corresponds with when they re-mortgaged. So, I think it more  likely thats when PPI was 
added. 
Taking into account everything  Ive seen, I dont  think  the evidence  is strong enough  for me 
safely to say that the policy started  earlier  than June 1990. 
terms and conditions of the policy
 
Turning now to the terms and conditions of the policy.as I read it, it wouldve  been difficult for 
Mr S to make a successful  claim for either disability benefit or unemployment benefit given 
his work  situation  at the time he applied for the PPI. 
Ref: DRN80285053The policy defined disability as total disablement from engaging in or giving attention to 
normal occupation.  So, unless Mr S was unable to work any of his jobs,  he wouldnt have 
been able to claim disability benefit  because his normal occupation (or occupations)  
consisted of more than one job. Given what Mr Ss said about his different jobs they were 
different in nature. So, its feasible  he may have been able to work  one of these, even if he 
was not fit enough to work his main  job.
For unemployment benefit, any period of unemployment was excluded  unless  certified by 
an official of the Department of Employment.  If Mr S was working enough  hours in his other  
jobs not to be eligible  to claim unemployment  benefit  through  the Department of 
Employment, its possible  that his period  of unemployment wouldnt  have  been  certified  and 
so he wouldve been excluded from cover 
West Bromwich  was under a duty to bring the main features of the policy to Mr Ss attention 
so he could make an informed choice about  whether  PPI was right for him in his particular 
circumstances. I cant  see that it did that. I think this wouldve mattered to Mr and Mrs S. I 
think it unlikely that they wouldve considered it worth buying a policy  that may not provide 
Mr S with benefit if he lost his job or wasnt able to work due to accident or sickness. So, I 
think they have  lost out because of what West Bromwich did wrong.
In the circumstances, I order West Bromwich to put things right as set out below.  
putting things right
West Bromwich  should treat the policy as having started in June 1990 and ending  in March 
1994. West  Bromwich Building  Society should put Mr and Mrs S in the position  theyd be in 
now if they hadnt taken out PPI. I understand the policy has already been  cancelled, so 
West Bromwich  should:
Pay Mr and Mrs S the amount they paid each  month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.     
The rate of interest is 15% a year until April 1993  and 8% a year from then on.
If Mr and Mrs S made a successful  claim under the PPI policy,  West Bromwich can 
take off what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.
If West Bromwich has already repaid any commission amount  to Mr and Mrs S 
that relates to this PPI sale, that sum can be deducted by West Bromwich from 
the redress shown  above.
 HM Revenue  & Customs requires West Bromwich Building Society to take off tax from 
this interest. West Bromwich Building  Society  must give Mr and Mrs S a certificate  
showing how much  tax its taken off if they ask for one.
my final decision
I partially uphold Mr and Mrs S complaint and order West  Bromwich  Building Society to put 
things right as set out above.
Ref: DRN80285054Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 March  2020.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8028505