K821x#15complaint
Mr O complains that First Central Insurance Management Limited  charged  him an unfair 
additional premium  for his motor insurance  policy mid-policy  year and then declined  to offer 
him renewal.
background
Mr O held a provisional  driving licence.  He took out an annual  motor insurance policy with 
First Central on this basis in August 2017.  He paid for his insurance in ten monthly  
instalments of £86.83. At the end of May 2018  Mr O got a full driving  licence. He phoned 
First Central to let it know about the change and it amended  his policy. An additional 
premium was generated as a result of Mr O now having  a full licence. For the remainder of 
the policy year (approximately a further two and a half months)  First Central said Mr O 
needed to pay it an additional premium of £402.12  to cover him for driving with a full licence 
for the remainder of his policy year. This included  a £30 administration fee. 
Because there was only one direct debit  instalment left to pay in his current policy  year, First 
Central asked Mr O to pay the additional  premium as a lump sum which he did. 
A few weeks  later Mr O received a letter from First Central to say it was unable  to offer him a 
renewal of his policy.
Mr O complained to First Central. He said hed been told hed receive a letter stating when 
his new policy would  take effect. He said hed relied  on what hed been told and this is why 
hed paid the additional £402.12. He asked for a refund. First Central  looked  into Mr Os 
complaint but didnt  think itd done anything wrong. It said that unfortunately he didnt meet  
its underwriters  criteria for the year. 
Unhappy with the outcome of First Centrals  investigation, Mr O complained  to this service. 
Our adjudicator investigated Mr Os complaint  and recommended that it was partly upheld.  
He said that at the time the policy was sold, First Central should  have drawn  Mr Os attention 
to the fact that his premium could increase substantially if he changed from a provisional to a 
full licence during his policy year. As he hadnt been, he thought  Mr O had been prejudiced 
and that First Central should refund  the additional premium itd charged him together  with 
interest. Our adjudicator didnt think First Central had unreasonably declined  to offer Mr O 
renewal cover. He found no evidence that when First Central had charged Mr O the 
additional premium  itd also promised him hed receive a new policy. 
First Central didnt accept our adjudicators findings  so the complaint  was passed to me for a 
decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I agree with our adjudicator  that this is a 
complaint that should be upheld in part. Ill explain why.
mis-sale
Our adjudicator asked  First Central if Mr O had been told at the point of sale that if he 
passed his test during the policy year then doing so would lead to a substantially increased 
Ref: DRN85279302premium. First Central said it was very unlikely that it wouldve told Mr O about the potential 
change of premium and that providing such information didnt form part of the sales  process. 
This service has established an approach that when an insurer  is aware  at the point of sale 
(or should reasonably have been aware) that the price of the policy is likely to change     
mid-term then it has a duty to notify  the consumer.  Where  we find that it has failed to do so 
we typically uphold the complaint. This is because  a policyholders position has been 
prejudiced. If he or she had known that the price would change  mid-term then they might  
have sought cover from another provider that may have  charged a different premium  from 
the outset or not made and additional charge mid-term. 
Here, Mr O wasnt in possession  of the full facts when he purchased the policy.  So he was 
unable to make an informed decision about what to do. First Central was in a position to 
know that provisional licence holders often pass their test and obtain  a full licence within the 
policy year.  That being  the case,  I think it shouldve told Mr O at the point of sale of the likely  
effect on his premium of him passing his test. Mr O could then have acted accordingly. But 
as no such advice was given I dont think the additional premium  of £402.12 was fairly  
charged. I think First Central  should  refund it together with interest at this services usual 
rate. 
renewal
Ive thought about Mr Os complaint that First Central promised to offer to renew his policy at 
the point he paid the additional premium. But its clear from the phone call that the charge 
was for the existing  policy and not a new one. So I think First Central  made it clear  during 
the call that the additional  premium related to the current policy and no assurances were  
given about the offer of any future policy.
It is up to each individual insurer  which risks they choose to take on and at what  price.  Here 
First Central has shown  us that Mr O didnt meet its underwriting criteria at renewal. First 
Central has shared  some  confidential information  with us that shows its underwriting  criteria 
and why Mr O didnt  meet it at renewal.  Im afraid  I cant share  that information with Mr O 
because its business  sensitive and confidential  but Id like to reassure him that Ive checked 
what it has provided and am satisfied  it was fairly  applied to his circumstances. 
So Im unable to uphold this aspect of his complaint. Ive seen no evidence  that First Central 
promised Mr O during the phone  call that hed receive a new policy at renewal and, for the 
reasons given above, I dont think it treated him unfairly by declining to offer to renew  his 
policy. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require First Central Insurance 
Management Limited to repay to Mr O the additional premium of £402.12 it collected from 
him together  with simple  interest* at this services usual rate of 8% per year from the date the 
payment was taken  to the date its returned.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before date 24 October  2019.
Claire Woollerson 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN85279303*If First Central Insurance Management Limited considers that its required  by HM Revenue & Customs  to take 
off income tax from that interest, it should  tell Mr O how much  its taken off. It should also give Mr O a certificate 
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN8527930