K821x#15complaint
Mrs S complains that Tesco Personal Finance  plc, trading as Tesco Bank,  wont  pay for 
some damaged paving stones to be replaced. She also complains about  the way that her 
claim has been dealt  with. Shes being helped with her complaint by her partner.
background
Mrs S arranged for an artificial lawn to be installed at her home in September 2017 at a cost 
of £2,686. She paid a deposit of £1,343 to the supplier and then used her Tesco Bank  credit  
card in September 2017 to pay the balance of £1,343.  She says that paving stones next to 
the lawn area were  chipped when the artificial  lawn was being installed and she got a quote  
of £510.20 for the chipped paving  stones to be replaced. 
She contacted the supplier and says that it in initially accepted  liability for the damage but 
when it was made aware of the replacement  cost it offered her £100 as a gesture of 
goodwill. She claimed the £510.20 from Tesco Bank under section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974. It said that there was no evidence of the supplier accepting liability for the 
damage so it couldnt uphold  her claim.  But it said that it shouldve given her clearer  
information about her claim so it sent her a cheque for £100. Mrs S paid the cheque into her 
account but wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this service.
The adviser at this service  who was dealing with this complaint recommended that it 
should be upheld.  She was satisfied  that the supplier was in breach of contract  as it hadnt 
carried out the works with reasonable skill and care  and Tesco Bank  was jointly  
responsible for that. She recommended that it should reimburse Mrs S for the cost of 
having the slabs replaced, including  the cost of the slabs themselves. She agreed that 
Tesco Banks complaint  handling shouldve been much better  but she was satisfied that 
the £100 that it had paid to Mrs S was fair and reasonable to reflect the trouble and upset 
that shed been caused. 
Tesco Bank has asked  for this complaint  to be considered by an ombudsman. It says that for 
a section 75 claim to be brought to it there must  be a breach of contract  or misrepresentation 
and its been agreed that theres no conclusive evidence to prove either has been provided.  
It says that with this type of dispute the only way to prove a breach of contract  has occurred 
is if the supplier admits liability and it disagrees  that theres evidence of that. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer an equal right to claim against the 
supplier of goods or services or the provider of credit  if theres  been a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier. To be able to uphold  Mrs Ss complaint about  Tesco  
Bank, I must  be satisfied  that theres  been a breach of contract  or misrepresentation by the 
supplier and that Tesco Banks  response to her claim  under section 75 wasnt  fair or 
reasonable. Im not determining the outcome  of Mrs Ss claim under section 75 as only a 
court would be able to do that.
Mrs S had moved into a new home and had paving  stones laid in the back garden. Shes 
provided photos showing the condition  of the paving stones  which were taken some time 
before the artificial  lawn was installed.  
Ref: DRN83081362The artificial  lawn was installed and Mrs S signed a completion form which confirmed that 
the site had been left clean and tidy. But she says that it was raining at the time and she 
didnt inspect the work before she signed  the form. She says that about two weeks  later she 
noticed that some of the paving  stones were chipped and she considered  that theyd been 
damaged when the artificial lawn was installed. Shes  provided  photos showing the chipped 
paving stones.
She says that she contacted the supplier and that it agreed to replace the stones.  It wrote  in 
an e-mail  to her:
Please come back to me once you have spoken to [the paver] regarding 
the damage and possible  replacement of four slabs  in your garden   
Mrs S obtained a quote of £510.20  to replace  the paving stones that had been  damaged  and 
the supplier said that it would  be willing to contribute £100 to the cost of the replacement  stones. 
The evidence doesnt clearly show that the supplier chipped the stones.  But having 
considered all of the evidence  thats been  provided  by Mrs S and Tesco  Bank, I consider it to 
be more likely than not that the paving  stones were  damaged by the supplier when it 
installed the artificial  lawn. That would be a breach of contract by the supplier because the 
installation service wasnt provided with the required level of care and skill  and Tesco Bank  
is jointly liable for that breach under section 75.
So I find that it would be fair and reasonable  for Tesco Bank to pay £510.20  to Mrs S to 
reimburse her for the cost of replacing the chipped paving stones  but shell need to provide  
it with invoices to show that shes incurred costs  of that amount. 
Tesco Bank has accepted that its handling of Mrs Ss claim shouldve been  better   and its 
paid her £100 compensation for that. Im not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable in 
these circumstances  for me to require it to pay her any further compensation for the way that 
its dealt with her complaint.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I uphold Mrs Ss complaint. And I order  Tesco 
Personal Finance  plc, trading as Tesco Bank,  to pay £510.20 to Mrs S to reimburse  her for 
the cost of replacing the chipped paving stones. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 April 2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8308136