K821x#15complaint
Mrs B complains that a car she financed through an agreement with FirstRand  Bank Limited, 
trading as MotoNovo Finance (MotoNovo), was not of satisfactory quality.
background
In March 2017 Mrs B took receipt of a used car. She financed the deal through a hire 
purchase agreement  with MotoNovo. The car had completed just over 27,000  miles at that 
time. But later in the year Mrs B had problems with the diesel particulate filter (DPF).  She 
complained to MotoNovo and a lengthy  repair was completed in January 2018. 
But in August 2018 she had further  problems with the DPF. The garage she took the car to, 
said that despite recharging the filter the problem returned straight  away.  They suggested  
that the fault with the filter hadnt been resolved and had probably been there from the 
beginning. So Mrs B complained to MotoNovo. She said, as the finance providers, they were 
responsible for the issue. 
But MotoNovo disagreed.  They said they hadnt  agreed they were  responsible  for the initial 
issue either but the dealership had arranged to repair the vehicle anyway. They said the 
subsequent problem Mrs B now complained of was not proven  to have been there from the 
point of supply,  so they werent responsible for resolving  it. They  added  that it was clear 
Ms B had been  able to drive  a further 6,356 miles in the car and they didnt think  this 
wouldve been possible  if the repair hadnt been successful.
But Mrs B wasnt  satisfied  with their response  so she referred  her complaint to this service  
and our investigator provided  her view. She asked MotoNovo if theyd be prepared  to 
commission an independent  engineers  inspection but they refused. So the investigator 
provided her view based on the information  that had been provided  to her. She didnt think it 
was reasonable  to expect a DPF filter to fail after only 44,000 miles and she thought the fact 
Mrs B had previous  work completed on it suggested  it had been  failing at the point of supply. 
She was supported in this view, she said, by the garage that had completed the repairs. And 
whilst she understood  this was not an independent  garage she said it was the only evidence  
shed been supplied with. 
She considered whether the DPF problems may have been a result of Mrs Bs driving style 
but she noted that the mileage was above  average  and Mrs B had explained that she 
regularly completed  motorway  miles.  She thought it was reasonable to suggest these long 
drives would be able to regenerate the filter so she didnt think  it fair to suggest Mrs Bs 
driving style could be blamed for the issues that had occurred. She thought it was likely the 
DPF had an inherent fault and she thought it fair to suggest MotoNovo allow Mrs B to reject 
the vehicle. 
She noted that the vehicle  had been  involved in a crash since  Mrs B reported the DPF 
problem and itd been written off by the insurance  company. So she considered  this when  
deciding what would  be a reasonable  way for MotoNovo  to resolve  the issue. She suggested 
MotoNovo should  refund  the deposit;  refund the bills Mrs B had to pay for diagnostics;  refund 
90% of payments made  since  August 2018  when the most  recent issue  was diagnosed, and 
unwind the credit agreement with nothing further to pay. She also suggested MotoNovo should 
pay Mrs B £100 to compensate her for the inconvenience shed experienced. 
Ref: DRN82025342But MotoNovo didnt agree with the investigators view. They said it was clear Mrs B had 
managed to cover more  than average mileage  in the car and they didnt  think that would be 
possible if she had a significant DPF issue. They also didnt think  it was right for the 
investigator to rely on the garages  report as they said the garage couldnt  be considered to 
be independent.  So they asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators view and for similar reasons.  Please  let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mrs B acquired her car under a hire purchase  agreement. The relevant law says that the car 
should have been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then MotoNovo is 
responsible and Id think  it fair and reasonable to ask them to put this right. 
But MotoNovos responsibility for the car is not unlimited. Whilst they are responsible  for its 
condition at the point of supply they are not responsible for faults that develop afterwards.  
MotoNovo say they didnt accept responsibility for the DPF fault, which  occurred in October  
2017 but wasnt resolved until January 2018.  But the car was fixed by the dealership and at 
no cost to Mrs B. I think its unlikely such an extensive repair  would have been carried out if 
the dealership  were  persuaded  the fault wasnt their responsibility.
Im persuaded that the repair that was completed in January 2018 has not been effective. I 
say that because:
Mrs B has experienced significant problems with the cars DPF since
the garage  she took it to has suggested  this is because the repair  didnt work and that 
the problem was therefore  present from supply
Mrs B has completed more than average  mileage in the car and that suggests shes  not 
doing short drives  that would mean the DPF wasnt being automatically recharged
its possible to drive  for a least some time with a DPF warning light illuminated. So the 
high mileage  hasnt  dissuaded me
The relevant  legislation  also tells us that, when we consider  satisfactory quality, we should  
consider whether the vehicle has proven to be suitably durable. And here I dont think  that 
can be the case. Mrs B has had to return the car frequently for the DPF to be recharged and 
I think thats excessive  for a car of this age and mileage.  Its not what  a reasonable 
consumer would expect.
Ref: DRN82025343MotoNovo has questioned  whether I should rely on the garage report.  I accept that the 
garage cant be seen  as independent: they were clearly  being paid by Mrs B to complete a 
repair. But Ive no reason to question their integrity and their comments  are one piece, but 
not the overriding piece, of evidence  Ive had to consider.
Ive considered the investigators suggested  redress and I agree with it. Mrs B will, it seems, 
be recompensed by her insurer for the written off vehicle. But its fair that MotoNovo  should 
compensate her for issues that wont be considered under her insurance  claim and that 
relate to the problems  shes experienced with a vehicle that wasnt of satisfactory quality 
when it was supplied.  
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and tell FirstRand Bank  Limited to:
cancel Mrs Bs finance  agreement  with nothing further to pay
refund the deposit and add 8% simple interest  from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement
refund 90% of payments since August 2018
pay Mrs B £100 to compensate her for the trouble and upset shes  been caused
refund the costs of £30 and £72 that she paid for diagnostics
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 June 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8202534