K821x#15complaint
Mr S says Gracombex Ltd (trading  as The Money  Platform (TMP)) lent to him 
irresponsibly. 
background
This complaint is about three short-term high cost loans TMP provided to Mr S between
November 2018  and February 2019. Details of the loans  are set out below.
loan taken out repaid Instalmentsamount, 
£monthly  
repayment, 
£
1 12/11/2018 23/11/2018 3 250 139.33
2 17/12/2018 25/01/2019 1 500 647
3 14/02/2019 22/02/2019 3 750 418
Our adjudicator partially upheld the complaint. He said TMP  shouldnt  have approved  
loans 2 and 3 as the information it had gathered showed they werent affordable for 
Mr S.
TMP disagreed. It accepted that it shouldnt have given loan 3 to Mr S, but said loan 2 
was affordable. It made an offer to compensate Mr S for loan 3 in line with our guidance, 
but Mr S rejected this. So the compliant was passed to me to make a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible  lending - including 
all of the relevant  rules,  guidance and good  industry  practice - on our website.
TMP needed  to take reasonable  steps  to ensure that it didnt  lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Mr S could repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks  could take into 
account a number of different things, such as how much  was being lent, the repayment 
amounts and the consumers income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  
stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks  might be reasonable and 
proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that TMP should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time
Ref: DRN84829222during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming,
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself 
clearly demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.  And the loan payments being 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be an indication a consumer 
could sustainably make  their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the 
case. The industry regulator  defines  sustainable  as being without undue difficulties and 
in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while  meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to meet  the 
repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
TMP has told us at the time of each  application  it gathered information on Mr Ss income,  
rent, financial commitments and it used  a national average to estimate his other living  
costs. It also carried  out credit checks. And for all three loans these checks showed the 
repayments to be affordable  for Mr S. It has more recently explained there was a 
systems error  that led to the approval of loan 3.  
Ive decided to uphold Mr Ss complaint about  loans 2 and 3. As TMP has already 
agreed it shouldnt  have given loan 3, and that it will put things right as our adjudicator  
set out, I will comment no further  on this. 
Mr S didnt disagree with our adjudicators  opinion about loan 1. And like our adjudicator 
I havent found any reason that TMP  should have made  a different lending decision at 
this stage, so I wont comment any further on loan 1. But it was part of Mr Ss borrowing 
relationship with TMP so, it is something  I will take into account  when considering  loan 2.
For loan 2 Mr S had to make a single repayment of £647 around six weeks  after the loan 
started. This was a high proportion of his declared monthly income of £1,800 and more  
than the monthly  disposable income of £567  that TMP calculated for Mr S.
TMP argues  that as the loan term was six weeks Mr S had more  than one month to find 
affordability as essentially  his disposable monthly  income was increased by 50%. So on 
this basis the loan was affordable for Mr S. But I dont think  this is reasonable. The loan 
term may have been 6 weeks, but the repayment plan was within one pay cycle.  TMPs  
defence relies on Mr S being able to either carry over income from the prior month  or 
pull forward income from the next month. 
Mr S applied for loan 2 less than a month after repaying loan 1 and it was for double  the 
value. So I dont think it was likely  he was managing  to put money aside to smooth out 
his repayments.  And given he was applying for high cost short term credit I dont think  
its likely  Mr Ss cash flow was such  that he could in essence pull forward  income  from 
his next pay cheque. So based on the information  it gathered I dont think TMP  should  
have concluded  loan 2 was affordable. It follows I dont think  it made  a responsible  
lending decision for loan 2.
In deciding what redress TMP should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened had it stopped lending to Mr S from loan 2, as Im satisfied
it ought to have.
Ref: DRN84829223Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Mr S may have simply left matters there, 
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere   particularly as a relationship  existed
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others.  If this
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative 
 assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same  application,  or
indeed a different  application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done
that, the information that would have been  available to such a lender and how they 
would (or ought  to have) treated an application  which may or may not have been  the 
same is impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what  Ive seen in this case, I 
certainly dont think I can fairly  conclude  there  was a real and substantial chance  that a 
new lender would have been  able to lend to Mr S in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these  possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or
reasonable to conclude  that Mr S would  more likely than not have taken up any one of 
these options.  So it wouldnt  be fair to now reduce TMPs liability in this case for what  Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should  put right.
Putting things  right
TMP shouldnt have given Mr S loans  2 and 3, so:
A) TMP should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr S towards interest,  
fees and charges on these loans, including payments  made to a third party where 
applicable, but not including  anything it has already refunded.
B) TMP should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual  payments made  by Mr S 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr S originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) TMP should pay Mr S the total of A plus B.
D) TMP should remove any adverse information  it has recorded on Mr Ss credit  file in 
relation to loans  2 and 3.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires  TMP  to deduct tax from this interest. TMP should give Mr S a 
certificate showing  how much tax TMP has deducted,  if he asks for one.
my final decision
I am upholding  Mr Ss complaint in part, and Gracombex Ltd (trading as The Money 
Platform) must now put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 March 2021.
Ref: DRN84829224Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8482922