K822xcomplaint
Mr F complains HSBC  UK Bank Plc unfairly  withdrew his interest  free overdraft facility.
background 
Mr F says that he took out a student bank account  with Midland Bank  in 1990 and as a part 
of that, he was offered an interest free £400 overdraft for life. He says HSBC,  (who had 
since taken over Midland Bank) removed this without notice in April 2015. Hes like it 
reinstated together with a refund  of any overdraft bank charges and interest hes been 
charged since its removal. 
HSBC said it wasnt possible now to find all of the documents relating to when Mr F had 
opened his account in 1990. And it couldnt explain why it had written  to Mr F in April 2015 to 
say the overdraft had been removed. But it said over the years Mr F had had regular 
statements as well as the annual account  summary  and it was clear from these that the 
interest free overdraft  facility had been  removed some time ago. Mr F hadnt  however 
queried this until 2018.  It didnt  agree  the overdraft had been removed unfairly. And for that 
reason it couldnt  agree  to reinstate the overdraft on the previous terms or to reimburse the 
charges.
Our investigator said that in general  a complaint needed  to be brought to this service within  6 
years of when the when  the event complained about  had happened or, if later than that, 
within three years from when the complainant  knew or could reasonably have known there  
was a cause for complaint. We could only go back before  that if the business agreed which 
HSBC hadnt in this case. For that reason shed only be looking at the charges applied  to his 
account from the date the overdraft was removed (27 April 2015) to when he raised his 
complaint in March  2018.
Having done so she was satisfied HSBC  had applied the charges for being overdrawn in line 
with the accounts terms and conditions  so she couldnt say they were unfair or ask for them  
to be refunded. However the terms and conditions  required HSBC  to give Mr F 30 days  
notice of any changes  to his overdraft. In this case HSBC hadnt  given Mr F the required 
notice or an explanation of why it was being done.  She didnt think this was fair and for that 
reason she recommended  HSBC pay Mr F £100 compensation for the inconvenience hed 
had as a result of this. But she said HSBC was entitled to make changes so she wouldnt be 
asking it to reinstate  the overdraft on the previous  terms.  If Mr F wanted an agreed  overdraft, 
hed need to apply and his application  would then be assessed in the usual way.
Mr F wasnt happy with the compensation recommended and said he thought  HSBC  should 
also refund  the overdraft  charges taken  from his account.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I realise this isnt the decision Mr F was 
hoping for but having looked at the information I think £100 compensation is fair and I wont  
be asking HSBC to do anything more as Ill now explain.
Ref: DRN83623272In this case the original  overdraft was agreed  in 1990 but as the investigator has explained  
there are time limits that apply to decide  which complaints we can accept. In general we 
cannot look at events that happened more than six years ago or, if the complainant didnt 
find out until after that, more than three years after the time when the complainant knew  or 
could reasonably have known there was a cause for complaint. Ive seen Mr F has accepted 
that we will only be looking at what happened in the past six years so I wont be going 
behind that in this case.
Ive seen that Mr F and HSBC disagree as to precisely when the interest free overdraft 
facility was removed  from his account.  What  is clear however is that HSBC only told Mr F 
what it had done  in its letter of 27 April 2015. And this letter  didnt explain why it had made  
that decision or give Mr F the necessary notice as required by the accounts terms and 
conditions. In the circumstances Id agree with the investigator that this was an oversight and 
that its fair that HSBC compensate him for this and the inconvenience its caused.
I know Mr F would like a refund of all overdraft charges and interest  which he thinks  have 
been wrongly applied. But for the reasons set out above Im looking only at what has 
happened in the past six years.  And where theres a disagreement as to what happened,  Ive 
had to make  my decision on the balance of probabilities.
I cant say with any certainty what was agreed  back in 1990  when this account was set up 
but Ive seen the statements sent to Mr F since 2012 and it seems clear  the interest free 
overdraft facility was removed some time ago. And I can see the statements were  sent to Mr 
F regularly so I consider  hed have been aware of this at the time. In the circumstances I 
havent seen anything to show there should  have been an interest free overdraft in place.
I realise this isnt the decision Mr F was hoping for but for the reasons given, Im not satisfied 
the charges applied since April 2015 are incorrect and I wont  therefore  be asking HSBC to 
refund them  or to reinstate  the previous offer.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Fs complaint in part and direct HSBC  UK Bank  PLC to 
pay Mr F £100  for his trouble and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Cerys Jones
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8362327