K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs R have complained that Santander UK Plc (trading  as National & Provincial 
Building Society  or N&P) mis-sold them a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
background
I have previously issued  a provisional  decision  regarding this complaint. The following 
represents excerpts from my provisional decision,  outlining the background to this complaint 
and my provisional findings, and forms part of this final decision:
The policy  was taken  out in 1986,  at the same time that the mortgage was arranged.  Mr and 
Mrs R recall that they were told by N&P during a telephone conversation  that they needed  to 
take out PPI in order to be granted the mortgage.
Our adjudicator did not uphold this complaint.
Mr and Mrs R disagreed  with these findings.  They have highlighted that when Santander 
initially considered  their complaint, it stated that the PPI policy was in Mr Rs name only.  
However, our adjudicator  assumed  the policy benefit  was split between Mr and Mrs R, based 
on Santanders complaint submissions to this Service. Mr and Mrs R say that they never 
wanted this policy.  Mrs R has also said that she was pregnant when  the policy was sold,  and 
had no intention of returning to work.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Rs case.
Mr and Mrs R have provided  their description of the PPI sale.  They  say that they were  told 
that their mortgage would not be approved without them agreeing  to take out PPI. They also 
say that they were  pressured into taking PPI. Subsequently  Mr and Mrs R recall that they 
went into the N&P branch  to complete the mortgage  application. Santander has only been  
able to provide  a very limited  amount  of information about the sale,  but I dont consider this 
is surprising, bearing in mind that it was over 30 years ago.
I have to decide what I consider is most  likely to have happened when the policy  was taken  
out. I have  carefully  considered Mr and Mrs Rs recollections about  the sale.  I am mindful 
that with these events  occurring  so many years ago, it might make it more  difficult to recall 
the discussions that took place in detail.
Taking into account that the policy was a separate product to the mortgage, my view is that it 
is more likely than not that Mr and Mrs R had to complete  separate  documents  to request 
that PPI be taken out. It seems to me that this increases the likelihood that PPI was 
presented as an optional product. On balance,  I consider that Mr and Mrs R were offered 
PPI as an option, and that they chose  to take it out.
When it initially investigated the complaint, Santander stated that its internal records 
suggested that the PPI policy was in Mr Rs name only. When it later forwarded its 
Ref: DRN80360502submissions to this Service, Santander indicated that the policy  was in both Mr and Mrs Rs 
names. However, looking at the internal screenshot that Santander has provided and that 
shows the PPI policy,  only Mr R is shown  as the policyholder. On the balance of evidence 
provided, my view is therefore that it is more likely than not that the PPI policy was taken out 
in Mr Rs name alone. I have assessed its sale on that basis.
Santander has stated  that it is likely N&P advised  Mr R to take out PPI. It therefore  had to 
take reasonable steps to ensure the advice it gave was suitable. It also had to give clear,  fair 
and not misleading information about  the PPI so that Mr R could make a properly informed 
choice.
Having looked  at Mr Rs circumstances when the policy was sold,  my view is that it was 
suitable for him for the following reasons:
Mr R has confirmed the employee entitlements he had in the event that he was unable  to 
work. Mr and Mrs R have also detailed the other means they state they had to help meet  
mortgage repayments if Mr R wasnt working.  However, the PPI policy would have paid 
out an amount  to help cover the mortgage repayments if disability or unemployment 
occurred, and this would have been in addition to any other benefits Mr R would receive, 
and regardless of any savings held. A payment from the PPI policy  would have meant 
that Mr and Mrs R did not need  to use any savings  they had to cover their mortgage  
repayments. Bearing in mind the importance of meeting mortgage repayments, on balance  my view is 
that PPI did provide  a useful benefit to Mr R if he was unable to work because of 
disability or unemployment.
It seems  that Mr R was eligible for the cover, and wouldnt  have been  affected by any of 
the main things not covered by the policy that might  make  it unsuitable for him.
Ive not seen sufficient evidence to conclude that the PPI premium was unaffordable.
There might  have been other areas  in which N&P didnt  give Mr and Mrs R as much 
information as it should have done. But for the same reasons that Ive decided the policy 
was suitable, my view is that better information  would not have put them  off taking out the 
PPI. I appreciate that Mr and Mrs R will be disappointed with my findings. However my 
conclusion is that the policy was not mis-sold.
responses to my provisional  decision
Neither Mr and Mrs R nor Santander responded to my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In the absence of further submissions following my provisional decision, I do not consider 
that I have  reason to alter my conclusions outlined in that decision.
Ref: DRN80360503my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint, and I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 April 2019.
John Swain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8036050