K820x#14Complaint
Mr and Mrs H say Anglian Windows Ltd mis-sold them payment protection  insurance (PPI) in 
2005.
Background
I recently issued my provisional  decision on this complaint which  included  the following:
Mr and Mrs H took out a loan through Anglian, over a term of 120 months,  in order to fund 
some home improvements. The loan was taken out during a meeting and Mr and Mrs H 
bought a single premium  PPI policy at the same  time. 
The PPI covered Mr H only in the event of death,  disability  and unemployment.  The cost of 
the PPI was added to the loan and attracted interest.
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint  be upheld. Anglian disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion so the complaint was passed to me to review afresh.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken  this into account  in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Hs case. 
Having done so, Ive provisionally  decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Im aware of the reasons  the adjudicator gave for recommending the complaint  be upheld. 
Im also aware of the reasons  Mr and Mrs H feel the PPI was mis-sold, including that they 
were told they had to have it in order to get the loan, and that they had no need for it given  
they were in stable  employment and had some  savings.  
I accept its possible there were failings in how Anglian sold Mr and Mrs H the PPI. However, 
I dont need to make a finding  on this. This is because even if there  were  problems, Ive not 
seen enough evidence to show Mr and Mrs H suffered  a financial loss as a result of the sale. 
I say this because I can see Mr and Mrs H were offered  a financial incentive to take out the 
PPI. By taking the PPI, Mr and Mrs H received a discount on the loan of £3,694. The total 
potential cost of the PPI (including interest) over the term of the loan was £3,367.08.  So their 
overall spend was actually  reduced  despite  and, in fact, because of  the addition of PPI.
As things  turned out, I can see Mr and Mrs H actually paid far less than £3,367.08 for the 
PPI because they paid off the loan in 2007. They also received a refund of part of the PPI 
premium in doing so. So the gap between the cost of the loan with the PPI and the cost of 
the loan without PPI was even greater than if the loan had run to its full term.  
Ref: DRN84512332With all of this in mind, I dont believe Mr and Mrs H lost out because they were sold PPI. 
That being  the case, I dont think Anglian need do anything to put things right for them.
My provisional decision
For the reasons  given,  I dont intend to uphold this complaint.
I asked the parties  to reply with any further  comments or evidence  they might  have before I 
looked into the complaint again.
Anglian accepted  my provisional decision. Mr and Mrs H said they had nothing  more to add.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken  this into account  in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Hs case.
Having done so, and bearing  in mind the lack of challenge to my provisional decision from 
either party, I see no reason to reach  a different final decision now.
My final decision
For the reasons  given,  I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 October  2019.
Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8451233