K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains about the way Virgin Money plc handled a chargeback  request for him.
background
In November 2017, Mr C bought an engine  online. He took delivery of the engine but it 
wasnt used straightway. It remained wrapped  and stored until his garage came  to use it in 
September 2018. The garage found  the engine in a damaged condition.  
Mr C tried to obtain a refund from the merchant but was told he was outside the warranty  
period. He also tried to obtain a refund through the online trading platform  but was told his 
request was out of time. So Mr C turned to his bank, Virgin  Money, in November 2018. Virgin 
Money said it would raise a charge back for him but that it could take 90 days for a decision 
to be made.  
When Mr C called for an update at the end of November  2018 he was told it was still going 
through the investigation and the company has a large space of time to respond. Other  
avenues were suggested to Mr C and he was told it would update  him every couple of 
weeks.
Virgin Money wrote to Mr C on 5 December 2018  to explain it couldnt raise  the dispute  for 
him as it was out of time. But Mr C says he never  received that letter   it was missing the 
post code. As Mr C hadnt heard  he visited a branch in April 2019 and made a complaint. 
Virgin considered  the complaint but didnt uphold it, so Mr C asked us to get involved.  
Our investigator concluded that Mr C had been  out of time to make  his chargeback request 
so he didnt think Virgin Money was wrong  not to raise the dispute. However, he felt it could 
have told him sooner  that his chargeback request couldnt be raised and he wasnt 
persuaded the letter was received  as it had the post code missing.  Overall, he felt Virgin  
Money ought to pay Mr C £50 for the delay.  
Virgin Money didnt  agree with the outcome as it believed it provided accurate information  
and explained  there was no guarantee  a chargeback would succeed. Mr C also didnt  agree. 
He is adamant  he was told he would get his money  back and wants  the refund.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I uphold  this complaint 
for broadly the same reasons as the investigator. 
I appreciate Mr C feels very strongly  about this matter  and wants a refund. But it needs to be 
remembered that Mr C bought the engine  from a third party.  Im dont doubt that he might 
have lost out financially but my consideration here is whether Virgin Money has done 
anything wrong. 
A chargeback is not a legal right that Mr C has. Chargeback schemes are voluntary 
schemes set up between card issuers   such as Visa,  Mastercard or American Express  
and merchants. In this case, I understand the debit card was a Mastercard debit  card and so 
it is Mastercards scheme rules that apply. 
Ref: DRN86564252There are only certain activities that Mastercard allows chargeback  rights for. And it has set 
time limits for chargebacks to be attempted. And it is Mastercard  that actually makes the 
decision about whether or not to make a chargeback  the bank simply makes a chargeback  
request. If a card issuer (here its Virgin Money) knows a chargeback  is out of time, or its 
unlikely to succeed, I wouldnt necessarily expect it to make a chargeback request.  
The transaction for the engine took place in November 2017.  Under the scheme rules a 
chargeback can be attempted within 120 days from the transaction  or delivery of the goods. 
But Mr C didnt raise his chargeback until November 2018, a year after the transaction. The 
time limits are strict.  And as the time limits are a defence against  a chargeback,  I dont find 
Virgin Money was acting unfairly when not making  a chargeback request. And because  
Virgin Money has no responsibility for the quality of the engine,  I find no basis on which  to 
ask it to refund the transaction amount even if Mr C was told he would receive one.  
I accept from the calls notes that during the initial call Mr C was told there were no 
guarantees. But the notes  from the second call, that which took place on 27 November 2018,  
suggest the business (the merchant)  has a large amount of space  to reply. I appreciate 
Virgin Money believes the call handler  was referring  to past experience.  But I think  a 
customer hearing this, and as I have  read,  would assume by that point the chargeback had 
been made and it was waiting for a response from the merchant. So I do think  Virgin Money  
hasnt been clear on what was actually happening  with the chargeback  I think it could have  
explained it was still looking into whether  a chargeback dispute could be raised. 
I know Virgin Money wrote out to Mr C on 5 December  2018 to explain it couldnt  raise the 
chargeback. But that letter was missing  a post code, so it was incorrectly  addressed. I do 
accept it is possible incorrectly addressed mail can reach the intended destination. Our 
approach is that correctly  addressed mail is likely to be correctly  delivered unless there is 
evidence to the contrary. Given the letter wasnt correctly addressed, and in the absence of 
evidence that it was received by Mr C (it not being  returned undeliverable is not evidence of 
receipt) Im not persuaded, on balance, that it reached him safely. So Mr C wasnt  aware  of 
the outcome of his request until a few months  later, when he got back  in touch. 
I accept this was some  months  later. But during  the calls Mr C was told it could take 90 days 
and was subsequently told the company  has a large  amount of space to reply. Im not 
persuaded the time he took to get back  in touch was unreasonable. 
Overall, I agree  with our investigator  that Virgin Money could have been much  clearer about 
the process. And it could have ensured its correspondence was addressed  correctly.  As it 
wasnt there were avoidable  delays in Mr C finding  out the outcome of his dispute, which I 
think he should be fairly compensated for. I find that £50 compensation is fair compensation 
for the delays, particularly  as Mr C should still be able to pursue his grievance through  other 
avenues, which he would  always have had to do given the timescales involved for 
chargebacks. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  I uphold this complaint and require Virgin Money plc to pay Mr C £50 
for the inconvenience  caused. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 August 2019.
Ref: DRN86564253Claire Hopkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8656425