K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complains about the policies  and practices of Nationwide  Building Society in relation 
to powers of attorney.
background
Mrs M is represented  in this complaint by her son Mr M. Mr M has a lasting power of 
attorney (LPA) for his mother.  He applied to register the LPA with Nationwide.  But he was 
forced to select whether  his mother had mental capacity during the process. Mr M objected 
to the limited choice.  But he was told he couldnt proceed without making a selection.
Mr M says he was given misleading information about registering access  to his mothers  
online accounts. And he found Nationwides  process for determining  mental  capacity very 
unsatisfactory. So he wants Nationwide to address his complaint properly. And he wants it to 
improve its treatment of people with a power  of attorney. Mr M would also like an apology 
and compensation  for his time.
Nationwide said a power of attorney was registered on Mr Ms profile in March  2019. When  it 
was registered  itd been answered that Mrs M was mentally capable. Nationwide considered  
this to mean the person  understood how to manage  their account. And it didnt  have a 
separate power of attorney policy for online banking.
Mr M wasnt satisfied  with Nationwides response. So he contacted our service and our 
investigator looked into the matter. She explained  her role would be to determine if 
Nationwide had acted  unfairly in handling the registration of Mr Ms power of attorney. She 
could see Mr M was unhappy with Nationwides procedures. But there  were  limits to what 
our service  could look into. She wasnt able to tell Nationwide how to operate its business  or 
determine its policies  or procedures.  She could only look at whether itd applied  its 
processes correctly. And she couldnt say itd done anything wrong.
Mr M didnt  agree. Hed been misled by Nationwides staff about the online account. And he 
felt Nationwide  had only responded to the parts of his complaint which  were  easy to answer.
So hes asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Mr M has my sympathy.  He is caring  for a 
relative. And he feels Nationwides processes have been what he calls a waste of brains,  
money and time which couldve  been  put to better  use. 
I know Mr M feels Nationwide didnt deal with everything he complained  about.  And hes 
raised a number of points  which Ive considered as part of my decision. Ive looked  carefully  
at everything he and Nationwide have said to see if Nationwide has done anything wrong. 
And if so what it needs to do to put things  right. 
I do appreciate how upsetting  this mustve been for Mr M. He was trying to look after his 
mothers financial affairs. Mr M says he was told by Nationwide he could only access  his 
mothers online banking if she had mental incapacity. And a medical expert would be best 
placed to determine if that was the case.  As Mr M points out mental  health  can be a nuanced 
issue that cant always be handled  by a standard procedure. 
Ref: DRN81359712Mr M is also unhappy the process wasnt explained  fully when he spoke to members of staff 
at Nationwides  branch. I can see Mr M also spoke  to the Office of Public  Guardian (OPG) as 
he felt Nationwides  procedures could be improved. And he suggested Nationwide  speak to 
the OPG  for guidance.
But its not the role of this service to tell Nationwide how to run its business. Thats the role of 
its regulator, the Financial  Conduct Authority. Our role is to see if Nationwide has made any 
mistakes. And if so what  it needs  to do to put things  right. 
From what  Ive seen I think Nationwide followed its procedures properly when it registered 
the power of attorney using  the information provided by Mr M. It had to act on the data 
provided. I appreciate  Mr M feels  the questions made it difficult to properly explain the 
situation and provide  appropriate responses. And he feels Nationwide  could improve the 
procedure. But as Ive explained I cant tell Nationwide what  to do. I can only look if it has 
made any mistakes.
Mr M has clearly  put a lot of time and effort into looking after his mothers  affairs.  And I 
understand the stress caused when dealing with such  matters.  I know  he feels he 
Nationwides staff are poorly trained. And he says he wasnt  given  all of the information he 
needed which resulted in additional time and effort. But Ive not seen anything to suggest  
Nationwide misled Mr M. And I think it responded to his complaint fairly even if Mr M doesnt 
feel it addressed every  issue he raised.
I understand Mr M can now access his mothers online banking. And its clear Mr M 
approaches his duty as attorney for his mothers financial affairs  with the necessary diligence 
and care. 
Although I cant tell Nationwide how to run its business I hope  it takes  note of the outcome of 
the complaints  it receives to see if it can improve things. But based on what Ive seen  I cant  
really say Nationwide has done anything wrong. And I wont be asking it to do anything 
more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 November 2019.
Andrew Mason
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8135971