K820x#14complaint
Mrs F complains that UIA (Insurance) Limited unfairly refused to accept a claim she made 
under the legal expenses  section of a home  insurance policy.
References to UIA include its claim handling  agent.
   
background
Mrs F had a home  insurance  policy with UIA, where  she originally didnt opt to have legal 
expenses cover. At renewal in July 2018 Mrs F added legal expenses cover. 
Mrs F wanted UIA to provide legal  assistance  to bring an action against her employer  for 
alleged discrimination. She says she advised  UIA about the matter  when she reasonably 
believed that all avenues  of negotiating had been  exhausted and there was no other  option  
but to bring legal action.
A summary  of the relevant timeline  is;
May 2017 employer  announces moving office and Mrs F advised  she couldnt work  
her current  hours
November 2017 the employer relocates
March 2018  correspondence between Mrs F revealing;
oNew office not much  further  away from old office
oMrs F said unable  to get to office  for 8:30 due to childcare
April 2018 employer  offers;
oMrs F remaining at old office on standalone  basis
oStates  its not a redundancy situation
oMrs F said unable  to get to office  for 8:30 due to childcare
June 2018;
oMrs F had consulted  ACAS and received  advice 
oEmployer tells Mrs F her position remains open to her on return  at two 
locations
oMrs F tells employer  she feels shes  being  treated unfairly  (reasons provided)
Prior to 10 July;
oMrs F maintains her situation is a redundancy matter
oEmployer tells Mrs F its position has been  clearly set out and had nothing 
further to add
10 to 12 July;
oCommunication between Mrs F and the employer, including part time hours
oMrs F didnt want to work as standalone in old office or on part time basis
oMrs Fs request for alternative hours at new office refused
oNo agreement reached
UIA refused to offer legal  assistance  as the policy didnt cover any claim arising  from or 
relating to any actual  or alleged act or omission  or dispute happening before,  or existing at, 
the start of cover and which Mrs F believed, or ought reasonably to have believed,  could  
lead to a claim. 
UIA explained that Mrs F had raised  concerns  with her employer  more  than a year before 
she had added legal expenses cover to her policy. Before  the legal expenses  cover started 
she had consulted with ACAS  to check what her legal position  was, and had tried to agree  
Ref: DRN80462732different working  hours. And these issues were the same ones that Mrs F wanted to pursue 
against her employer. On this basis UIA said Mrs F ought reasonably to have known when 
adding legal  expenses cover that the ongoing  matters with her employer, arising before the 
start of cover, could lead to a claim.   
Mrs F disagrees with UIAs decision  on the basis that her grievance procedure  against her 
employer wasnt made until after the policy started and so she wasnt  aware there may be a 
legal claim until this point.
One of our investigators  looked into the matter but didnt think UIA had acted outside the 
policy or treated  Mrs F unfairly. He explained that Mrs Fs dispute  with her employer began  
before she had bought legal expenses cover. He said correspondence between  Mrs F and 
her employer showed Mrs F was clearly  unhappy  at her belief that she was being treated 
unfairly, and different to other employees. And prior to the legal expenses cover  starting  
Mrs F had asked  her employer for information that shed  need to send to ACAS should the 
issues remain unresolved.
As Mrs F disagreed with the investigator  her complaint has been  referred  to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Like most insurance policies Mrs Fs legal  expenses doesnt cover claims where the actual  
or alleged  dispute happened before, or existed at the start of cover.  In particular Mrs Fs 
policy doesnt cover  her claims where she believed or ought  reasonably  to have believed  a 
dispute existing  at the start of cover  could lead to a claim.
The issue  in this case is that Mrs F disagrees  with UIA that she was aware or reasonably  
ought to have been aware that the issues with her employer, at the time of buying legal 
expenses cover, could  lead to her making a claim. Mrs F believes this didnt  materialise until 
her formal grievance procedure was made  and didnt resolve the issues she was unhappy 
with.
What is clear from the information  Ive seen is that Mrs F was in regular contact with her 
employer from at least March 2018  about  the issues she was unhappy with and her 
conditions of employment. She was due to return to work after a lengthy  period of absence 
but was unhappy with terms  upon  which her return would be based.  These  issues were 
discussed at length and Mrs F was adamant she was being treated unfairly and that her 
situation was akin to a redundancy situation. Its also apparent  that Mrs F had consulted  with 
ACAS about  her situation and received advice. I remind  myself that ACAS, among other 
activities, provides advice on aspects of workplace relations and employment law to 
employers and employees. Her grievance  against  her employer and the matters for which 
Mrs F wanted legal  assistance with were ostensibly those issues  that had arisen before her 
cover started.
I disagree with Mrs Fs position  that she didnt believe, or wasnt reasonably of the belief, 
that these matters could  lead to a claim. It was clear from correspondence  between Mrs F 
and her employer  that they had reached  a position  (before cover  started)  where there was in 
effect deadlock  in the dispute. And indeed Mrs F had sought guidance from ACAS about her 
position and was adamant her employer  was treating her unfairly. 
Ref: DRN80462733While Mrs F refers to her grievance procedure as the catalyst for her knowledge  of a claim I 
disagree. Before a tribunal claim is lodged an employee must tell ACAS about the intention 
to make a claim to the tribunal. And ACAS  early conciliation guidance states its best to 
resolve workplace disputes as early as possible and always use the employers grievance 
procedure before making a tribunal claim.  Taking  this information into account, along with 
everything else, Im not persuaded  that the fact of Mrs Fs grievance procedure  was the 
catalyst for her belief  that her employment  issues could lead to a claim. The procedure  was, 
in effect, a required stage before she could take her matter to the tribunal to show  that shed 
tried to resolve the matter out of court.
The crux of Mrs Fs intended  claim against  her employer didnt change from the issues in 
dispute before her legal  expenses cover started.  And as the correspondence is clear,  in my 
view, that the parties had reached  a deadlock on the issues  in dispute, I am persuaded by 
the evidence that Mrs F believed, or at the very least ought reasonably to have believed that 
the dispute could lead to a claim. And this was before her policy  started in July 2018.
Having considered this matter  very carefully Im satisfied that UIA has acted in line with the 
policy terms. For me to require UIA, in this particular case, to cover Mrs Fs proposed  claim 
would be unfair  and unreasonable. This is because the policy  clearly  doesnt cover Mrs Fs 
situation and she held the advantage of knowledge.  Mrs F was adamant she was being 
treated unfairly  because  of a protected characteristic and had already sought advice from 
ACAS. Mrs F knew she was in an advanced dispute  with her employer about employment 
issues that her employer was refusing to offer what she wanted them to. And this was before  
she added  legal expense  cover to her main policy.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2019.
Sean Hamilton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8046273