K821x#15complaint
Ms S, who is represented by her son, is unhappy  with the arrangements  for her repatriation 
to the UK by her travel insurer, Union  Reiseversicherung AG, after an accident on holiday
All references to URV include the agents it has appointed to handle claims.  
background
In late 2017, Ms S had an accident on holiday and suffered a serious,  life changing injury.  
She was initially treated  in a local hospital that specialised  in the type of care she needed. 
She had an operation to stabilise her condition  and in line with her travel  insurance policy  
terms, contacted URV.
URV made arrangements to repatriate Ms S to continue her treatment in the UK.
Ms S and her son are unhappy that the type of repatriation arranged by URV, a land 
transfer, was against  their wishes and the advice of the treating doctor. Theyd  like 
compensation for the stress they experienced and for the amount of time Ms S was in transit  
back to the UK. Ms S and her son believe she should have been repatriated  by air 
ambulance which would  have taken less time and they say, more  suitable for her needs.
URV say that the land transfer,  by ambulance with specialist nursing support, was the most 
appropriate option available. In conversations with Ms S and her son, it explained that, in its 
opinion, air ambulance transfers can carry additional  risk, most notably  because of 
turbulence, the risk of sudden loss of cabin pressure and the risk of the pilot suddenly  
aborting the take off. It also referenced statistics for air ambulance  crashes and reliability.
URV also say that Medical Practitioners Tribunal Service recently reviewed their doctors 
handling of this transfer and did not find any aspects of their doctors involvement in the 
case fell below the expected standards.   
Our investigator reviewed  the complaint and in her opinion, URV hadnt  handled  things as 
well as it could have.  She made clear its not our services role to reach medical conclusions 
about Ms Ss injury or decide the best method of repatriation. But she wasnt  satisfied, based 
on the evidence  shed seen, that the land transfer  was the only and safest way to repatriate 
Ms S. Having listened to the calls between URVs doctor  and Ms S and her son, she also 
concluded that Ms S was really  worried  and distressed by the idea of a lengthy  overland 
repatriation. As a result she awarded Ms S £2,000 for the trouble and upset  shed 
experienced. She did not award  Ms Ss son any compensation  as he is not an insured party.
URV, Ms S, and her son disagree with the outcome  reached by our investigator.  
Ms Ss son has said the level of compensation awarded doesnt  sufficiently recognise the 
distress Ms S experienced.   
URV considered our investigators opinion primarily focussed on the medical suitability of 
the repatriation,  rather than the terms of the contract of policy or customer  service provided. 
Its also said that its not for this service "to reach  any medical conclusions in relation  to 
Ms Ss injury or the best method of repatriation for her type of injury.
Ref: DRN88295082And so the case has been passed  to me for final determination.
my findings
repatriation arrangements
Ms Ss policy includes cover for repatriation. The information in the policy documents about  
repatriation is limited,  but does not suggest  the type of repatriation  can be decided by the 
insured or their family. The policy says  
In-patient treatment
Your case may be referred to one of the doctors  on the team  who will, if necessary, 
contact you to ascertain  the exact  nature of your injury or illness  and then put in 
place the appropriate strategy to ensure that you receive the correct  treatment  and, if 
required, advice  on your repatriation.
The policy goes on to say
 . Our 24 hour emergency assistance  service doctors are experts in aviation 
medicine, and the decision as to when it is safe for you to fly home should be left in 
their hands .  
So I cannot say Ms S had a right to choose  to be repatriated  by air ambulance. But I think its 
reasonable for a consumer to expect  repatriation arrangements  to meet their medical needs 
and to take a reasonable account of the time and distance involved. In an ideal situation, all 
parties involved in the discussions about repatriation arrangements would reach a 
consensus on the way forward. 
From the information Ive seen the treating doctor overseas, after a call with URVs doctor, 
agreed that a land transfer of 16 hours was acceptable providing a specialist nurse was in 
attendance. The overseas  doctor initially assumed the transfer would  be by air ambulance  
but changed her mind  during the call when URVs doctor talked about the risks of air 
transfers including three  cases  where passengers suffered cervical fractures due to 
turbulence, problems with incomplete oxidation of gasoline or kerosene,  and issues 
associated to accelerations  and vibrations. 
Several weeks after her accident, Ms S was repatriated to the UK. Ive seen information 
which shows that at this time, URVs doctor  considered it safe to repatriate Ms S by 
commercial aircraft. But a few days later, that decision changed. In the interim a discussion 
had taken place  between URVs doctor and the receiving doctor in the UK. My 
understanding is that the receiving doctor,  at a specialist hospital in the UK, instructed URVs 
doctor to transfer Ms S by air ambulance; a flight time of approximately 90 minutes. Two 
days later Ms S was repatriated by land ambulance; a transfer that took about 18 hours.  
The information Ive been provided  with by URV suggests that a transfer by commercial flight 
was not considered appropriate at that time by URVs nurse due to Ms Ss continuing pain 
inability to sit for any length of time,  significant neuropathic pain and concerns regarding 
Ms Ss toileting needs. 
Ref: DRN88295083In terms of Ms Ss difficulty with sitting,  a bed to bed transfer by air ambulance would seem,  
in all the circumstances of this complaint, to be a reasonable alternative. I havent seen 
anything to suggest that toileting care cannot  be managed in those circumstances, for what  
would have been a relatively short period  of time.  Information published  by the Civil Aviation 
Authority says Where necessary, even passengers who require specialist in-flight medical 
care up to intensive care level can usually be transported by air ambulance  so I can 
understand why Ms S and her family are finding  it difficult to understand why the option  of an 
air transfer  wasnt made available  if the only difficulty with a commercial flight  was Ms Ss 
ability to travel in a sitting position.  And the suggestion to repatriate  Ms S by commercial 
aircraft would suggest URVs concerns about the risk of an air transfer were  less 
pronounced.
Ive been provided  with a copy of the Medical Practitioners Tribunal Service  report into 
Ms Ss transfer, part of which  was introduced to this service by URV. This report  includes  
criticism of URVs doctor and in particular, includes an experts opinion  about the 
disadvantages of a land transfer  including the limited space, the need for frequent stops  and 
prolonged travel time. The expert commented that the method  used  to repatriate 
Ms S wasnt the method  he would  have chosen. The expert went  on to describe some 
aspects of the case handling  as borderline level of acceptable for a reasonably competent 
consultant. He also commented on the communication  between  URVs doctor  and Ms S 
and her family saying  it would [have been] prudent to give a succinct outline  of risks versus 
benefits of his method of repatriation and treatment plan before  going into the realms of air 
crash statistics. The Medical Practitioners Tribunal Service  decided  there  was insufficient 
evidence to pursue  a formal investigation  into medical negligence against URVs doctor - but 
the test to establish medical negligence isnt something for this service to consider. We must 
follow our rules and not be guided by the decisions of other organisations.
The method  of repatriation including the time it took for Ms S to travel back  to the UK is a 
significant part of Ms Ss complaint. URVs  position  is that decisions about  repatriation are 
the domain of the clinical teams involved but the evidence provided to demonstrate  URVs 
doctor had taken Ms Ss specific needs into account when deciding arrangements for her 
return home are something Ive considered  in the overall circumstances  of this complaint. 
Our remit  is to consider  a complaint, and reach a fair and reasonable outcome based on the 
individual circumstances  and the evidence provided  by the parties  involved.  In this case, I 
havent seen sufficient evidence that persuades  me an 18 hour transfer  by road ambulance 
was more appropriate than a short flight by air ambulance.  
customer service
As part of my review,  Ive listened to some of the calls between URVs doctor and Ms Ss 
son, one of which also includes a short conversation between URVs doctor and Ms S.
 
One of the calls I listened to lasted just under an hour. Ms S and her son had little 
opportunity to speak  and were faced with a barrage of statistics  that, in my opinion, bore little 
relevance to Ms Ss specific repatriation needs or arrangements. For example, included in 
one call was a lengthy discussion about  the risks associated with riding  a motorcycle and the 
physical properties  of party balloons. URVs doctor also made  comments  which  strongly 
suggest his aversion to air ambulance transfers  in any circumstances.  This would  suggest  
his approach isnt necessarily fairly  balanced in terms  of decisions about the methods of 
repatriation available.
Ref: DRN88295084And on one occasion,  when  Ms Ss son probed further about the risks associated with air 
ambulance repatriation that were  being  quoted to him, he was told quite abruptly by URVs 
doctor that the family  were free to make their own arrangements and claim for the costs,  
although this likely  meant the family  would not have received a full refund as URV would 
only reimburse the costs  it would  have had to pay. Ms Ss family have said they couldnt  
afford to meet the significant costs involved.
Im satisfied this type of communication  would have made an already difficult  situation 
significantly worse.  
Based on everything  Ive seen, I consider URV  could have done significantly more  to support 
Ms S and her family in these circumstances. In particular the calls between URVs doctor, 
Ms S and her son are difficult to listen to. The calls are lengthy focus heavily on the risks of 
air ambulance repatriation  while  at the same  time,  appearing  to minimise the risk associated  
with a lengthy overland transfer. URV hasnt been  able to provide any statistical  evidence in 
support of what was said during these calls.
In my opinion the contact  with URVs doctor is likely  to have increased Ms S and her familys 
feelings of isolation  and vulnerability. Due to the nature of the comments made, I dont 
consider it appropriate to include  specific details  here, but I have been in contact with URV 
directly to raise my concerns; my decision  reflects the impact of these conversations  on 
Ms S.
Ms S was already in a vulnerable situation having  suffered  a significant, life changing injury.  
The FCA, in their Approach to Consumers (July 2018) considers the definition of 
vulnerability as someone who,  due to their personal circumstances, is especially susceptible  
to detriment, particularly  when a firm is not acting  with appropriate levels  of care. I can 
understand why Ms S and her family are unhappy with the level of care offered by URV at 
this very difficult time.
Taking everything into account,  Im not satisfied Ms S received the level of service shes 
entitled to expect, especially at a time when she was in a vulnerable situation. 
I appreciate Ms S and her family dont consider the level of compensation awarded by our 
investigator fully recognises the difficulties they faced. I understand their position  and 
appreciate the very upsetting and challenging situation they found themselves in. But based  
on everything Ive seen, I consider an award  of £2,000  which  is in the severe range for 
our service   recognises the poor service Ms S received at this difficult  and worrying  time.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Union Reiseversicherung AG to 
pay Ms S £2000 for the trouble and upset  shes experienced.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 July 2019.
Sian Brightey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8829508