K821x#15complaint
Mr K complains that Santander Consumer (UK) Plc failed to respond  to any of his 
correspondence when  he wrote to tell it he was in financial difficulties and that it now wants 
to cancel his car finance agreement.
background
Mr K says he contacted  Santander in 2017  to tell it he was in financial difficulties due to a 
death in the family. He says he missed  two or three  payments  on his car finance agreement 
because he was out of the country to sort out the family members affairs. Up until then, Mr K 
says hed made payments on time for three years.  He  says he asked Santander to freeze 
his payments for three or four months, but it failed to respond to any of his letters  for several 
months. Mr K adds that he thinks hes being discriminated against because  of his nationality.
Santander says Mr K signed a conditional  sale agreement for his car in September  2014. 
Mr K agreed to pay £244.14  per month and did so until he asked  for a payment break in 
November 2016  due to the death  of a family  member. Santander  says it couldnt offer a 
payment holiday,  but amended the due date so that payment  was delayed. Mr K continued 
to make payments  on time until his March  2017 direct debit was returned. Mr K wrote to 
Santander to apologise for the missed  payment  within a week and confirmed  the issue  had 
been sorted out. Mr K explained  that his bank account had been  put on hold due to fraud, 
but Santander received a new direct debit  mandate from him at the end of March 2017. 
Mr Ks payments continued,  but the March 2017 instalment remained unpaid.
Mr K wrote to Santander on 12 June  2017  and explained about the family death  and bank 
fraud and acknowledged the missed payment. He also emailed on 16 June 2017. Although 
Santander received  both communications, it said they didnt contain  valid contact numbers. 
Mr K then called Santander  on 30 June 2017  to complain about its lack of response and was 
told it couldnt discuss accounts via email or post due to the Data Protection Act.
Santander continued to send arrears  notices regarding the missed  payment in March and 
Mr K complained again, on 1 August 2017, about the lack of response from Santander to his 
emails and his offer to pay the arrears.  Santander closed this complaint on 22 August 2017  
due to not having any valid contact  numbers and not being able to discuss accounts via 
email. It also documented that a final response  was sent, but neither  Santander,  nor Mr K, 
has forwarded a copy of this letter.
In the meantime, Mr Ks August 2017 payment was returned and Mr K wrote to Santander 
on 17 August 2017 to explain the direct debit  had been cancelled by the bank. He completed 
a new direct debit mandate which Santander received on 31 August 2017.
Santander then sent Mr K a default notice  on 8 September 2017 which demanded payment 
of the £558.28 arrears  by 28 Sep 2017. Septembers direct  debit  was cancelled, but Mr K 
wrote to Santander on 15 September 2017 offering  £280 per month from October  2017.  
Santander emailed  him to ask him to contact it by phone. Mr Ks direct debit details were 
again updated in October  and following receipt of a further arrears  letter,  Mr K called 
Santander on 27 October 2017. He remained unhappy that Santander  had not responded to 
his letters, explained  that he was due a refund for the fraudulent  activity  on his bank account  
and also updated  his contact numbers. Santander agreed a temporary  repayment  
arrangement of £300 per month  for three months from 15 November 2017, subject to receipt  
of Mr Ks income and expenditure form.
Ref: DRN83895312Despite this, Santander sent a further default notice in November and added  late payment 
fees to Mr Ks account. Mr K called back on 15 November 2017  to advise hed paid the £300  
as required by the payment arrangement, that hed had two deaths in the family  and that 
hed written to Santander over ten times with little response. He also queried the charges 
that had been added  to his account.
Santander found that the payment arrangement had not been properly added to Mr Ks 
account and that it had received multiple  letters from Mr K. It said it would normally  contact a 
customer by phone in this situation,  but had no contact details for him. It added that it could 
not agree  payment arrangements by email  due to data protection, but had sent Mr K a final 
response letter that explained  the situation.  It also cancelled the late payment  fee. Santander 
explained the situation to Mr K on 16 November 2017, but he was not happy with the 
explanation and raised a complaint  as he felt he was being  discriminated against.
Santander received  Mr Ks income  and expenditure form on 16 November 2017 and 
accepted the repayment  offer of £300 for three months. Santander also agreed it would call 
Mr K on 15 December 2017 for the next payment. In the meantime, the latest direct debit 
mandate hadnt been processed as the signatures  didnt match.  Santander tried to call, but 
there was no answer, so sent a letter requesting Mr K make contact.
When Santander didnt  receive Mr Ks December payment it tried to call him but couldnt  
make contact. It then sent letters to him on 21 December 2017 and 30 December 2017.   In 
response, Mr K sent a further letter to Santander on 3 January 2018 alleging  lack of contact 
and discrimination. Santander  reviewed his complaint but rejected it on the basis that Mr K 
was not responding to its calls and it could not communicate via email due to data 
protection. As it couldnt  get hold of Mr K on the phone, it requested  that a manual final 
response letter was sent on 9 January 2018.
On 11 January 2018, Mr K called in and offered to pay his normal  monthly instalment by the 
end of the month. Santander asked him for a further income and expenditure form so that an 
arrangement could be considered. It also advised  him that his complaint had been 
unsuccessful. Mr K provided  further  information  about a back  injury hed sustained at work, 
but said he could  bring the payments up to date by the end of February.
That said,  Mr K completed the income  and expenditure form and offered £180  per month. 
Santander was not happy to accept this offer, and sent him a letter to that effect on 1 
February 2018. It asked  Mr K to get in touch via phone, letter or email.
When it didnt hear from Mr K, Santander  sent a termination notice on 7 February 2018. Mr K 
called Santander  on 12 February to explain that he hadnt been  able to respond as he was in 
hospital. Santander offered to put the termination on hold for a week  whilst Mr K provided 
evidence of his hospital stay; however it also noted  that Mr K hadnt made any payments 
since November 2017.
Mr K raised a further  complaint about discrimination and, on 19 March 2018,  Santander  
agreed to put further action on hold for two more weeks. It received evidence of Mr Ks injury  
and the family bereavement on 27 March 2018.  Mr K also offered to make a payment of 
£400 with monthly  payments of between  £120  and £270 going forwards.  However Santander 
decided that, on the basis of Mr Ks latest income  and expenditure form, affordability  was 
likely to remain an issue and, therefore, it would continue  with the termination.
Ref: DRN83895313Our investigator recommended the complaint  should be upheld. She found Santander could 
have better  communicated with Mr K and it was unreasonable for it to have declined  Mr Ks 
offer to make monthly repayments of £180. Our investigator also couldnt see that Santander 
had responded  to Mr Ks subsequent offer to make a one-off payment of £400  and monthly 
payments of between £120 and £270.  So she didnt  consider it was fair to have terminated 
Mr Ks agreement  when he had repaid more than two-thirds of it. Our investigator 
recommended Santander  should  reinstate the agreement and agree a new payment plan.
Santander responded to say, in summary, that it had repossessed  the vehicle through a 
Return of Goods Order  due to excessive arrears of over £2,700. It says it explained its data 
protection policy to Mr K in June 2017  and was unable to update  his direct debit mandate in 
November 2017  as the signature did not match. It said that as Mr K failed to respond to 
requests for contact  it couldnt  take further payments. Finally, it added  that even if Mr K 
repaid £270 per month, it would  take about  nine years to repay the balance.
Mr K responded to say that hed now like to settle the outstanding arrears.
Santander declined  Mr Ks offer, but confirmed  the court  order  was now on hold.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr K 
and to Santander on 11 December 2018. I summarise  my findings:
It was clear to me that Mr K made regular attempts to keep Santander  informed about 
his financial situation;
I wasnt satisfied Santander sent a final response explaining its stance as it said it did;
I considered it fair for Santander  to accept a £300 monthly  payment, but found it did 
not contact Mr K as promised for the second payment and did not set up the 
repayment arrangement correctly;
I couldnt see that Santander  proposed an acceptable repayment plan to Mr K in 
response to his offers;
I did not consider  the termination  of the agreement was a fair outcome because:
oMr K had repaid  60% of the balance by then;
othe termination notice  was issued within three  months  of Mr Ks last payment, 
even though:
Santander failed to call Mr K to take his December 2017 payment
Mr K had returned  a direct debit mandate for future payments, even though 
Santander couldnt process  it due to the signature query;
Mr K was given less than a week to respond following Santanders 
rejection of his repayment offer;
Mr K had subsequently  offered to repay the arrears.
Subject to any further representations by Mr K or Santander my provisional decision was 
that Santander should:
Reinstate the finance agreement;
Remove any associated adverse information that may have been recorded on Mr Ks 
credit file;
Accept Mr Ks offer to repay his arrears;
Agree an affordable repayment  plan for the balance.
Ref: DRN83895314Santander didnt  accept my provisional  decision. It said it sent Mr K a final response letter on 
22 August 2017,  and it didnt feel it was appropriate  to amend Mr Ks credit file as he hadnt 
made a payment for over 12 months. It added  that the maturity date was March  2019 and it 
would overrun by two years if the above terms were  agreed.  Santander  said no repayment  
arrangement was ever kept to and it had no evidence of the injury  Mr K said he sustained.
Mr K responded to say he accepted the provisional  decision, but he also proposed  he could  
pay £2,500 to close the account or repay  the balance in full, at £150 per month.
Santander did not accept either of the alternatives.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have now seen a copy of the final response that Santander  says it sent Mr K on 22 August 
2017 and I accept it explains that it cannot discuss account details via email. However, 
considering the number  of attempts Mr K made to contact Santander about the issue,  I dont  
find Santanders lack of communication on that basis was reasonable in the circumstances.
I accept Santander  says Mr K hasnt  made  any payments for over 12 months, but it has also 
acknowledged it failed  to set up a repayment plan correctly. That said, I cannot  agree that 
acceptance of the provisional decision means the agreement would overrun by two years.
In addition, Santanders notes documented that Mr K did, in fact, send evidence of his injury  
and the bereavement he suffered. But I accept there was no evidence of a hospital stay.
Finally, I dont find it unreasonable that Santander  rejected Mr Ks latest  offers to resolve the 
complaint. As Santander explained, £2,500 is less than half the outstanding balance  on the 
account and it has previously rejected higher monthly repayment  offers.
In summary,  I find there could have been better communication from both parties,  but I see 
no reason to depart from my provisional decision as a fair outcome to this complaint.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. Santander Consumer (UK) Plc should:
Reinstate the finance agreement;
Remove any adverse  information that may have been recorded on Mr Ks credit  file;
Accept Mr Ks offer to repay his arrears as at the date of the provisional  decision;
Agree an affordable repayment  plan for the balance.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.  
Amanda Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8389531