K820x#14complaint
Mrs P has complained about a mortgage payment protection  insurance  (MPPI)  policy that 
Financial Insurance  Company Limited (FICL) sold her in June 1996.
background
I issued a provisional decision on 7th March  2019,  where I concluded that I was minded to 
not uphold Mrs Ps complaint. 
In summary,  I found:
Mrs P applied  for a store card in June 1996. At the same time a PPI policy was added. 
The policy covered  her against accidents, sickness and unemployment.
I concluded the PPI policy was more  likely  than not presented as optional to Mrs P. I 
could see from the sales documentation provided including  the application form that it 
was more likely put across as an optional requirement and Mrs P signed for it.
There may have been shortcomings in the way FICL sold the policy. But after careful  
consideration I could  not conclude that these possible shortcomings would have affected 
Mrs Ps decision to take the policy or that it was unsuitable for her. 
I was unable to conclude that Mrs P would have necessarily declined the policy  if the 
information she had received would  have been any clearer.
Mrs P had a medical condition but I didnt think this would have  put her off from having 
the cover  as she said it was controlled by medication and it didnt  impact  on her day to 
day life at that time.
I concluded that I was minded to not uphold her complaint and invited comments  on this 
from both parties.  
my findings
I have again considered all the available evidence and arguments  to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
FICL has not provided any further comments for me to consider. 
Mrs P, through her representatives  responded on 25th March 2019. Mrs P says:
She was affected  by her medical  condition at the time of sale right up to the present 
day and has been taking medication  for it for the entire period. 
She had 4 weeks off work for this condition in 2003 and there  was always the 
possibility that the problem would  get worse. 
I have considered Mrs Ps comments and reviewed all of the documentation again regarding  
the sale that took place in June 1996. On balance, I dont think  the restrictive terms around  
pre-existing medical conditions would have put Mrs P off from having the cover,  if she had 
been given clearer  information about it. I say this because her condition seemed to be 
controlled by medication and so when I consider this along  with the benefits having the cover 
would have provided, I think it would have still had some  value  to Mrs P. 
In conclusion, and I know it will be a disappointment for Mrs P, but for the reasons given in 
my summary and above, I do not uphold her complaint.
Ref: DRN86520192my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Ps complaint and I do not make any award  
against Financial  Insurance  Company Limited.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 June 2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8652019