K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that a car that was supplied to him under a hire agreement with Mercedes-
Benz Financial Services UK Limited, trading as Mercedes-Benz Finance, wasnt of 
satisfactory quality.
background
A new car was supplied  to Mr A under a hire agreement with Mercedes-Benz  Finance that 
he electronically signed in September 2017. The car wouldnt start in November 2017  and 
Mr A called out an assistance service. The car then had a software update in December 
2017. Mr A says that he was still having  issues with the cars sat-nav, hands-free and locking 
of the car and that it was becoming dangerous to drive in February  2018  so it was taken to 
another dealer. He complained to Mercedes-Benz Finance  but wasnt  satisfied with its 
response so complained to this service.
The investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld. He said that the car 
had been taken to the dealer  twice and no fault was found. So he thought that itd be 
unreasonable to say that thered been  an opportunity  to resolve  the issues.  And he said that 
he wouldnt  be asking Mercedes-Benz Finance to accept rejection of the car.
Mr A has asked  for his complaint to be considered  by an ombudsman.  He said that he was 
going to arrange an independent inspection of the car  but he then said that it would  be 
impossible to find an electrical fault without stripping the car down. Hes responded to the 
investigators recommendation in detail and says,  in summary, that:
hes given the dealers  sufficient chance  to remedy the car and the car went  back  to 
the dealer twice  for a week  each  time where it attempted to find the fault and had 
sufficient chance to remedy it;
it performed software updates on both occasions to try and fix what  it believed to be 
an electrical fault within the car;
he shouldnt need to prove  that the fault exists - it should be the duty of the dealer to 
supply evidence that theres no fault or fix the fault or replace the faulty  product  but 
it hasnt done  so;
the courtesy car that was provided to him was too small and wasnt the like-for-like 
replacement that hed been  promised;
hes lost time off work  and let down his customers as a direct  result of the issues  with 
the car; and
he shouldnt be paying  the full amount for a car that's  not working correctly.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A had an issue with the car not starting  in November 2017  about  two months after the 
car had been  supplied  to him. He called out the manufacturers assistance  service. Its notes 
say:
No fault found,  member also saying left hand  side of dash goes off intermittently.  
There is a software update available for this but will take 94 minutes, advised to get 
booked into the dealer  for this.
Ref: DRN87551512The cars software was updated in December 2017 but Mr A says that the car was becoming 
dangerous to drive  in February 2018 so it was collected from him by the assistance  service 
and taken to a specified manufacturers dealer. But Mercedes-Benz Finance says that the 
dealer could find no fault stored in the cars  diagnostic system so a software update  was 
undertaken and the car was then returned  to Mr A. The cars mileage was recorded  as being 
9,959 miles.
Mr A clearly  feels  very strongly that there are faults with his car and that its dangerous to 
drive  and he wants to reject the car. But the assistance service was unable  to find a fault 
when it was called out in November 2017  and the two manufacturers  dealers that looked  at 
the car in December  2017 and February 2018  were  also unable  to find a fault and performed  
software updates.  
Mr A said that hed arrange for the car to be inspected  by an independent expert  but he 
then said that it would be impossible to find an electrical fault without stripping the car down. 
I can understand Mr As frustration about  the need  to provide evidence of the fault. But Im 
not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that theres a fault with the car. And in 
the absence of that evidence, Im not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable for me to 
require Mercedes-Benz  Finance to allow Mr A to reject the car.
Mr A has also complained about  the courtesy car that was provided  to him. I can also 
understand his frustration  about this issue but the courtesy car was provided by the dealer   
and Im not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable for me to require Mercedes-Benz  
Finance to take any action in response to Mr As complaint  about  the courtesy car.
Im not persuaded that theres enough  evidence to show that Mercedes-Benz  Finance has 
acted incorrectly in its dealings with Mr A about  the car. So I find that it wouldnt be fair or 
reasonable in these  circumstances for me to require it to allow Mr A to reject the car, to pay 
him any compensation or to take any other action in response to his complaint.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr As complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 August 2019. 
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8755151