K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest)  opened a second  graduate  
account for him when it should not have done.  
background
Mr T has two graduate accounts open  at the same time. NatWest agrees that it made a 
mistake in doing this. It only allows one graduate account per qualifying  customer. Since  the 
accounts were opened  Mr T has benefitted from the full account features  of each account 
including two separate interest free overdrafts.
It was a number of years before either party noticed this mistake. But once Mr T and 
NatWest realised that this mistake  had been made they started looking for a solution. 
NatWest offered to convert one of the accounts  into a different type of current  account.  Ill 
call this the alternative account.  The difference  between the graduate  account  and the 
alternative account being, amongst  other things, there are interest and charges for the 
overdraft with the alternative account.  Also, NatWest agreed  to pay Mr T a sum which would 
cover the account  charges and the interest  for a year. Mr T rejected that proposal and came  
to our service.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ts complaint. He didnt recommend upholding it. In 
summary, he took on board that NatWest  had made a mistake in allowing Mr T to have both 
accounts. He noted  though that Mr T had made  use of both interest free overdrafts, so, in 
that sense, hed benefitted  from the banks mistake. In addition, he noted that both accounts 
were set up for paper statements. Further, Mr T had talked to the bank about  both accounts.  
In all the circumstances, it appeared that Mr T knew or ought reasonably to have known he 
was using both accounts. For these reasons, our investigator thought the offer Mr T had 
received from NatWest went far enough.
NatWest accepted our investigators recommendation, Mr T didnt. In short, he responded to 
say, NatWest had never provided information to show  he had played a role in getting  the 
account set up. He suggested until hed been asked to repay one of the overdrafts, hed 
never had any correspondence  from the bank about  the account. He accepted  hed gained  
all the benefits  from having both accounts  but this was inadvertent, hed not set out to do 
this. 
Also, Mr T pointed out, that when  the fact that he had two graduate accounts came  to light,  
he objected at the time to NatWest changing  the account to the alternative account and 
putting money into it. He indicated  that his thinking  was, these actions by NatWest would 
both potentially infringe his data protection rights and prejudice  the outcome of any final 
decision.
Mr T suggested it is unfair that he now has an overdraft  that he would not have had but for 
NatWests mistake. And he pointed out if he had not brought the matter to NatWests  
attention he could have had several  more years  of free banking.  He said paying  off the 
overdraft was likely to cause him financial  and mental hardship.  He found our 
recommendation rather one-sided, as if he alone, should  shoulder the burden  of NatWests 
mistake.
Ref: DRN89950852Mr T asked  that an ombudsman look at his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance  of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence.
I can see that Mr T is still upset about  how the opening of two student accounts,  at the same 
time, came about. But I dont agree  I need  to look into this further. I say this because 
NatWest agrees this mistake was its mistake. It should not have permitted Mr T to have  two 
such accounts. Mr T has indicated that he did use both of the accounts.  Bearing all of this in 
mind, I think, the question  I have to look at is, given  that Mr T did use the money which  
NatWest now wants him to repay, how best should he pay it back?
Im happy  to clear up one point though; Im not saying that Mr T set out to get into this 
position so he could then have several  years worth  of free banking  and two concurrent 
interest free overdrafts.
Mr T said the suggestion he made at one point that the debt should be written off, wasnt 
what he expected  as a solution.  I agree with him that isnt a fair and reasonable solution in 
this case, where  he has had the benefit  of the money.
However, I dont agree  that Mr Ts predicament  is all down to NatWest. The information I 
have seen shows that statements for the accounts  were  available. And dont see why Mr T 
would not have received nor had access to those account statements. If he had looked  at 
the statements  he might  have realised sooner what had happened. I also think he ought 
reasonably to have  been  aware that his spending  was greater than he would have been able 
to benefit from if he only had the one overdraft. In other words it is fair that he should take a 
measure of responsibility for his own spending.  I dont say this to shift all the responsibility 
onto him, far from it. Rather, I think is fair to note that he ought to reasonably  have done 
more to stop himself  from running up this overdraft which  he didnt want  in the first place.  
Further, he appears to have mostly kept both accounts in good order, which  suggests  he 
knew that he had the two accounts. What I think it boils down to here is that Mr T is now only 
being asked to pay off the overdraft that he ran up, and should reasonably have known he 
was running up. 
It appears that NatWest  converted  the account  and offered to make a payment to it to cover 
the account charges and the interest  for a year. Mr T was adamant he didnt want it to do 
this. But, while Mr T may not see it like this, I think this approach  could only have benefitted  
him. 
I think NatWests  approach was to try to make  the best of an unfortunate situation. The fair 
and reasonable options  were limited. Since it was fair to ask Mr T repay the debt, the next 
question was how to achieve this. NatWest  couldnt fairly continue  to let him have this 
account as a graduate account after it realised  its mistake. It might have caused Mr T 
hardship had it called in the overdraft immediately which  might  have been an option.  
Ref: DRN89950853Moreover, to freeze the account and not to let him have a second account at all might also 
have caused Mr T difficulty.  Clearly  he had been  using two accounts up until that point,  for a 
number of years.
That said,  the minute NatWest converted the account into the alternative account, it was 
going to run up interest and charges. NatWest forestalled this by making the payment to the 
alternative account. This in no way impacted on his ability  to bring  a complaint to us. Further,  
its clear to me he did not want this approach or accept it, so it in no way undermined his 
complaint as he was concerned it might. I am not really sure how doing this could have 
impinged on Mr Ts data protection rights either.
It is to Mr Ts credit that he took responsibility  here. Im not sure I agree though that if he had 
said nothing the situation would have  continued.  As far as I am aware, this all came to light 
because NatWest wanted to call in the overdraft.
For all these reasons I think NatWest has gone  far enough. It follows, I think, I have no 
proper basis to ask it to do more.
If paying back the money is going  to cause  Mr T to experience money troubles, then 
NatWest needs  to take this on board. Mr T and NatWest will need to talk about this directly. 
NatWest may well ask Mr T to provide information about his current financial situation  so it 
can see what, if anything, it can do to help.  I realise  NatWest has already told Mr T that it 
can put him in touch  with its financial hardship  team. It might want to offer that again.
I can well understand  that being  asked to begin to pay down this overdraft, after years of 
having it, may prove stressful  for Mr T. NatWest  will need to take this into account too.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 April 2020.
Joyce Gordon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8995085