K820x#14complaint
Mrs A complains Standard Life Assurance Limited (Standard Life) misled  her on several  
occasions by telling  her a tax free cash lump sum was available from her pension  plan.
Mrs A says that as a result,  she committed to school fees for her son which she would not 
otherwise have done. And that she has also incurred a tax liability on the funds she withdrew 
from her plan to fund her sons  school  fees that could  otherwise have been avoided.
Mrs A wants  Standard Life to reimburse  her for the tax liability  she has incurred.
background
Mrs A received £111,243.10 as part of a pension  sharing order in 2011  following  her 
divorce  from Mr A.
In 2017,  Mrs A wanted  to raise  funds  in order  to fund her sons  school  fees.  Mrs A initially  
funded  her sons  school  fees by way of a short  term loan from her family.  She did so on 
the basis  that a tax free sum from her pension  would  later be used  to repay  the loan and 
then fund her sons  school  fees going  forward.  
Standard Lifes  records show Mrs A contacted it on 12 June 2017. Standard  Life told Mrs A 
that she could  receive  a tax free lump sum from her pension fund. It subsequently repeated 
this on 12 March 2018 and 2 April 2018  following  further enquiries  from Mrs A about 
accessing the tax free sum. These  further  enquiries from Mrs A were because her 55th 
birthday was approaching and so she would then be able to access  her plan benefits.
But it transpired that because Mr A had already drawn benefits  from the plan a tax free cash  
lump  sum was not available  to Mrs A. She therefore  incurred  a tax liability  on the funds  
Mrs A says she had no option  but to withdraw.  Mrs A withdrew  the funds,  amounting  to 
£50,000,  after Standard  Life had corrected  its earlier  inaccurate  information.
 I understand  Mrs A incurred  a tax liability  of around  £20,000  reducing  her net proceeds  to 
around  £30,000.  
Mrs A says that as a result of what Standard Life told her, particularly in the June 2017 call, 
she sent her son to a school that she would otherwise  have  not been able to afford. In 
recompense, Mrs A wants Standard  Life to cover  the tax liability Mrs A has incurred due to 
drawing a taxed lump sum from her pension in 2018 to cover  her sons school fees.
Mrs A complained  to Standard  Life about  it misleading  her. Standard  Life acknowledged  
its communication  had been  poor but rejected  Mrs As complaint  on the basis  that she 
was only entitled  to receive  from her funds  taxable  benefits.  However,  it offered  Mrs A 
£250  for its poor communication.  Mrs A then referred  her complaint  to this service.
In our adjudicators assessment of 30 April 2019 he explained:
   Standard  Life only needs to pay the benefits Mrs A is entitled to receive.  
He was satisfied it was correct to say that no tax free cash  was payable.
   Standard Life had created a loss of expectation because it had told Mrs A that 
she would receive  a tax free lump sum when that was not the case.
Ref: DRN86428152   He concluded £250 was a fair and reasonable sum in recognition of the loss 
of expectation Standar d Life had created.
Mrs A did not agree.  She reiterated  that Standard  Life ought  to recompense  her for the 
tax liability  she would  otherwise  have  not incurred  and that in misleading  her, Standard  
Life had caused  her to take on a financial  commitment  she would  otherwise  not have  
entered  into, namely  the school  fees for her son.
As agreement  was not reached,  the matter  has been  referred  to me.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  If the evidence is incomplete or not 
available, I take into account the balance of probability. In other words, what  I consider is 
most likely to have happened in all the circumstances.
Mrs As complaint has 2 aspects.
First, had she been told by Standard  Life that no tax free cash was available from her plan, 
she would  not have taken on the liability of her sons school fees. Second,  by withdrawing  
funds in the mistaken belief that these  were tax free, she has incurred a tax liability.
Standard Life was first contacted by Mrs A on 12 June 2017. The first invoice for school 
fees, as provided  to this service by Mrs A, is dated 14 July 2017. Mrs A says she confirmed 
her sons  entry to the school on 12 June 2017  and so then took on an irrevocable  
commitment to pay the fees.
But I am surprised that such an onerous  commitment was taken on by Mrs A on the basis 
only of the 12 June 2017 telephone call. I think Mrs A is placing more  reliance  on this call, in 
support of her complaint,  than it can reasonably  bear.
Having listened  to that call, I agree with the adjudicator  that whilst it lacked some  clarity in 
terms of the information  given  to Mrs A, it was made clear  at the outset that Standard  Life 
was not in a position  to advise Mrs A. 
I agree  with our adjudicators assessment of that call. In summary, he said:
   Standard  Life's employee makes  clear that he can provide guidance, but not 
financial advice . If Mrs A required advice he would refer you to an adviser.
   Standard  Life's employee asked Mrs A the purpose of the call. Mrs A 
explained she was looking  for a lump sum to pay her son's school fees. Mrs A . 
explained that she did not want to  'put it on the house' and added " .. .its either a 
loan or looking  at what the situation with my pensions are."
   Standard  Life's employee said Ill quickly give you a high level explanation of 
what the options are.".
In my opinion,  Standard Life's employee on this call explained that he could only offer 
'high level' options available to plan holders who have not yet taken  benefits from their 
pension. But in this case, benefits  had already been taken. I do not think that, on this call, 
Ref: DRN86428153Standard Life said unequivocally that Mrs A would be able to take a tax free lump  sum. 
Rather, the information provided  was either  generic  or not relevant  to Mrs As situation.  
I am not persuaded  that it was safe for Mrs A to have  relied  only on this call, in the 
absence  of any specific  and personalised  confirmation  from Standard  Life that a tax free 
sum was available  and to have  then entered  into an onerous  financial  commitment.  In the 
call, Mrs A did not specifically  ask if she was entitled  to a tax free sum or, if so, what  it 
might  amount  to.
But I note Mrs A says  she confirmed  the school  fee commitment  on 12 June  2017,  the 
same  day as the aforementioned  telephone  call.
On the balance of probability, the close proximity of the call and school fee confirmation 
persuades me that Mrs A was more likely than not already set on her son attending  the 
particular school. As our adjudicator noted, in the call Mrs A said "..its either a loan or 
looking at what  the situation with my pensions  are."  
In the circumstances,  I have concluded that even if Standard  Life had explained that tax 
free cash was not available, Mrs A would have either still withdrawn funds from her plan or 
would have explored other options to meet the fees.
Furthermore, the annual  statements sent to Mrs A between 2012 and 2018  defined the 
benefits she might take from her plan as only an annual income. None  referenced  any 
available tax free cash lump sum.  Whilst I accept  that consumers may not examine these 
statements in detail  I think Mrs A had some responsibility to understand what they told her in 
respect of the benefits available to her on retirement. 
In fact, Mrs A was aware  that her plan only offered an income  at retirement.  In response to 
the adjudicator,  Mrs A said:
The information I collected for my brother  dated 12 June 2017  showed  that  the  Standard  
Life pension had a current value  of £167,793  with a transfer value of £167,793  and 
projected payments  of £5,680/yr at 55, £7,710/yr  at 60 and £9,520/yr  at 67. It also stated   
that at 55 I would be able to draw  down from the  website.
Had Mrs A examined these statements in more  detail, and particularly the absence of any 
reference to a tax free sum on retirement,  it could  have led her, in June  2017,  to question 
Standard Life in much more precise terms about the availability or otherwise of a tax free 
cash sum before taking  on the school fee commitment.  
In short,  I do not think it safe to conclude that Mrs A reasonably took on the school fees 
commitment, in mid- 2017, based  only on a primarily generic telephone call with Standard  
Life, the content of which was not subjected by Mrs A to a considered analysis or without 
reference, as Standard  Life suggested  she might, to a financial adviser.
As I say, I think it likely that Mrs A was predisposed to sending  her son to the particular 
school and interpreted  the comments from Standard Life in a way that confirmed her 
predisposition. This was very unfortunate but understandable. But I am not persuaded that 
Standard Life should be held to account  for Mrs As interpretation of what  she was told in the 
call in entering into the commitment to pay school fees.
Ref: DRN86428154It follows that in respect of the second  aspect of Mrs As complaint, I have concluded  that 
Standard Life should not be held to account for the tax liability Mrs A incurred on withdrawing 
funds from her plan. 
Whilst I appreciate Mrs A says at that point  she had no alternative but to withdraw the funds, 
I have explained  why I do not think that is Standard Lifes responsibility. I have also taken 
into account that before withdrawing those  funds, Standard Life had corrected  its earlier 
error. So Mrs A withdrew the funds in the knowledge that she would be taxed on them.  
In any event, whilst very regrettable that Mrs A, as Standard Life has acknowledged, was 
given misleading  information in March  and April 2018, this had no material  bearing on her 
commitment to pay school fees. Mrs A had already entered, in 2017,  into the commitment to 
meet the school  fees. 
So this later misleading information, which included  a pre-retirement illustration of 12 March 
2018 which erroneously  said Mrs A was entitled to a tax free sum of approximately £42,000, 
cannot be said to have influenced  her decision about the school fee commitment.
I appreciate that Mrs A may well conclude that my reasoning is harsh. She was, after all, 
misled by Standard  Life in 2018  and on its own admission.
But that does  not change  the fundamental position  that pension plan holders can only 
receive benefits to which they are entitled. I agree with our adjudicator that Mrs A is only 
entitled to receive  from her pension plan the benefits as laid down in the plan terms and 
conditions as well as the conditions imposed by Her Majestys Revenue  and Customs.  
Her plan was established in 2011 by a transfer  of funds  from her former husbands plan.  As 
her former husband has crystallised benefits, apparently  including  the tax free lump  sum, 
Mrs A is not entitled to a further  tax free lump sum.
I understand, for the reasons I have set out above, how this unfortunate situation has come 
about. I do not underestimate  the distress this has caused Mrs A or the impact  of the tax 
liability on her future  pension income. 
But I am not persuaded, on balance, that Standard Life should be held to account  for the 
unfortunate position Mrs A is now in. I do though agree with our adjudicator  that what Mrs A 
has suffered is a loss of expectation.
Standard Life has already  paid Mrs A £250  for the loss of expectation Mrs A suffered by 
being wrongly told tax free cash was available  from her plan. I understand Standard Life is 
now prepared to offer Mrs A a further £250. 
Our awards  for loss of expectation tend to be modest. They are not intended  to fine or 
punish a business for its errors.  Those are matters  for the industry  regulator,  the Financial 
Conduct Authority.  
I have concluded  that the payment  of an initial £250 and the subsequent  offer of a further 
£250 is fair and reasonable.  It is consistent  with what  I would have awarded had Standard 
Life not offered,  or already paid, such an amount. 
Ref: DRN86428155my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs A to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 June 2020.                        .
Terry Connor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8642815