K820x#14complaint
Mrs C has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold her a packaged 
bank account  in 2003. She paid a monthly  fee for the account which provided several 
benefits in return.
background
The background to this complaint was set out in my provisional decision dated  March 2019. 
An extract  from this is attached and forms part of this final decision, so I will not repeat that 
information here.
In my provisional decision I set out why I wasnt minded to uphold the complaint. I invited 
both parties to let me have any further  comments and evidence. Barclays accepted my 
provisional findings, and Mrs C raised  a number of points explaining why she disagrees.
my findings
Ive once more  considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mrs C was disappointed with the findings of my provisional decision, 
particularly  as Mrs C noted  as our adjudicators thought we should uphold  the complaint. 
But having  completely an extensive  and thorough review  of everything she said,  as well as 
the additional information Barclays  provided,  Im still not upholding the complaint. 
Although I havent  listed every point Mrs C has raised in her response to my provisional 
decision Id like to assure her Ive thought about everything very carefully.  The key things 
Ive noted are:
She hasnt seen anything further  that has been supplied  by Barclays  that would make 
me see differently  to the adjudicator;
The sole purpose  of having the packaged  account was in order to have an overdraft;
She foolishly agreed to upgrading her account,  thinking she had been specially 
selected;
At no point did Barclays check whether the account was suitable for her;
She feels that she was flattered  and cajoled into upgrading;
She didnt need travel  insurance and she didnt  change her account  for this benefit;
If further years transactions were examined, later than the first year after the 
upgrade, I would see that Mrs C only travelled once or twice a year;
She wasnt told about any other options  that provided an overdraft
At the time of holding the Additions Plus account  there were other Barclays  accounts 
with an overdraft that she couldve been  offered;
Barclays stopped  selling packaged accounts between  2008 and 2012 and she wasnt 
made aware of any alternative accounts until 2017.
I covered most of the points Mrs C has raised in her response,  in my provisional  decision. 
But Ill summarise the reasons  that Im not changing my decision.
Barclays provided information to show that Mrs C travelled  much  more frequently in following 
the upgrade to her account,  than she said she did. And although this mightve been more 
than usual, and indeed more than in the years that followed, I can only consider what  I think 
Ref: DRN84771872is likely  to have influenced Mrs Cs decision when she chose to upgrade.  And as she 
travelled much more  frequently than normal in the time after the upgrade, I still think  the 
accounts travel insurance mightve  been something that appealed to her  especially for the 
additional £2.50 per month  even if it was only intended to be for the short-term.
Its hard to know exactly what conversation took place, but as Ive said, Barclays  may not 
have known about the cover that Mrs C says her husband had, nor indeed  what it covered.
I understand that with hindsight Mrs C doesnt  feel as though the account has been  good 
value for money  to her. And it sounds  and though she made  a decision that she doesnt think  
she should have  made when she decided  to upgrade. I understand Barclays mightve  used 
certain sales techniques, but thats  not uncommon.  And it doesnt make  me think  Mrs C was 
left with no option but to upgrade, even if she now believes she shouldnt have.
I accept that at the time Mrs C held the Additions  Plus account Barclays had other accounts 
which couldve had an overdraft  both with and without a fee. But as I explained in my 
provisional decision, Mrs C already had an overdraft at the time of the upgrade,  and she 
didnt change her limit at that time or for many years after.  So I dont think that was the 
reason she upgraded, despite the other  accounts  that mightve been available.
Im not aware that Barclays stopped selling packaged bank accounts during the timeframe 
that Mrs C has mentioned. But even if it did it doesnt change my view on what happened 
when the Additions  Plus account was sold  over five years  earlier.  And Barclays wouldnt  
have been required  to offer Mrs C a different or fee-free account proactively,  although  I 
understand Mrs C mightve  found  that service  useful.
I understand that this decision will be disappointing  for Mrs C as its clear that shes invested  
a lot of time in making her complaint,  and she feels strongly about  it. But having thought very 
carefully about everything Mrs C has said, Im afraid  that I havent found  a reason to reach a 
different conclusion to the one I reached  in my provisional decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, and in my provisional  decision, I dont  uphold  Mrs Cs 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 May 2019.
Sam Wade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN84771873EXTRACT OF PROVISIONAL DECISION DATED MARCH 2019
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. Ive used 
this approach to help decide  what  to do about Mrs Cs complaint. 
Where evidence  is incomplete and matters are in dispute, as they are here, I make my decision based 
on what I think is most likely to have happened  keeping in mind  everything Ive seen and been told.
After giving  Mrs Cs complaint a lot of thought,  I dont think  the Additions Plus account was mis-sold  to 
her. Ill explain why.
Ive started by thinking  about whether Mrs C was given a fair choice when  she took the account.
Mrs C says that she upgraded  from the Additions account to the Additions Plus account to further 
increase her overdraft.  And Ive noted that in her initial complaint  Mrs C said she had never  been 
offered a fee-free  account  with an overdraft, until July 2017.
Its hard to know exactly what happened at the time of the initial sale, but as Ive explained,  I wont be 
looking into when Mrs Cs account was initially upgraded as Barclays has upheld that complaint.
Ive looked at Mrs Cs overdraft history for several  years spanning the time she upgraded  to the 
Additions Plus account.  I can see that from at least July 2003  her limit was £1,450. Her account was 
upgraded to the Additions Plus account in September 2003  and her overdraft limit remained  the same  
 until at least  2008.
Ive also reviewed the way Mrs C was using her account at the time of the upgrade.  I can see her 
account remained largely in credit, and she doesnt appear to have had a need for a larger  overdraft. 
She didnt  use her overdraft  at all for around four months  after the sale and even when  she did, this 
was for less than £200 and only lasted for a couple of days.  So this further persuades  me that Mrs C 
wouldnt have agreed to an account  she didnt want, just to increase her overdraft  limit, when there 
doesnt appear to have been  an immediate need for her to do so.
Having considered  this, Im not persuaded that Mrs C upgraded her account  from one packaged  
account to another, just to increase her overdraft. From everything Ive seen it doesnt look as though 
she did increase her overdraft at that time, and on balance I think  its more likely she chose to 
upgrade her account  because something about it appealed to her. 
Barclays says it recommended the Additions Plus account to Mrs C. So it had to take into account her 
personal circumstances, and recommend  an account with suitable benefits  for her.
The main features of the Additions Plus account were similar to Mrs Cs previous Additions account  
it included car breakdown  cover, extended warranty cover and a £250 interest  free overdraft portion, 
with preferential interest  rates on amount above £250. The main difference between the accounts  was 
the addition of worldwide travel insurance on the Addition Plus account, and the Additions Plus 
account cost £2.50 extra per month.
Mrs C says that at the time she upgraded her account she travelled a couple of times per year.  But 
shes also said she always travelled with her husband, who already had a packaged  bank account 
with a different bank,  and she was covered under that policy.
Ref: DRN84771874I understand Mrs Cs concerns around having duplicate travel  insurance cover,  but that doesnt make 
me think that Barclays made an unfair recommendation when it sold the Additions Plus account  to 
her. I wouldnt  have  expected Barclays to know about  Mrs Cs husbands policy, and I think if that was 
a concern for her at the time she took the account,  she wouldnt have agreed to it. I know she says 
she upgraded  in order to increase her overdraft limit, but it doesnt look like she did that at the time of 
changing her account, I think something else about the Additions  Plus account  mustve appealed  to 
her. 
I also havent seen anything to make me think Mrs C couldnt have used the Additions Plus accounts 
travel insurance  if shed wanted or needed to. I think the small increase in fee wouldve been  
attractive to her  considering that within the 18 months after upgrading she appears to have been 
abroad at least five times. There mightve  been some benefits of the account that appealed  to her 
more than others, and indeed she might  not have  wanted  to use all of them,  but on the whole I dont 
think  Barclays recommendation  of the Additions Plus account  was inappropriate.
As well as making a fair recommendation, Barclays also had to give Mrs C enough  clear  information  
about the Additions Plus account for her to decide if she wanted  it. 
As Ive explained, I think its likely that Mrs C was interested in the additional  travel insurance 
provided by the Additions Plus account,  and I think Barclays most  likely told her about  it  even if she 
now cant remember that. The account  was similar  to the packaged account  she held beforehand,  and 
I havent seen anything else to make me think she mightve taken  it based on incorrect information. 
Im also mindful  that Barclays says it sent Mrs C a number of letters about the Additions Plus account  
over the years  including an Annual Summary Statement  in October 2012 and October 2013,  and an 
Annual Eligibility Statement in February 2014. Barclays has provided copies of these documents  and 
they clearly display the benefits that Mrs C had access to as part of the Additions Plus account.  Its 
possible that with hindsight Mrs C might not think the account has been good value for money  to her, 
but the fact she held a packaged account until March  2017, and she was provided with information 
about it several times over the years, makes me think something attracted her to keep it.
I accept its entirely  possible that Barclays didnt tell Mrs C everything it should  have about the 
Additions Plus account  at the time it was sold. But I do think it most likely gave her a choice about 
whether to upgrade. And I havent seen anything to make  me think  that Mrs C wouldnt  still have 
taken the account even if Barclays had given her more  information  about  it. 
Mrs C has provided a letter from the date she upgraded  to the Additions  Plus account, which 
she says shows that she increased her overdraft at the time.
Ive looked carefully  at the letter Mrs C has provided  and I do agree that it gives information 
on her overdraft limit. But having  looked  more closely at the content of the letter, and the 
way its set out, I dont  agree that the purpose of the letter is to inform Mrs C about her newly  
increased overdraft. The letter  starts  with the line Welcome to Additions Plus  an entire 
portfolio of extras at your fingertips. The next section says Im delighted you have decided 
to upgrade to Additions Plus and confirm  that your overdraft limit of £1,450 is available  for 
use immediately. 
So having  considered this carefully,  I dont agree that the letter  Mrs C has provided confirms 
the increase to her overdraft. The letter looks as though it confirms the upgrade to her 
account, and re-confirms  her overdraft. And it doesnt give the impression that holding  a 
packaged account is a requirement  to have, or increase an overdraft limit. So Im afraid  this 
doesnt change  my decision.
I want  to reassure Mrs C that Ive looked at all the information I have  about her complaint.  And Ive 
thought carefully about everything  shes said. But having done so I dont think Barclays mis-sold  the 
Additions Plus account  to her. So I dont think it owes her any money.
Ref: DRN8477187