K820x#14complaint
Mr S has complained on behalf  of his limited company that DAS Legal Expenses  Insurance  
Company Limited  (DAS LEI) has refused his companys claim under a legal expenses  
insurance policy he had taken out on behalf  of his business. 
For the sake of clarity when I refer to Mr Ss claim and policy I am referring  to the claim and 
policy taken on behalf of the limited  company and not Mr S as an individual  consumer.
background
Mr S has a business in the UK which  deals  with a supplier based  outside of the UK. In April 
last year Mr S became involved in a legal dispute  with his overseas supplier and as a result 
he contacted DAS LEI to discuss making  a claim for legal costs under  his legal expenses 
insurance policy. 
DAS LEI took some initial information from Mr S and contacted their legal panel  of solicitors 
to find out whether or not the claim was covered  under the policy. Those solicitors 
responded saying they had jurisdictional concerns as the party  Mr S was in dispute with was 
not based in the UK, and so the claim may fall outside of the policys territorial remit. It 
requested additional information  in order to clarify the issue  before proceeding further. 
Meanwhile Mr S appointed a private  firm of solicitors  to begin work on his legal case against 
the supplier. There  was some back and forth between Mr S and DAS LEI in regards to the 
jurisdictional issue but the case  progressed  with the private solicitors representing Mr Ss 
business  interests and was eventually resolved within the UK courts. 
DAS LEI explained  to Mr S that under the policy the business was not covered for costs  until 
the claim was accepted  in full. In addition  it was likely that DAS LEI would look to appoint  
their own solicitors to handle the case,  and that under the terms and conditions of the policy 
they were not required to cover any costs the business incurred from the private solicitors. 
Mr S has asked  that DAS LEI cover  the legal costs  in full. He believes they caused delays in 
how they handled the claim and that the necessary information to resolve the jurisdictional  
question was provided very early into the claim. Mr S feels  he had no choice but to appoint  a 
private solicitor to represent  his business  and that as the case  was resolved in the UK, via 
UK law and standards, the claim was legitimate  and he should  be able to recover  the costs. 
One of our investigators  looked into Mr Ss complaint already. He found that it was 
reasonable for DAS LEI to question the territorial aspect of the claim and that no significant 
delays were caused by how DAS LEI handled the claim itself. He also found that DAS LEI 
was not obliged to cover the costs of the private solicitors and so he didnt uphold  the 
complaint.
Mr S disagreed with the investigators findings and asked for an ombudsman  to review  his 
case so the complaint has been  passed to me to consider. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I dont think DAS LEI has 
done anything  wrong in how they handled the claim and I wont  be asking them to do any 
more in this instance. 
Ref: DRN89849622Mr S contacted DAS LEI in April 2018 to start the claims process. He received  an email 
requesting some additional  information and numerous emails  and calls took place over the 
following days. In early May, approximately 17 working days after he first contacted  them, 
DAS LEI confirmed it would help with the case and would appoint its own solicitors to work 
on it. However this email wasnt confirmation  that the claim had been accepted, merely that 
the DAS LEIs preferred solicitors would review  the claim and consider appropriate next 
steps. 
Three days after this email DAS LEIs solicitors contacted them to let them know there were 
jurisdictional concerns  with the case and it may not be covered under the policy. DAS LEI 
contacted Mr S to say that they may not be able to help with the claim,  and explained the 
concerns regarding jurisdiction and asked  him for additional information  to clarify the matter. 
This information would  then allow  DAS LEIs solicitors to confirm  whether or not they would 
take on the case. 
More emails were sent regarding the outstanding information request and in early June Mr S 
called DAS LEI back to say the solicitors  he was working with have confirmed the matter 
falls under UK law and asked if DAS LEI was prepared to take on the claim. Further  emails  
were sent back and forth between Mr S and DAS LEI, DAS LEI and their own panel solicitors 
and the panel solicitors  and Mr S. DAS LEIs  solicitors have said they never received the 
information they needed in order to clarify the jurisdiction issue  and so they never confirmed 
they could take the claim on.
Having looked  through all of the emails  that were sent back and forth and the information 
requests that were  sent I dont  think  DAS LEI behaved unreasonably in regards to their 
concerns about  the territorial remit or that the information requests they made were 
unnecessary given the nature of the claim. 
In June DAS LEI asked for specific  information to clarify the jurisdictional  concerns and while  
I can see Mr S did email  DAS LEI in September to say his private  solicitors  had confirmed 
the issue fell under UK law, he never provided  the information he was asked for. DAS LEI 
sought the advice of its panel solicitors who advised  that without the information they had 
requested in June  they were unable to change their position on the jurisdiction issue. And 
while Mr S has argued his solicitors had clarified  this point for him I dont think  it was 
unreasonable for DAS LEI to rely on the advice of its own panel solicitors,  especially when 
the information it had asked for was never forthcoming. 
Mr S contacted DAS LEI again in late August after the matter had been resolved to ask 
about his outstanding legal fees and if they would be covered.  Throughout  the claim DAS 
LEI were  clear that they would not cover  the costs associated with any private solicitors hired 
by Mr S. Mr S has confirmed that he understood this but feels  that, given there was no actual 
jurisdictional issue, this is a case that he should  have been  able to claim for. 
I agree  if the jurisdictional issue been resolved and the relevant information sent to DAS LEI 
to consider, Mr S may have been  able to claim under his legal expenses  insurance policy.  If 
that had happened DAS LEI would  have appointed  their own panel solicitors to represent   
Mr S. It is not unusual for underwriters to refuse to cover the costs  of private solicitors in 
legal expenses insurance claims.  This is because they often have preferred solicitors they 
work with at lower rates than those charged by private solicitors. Having reviewed the policy  
documents in full I note that under the What is not covered  section  of the policy  clearly  
Ref: DRN89849623states that costs  and expenses incurred before the written acceptance of the claim will not 
be covered. 
The claim was never  formally  accepted by DAS LEI and throughout the time Mr S was 
communicating with both DAS LEI and their panel solicitors, he was repeatedly told the 
policy would not cover any costs relating to the work  done by his private  solicitors.  The case  
was conducted  without any input from DAS LEI and it had no control  over the conduct  of the 
case or the costs incurred. Therefore  I think  DAS LEI is entitled to refuse  to cover these 
costs, and I think they did enough throughout  the claim to let Mr S know these costs  would 
not be covered.  So Im not asking them to reconsider Mr Ss claim for costs.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I am not upholding this complaint.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S, on behalf  of 
his business, to accept or reject my decision  before  14 September 2019.
Karen Hanlon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8984962