K821x#15complaint
Mr L has complained  that Ferratum UK Ltd (Ferratum) irresponsibly lent to him.
background
I issued a provisional decision on 11 October  2019  explaining why I thought  that Mr Ls 
complaint should  be upheld  in part. Ive attached a copy of my provisional  decision  and it 
forms part of this decision.
Mr L responded to say that he accepted the findings  Id reached in my provisional  decision. 
Ferratum responded  to say that the amount borrowed on loan 4 was £400. It said that 
interest on loans 1  3 was £156 in total and 8% simple  interest  on those amounts, from 14 
March 2017 to 15 October 2019  is £32.35, which after 20% tax has been deducted leaves 
£25.88 (correct  at the time of its email). 
Ferratum then deducted £156  and £25.88  from £400, which leaves  £218.12 for Mr L to repay  
on loan 4. It also said that it will contact  its collection partner to arrange  an affordable plan 
with Mr L to repay what he owes on loan 4 and it said loan 3 has been removed from Mr Ls 
credit file. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending - including  all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website and Ive taken this 
into account when  looking at this complaint.
As neither party has said or provided  anything  to change my thoughts on this case,  and as it 
appears that Ferratum  has already started  to take the steps outlined  in the what Ferratum  
needs to do to put things  right section of my provisional decision, I see no reason why I 
should reach a different outcome to the one I reached in my provisional decision.
what Ferratum needs to do to put things right
In addition to what Ferratum has already offered to do, I also require it to:
remove all adverse  information recorded  on Mr Ls credit file about loans 3 and 4 
from when they were lent to the date of my final decision.
As a reminder, if Mr L accepts my final decision,  he should  be aware that adverse  
information may still be recorded  on his credit file about loan 4 after the final decision, until 
when he repays the outstanding capital balance on loan 4. 
Ref: DRN84498842my final decision
Because of the reasons  given above and in my provisional decision, I uphold  this complaint 
in part and require Ferratum UK Ltd to do what I have outlined  above to put matters right.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 October  2019.
Thomas White
ombudsman
Ref: DRN84498843Copy of my provisional  decision
background
This complaint is about  4 payday loans  Ferratum  provided to Mr L between  22 February 2017 and 24 
May 2017. Mr Ls lending history is as follows:
Loan Date taken Amount Date repaid Interest paid
1 22 February  2017 £200 14 March  2017 £32
2 6 April 2017 £250 25 April 2017 £44
3 1 May 2017 £400 23 May 2017 £80
4 24 May 2017 £400 N/A £0
One of our adjudicators  assessed  Mr Ls complaint and he thought  that none of the loans had been 
irresponsibly lent. 
As Mr L didnt  accept the adjudicators findings,  the complaint  has been passed to me for a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending - including all of the 
relevant rules, guidance  and good  industry practice - on our website and Ive taken this into account  
when looking at this complaint.
In its final response to Mr Ls complaint, as a gesture of goodwill, Ferratum agreed to credit all of the 
interest Mr L paid on loans 1 to 3 towards reducing the capital balance on loan 4 (which remains 
unpaid). And it has offered  to waive all interest and charges on loan 4. Its offer has essentially put Mr 
L in the position  of not having paid any interest or charges on all 4 loans, and leaves an outstanding  
balance of £260 on loan 41.
I think  Ferratums  gesture  of goodwill is reasonable. But wed usually also require the business  to pay 
8% simple interest on the amounts owed  to Mr L and for Ferratum to remove adverse information 
from a consumers credit  file as well, if we thought the loans were  irresponsibly lent. And I cant see 
that Ferratum had also offered to do this. 
So I have considered  whether the loans were irresponsibly lent to establish  whether Ferratum needs 
to do anything  else beyond  what it has already offered to do. And having  done so, I think  that some of 
the loans were  irresponsibly  lent. I will explain why.
were the loans irresponsibly  lent?
Ferratum needed to take reasonable  steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly.  In practice  this 
means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make  sure 
Mr L could repay  the loans in a sustainable manner. These  checks  could take into account a number 
of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers 
income and expenditure.  With this in mind,  in the early stages  of a lending  relationship, I think less 
thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
1 According to the loan information provided by Ferratum late last year.
Ref: DRN84498844But certain factors might  point to the fact that Ferratum should fairly and reasonably  have done more 
to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer.  These factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to meet  a 
higher repayment from a particular  level of income); 
the greater the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become,  or was becoming,  unsustainable).
There may even come a point  where  the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think  that it is important  for me to start by saying that Ferratum  was required to establish whether Mr 
L could  sustainably  repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were  affordable on a strict 
pounds and pence calculation.  
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might  be an indication a consumer could  
sustainably make  their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This is 
because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable as being  without undue  
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time,  while meeting  
other reasonable  commitments; as well as without  having  to borrow to meet  the repayments. And it 
follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise,  that a borrower wont 
be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments 
without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this context and 
what this all means for Mr Ls complaint.
In the adjudicators view,  he thought that if Ferratum had carried out proportionate checks, its unlikely 
that Ferratum wouldve known that Mr L was struggling financially or that he was unable to repay  his 
loans sustainably. But I disagree  with this.
Mr L says that he was unemployed at the time and relying on family to help support  him. Yet when  he 
applied for the loans,  he told Ferratum that he was employed and earning around £2,251 a month. Mr 
L says that Ferratum shouldve checked the information  hed given  it and had it done so, it wouldve  
seen that hed lied about his income on his application  forms. 
Having thought about what Mr L has said, I think for the first two loans it was not unreasonable for 
Ferratum to have relied on the information Mr L provided. Mr L had confirmed that the information he 
provided was accurate and the amounts hed have  to pay back  on the loans compared  to his declared 
income were not significantly  high either. 
Ferratum says it carried out credit checks and it has provided its results. Looking  at the results I can 
see that Ferratum  was aware that Mr L had a default in the last 36 months and it was aware that Mr L 
had a County Court  Judgment (CCJ) which  had an outstanding balance of £2,225. But given how 
much Mr L was borrowing and the amount hed declared  in income, I dont think  it was unreasonable  
for Ferratum  to have  lent the first two loans  as the likelihood  that Mr L would have to repay the CCJ in 
full within the period that hed have to repay the two loans  was unlikely.
But, by loan 3, I think Ferratum shouldve  carried  out more in depth  checks. I think this because by 
then, Mr L had borrowed  twice in quick succession suggesting that Mr L was not using the loans  in 
the way that they were intended to be used. It should  have been concerned that Mr L was not using 
these loans to meet a one-off shortfall in his income  but rather to meet  an ongoing need. And Mr L 
had applied  to borrow more than double the amount  hed initially borrowed (Ferratum limited the 
amount he could borrow  to £400), which was another indicator that he was perhaps struggling 
Ref: DRN84498845financially. And all of this combined with the outstanding CCJ on Mr Ls credit file, I think  shouldve 
prompted Ferratum to verify the information Mr L had provided, before it agreed to lend to him again.
Had Ferratum  completed more thorough checks, for example by asking  to see Mr Ls bank 
statements or even proof of income, it wouldve been immediately obvious that Mr L had no form of 
income and also that his bank account was also heavily overdrawn too. So I think  that had Ferratum  
completed proportionate checks, I dont think it wouldve lent loans  3 or 4.
Ferratums offer
Where we find that a lender should not have lent, we typically  require the lender to pay back  all the 
interest and charges that a consumer paid on those loans plus 8% simple interest less tax. But we 
generally think its reasonable for a lender to use that money  to reduce the capital balance of any 
loans that have  not been repaid. Wed also require the lender to remove adverse  information  from the 
consumers credit  file about those loans too. 
But in this case, Ferratum  has already agreed to credit all interest and charges Mr L paid on loans 1
3 towards reducing  the capital balance  on loan 4. And it has offered to waive all interest and charges 
on loan 4. So in this case I dont think it needs  to offer a further refund to Mr L.
I do think however,  that if Mr L accepts my final decision, Ferratum should  remove any adverse  
information recorded on Mr Ls credit file about  loans 3  4, from when they were lent to him until the 
date of my final decision. 
If Mr L accepts  my final decision, he should be aware  that adverse information  may still be recorded 
on his credit file about loan 4 after the final decision, until when he repays  the outstanding capital 
balance on loan 4. 
And I would remind Ferratum of its duty to treat Mr L sympathetically and fairly when  agreeing how he 
is to repay his capital debt.  
what Ferratum needs to do to put things right
In addition to what Ferratum has already offered to do, I also intend to require it to:
remove all adverse  information recorded on Mr Ls credit  file about loans 3 and 4 from when  
they were lent to the date of my final decision.
my provisional  decision
Because of the reasons given above,  I currently intend to uphold this complaint  and require Ferratum 
UK Ltd. to do what I have  said above to put matters right.
I now invite  Mr L (or his representative) and Ferratum  UK Ltd. to give me any further information they 
want me to consider, before I make my final decision. This must  be provided  to us by 25 October 
2019.
Thomas White
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8449884