K821x#15complaint
Ms G complains that a hire purchase  agreement  with Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) 
Limited wasnt affordable  for her. Shes  being  helped with her complaint by a representative. 
background
A new car was supplied  to Ms G under a hire purchase agreement with VW Financial 
Services that she signed in April 2016. Ms G was involved in a collision  in the car. She says 
that she didnt  felt capable of dealing  with the collision and her insurer  because  of her health  
issues so the car was recovered by the police but Ms G didnt collect it. VW terminated 
Ms Gs credit  agreement,  collected the car and sold it at auction. But that left an outstanding 
balance of £7,398.96 on Ms Gs account.  She complained to VW Financial Services  that the 
agreement wasnt affordable for her. She wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to 
this service.
The adjudicator recommended that this complaint should be upheld. He didnt  consider  that 
VW Financial Services had shown that the arrangement was affordable for Ms G at the 
outset. So he recommended that it should  write off the outstanding debt, refund the deposit if 
it had been paid by Ms G (with interest) and remove any adverse information from her credit  
file. He said that VW Financial Services was entitled to retain the payment made  by Ms G to 
cover her use of the car.
VW Financial Services has asked for this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. It 
says, in summary, that:
theres no legal requirement  for it to perform  an income and expenditure review  when 
a customer applies for finance;
the customer signs the application  to confirm they have given factual  information  and 
that the agreement is affordable to them;
it makes a credit search  to ensure that the customer has no ongoing financial 
difficulties;
Ms G informed  the dealer that she was employed full time and signed to confirm  that 
the agreement  was affordable and its searches returned nothing  to suggest that the 
agreement wouldnt be affordable  so it was correct to approve  the application for 
finance.
Ms G signed the pre-contractual  explanation checklist to confirmation,  that, amongst  
other things, shed had an explanation of the consequences of failing to make the 
payments required  under the agreement;
since the termination of the agreement,  its collection support team which  deals with 
vulnerable customers  has worked  with Ms G, her mother  and her representative;  and
an income and expenditure review in December  2017 showed that Ms G wouldve 
been able to afford a monthly  payment in excess of £160 towards the arrears  on her 
account and it gave her six months breathing space prior to initiating further  talks 
regarding an arrangement to pay  but by then she complained to this service.
And Ms Gs representative  has provided a further response in support of Ms Gs complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN87558652A new car was supplied  to Ms G under a hire purchase credit agreement  with VW Financial 
Services that she signed in April 2016. The amount of credit provided to her was £12,192.50 
and she agreed  to make 41 monthly  payments of £194.29 and there  was a final payment of 
£6,390.
A credit provider should make proportionate checks about the affordability of the credit 
before it makes credit available to a customer.  What is proportionate will depend on the 
circumstances of the credit. VW Financial  Services says that the dealer asked Ms G for 
information about her employment and that she said that she was employed  full-time. So it 
says that, even on the minimum wage, shed be able to afford  the monthly repayment of 
£194.29. And it says that it also made  a credit check on Ms G which gave it no reason to 
think that she couldnt afford the monthly payment.
But I consider that it wouldve been  proportionate in these circumstances for VW Financial 
Services to have asked  Ms G for information about her monthly income. I cant  see that it did 
so and Im not persuaded that it properly assessed  whether the credit  was affordable for 
Ms G.
Had it obtained such proportionate information from Ms G, I consider it to be more likely than 
not that it wouldve seen that she wasnt working full time but had two part- time jobs and 
that her monthly income had averaged less than £650 between  December 2015 and 
March 2016. 
Its clear from the evidence that has been provided by the dealer that Ms G was in a 
relationship with its employee who was dealing with the sale of the car to her. And I consider 
it to be more likely than not that the dealer would also have been aware that Ms G ended  
one of her jobs in March  2016 so her monthly  income reduced to less than £200 in April 
2016 and that he would  also have  been aware  of Ms Gs health issues.  So Im not 
persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that the agreement was affordable  for 
Ms G in April 2016  and I consider that VW Financial Services  shouldnt have provided the 
credit to her. 
Ms G made one payment under the agreement  but continued to use the car until it was 
involved in a collision in September  2016.  The car was recovered by the police but Ms G 
didnt collect the car or notify  her insurers about  the collision. She says that was because  of 
her health  issues. VW Financial Services ended  the agreement, collected the car and sold it 
at auction  leaving a balance of £7,398.96  outstanding  on her account.  
But I find that it would be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for VW Financial 
Services to write-off the outstanding balance on the account. VW Financial Services can 
retain the monthly payment  that it received from Ms G for the use that she made of the car. 
VW Financial Services has provided evidence to show that Ms G didnt pay a deposit for the 
car (and that the advance  payment shown  on the agreement was a discount from the dealer 
and a deposit contribution  from VW Financial Services)  so Im not persuaded that it should 
make any further refund  to her.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I uphold Ms Gs complaint. And I order Volkswagen 
Financial Services (UK) Limited to write-off  the outstanding balance on Ms Gs account.
Ref: DRN87558653Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8755865