K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains that MYJAR Limited lent to him in an irresponsible  manner.  
background
Mr H took out three loans  with MYJAR  between January 2016 and October 2017. Loan one 
was repayable in three instalments. Loans  two and three were  repayable  in 12 instalments. 
In late January 2016, MYJAR agreed  a repayment  plan in relation to loan one. In June 2016, 
it passed the debt to collections. Mr H repaid loans one and two but didnt repay loan three. 
A summary  of Mr Hs lending  with MYJAR  is as follows:
date £ amount
borroweddate repaid
12 January 2016 600 21 April 2017
224 August 2017 600 28 October 2017
329 October 2017 725
Mr H says that MYJAR lent to him irresponsibly. He wants a refund of interest  and negative  
information removed  from his credit file. 
One of our adjudications assessed Mr Hs complaint.  She said that MYJAR shouldnt  have 
given Mr H loans two and three. The adjudicator set out what  she thought  MYJAR should  do 
to put matters right.
MYJAR didnt agree  with the adjudicator. It said, in summary:
The adjudicator  hadnt explained how she came  to her conclusions,  what evidence  
shed relied on and failed to mention that shed reviewed its business file.
There was a gap in Mr H repaying  loan one and taking out loan two.
It carried out suitable and proportionate  checks before loan two.
There was a six month gap between Mr H taking out loans one and two.
A pattern of lending wasnt established  by loan three. 
As there was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint,  including all the information submitted by 
MYJAR.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending - including  all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Ref: DRN88693132MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice, this means that it should have  carried out proportionate checks  to make sure Mr H 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that MYJAR should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
MYJAR was required to establish whether  Mr H could sustainably repay his loans  not just 
whether the loan payments were  affordable on a strict pounds  and pence calculation. Of 
course, the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a consumer 
could sustainably make  their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. 
This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook  (CONC) defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties  and in particular, the customer  should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having  to borrow  
to meet  the repayments. And it follows that a lender  should realise,  or it ought  fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower  wont be able to make their repayments  sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments  without  borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Hs complaint.
Ive noted what  MYJAR  says about the checks it carried  out before  lending to Mr H. I dont 
need to repeat that information  here.  
I note that there was a gap of around  four months between Mr H repaying loan one and 
taking out loan two. I dont  think that gap was sufficient to break the chain of lending  such  
that MYJAR  could treat Mr H as a new borrower from loan two. So, Im looking at one chain 
of lending here. 
Ref: DRN88693133I dont think that MYJAR was wrong  to give Mr H loan one. Given  the repayment amounts, 
what was apparent about Mr Hs circumstances at the time and his history with the lender at 
that point, I dont think it wouldve been  proportionate  for MYJAR to ask Mr H for the amount 
of information  needed to show  the lending was unsustainable. There  wasnt anything  in the 
information Mr H provided or the information  MYJAR  shouldve been aware of, which meant  
it wouldve  been proportionate for it to start verifying what Mr H said. 
I think the position was different by the time of loan two. Thats  because  Mr H had struggled  
to repay  loan one. Loan one was initially due to be repaid in three, monthly instalments but it 
took Mr H over 15 months to repay it. While Mr Hs income increased  slightly by the time of 
loan two, his outgoings increased  substantially. Ive seen nothing  to suggest that Mr Hs 
financial position improved markedly  before loan two. So, when Mr H applied  for loan two 
around four months after repaying  loan one, MYJAR had relevant information to suggest that 
he would  struggle to repay further  borrowing. I dont  think  MYJAR should have given Mr H 
loans two and three  because  Mr H had significant difficulty  repaying loan one,  which  
suggested that he couldnt  repay further  borrowing  in a sustainable  way. 
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Mr Hs lending history  with MYJAR, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which MYJAR  should reasonably have  seen from the pattern of 
lending itself that further lending was unsustainable,  or otherwise harmful.  Given the 
particular circumstances  of Mr Hs case,  I think that this point was reached  by loan three. I 
say this because  when Mr H asked for loan three,  hed been borrowing  from MYJAR for over 
17 months. Mr H wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed MYJAR. Loan three 
was for a larger amount than Mr H borrowed initially. Mr H had paid large amounts of interest 
to, in effect, service  a debt to MYJAR  over an extended period.
I think that Mr H lost out because MYJAR  gave him loan three.  That loan had the effect of 
unfairly prolonging Mr Hs indebtedness by allowing him to take expensive  credit intended for 
short-term use over an extended period of time.
So, for the reasons Ive set out above,  Im upholding the complaint about loans two and 
three and MYJAR  should put things  right.
putting things right  what MYJAR needs to do
I uphold this complaint  in part. To put things right, I require MYJAR Limited to:
refund  any interest and charges  paid by Mr H on loans two and three;  
add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum  to each  of these amounts from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*;
remove any adverse information  recorded  on Mr Hs credit file in relation to loan two;
any information recorded about  loan three  is adverse. So all entries  about  loan three  
should be removed  from Mr Hs credit  file once it has recovered  the capital of that loan. 
Revenue & Customs requires MYJAR to take off tax from this interest. MYJAR must give
Mr H a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off, if he asks for one.
Mr H didnt repay loan three  and the outstanding debt have now been passed to collections. 
I dont know whether Mr H has repaid any of the debt. If Mr H still owes  some  of the capital 
Ref: DRN88693134he borrowed, part of the refund due to him should be used to repay that debt. But to do so, 
MYJAR must first take the debt back into its own books if necessary and reduce it to reflect 
just the capital that Mr H borrowed. Once  it has recovered the capital Mr H borrowed,  any 
remaining compensation should  be paid directly to Mr H. 
If MYJAR  is unable, or unwilling, to repurchase the debt within four weeks  of Mr H accepting 
my decision,  it must ensure that all its interest and charges added to these loans,  and any 
other interest and charges  added by any third party are refunded  to Mr H, so he can choose 
whether to use the compensation  to settle his debts directly. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  Mr Hs complaint  in part. MYJAR  Limited  should  
take the steps Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 April 2020.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8869313