K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that Clydesdale told him that he had a portable mortgage   but it wouldnt 
allow him to transfer  his mortgage to a new home  when he applied to do so. He says he had 
to pay an early repayment charge (ERC) to move house.
background
In 2017, Mr A took out a mortgage with Clydesdale. The mortgage had a five year fixed  rate, 
with a tie-in period of five years  where an ERC was payable if the mortgager was repaid. 
In 2018, Mr A asked  about transferring his mortgage  to a new build  property, where the 
builder was paying an incentive.  Clydesdale  said that it wouldnt accept any application 
where vendor or builder  gifted deposits are payable. So Mr A repaid the Clydesdale 
mortgage, incurring  the ERC and took a mortgage  with a different lender.
Mr A said that Clydesdales published  policy says that it will look at vendor incentives on a 
case by case basis  but it didnt do that in his case.
Our investigator didnt  think the complaint should be upheld. He said that Clydesdale treated 
Mr As application fairly and that the ERC  had been  applied in line with the mortgage offer.
Mr A didnt accept what the investigator said. He made a number of points, including:
Clydesdale told him theyd passed  his case to an underwriter to make  a decision, it 
wasnt clear it had actually done so.
Clydesdale told him that there were circumstances where it accepted a vendor  deposit.
Clydesdale didnt  treat him fairly  by not doing  enough to help him.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The mortgage that Mr A took with Clydesdale was portable  providing  the new transaction  
met its lending criteria. It hadnt guaranteed that it would let Mr A port under any 
circumstances. But I need to decide  if it made the decision not to allow  Mr A to port fairly in 
the circumstances of this case.
I can see that Clydesdales website for intermediaries  says that it will consider Builder 
incentives considered on a case by case basis, e.g. stamp duty, legal fees. I dont think  it 
says that it will consider a vendor incentive  as used by Mr A. 
In any case, Clydesdale has given us a copy of its lending policy, which states  it will not lend 
where there  is a vendor  contribution to the deposit. I cant  see the policy  gives  it any 
discretion to make an exception to that policy  although like most lenders it may do so from 
time to time. But it doesnt follow that it has acted  unfairly by declining Mr As application in 
this case. That is a decision I wouldnt interfere in if it has been exercised fairly and 
reasonably.
Ref: DRN85295672Clydesdale says that it did discuss Mr As application with the relevant department. It seems 
likely that it would have  done so. But even  if it hadnt, I consider that Clydesdale had 
legitimate reasons for declining Mr As application  in the circumstances of this case  in line 
with its policy  so I dont think it has acted unfairly.
The ERC was set out clearly and prominently in the mortgage offer.  As Mr A repaid the 
mortgage during  the tie-in period it was reasonable for Clydesdale to apply the ERC.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2020.
Ken Rose
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8529567