K821x#15complaint
Mr C and Ms P complain  Santander UK Plc didnt agree  to extend their mortgage  and 
convert it from interest only to capital  repayment  at the end of the term as theyd expected.  
background
In 2007 Mr C and Ms P took out an interest only mortgage for around £390,000 with 
Santander UK Plc (Santander) that was due to mature  in 2015. It was made up of two parts 
 a new loan to replace existing borrowing of around £290,000, with the benefit  of an 
existing fixed interest  rate product  until 2012,  and a further advance  of £100,000 on 
Santanders discounted standard variable rate (SVR). 
When the term came to an end in 2015, Mr C and Ms P wanted  to extend the term for ten 
years and convert the mortgage to capital  repayment. Their  application was declined on 
grounds of affordability. They complained to this service. 
One of our adjudicators recommended in 2017  that Santander look again  at agreeing to the 
term extension and change to repayment.  He felt Mr C and Ms Ps application  had been  
unfairly declined.  They had been keeping up with their monthly interest payments and 
making additional payments since June 2015  to reduce the capital balance.  Our adjudicator 
thought this showed theyd be able to afford a repayment mortgage,  based  on figures 
Santander provided about what that would cost, and that it was in their best interests for the 
application to go through.
Santander agreed to reconsider  Mr C and Ms Ps application. The process took some time 
and, after initially agreeing to the application  around  18 months later,  Santander later 
declined it. 
Mr C and Ms P complained to Santander  again,  but it didnt uphold  their complaint. Mr C and 
Ms P brought this new complaint to this service. It is based on several grounds: 
They say they were told when they took out the mortgage, theyd  be able to convert it 
to capital repayment when the term ended,  and they werent told during the term of 
the mortgage Santander had changed  its lending criteria.
The application process took many  months. Mr C and Ms P had to provide a lot of 
additional information. They were being threatened with possession proceedings 
because the mortgage  term had ended. And, during  that time,  they were  paying 
interest at around 4.9% which they say was almost double the market  rate.
They eventually had to get a new mortgage through  a broker which was more  
expensive than re-mortgaging  with Santander  they incurred broker  fees, building 
society fees and solicitors costs.
Our investigators view was that Santander  had acted fairly overall. But he thought Mr C and 
Ms P were entitled to compensation of £250  for Santanders  delay  in reconsidering their 
application and the distress and inconvenience theyd suffered.
Santander broadly  accepted our investigators view although felt some  of the delays were 
caused by Mr C and Ms P who were slow to provide information it asked for. Mr C and Ms P 
have fortunately  been able to re-mortgage with another lender since  they brought their 
complaint to us in 2019. But theyre  unhappy  about  the level of compensation our 
Ref: DRN84905792investigator thought  was fair. So, Ive reviewed  everything afresh to come  to a final decision 
about their complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the terms and conditions  of the mortgage, Mr C and Ms P agreed to repay the money  
they borrowed at the end of the term. The mortgage  offer made clear the loan was on an 
interest only basis and Mr C and Ms P would need  to arrange to pay the loan off at the end 
of the term. The offer said Mr C and Ms P planned to use the proceeds of an endowment  
policy to do that, but I understand they werent  available when the term ended. 
I can understand Mr C and Ms P may not have realised until they approached Santander 
towards the end of the term that they wouldnt be able to extend and convert the mortgage  
as theyd thought. There  may well have been some  discussion when Mr C and Ms P took out 
the mortgage about changing the terms of the mortgage later, but I dont think  theres 
anything to say Santander gave a guarantee that would happen. Rules  and guidance about 
mortgages change  over time. And I wouldnt expect a lender to agree to this change  without 
an application being made  and considered  against the lenders lending criteria and industry 
rules and guidelines existing at the time of the application. I think Santander  was entitled to 
reconsider Mr C and Ms Ps application  following our adjudicators  recommendation on that 
basis.
Mr C and Ms P raised their concerns that Santander hadnt told them  about  changes in their 
lending criteria in their first complaint, although I cant see the adjudicator  addressed that 
directly. Our investigator said, in response to this complaint, that this service wouldnt expect 
a lender to give details  of lending criteria to its customers as it is commercially  sensitive 
information. And I agree with that.  
Since Mr C and Ms P took out their mortgage  in 2007, Santander could have  set aside an 
assessment of Ms C and Ms Ps affordability  when  deciding  whether to extend the term and 
alter the payment basis of the mortgage. But Santander was entitled to ask questions about 
Mr C and Ms Ps income and expenditure and to see supporting  documentation  to decide if 
agreeing to the application was in their best interests and whether it was prepared  to lend to 
them. Im satisfied from what Ive seen that Santander  gave  fair consideration to 
Mr C and Ms Ps application  and I think it was reasonable for Santander to decline it based  
on its lending criteria.   
I think there was some  avoidable  delay on the part of Santander in coming to a decision 
about Ms C and Ms Ps application,  even bearing in mind  that some  of the time taken was 
due to delays  in Mr C and Ms P providing  documentation I think  Santander reasonably  
requested. I think Mr C and Ms P were caused distress  and inconvenience  as a result  of the 
delays, solicitors being instructed in the background to take possession proceedings against 
them and initially being told their application had succeeded, only to be told later it had been 
declined. I agree with our investigator that fair compensation for this is £250.
Mr C and Ms P say Santander should also reimburse them for the fees they incurred in 
taking out a mortgage with a new lender. But since I think Santander were right to decline 
their application,  Mr C and Ms P would have had to incur these fees sooner or later to move 
to another lender. So, I dont think Santander  should have to pay them.
Ref: DRN84905793Mr C and Ms P are also unhappy they were  paying  higher interest  rates after the term had 
come to an end than they may have been able to get in the wider market.  I wouldnt expect 
Santander to have offered Mr C and Ms P an interest rate product after their term had ended  
and while  discussions were going on about whether or not their term would be extended  
and, if so, on what basis. I appreciate Mr C and Ms P probably thought it was simpler to stay 
with Santander.  But they had the option  to look for a mortgage with more  favourable  terms 
elsewhere while they were discussing things with Santander. So, on balance I dont think 
Santander can be held responsible for any saving on interest Mr C and Ms P may have been 
able to make. 
my final decision
My final decision is that Santander UK Plc should  pay Mr C and Ms P £250 compensation 
for distress and inconvenience,  for the reasons Ive explained, within  28 days of them  
accepting this decision if they choose to do so
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C and Ms P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 November  2020.
Julia Wilkinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8490579