K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  that Accord Mortgages  Limited mishandled their application for a 
product transfer  on their buy-to-let (BTL) mortgage. 
To resolve  their complaint  they seek compensation for the upset and inconvenience  and 
time spent  dealing with the matter, reimbursement of financial loss incurred and a switch to a 
65% loan-to-value (LTV) product.
background
In their complaint  form Mr and Mrs S refer to their emails of 1 and 6 December 2018  and 
documents for details of their complaint.  The email  of 1 December itself refers  to the 
communications between  Mr and Mrs S and Accord, for the basis of the complaint. I have 
therefore taken  the details  from Mr and Mrs Ss letter of complaint to Accord  dated 
24 October 2018.
Mr and Mrs S have  a BTL mortgage with Accord.  Their fixed-rate interest  product was due to 
expire at the end of November 2018, so they applied for a new one. But they werent happy 
with how their application was dealt with and made  a complaint to Accord.
The matters  of complaint  are:
1.Accord was using  the same valuation as was used when the mortgage was first taken 
out nearly six years previously. This was artificially low and inaccurate. 
The new mortgage  products available to them  would  therefore be based  on a 75% LTV 
when it should  be 65% LTV if an accurate  and current  valuation were used. Lower LTV 
products gave lower  rates of interest. Mr and Mrs S were  forced  to choose between 
accepting the old and low valuation or paying  £149 for a valuation  report.
2.Accord gave incorrect information about  when was the latest Mr and Mrs S could  apply 
for a new rate.
3.Mr and Mrs S had a mortgage broker but Accord told him they would have to apply 
direct.
4.The Accord adviser Mr and Mrs S spoke to when  they first raised  their complaint on the 
phone didnt view their concerns objectively.
5.Accord deliberately  provided a lower estimate for the value of the property.
Accord replied to Mr and Mrs Ss complaint as follows:
1.Accord upheld this part of Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. It apologised and acknowledged  
that its use of the old valuation  was due to an error on its system. A new valuation would 
need to be carried  out. Accord had instructed valuers and would bear the cost of this.
2.Mr and Mrs Ss current product was due to expire on 30 November 2018. They asked 
Accord when was the last day they could apply for a new rate. Accord  had told them the 
deadline was two weeks before expiry. 
Ref: DRN85929622Accord also upheld this part of the complaint. The information provided  had been  in part 
correct, as this would be the preferred  time frame to enable  it to ensure all paperwork 
had been received. The new rate would then be in place ready to start when the existing 
product ended.
Accord accepted  it hadnt given a dear explanation on the call, as Mr and Mrs S could in 
fact apply up until the day their existing rate would  have expired. However, there would  
be no guarantee it would be a seamless  switch between products, so there  might  have 
been a period where Mr and Mrs S would be charged a variable rate until the new fixed 
rate was processed  and applied.
If this had been explained in more detail, Accord felt Mr and Mrs S would have had a 
better understanding of the time frames available and not felt pressured  to secure a rate 
as they had stated.  Accord  apologised for the distress  and inconvenience  this had 
caused. In addition to covering the cost of the valuation, it had arranged for £50.00  to be 
paid to Mr and Mrs S.
3.Accords current policy was to only accept  rate change  applications  from customers 
directly. It had made a business  decision not to use brokers  for this type of application to 
avoid payment of a procuration fee to the broker.
4.Having reviewed the call Accord didnt uphold this part of the complaint.  It said its adviser 
provided the factual  information which was available at that point.  He had handled  the 
call appropriately and followed the correct procedure by escalating the complaint for 
further investigation.
5.Mr and Mrs S had said it was in Accords interest  to deliberately provide a lower 
valuation for their property. This would force them to either accept it and apply for a 
higher interest  rate, or incur the cost of a valuation. Accord said this wasnt  the case.  It 
had identified a technical problem and as part of the resolution it was covering the cost of 
an up to date valuation  to provide Mr and Mrs S with the correct products available.
Mr and Mrs S werent happy  with this and brought their complaint to this service. They  said 
they had concerns about Accord's  practices  which had a wider  implication  and demonstrated 
unfair and even deceptive practices.  As customers,  they were  very much in the hands of 
financial institutions and relied on them to be fair and honest.
They said that if they hadnt raised  their concerns and complaint, then with an LTV of over 
75% based on the outdated valuation used by Accord, they wouldnt have qualified for the 
more beneficial fixed rate products. This would have resulted in their mortgage being 
switched automatically  to the much higher standard variable rate with consequent higher 
monthly mortgage payments.
Mr and Mrs S said they werent  convinced  by Accord's explanation of how the error of using 
an outdated valuation  had occurred. Accord had failed to monitor  and adjust  the property 
valuation. This should be an ongoing  process  done  immediately  before customers'  fixed  
rates were  coming to an end if not periodically.  An updated property valuation was a pre-
requisite to offering existing customers new products. How could such a crucial  aspect of the 
process be so carelessly overlooked unless it were  done deliberately?
They said Accord deliberately kept the original valuation when it knew  house  prices had 
gone up because  to do so (I think they meant to do otherwise) would mean customers  would 
Ref: DRN85929623get better  deals and rates and pay less on their mortgage. The new slightly increased 
valuation had meant the LTV was below 75% and had resulted in Mr and Mrs S qualifying for 
new fixed rate products.  Theyd selected  one to meet  the expiry date of their current  product. 
But they said the valuation obtained  by Accord was unduly low. It was biased in favour  of 
Accord who had engaged the valuer  and for whom no doubt  he carried out valuations  on a 
regular basis. Mr and Mrs S questioned  the valuers  objectiveness and independence. An 
unreasonably low valuation meant  that Mr and Mrs S were  still financially worse off and 
conversely, Accord had made a financial gain at their expense.
However our adjudicator  didnt recommend that Mr and Mrs Ss complaint be upheld.  
She said Mr and Mrs S had received correspondence dated 2 September  2018 which 
advised them that their current deal was due to end and that they should consider  looking for 
a new one. It wasnt the case that they wouldnt be eligible to fix onto a new deal because of 
the low valuation. 
They would have  been eligible for products within the 75% LTV brackets. The completion  fee 
they paid when they took the mortgage caused  the LTV to go slightly  over the 75% bracket;  
therefore, this wouldnt  have impacted on their eligibility for the 75% product offering. It was 
at this point they would have been  reasonably aware of the incorrect valuation  applied to 
their mortgage.
The adjudicator said we couldnt  deal with Mr and Mrs Ss complaint that the new valuation 
was too low. This hadnt been raised with Accord and they would need  to allow  it the 
opportunity to investigate  this first before bringing it to this service.
She thought  Accords  offer to complete  a new valuation at no cost to Mr and Mrs S was 
reasonable. The new valuation had increased  the estimated  value to bring  the LTV to 73%, 
resulting in Mr and Mrs S being eligible to apply for products within  the 75% LTV bracket.
The adjudicator had only investigated  the complaint affecting Mr and Mrs S personally. She 
said we didnt have  the authority to conduct a mass scale investigation into all the 
consumers who may have been impacted by incorrect valuations.
Accords current policy was to only accept  rate change  applications  from customers directly. 
It was a business decision not to use brokers for this type of application. The adjudicator 
didnt think this was unreasonable  as Accord had the commercial  discretion to set its own 
policies and procedures.
Mr and Mrs S didnt  agree and asked for the case to be reconsidered and escalated to the 
next stage in our process.
They said the delay  in raising the issue of the incorrect valuation was directly  due to the fact 
that they had passed Accords letter dated 2 September 2018 to their broker to deal with and 
had asked him to raise  the issue of the incorrect valuation. Accords  letter explicitly  permitted  
that course of action.  It had been established  that Accords reference to mortgage  brokers in 
their letter was incorrect and therefore misleading. Their  broker who contacted  Accord  on 
their behalf  was informed  that it wouldnt arrange a product  transfer through him and that 
Mr and Mrs S would have to contact it themselves directly. Accordingly, it was Accords 
incorrect and misleading information in its own letter that was the reason for the delay in 
raising the valuation issue.  
Ref: DRN85929624They said the adjudicator had placed  undue and unnecessary  emphasis  on the delay. This 
didnt go to the crux of the complaint nor was it relevant. It had served  only to distract from 
the subject matter of the complaint itself. The cause of the delay had in any event been 
explained. The point  was that the valuation issue whenever it was raised  was raised  
nonetheless, and before effecting  a product  transfer.
Mr and Mrs S said Accords  explanation that the incorrect  valuation was due to a technical 
error was unconvincing,  and had all the hallmarks of covering up a deliberate attempt to 
apply a low valuation to the property to deprive  the customer from benefitting  from better 
interest rate products.  Had Accord contacted other customers who most certainly would  
have also been  affected?  This wrongdoing was on a bigger scale and not just affecting  an 
individual customer.
They asked whether we had considered the extent of the financial gain Accord  would  have 
made at their expense  if they hadnt complained. And the financial gain it was making from 
other customers who had been affected similarly but who hadnt realised and therefore not 
raised a complaint.
The valuation carried out was the subject  of a separate complaint  following  the adjudicators 
views on this aspect of the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs S say that they were forced to choose between accepting  the old and low 
valuation or paying £149  for a valuation report. But I think there are two answers to this:
theres nothing unusual about an applicant  being required to pay for a valuation  report; 
and
I dont think its correct  anyway.  It appears a new valuation was carried  out on 
19 November 2018 at Accords expense. 
Mr and Mrs S regard  Accords  explanation  as spurious.  But theres no technical or other  
evidence on which I can decide whether  Accords initial  use of the old valuation  was due to 
an error on its system, or whether it deliberately  provided lower  estimates of the value of 
customers properties in order  to prevent them from getting better deals and rates. 
All I can say is that in the case of Mr and Mrs S, the new valuation  allowed sufficient time for 
the new interest rate product to take effect.  Mr and Mrs S will say that that was only because  
they complained,  and that they would have been prejudiced  if they hadnt. But the fact 
remains that they did. Its very unfortunate that the product transfer offer itself still recorded 
the original outdated valuation, but that didnt stop the offer being made. Accord did rectify 
matters appropriately.
Accord has acknowledged  that it also gave a poor explanation about when the product 
application could  be made, and has paid Mr and Mrs S £50.00  compensation for the 
inconvenience this caused. 
Ref: DRN85929625Mr and Mrs S arent happy  with this as they consider it doesnt adequately  compensate  them 
for the distress, inconvenience and time spent,  and doesnt penalise Accord for an error 
which shouldnt have  occurred and which, if it had gone undetected, would have had 
financially detrimental consequences for its customers. The issues raised  have implications 
for all other customers in a similar  situation  and Mr and Mrs S say the complaint is therefore 
one of public  importance.
But Im not a regulator. My awards arent  designed  to penalise  a financial business for its 
errors, or to order it to improve future  levels of service, but rather to address actual loss, 
damage and material  trouble  and upset suffered by the consumer as a result. In this respect  
I consider the payment of £50 compensation for the poor explanation to be adequate.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 June  2019.
Edward Callaghan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8592962