K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a car finance  payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken  out in 
2001. Mr M says Aviva  Insurance Limited  mis-sold him the PPI.
For the avoidance of doubt, another business sold the PPI but Aviva  has accepted 
responsibility for this complaint. So Ill only refer to Aviva in this decision.
background
Briefly:
In 2001 Mr M took out PPI when he bought a car using finance.  The sale happened during a 
meeting. The PPI was a single premium policy, so its cost was added to the loan upfront and 
it attracted  interest. In total the policy cost around  £1600 assuming the loan ran to term  
adding just under £40 a month  to Mr Ms overall  finance payment.
At the time Mr Ms told us he was a driver; he was entitled to at least six months sick pay; 
and he had some savings equivalent  to around six months salary. He also said he was in 
good health at the time.
The adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. They said Aviva  made  it 
clear PPI was optional and there was nothing to indicate the policy was wrong or 
inappropriate for Mr M.
Mr M disagrees, so the complaint comes  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken into account whats relevant  
here in deciding Mr Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Aviva made it clear that Mr M didnt have to take out the PPI and that he chose to 
take it out  although  I can understand why he now cant  remember this.
Aviva has provided a copy of Mr Ms car finance agreement. Here I can see in a 
separate section  headed  Agreement  for Optional Insurance there is a tick in the box for 
PPI and the cost is set out separately  from the main  loan agreement.  Because  of the 
way it was described and set out in the agreement  together  with the fact that Mr M 
signed the overall agreement - I think Mr M chose PPI knowing he didnt have  to have it.
Aviva  didnt recommend the PPI to Mr M  Ive not seen enough  to persuade  me that it 
did - so it didnt have to check if it was right for him. But it did have to make sure Mr M 
got the information he needed to decide  if it was right for him. 
While  Im satisfied  the cost was clearly  disclosed to Mr M separating  out the basic  cost, 
the interest, the total cost as well as the monthly  cost, I accept its possible the 
information Aviva gave Mr M about the PPI as a whole wasnt as clear as it shouldve  
Ref: DRN84967182been. But he chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted  this type of cover. 
Based on what Ive seen  of his circumstances at the time it doesnt  look like he was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been 
useful for him if something went wrong.  It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I 
dont think better information  about  the PPI would have  put him off taking out the cover.
I can see Mr M says he had six months of salary  in savings he couldve used to help him 
out. But Im mindful  that Mr M is remembering what savings he had from many years 
ago. Im also conscious of the fact that Mr M was borrowing all but £100  of the value of 
his car purchase and at a relatively high interest  rate. Im not persuaded he wouldve 
likely done  this if he had readily accessible savings at the level he says he had. Because  
of this I dont think I can place a lot of weight on the amount of savings Mr M says he had 
at the time. 
In any event Ive already said the cost of the PPI was clearly disclosed. And given the 
PPI was protecting Mr Ms loan repayments, I think he likely understood what  benefit  the 
policy provided. So I think he was in a position  to be able to weigh up the cost and 
benefit proposition  and make  an informed decision about whether the PPI worked for him 
taking into account his existing means.
Ive thought about the fact the policy didnt appear to offer a pro-rata refund if it was 
cancelled early   the policy describes the refund  as being  appropriate.  and its not 
clear that Aviva  highlighted this to Mr M. But Ive seen no evidence that at the time of the 
sale Mr M likely  needed to repay the loan before the term end and thus cancel the policy  
early or it was his intention to. So I dont think better  information about this limitation  
wouldve put Mr M off taking the policy out.
Overall this means I dont  think Mr M has lost out as a result of taking out PPI, so Aviva 
doesnt have to pay back any of the cost of the policy to Mr M.
my final decision
For the reasons  above Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 December 2019.
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8496718