K820x#14complaint
Mr H has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him a credit card payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr Hs credit card went live in September 1998. Lloyds Bank doesnt have a record  of how or 
when the PPI was sold to Mr H, although  it knows that it was definitely  on the account by 
April 2000. So for the purposes of dealing with Mr Hs complaint it has assumed  that he 
brought it at the same time as he arranged the card.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr H disagrees with the adjudicators opinion  
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account  in deciding  
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint  and Ill explain  why.
Lloyds doesnt  have any paperwork for the sale, which is not surprising given how long ago it 
took place. But it does make the complaint more difficult to decide.  In reaching my decision I 
have looked at the evidence that we do have  as well as considering what is most likely  to 
have happened.
Mr H cant remember  how the PPI was sold to him, which is also not surprising. But he says 
he had no knowledge  of it and therefore can only assume that it was automatically added  
without his consent.
Because weve seen  other complaints where  Lloyds does have the paperwork, we have a 
good idea of Lloyds sales processes at the time.  And from what we know  the PPI would 
have been presented as an optional extra. Although Lloyds doesnt have a copy of Mr Hs 
actual application  form, it has provided  a copy of the type of form that was in use at the time. 
The form has a separate section  for PPI where an applicant would need to tick a box to 
request the policy.
The sale happened a long time ago and I wouldnt expect  Mr H to have any clear recollection 
of it. Overall,  looking at the available evidence, I think its more  likely that Mr H decided to 
buy the policy, knowing that he didnt have to, even if he no longer remembers  doing so.
I dont know if Lloyds  advised Mr H to buy the policy or not, but that is not crucial  to my 
decision. If it did advise  him to take out the policy, then it needed to ensure that it met his 
needs. And from what I know of Mr Hs circumstances at the time, the policy  was suitable for 
him.
Mr H cant remember  if his employer would have  given  him sick pay. But the policy  would 
have paid out in addition  to any sick pay and potentially for longer than Mr H would have 
received full pay for. And Mr H didnt have any other means, such  as savings, to fall back on. 
Ref: DRN88125532So the policy  could  have provided a useful benefit  to Mr H at what would have been a 
difficult time. 
Its possible that Lloyds  didnt provide as much information about the policy  as it should  
have, particularly about the things  that it didnt cover. But Mr H wasnt affected by any of 
those things. As I think Mr H probably  had an interest in the policy and decided to buy it, I 
dont think that more information would  have caused him to change  his mind.
This means  that Lloyds doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr H. But 
Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr H because: 
When the policy was sold,  Lloyds expected to get a high level of commission and profit  
share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should  have  told Mr H about that. 
Because Lloyds  didnt  tell Mr H, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Mr H has mentioned that he didnt claim on the policy on two occasions  when he could have 
 when he was made  redundant in 2008  and when he suffered a serious illness  in 2011. I 
dont know why Mr H didnt claim on the policy at these times. But I dont consider that the 
fact he didnt make claims is evidence that the policy was mis-sold ten years earlier. Its 
possible that Mr H later forgot that he had the policy.
There is nothing to stop Mr H from making  retrospective claims to the insurer now,  so he 
may wish to consider  doing so. Certainly for the time that he was ill in 2011,  I imagine he 
would be able to provide  evidence in the form of medical records to substantiate any claim.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  Lloyds Bank PLC does not have to pay back all of the cost 
of the PPI to Mr H.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mr H any commission and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 July 2019.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8812553