K822xcomplaint
Ms T has complained about Society  of Lloyds service following a claim made  against  her 
motor insurance policy.
In bringing this complaint Ms T has occasionally been helped by her dad. But for ease,  
except for where I feel its appropriate to refer to his actions specifically, Ill refer to his 
comments as being Ms Ts.
Reference to Lloyds includes its agents.
background 
Ms T was in an accident  when she bumped into the back of another  car at low speed. She 
acknowledged it was her fault but said very little damage was done to either car. She said 
she only learned that Lloyds had settled  a claim from the other  driver  some time later when 
she contacted  him herself. She complained  that the other drivers  claim was exaggerated 
and Lloyds hadn't told her it had settled the claim.  
Lloyds didn't think it had done  anything wrong and Ms T brought  her complaint to us. Our 
investigator looked into Ms Ts complaint and eventually decided that Lloyds had dealt with 
it reasonably. Ms T didn't  agree so her complaint's  been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. 
Lloyds decision to settle the claim
Given the low speed of the impact, the fact that her car hadnt suffered any damage  - even  
though it was smaller  and less robust than the car she hit - she didn't think she could have 
done all the damage Lloyds paid to get repaired.  So she thinks Lloyds should have done 
more investigation  before settling the other drivers claim.
I've listened  to the call in which Ms T told Lloyds about the incident. She acknowledged the 
accident was her fault. She said that her car didn't have any damage that she wished to 
claim for. But she said that the other  car had a dent to its rear bumper and a loose step.
The other drivers insurer arranged repairs to his car. I've seen the engineering evidence  
associated with that repair. That shows a garage  repaired the rear bumper and associated 
fittings. So it appears that the only parts of the other  drivers car Lloyds paid to repair were 
the parts that Ms T told it shed damaged in the accident. And while  the parts were quite 
expensive, I dont think the cost of repair  was excessive. Also, I note that the engineer who 
assessed the other drivers car descried the impact  as light. So I haven't seen anything 
within the engineering evidence that would lead me to conclude that Lloyds should have 
done further investigation before settling the claim. So, I think it settled the claim reasonably.
Ref: DRN81668632telling Ms T about the claim
Ms T said that she didn't know that the other driver  had claimed at all. She only learned that 
Lloyds had settled  the claim when she spoke  with the other  driver  herself.  But Lloyds has 
shown us evidence  that it wrote  to Ms T to tell her it had settled the claim and how much it 
had paid out shortly  after doing  so. In response  to our investigator's assessment of the 
complaint Ms T said that she didn't receive  that letter. But I think  shes mistaken. I've seen 
an email from her dad, which he sent the day after Lloyds  letter  telling her it had settled the 
claim. And in that email  he acknowledged that Ms T had received a letter  telling her the 
claim had been  settled. So, Im satisfied  that Lloyds did tell Ms T that it had done so. It 
follows that I think it dealt  with the claim fairly.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2019.
Joe Scott
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8166863