K820x#14complaint
Miss G complains  about HSBC UK Bank Plc, trading as First Direct  (First Direct) over its 
approach to verifying transactions made  online using a First Direct credit card. Miss G wants 
First Direct  to amend  the security process it currently operates (of sending  a one time 
passcode to a mobile  phone) to sending the passcode to a landline. 
background
Miss G obtained a First Direct  credit  card in summer 2018. Her card is not contactless  and 
requires a PIN entry when used to make in person purchases. 
Miss G contacted us in late summer 2018 regarding the approach of First Direct, and other 
businesses, to send  a passcode to a consumers mobile phone to verify online purchases on 
some occasions. 
We advised Miss G that she would  need  to take any issues  up directly with the business 
before we could  consider a complaint. 
Miss G contacted First Direct and made  a complaint.  She complained that the system of 
sending passcodes to a consumers mobile phone discriminated against who did not have 
mobile phones.  She asked that she be allowed  to receive the passcode on her home 
telephone number. 
First Direct  responded to Miss G in late 2018. It explained that it did not have the facility  
to send passcodes  to landline numbers and that this could not be arranged  specially. It 
explained that she could receive  the code by email, but that this would only work for a 
limited number of uses, or that Miss G could telephone First Direct when making an 
online transaction and this could  be verified during her call. First Direct did not uphold 
her complaint. 
Miss G was not satisfied  with this response and referred her complaint to us.
One of our adjudicators has looked into this matter and set out her view to the parties.  
This was that it is not within this services remit to comment on the way businesses 
implement legislative requirements, and that she did not think  that First Direct  had done 
anything significantly wrong to Miss G, as it had offered alternative options for her to use 
her card online. 
Miss G has not accepted  that view so the complaint  has been  passed for an 
ombudsman decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I should set out the limits of this service  when considering complaints. As the 
adjudicators advised Miss G, it is not our role to review the policies  and processes that 
are operated  by financial businesses.  This is the role of the regulator, the Financial 
Conduct Authority.  
Ref: DRN85380532Our role is to look at the relationship between a consumer and a financial business and to 
consider whether the business has treated  that consumer fairly  and reasonably in the 
particular circumstances.  Where is has not, we are able to direct  the business  to take action 
to put things right for the consumer. 
In this situation, I appreciate Miss Gs frustration that the process  adopted by First Direct, 
and by many  other businesses, relies on consumers having  a mobile phone.  
Miss G does  not have  a mobile phone and she feels that the process requiring one means 
that it discriminates against her. She also feels that the European  legislation  which  First 
Direct is implementing requires it to have an alternative provision  for landlines. 
I understand why Miss G feels  excluded from the main process here, but First Direct has 
explained that it has elected  this process  to ensure  optimal fraud  protection. It has explained 
that a code may not always be required for every purchase but that, when it is, she is able to 
obtain a code by email,  or she can telephone First Direct and authorise  the transaction  at the 
time. This option  is available at any time. 
Miss G does  not feel that this is suitable  alternative, as calling in may be at cost to her and 
she cannot be sure of the waiting times  she may experience. 
That is a reasonable position for Miss G to take, but I cannot say that First Direct has treated 
her unfairly, when it has put forward alternative options. 
I do not consider  that First Direct  was obliged to send codes to Miss Gs preferred method 
(by landline) and it has provided alternatives  to try to assist her. 
It is unfortunate that the options  put forward are not workable for Miss G, but I think that First 
Direct has provided a reasonable  response  to her complaint and has treated her fairly. 
As a result, whilst I understand that this will be disappointing to Miss G, I do not uphold  
Miss Gs complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I do not uphold Miss Gs complaint and do not ask HSBC  UK 
Bank Plc (trading as First Direct) to do anything further.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 February  2020.
Laura Garvin-Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8538053