K820x#14complaint
Mr E complains about the length of time British Gas Insurance  Limited  took to attend  a claim 
under his Home  Care  insurance policy.
Mr Es wife has also represented him in this complaint, for ease I have referred to Mr E throughout.
background
Mr E called British Gas to report  a leak from the upstairs bathroom. Mr E said the water had 
come through the ceiling and had leaked  everywhere  downstairs. British Gas said the stopcock  
should be turned off to stop the water leaking and suggested where to find it. They  also said they 
would treat the call as an emergency and send someone  out within the next couple  of hours.
After a few hours no one had turned up, so Mr E called British Gas again. British Gas said 
the engineer was on their way, but they couldnt  say exactly  when  they would arrive. The 
engineer then turned up a few hours later. Because the engineer took too long to arrive Mr E 
complained. He said water had continued  to leak and had caused more  damage to his 
house than it would  have if British Gas had arrived sooner. He asked  for British Gas to pay 
to repair  the damage  caused by the leak. He said this came to £7,850.
British Gas reviewed Mr Es complaint and didnt uphold it. They  said the engineer was
delayed because of a road closure, which meant theyd been stuck  in traffic. British  Gas also
said it was Mr Es responsibility to know where  the stopcock was and to turn the water off.
Mr E disagreed, he said hed previously  asked British Gas where his stopcock was, and they
had agreed to send  someone to locate it but hadnt.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 12 November  2019  where  I said:
Mr E has made a number  of detailed points. Were an informal dispute resolution  service, set
up as a free alternative to the courts. In deciding this complaint Ive focused  on what  I
consider to be the heart of the matter rather than commenting  on every issue  in turn. This
isnt intended  as a discourtesy to Mr E. Rather it reflects the informal nature of our service,
its remit and my role in it.
The terms and conditions  of Mr Es policy say British Gas will carry out repairs or visits within
a reasonable time, unless something  beyond their control makes that impossible. They go
on to say Were not responsible for any loss of or damage to, or cleaning of your property,
furniture or fixtures  as a result your boiler,  appliance  or system breaking or failing unless we
caused it. For example  damage caused by water leaks.
When Mr E reported the leak, British  Gas said they would be there within  a couple of hours 
and sent a text saying  theyd be there  between 17:00 and 21:00. They then didnt  turn up 
until after 1am.  While British Gas took longer  to arrive at Mr Es property than they said, they 
sent an engineer  out when they were made  aware of the leak and arrived within a matter of 
hours of the leak being reported. Im therefore satisfied they met the requirement  under the 
policy and attended  to repair the leak within a reasonable time.
I understand Mr E doesnt agree with British Gass  reasons for why they arrived  later than 
they said. But as Im satisfied they arrived within a reasonable time I dont think  its 
necessary for me to look into why it took British Gas longer than they initially  said.  Also as 
British Gas didnt  cause the leak, and the policy doesnt cover  damage to his property, it 
wouldnt be fair to tell them to cover  it.
Ref: DRN82870202Mr E said he didnt  know where the stopcock was, and that British Gas should  have  told him 
sooner that he needed to know where  to locate it. He also said hed asked British  Gas 
previously about  where his stopcock was located.  The terms of the policy dont say British  
Gas would locate  the internal stopcock or help Mr E find it. Also, in the initial  call to British 
Gas when the leak was reported, they told Mr E where the stopcock was likely to be located 
and to turn it off. This was to try and help limit the amount of damage the leaking water would 
cause. Its also Mr Es responsibility to know where the stopcock is located in his house. I 
therefore dont  think British Gas did anything wrong in relation  to the stopcock  and acted 
fairly and reasonably by trying to let Mr E know where he might find it when he needed to.
I appreciate this may not be the answer Mr E was hoping for, but Im unable  to say that
British Gas hasnt  done  what it was supposed  to under the policy. Because  of this I wont be
telling them to do anything more.
British Gas responded and said they didnt have  any further comments. Mr E responded and 
disagreed with my initial findings. He said the investigation into his complaint was biased  and 
this was shown  by our Investigator not looking into British Gass  reasons for turning up later 
than initially said. Mr E said that I also said I didnt want  to comment  on this issue.  He also 
didnt agree British  Gas turned up within a reasonable time as the engineer didnt leave until 
six hours after his initial  call to British Gas. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The points raised by Mr E havent  persuaded me to depart from my provisional decision.  I 
say this because  while Mr E may feel the investigation is biased, Im satisfied British Gas did 
what it was supposed  to under the policy. 
As explained in my provisional decision I havent  looked into British  Gass reasons for 
turning up later than initially  said, as Im satisfied they arrived within a reasonable time. Mr E 
disagrees with this as the engineer didnt start his journey until six hours  after the initial  call. I 
appreciate Mr E disagrees  with whats a reasonable time, but as I said above  British Gas 
arrived within hours of the leak being  reported. So while this isnt as quick as Mr E would 
like, Im satisfied British Gas did what it was supposed to under the policy. I therefore see no 
reason to depart from my provisional decision. 
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 January 2020.
Alex Newman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8287020