K820x#14complaint
Ms M complains that LCC Trans-Sending Limited (trading as Small World Financial 
Services) blocked and closed her account. And havent told her why it did so. Ms M wants  an 
explanation, compensation for inconvenience  and her account reopened.
background
In 2015, Ms M opened an online account with Small  World and says she used it regularly to 
send money to her daughter who was living overseas.
Ms M says that since shed opened her account,  she changed her name and address. And 
instead of using her existing  Small  World account  she created a new account in her new details. 
Ms M says she tried to send money to her daughter using both accounts, but Small World 
rejected the payments. She says she hasnt done  anything wrong and cant  understand why 
Small World  wouldnt process the payments and close her accounts. Ms M says this all caused  
her a great deal of inconvenience. And she wants Small World to pay her compensation. She 
also wants Small World to explain  its actions  and allow her to continue using its services.
Ms M complained to Small  World.  It said that all its transactions are put through  routine 
monitoring and security  checks in order to comply with its legal and regulatory obligations. 
And that it blocked  and closed Ms Ms payments and accounts to comply with these 
regulations and did so in line with its terms and conditions. Small World also said it wasnt  
willing to continue to provide Ms M services.  Ms M wasnt happy with this response,  so she 
brought her complaint  to our service.
One of our investigators  looked into Ms Ms complaint. He said Small World hadnt  done 
anything wrong  when it blocked  Ms Ms payments and closed her accounts. And it had done 
so to comply with its legal  and regulatory  obligations. Ms M disagreed. Shes  still upset she 
cant use Small Worlds services and says she hasnt done anything  wrong.
As no agreement could be reached  the complaint has come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms M says she hasnt done  anything wrong and Small Worlds actions have made  her feel 
like a criminal.  Im sorry Ms M feels this way. But a business like Small World has to have in 
place security measures  and procedures in order to try to prevent fraud and safeguard its 
customers accounts. And its not for this service to interfere with these processes. Thats  a 
matter for Small World. 
UK legislation  also places extensive  obligations on regulated financial businesses  to have 
suitable systems in place  to comply with its legal  and regulatory obligations. And its for 
Small World  to decide what factors their system should look at when reviewing  transactions. 
And having looked at the circumstances of this case, I havent seen anything which suggests 
it was used unfairly or incorrectly  here.  
Ref: DRN84803082Ive also looked  at the terms  and conditions of Ms Ms account which  both Ms M and Small 
World had to comply.  These permit Small World to block accounts and not process 
payments. So, I cant say Small World  did anything wrong when it declined  to process 
Ms Ms payments.
Ms M says Small World  hasnt fully explained  why it wouldnt process her payments. 
And I can understand that shes frustrated that she hasnt been  given a proper explanation.
But Small World doesnt have to provide this information to her. So, I cant  say it did anything 
wrong by not giving this to her  as much as shed like to know.  
I know Ms M is very unhappy that Small World closed her accounts.  And she wants  them to 
be reopened. But Small World can make  commercial  decisions about who it offers services 
to. They cannot  unfairly discriminate  against a customer. But they can say they no longer 
wish to do business with individuals. Thats because theyve got the commercial  freedom to 
decide who they want to contract with. And having  looked at the circumstances of this case, 
Im satisfied that Small  World  exercised its commercial decision legitimately. So, I cannot 
say it has treated Ms M unfairly  when  it closed her accounts and I wont be asking  Small  
World to reopen them.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 January 2020.
Sharon Kerrison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8480308