K820x#14complaint
Mr L is unhappy Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) hasnt  reimbursed him for money  he 
lost after he says he was the victim  of a scam.
background
In February 2018  Mr L formed a limited company with two others, one his son, one a 
business associate who Ill refer to throughout the decision  as Mr R. In March, April and 
June 2018 Mr L made  several transfers  equalling  around £42,000 from his personal  current 
account with Barclays to Mr Rs personal  UK bank account.
Mr R had apparently said he was able to purchase a number of high value  watches before 
they became publicly  available and because he was a professional  athlete,  he had access  to 
a number of contacts that he could sell the watches to, at a profit.
By November 2018 Mr L no longer believed the investment was legitimate and contacted  
Barclays to say hed been the victim of the scam. According  to its records Barclays 
contacted Mr Rs bank  to request the funds  were returned but was told by the receiving  bank 
no funds remained.  As such  it didnt  feel it could help Mr L any further.
Mr L made a complaint.  He said that Barclays shouldve done more to warn him he might be 
the victim of a scam. He was also unhappy  Barclays didnt look into Mr Rs history further 
which wouldve evidenced  he couldnt be trusted. Barclays didnt change its position.  Overall 
it felt it had followed the correct procedures when  dealing with Mr Ls payment  requests. 
I issued my provisional decision earlier this year. In summary I said that:
I felt the payments Mr L had made were significantly unusual  enough  that all of them  
shouldve prompted intervention from branch staff.  Although  Mr L didnt have a long 
history of banking with Barclays, the first transfer  was for £15,000 and was nearly the 
entire balance  of the account. And, I felt this intervention  shouldve  included robust 
and probing questioning of what the transfers  were for, who they were  to and how 
they came about.
But, had Barclays  intervened as I think it ought to have, I didnt think it was likely this 
wouldve prevented Mr L from making  the payments he did. Mr L had entered into a 
legal entity  a limited company - with Mr R. They had known each other for several  
months, his son  a trusted family member  had already invested over £100,000  
with Mr R, who was a professional athlete with a plausible  cover  story. Overall, I 
didnt think the situation  Mr L likely wouldve described to Barclays carried any of the 
hallmarks of a scam. So I didnt think it reasonably ought to have  identified  the 
situation as one. Because of this, I didnt think Barclays  ought to have given Mr L any 
targeted warnings about  this or refused to carry out the transaction.  
For the reasons  Ive outlined above, I also felt Mr Ls relationship  with Mr R was 
strong enough that I wasnt  persuaded being questioned by Barclays wouldve been 
enough to prevent  Mr L from making the payments he did or wouldve alerted him to 
the scam. He didnt  appear to have  any concerns himself  until around six months 
after the last payment  was made.  Overall,  although I agreed Barclays  hadnt acted as 
I wouldve expected  it to by questioning Mr L about the transactions,  I wasnt 
persuaded it had missed an opportunity  to prevent  them  being  made.  So I didnt feel 
Ref: DRN81695072it was liable for Mr Ls loss.
I had seen evidence  that Barclays contacted the receiving bank the day Mr L 
reported the scam  around six months  after the last payment he made   but no 
funds remained so couldnt be returned  to him. As Barclays  had done  what I 
expected in contacting  the receiving  bank I didnt think  it shouldve done more.
Mr L didnt accept my provisional decision. In summary he said that:
My conclusion  that Barclays intervention wouldnt have made a difference was 
subjective and not based on fact.
Barclays did not educate Mr L on fraud and scams as it should have and did not act 
in accordance with banking  protocol.
Barclays had not treated  him as a vulnerable  consumer as it shouldve in line with its 
own policies and other obligations.
Setting up the business with Mr R was part of the scam, so this means  the situation 
did carry the hallmarks of a typical scam.
His relationship  with Mr R wasnt strong, it was in its infancy  so an intervention from 
Barclays wouldve meant Mr L wouldve walked  away  from the first payment and 
thought about it more  before proceeding.
Mr R couldnt open a bank account  with Barclays and this indicated there were fraud 
markers linked  to him. Barclays  wouldve known this and wouldve known his other  
banking history and shouldve used this to uncover the scam.
After Mr L reported the scam, the day Mr Rs account was frozen he contacted Mr L 
and asked him to unfreeze the account so he could  repay them the money  theyd 
given him. So he felt it was clear  funds did remain in the account  and Barclays 
couldve arranged for their return.
Mr Ls sons payments to Mr R should be considered separately as they dont form 
part of this complaint.
Mr L provided an extract  from a decision our service has previously published which  
he feels involves similar circumstances  to his and should  be taken into account.  
Barclays did not reply to my provisional  decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr L has provided a detailed response to my provisional decision and I want to reassure him 
Ive read and carefully considered everything  hes said.  I recognise his strength of feeling, 
but overall, I havent  changed my mind  in this case.
In my response,  I wont  be repeating everything  Ive said in my provisional decision, which 
Ive summarised above. And although Id like to take the opportunity to respond to some of 
Mr Ls ongoing concerns,  and have  considered  everything hes said,  I wont be responding to 
every point hes made in detail here.  This isnt meant to be discourteous  and I hope he 
doesnt take it as such. Its just that in my decision Ill be focusing only on the things I 
consider central  and material to his complaint. 
I have agreed that in this case the first payment Mr L made  to Mr R should  have prompted 
an intervention from Barclays. And so I dont think it has met its obligations to him on the 
Ref: DRN81695073whole. But it doesnt  follow  that if I think Barclays ought to have  intervened its automatically 
liable for the loss Mr L has suffered.  What  I need  to consider is what likely wouldve  
happened had Barclays intervened as I think it ought to have done. And overall,  I dont think 
theres anything Barclays  reasonably  ought  to have done that wouldve prevented  the 
payments being  made.
Mr L has said my conclusions  that Barclays intervention wouldnt have prevented the scam  
are subjective and not based on fact. But there are no facts  in this case  that tell us what  
certainly wouldve  happened if Barclays had intervened, because this didnt happen. So the 
conclusions I reach  have to be based on what I think wouldve more likely happened  based 
on balance of probabilities and the information available. And whilst Ive noted  his comments 
the investigators findings were based on fact, I disagree. Like my decision,  the investigator 
based their conclusions on what they felt wouldve likely happened  had Barclays  intervened, 
although I acknowledge they found  in Mr Ls favour  where  I havent.
Mr L has said had Barclays intervened by asking him questions  and educating him around 
fraud and scams he wouldve gone  away and thought about things again, but on balance,  I 
dont think this is likely. I think its reasonable to assume  Mr L already  wouldve thought  
about things carefully  given  hed known Mr R for several months and had hired  a chartered 
accountant to help set up a business  with him. Entering into a limited  company  a legal 
entity  with someone is such a serious  and considered commitment I dont think  its 
plausible that fraud  warnings wouldve  undone  what was clearly  a carefully considered  
arrangement. 
Id also add Mr L made several payments  to Mr R over a three month  period. And, before he 
made his first payment to Mr R, a trusted family member   also a co-director  of their limited  
company - had already  paid him over £100,000 over several  months. So, I think Mr L had 
plenty of time already to consider the payments  he was making.  
Im also not persuaded fraud warnings wouldve meant Mr L went  away to think about  the 
payment before he made  it. I say this because the situation hes described isnt typical of any 
scam I wouldve expected  Barclays to warn him about. So I think its unlikely  Mr L wouldve  
considered the warnings  applied to him. And even if he did feel the warnings related to his 
situation, Im not persuaded fraud warnings given  to Mr L in branch wouldve prompted him 
to abandon a committed business  partnership with Mr R.
Mr L has provided more information  about  why he feels Barclays shouldve known Mr R was 
a scammer,  but as Ive explained I wouldnt have expected it to carry out an investigation 
into Mr Rs banking history just because  Mr L was making a transfer to him. And, based on 
the circumstances of the payment  a transfer  to a business partner  I dont  think Barclays  
wouldve had cause  for concern. So again, I dont think it reasonably ought to have been  
prompted to carry  out any further  searches into Mr R. 
Mr L has raised concerns  Ive taken into account  his sons  situation in this case  and I want  to 
reassure him that the only complaint I have considered here is Mr Ls. But it is relevant that a 
family member already had a relationship with the person he says scammed  him and had 
already paid him a significant amount of money. I think these points make  it less likely 
Barclays intervention  wouldve  prevented  Mr L from making  the payments he did. I think 
Mr Ls sons relationship  with Mr R, along  with the significant investments hed already 
made, wouldve  likely added legitimacy to the payments  both for Mr L and Barclays  had it 
questioned him. So I think it adds more  weight to the fact that Barclays intervention wouldnt 
have prevented the payments being  made.
Ref: DRN81695074But, even  if I were  to discount  the fact that Mr Ls son, and the co-director  or his limited 
company, had already made  numerous investments and had an ongoing relationship with 
Mr R, this wouldnt change my view of the case. At risk of repeating  myself, Mr L was in 
business with Mr R. Whilst  Mr L says this was part of his scam and I accept this, this isnt 
typical of any scam  Im familiar with and isnt consistent with how this type of scam tends to 
be perpetrated. So again, I dont think Barclays ought reasonably to have recognised this 
was a scam  in light of all the other  information Mr L likely wouldve given it. 
Mr L has said he thinks his money was still available in the receiving bank account when he 
reported the scam to Barclays. Barclays records reflect that it contacted the receiving bank  
the day Mr L reported the scam. This was around six months after the last payment Mr L 
made to Mr R. Its records show  the receiving banks  response, received the following  day, 
stated no funds remained. I wouldnt have expected Barclays to do more  as it was informed  
by the receiving bank  no funds  would be returned and Barclays  was entitled to rely on this. 
Mr L has said Mr R told him there was money in the account  but I havent seen anything  to 
suggest this is the case. And Mr L has said Mr R had been  lying to him for a number of 
months about repayments he was going  to make to him. So I dont consider this testimony 
more reliable than the response on Barclays records  from the receiving bank which states  
no funds remained.  
Whether or not Barclays  should reimburse Mr L for his loss doesnt just depend  on whether 
or not he has been the victim of a scam. It depends  on whether Barclays  reasonably  ought 
to have recognised  Mr L was the victim of a scam, had the opportunity to prevent the 
payment being  made and failed to do so. For the reasons Ive given, I dont think this is the 
case here. 
 
Ive noted Mr Ls comments about  the other  decision hes come  across.  But each case we 
consider is based  on its individual  merit and circumstances, so it doesnt  have any bearing 
on his case and I havent taken it into account when reaching my decision in this case. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 August 2021.
Faye Brownhill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8169507