K822xcomplaint
Mrs M complains that a conditional sale agreement (CSA) she got from Santander 
Consumer (UK) plc (trading as Santander Consumer Finance) (SCF) was mis-sold and it 
was irresponsible  of SCF to lend her the money.
Mrs M is represented  by a relative  but Ill refer to anything  thats  been  said on her behalf as if 
Mrs M had said it herself - to keep things simple. 
background 
The background to this complaint and my provisional findings  are set out in my provisional 
decision dated 14 October 2019. A copy of this is attached and it forms part of my final 
decision. In my provisional  decision I explained  what Id decided  about this complaint  and 
what I intended to do  subject to any further submissions from the parties.
Mrs M has accepted my provisional  decision and SCF has agreed to the outcome proposed. 
my findings 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In light of the responses received from both parties I see no reason to depart from my 
provisional conclusions.  
my final decision
My decision  is I uphold  this complaint. For the reasons Ive given, I require Santander  
Consumer (UK) plc (trading as Santander Consumer Finance) (SCF) to 
1. cancel the finance agreement with nothing further to pay;
2. arrange to take the caravan back at no cost to Mrs M;
3. remove any information  recorded  about the finance from Mrs Ms credit  file;
4. refund  the deposit of £6,000 along  with the last two payments Mrs M made  
towards the finance;
5. pay interest on the above  refunds  at 8% simple a year from the date of payment  
to the date of settlement; and
6. pay Mrs M £200 compensation for distress  and inconvenience. 
If SCF considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from 
the interest referred  to above, it should tell Mrs M how much  its taken off. It should also give 
Mrs M a tax deduction certificate,  if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 December  2019.
Claire Jackson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN82792502copy provisional decision
complaint
Mrs M complains that a conditional sale agreement (CSA) she got from Santander Consumer (UK) plc 
(trading as Santander Consumer Finance)  (SCF) was mis-sold  and it was irresponsible of SCF to lend 
her the money.
Mrs M is represented by a relative  but Ill refer to anything thats been said on her behalf as if Mrs M 
had said it herself, to keep things simple. 
 
background
Mrs M took out this CSA in October 2017 to fund the purchase of a used caravan. She is elderly  and 
has trouble  with her eyes so she couldnt read the paperwork and relied on the salesman  to read it 
aloud. She says she understood the caravan cost about £40,000 and she had to pay about £350 a 
month under the terms of the finance. 
A few months later a relative checked the documents and Mrs M discovered this wasnt right. - the 
cash price  for the caravan  was £55,000 and she had to repay over £76,000 at just under £600 a 
month for ten years. Mrs M feels  she was mis-led by the salesman. She cant afford the repayments 
and thinks SCF would have  known this if proper  checks had been done at the outset.  She wants SCF 
to cancel  the CSA and provide a refund. 
SCF says it checked Mrs Ms credit file before accepting her application. She had no outstanding  
credit card balances and no payday loans or defaults. Her only commitment was the monthly  payment 
for an existing  caravan  of £354  - which  would  be replaced by this new CSA. SCF says Mrs M met its 
lending criteria and no further checks were needed. 
Our adjudicator recommends this complaint  should  be upheld. He doesnt  think SCF did enough 
affordability checks - in view of Mrs Ms age and the length  and cost of the CSA.  He says it should 
have done more  to ensure  that Mrs M had enough disposable income to be able to pay back  the 
money she borrowed  sustainably. Hes satisfied Mrs M was unable to do so and he thinks SCF would  
have realised this if it had done appropriate checks. To put things right, he says SCF should  
end the CSA with nothing further to pay and record the agreement  as settled  on Mrs Ms 
credit file;
collect the caravan  at no cost to Mrs M;
refund the deposit  and 20% of each monthly payment that Mrs M has made  plus interest
pay Mrs M £200 for distress and inconvenience.
SCF disagrees. It asked for an ombudsman to review the matter and says (in summary) 
it cant discriminate against customers on the basis of age;
its not required to check income and expenditure specifically, the checks  it did were  
appropriate and it had no reason to undertake additional checks  based on the information  it 
had at the time;
Mrs M paid a deposit  of £6,000 which shows she had funds at her disposal;
Mrs M completed  a declaration confirming that the finance was affordable and should  take 
responsibility for this financial decision;
Mrs M didnt complain about affordability initially - she just said the paperwork was wrong and 
the agreement was mis-sold;
if it removes information about this CSA from Mrs Ms credit file other lenders wont be able to 
see that she had problems making  the payments  and may provide further unaffordable  
lending.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the evidence and arguments available so far to decide  whats fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances  of this complaint.   
Ref: DRN82792503SCF provided this finance  in October 2017. In reaching  my provisional decision I have taken into 
account relevant law, regulations, guidance, standards, codes  of practice and good industry  practice 
in place at the relevant time. In particular,  I have considered the Consumer Credit sourcebook 
(CONC) provisions in relation to responsible lending at CONC 5.  
Im satisfied that SCF was required  to undertake an assessment of Mrs Ms creditworthiness before  
lending here. This means  it had to consider the potential for the CSA to adversely impact her financial  
situation - taking into account the information it was aware of at the time. And this assessment should  
have been based on sufficient information obtained from Mrs M where appropriate and a credit 
reference agency as necessary. 
I accept SCF wasnt obliged to undertake any one specific check in particular  - lenders should 
consider whats appropriate  in any particular  circumstance. But CONC 5 says the risk of credit not 
being sustainable directly  relates  to the amount  granted and total charge relative to the customers 
financial situation. And the extent and scope of the creditworthiness assessment is dependent on and 
proportionate to factors  which might include 
the type, amount and cost of credit, 
Mrs Ms financial situation at the time, her credit history, existing credit commitments  and 
other essential outgoings
any future financial  commitments
any future changes in circumstances  which  could  be reasonably expected to have a 
significant financial adverse impact on Mrs M
known vulnerability. 
I am satisfied  that SCF was obliged to do more than just look at Mrs Ms ability to repay this money. 
SCF was required take reasonable and proportionate  steps to assess  whether  Mrs M was likely  to be 
able to do so in a sustainable way. And sustainable here means repayments can be made  without 
undue difficulty or significant adverse consequences for Mrs M - she should be able to meet 
repayments on time over the life of this CSA, without having to borrow or sell assets.    
SCF says it carried out an appropriate assessment by checking Mrs Ms credit file. I havent seen the 
results of that check but I have seen SCFs notes which say 
the agreement didnt have an affordability check as the CF was higher than required,  good Delphi 
score and really low CII it replaced an existing  agreement for £354 and affordability is blank  but 
manually underwritten  and manually funded, no reason to decline as the scores are really good
I accept it might sometimes be reasonable and proportionate to lend based on a credit check  alone. 
But I think thats  probably  only going  be appropriate when the amount borrowed is relatively small and 
the repayment period  isnt too long. 
In this case, Mrs M - who is over 80 years  old - had to pay back  around £76,000 over ten years. I 
consider thats likely  to be a substantial commitment for most  people - and I think  it was a significant 
and lengthy commitment for Mrs M. As such, I think SCF should have done enough  checks  to ensure 
that she was likely  to be able to meet the repayments  due without too much trouble. 
I appreciate a credit  check may well have  told SCF that Mrs M had no defaults or other adverse 
information on her credit  file. And I acknowledge  this shows how shed handled past borrowing. But, I 
think its unlikely to have indicated that Mrs M was replacing an existing monthly  credit commitment of 
£354 relating to other caravan finance. 
I have seen a copy of the earlier caravan finance agreement. This is a hire purchase agreement taken 
out with a third party lender in Mr Ms sole name - so it shouldnt have appeared in Mrs Ms credit 
history. Im not certain where SCF obtained information about this finance - it may have come  from 
the credit broker. But I think it would have been reasonable for SCF to check  that this information was 
correct, if it was taken into account in Mrs Ms creditworthiness assessment.  
Ref: DRN82792504From the information Ive seen so far, I dont  think the checks SCF did told it much - if anything  - 
about Mrs Ms ability to meet these repayments sustainably. SCF didnt, for example,  know how much 
income Mrs M had - let alone how much of this was disposable. Given Mrs Ms situation and the size 
and term of this borrowing, I think it would have been reasonable to carry  out further checks. 
Ive thought about whats likely to have happened if SCF had done more appropriate checks. I can 
see from the paperwork that the credit  broker already had information about Mrs Ms income  and 
regular outgoings.  And I dont think it would  have been too difficult  or disproportionate for SCF to 
obtain this. 
Im satisfied if it had done so SCF would have realised that Mrs M received  a fairly fixed  income of 
about £5,000 a year made up of state pension  and benefits. The annual cost of the CSA was over 
£7,000 so its difficult  to see how any responsible lender would have considered she was able to 
afford this credit - even if she had no other outgoings. 
SCF says Mrs M signed to say she could afford the finance so she should take responsibility for that. 
Its not clear to me that Mrs M was necessarily aware  of every  document  she signed  - given her eye 
problems. But, even if I were to accept that Mrs M signed  this declaration I am not persuaded  this 
relieves SCF of its obligations to lend responsibly.  
If I understand SCF correctly it also seems to suggest that the CSA was affordable if Mr Ms income is 
taken into account. I find this reasoning  difficult to follow.  One the one hand, SCF told us it only lends 
to individuals - not jointly. But, I can see it has also referred to the finance as being  affordable for 
them more  than once in correspondence. 
I am satisfied  that Mrs M was the sole borrower here. This means  shes responsible for repaying the 
finance. And I think it would have been reasonable for SCF to check that Mrs M - not her husband - 
had enough disposable income to do so, before it agreed to lend. 
I accept Mrs M managed  to keep up with the CSA repayments for about a year after she took it out. 
SCF says this shows the finance was affordable but I dont agree. Mrs M has told us that she had to 
use savings and get help from family to meet repayments. I have seen copies of bank statements  for 
the relevant time and Im satisfied, on balance, that shes  not likely  to have been in a position to pay 
back this money in a sustainable way. 
For the reasons  Ive set out above, I dont think any responsible lender undertaking  proper checks  
here would  have agreed to lend Mrs M this money and I am minded to find it was wrong of SCF to do 
so. Usually,  where a business has done something wrong we will require it to put the consumer back 
in the position they would have been in but for that error. Ive given some thought  to what that means 
in these particular  circumstances. 
I am inclined to agree  with our adjudicator that SCF should cancel the CSA and take the caravan 
back at no cost to Mrs M. I think SCF should also rectify her credit file. I appreciate  SCF is obliged to 
report accurately when  it records  information with credit reference agencies.  And I understand SCF is 
concerned that amending the information recorded  about this agreement on Mrs Ms credit file might 
mean other lenders may provide unaffordable finance in the future.  
I am satisfied  that its for any prospective lender to carry out its own reasonable and proportionate 
checks to ensure that borrowing is affordable. I am satisfied that SCF didnt do that here and I dont 
think its fair for Mrs Ms credit status to be adversely affected because  of SCFs  mistake. So Im 
minded to find SCF should remove any information  recorded about this CSA from her credit file.
As far as I can see Mrs M paid £1,000 cash and £5,000 by way of the part exchange  value of a 
previous caravan (once related finance was settled). If thats  correct - and I would be obliged  if the 
parties would  please let me know if its not - then I think SCF should  refund the deposit of £6,000 plus 
interest at 8% simple  a year from the date that each payment was made to the date of settlement. 
Ref: DRN82792505I understand Mrs M would like to have all of the payments shes made towards  the finance refunded - 
it looks as if she made twelve in all from October  2017  until October  2018. But, Im satisfied that Mrs 
M had some use of the caravan during  this time and I think it is reasonable she should pay for that. 
Working out whats fair in this sort of situation isnt an exact science. It looks as if Mrs M probably 
didnt use the caravan much (if at all) after the summer of 2018 - when she raised this complaint with 
SCF. And Im minded  to find it fair and reasonable  for SCF to refund her last two payments (made in 
September and October 2018) plus interest - on balance  overall.
I am satisfied  that Mrs M is likely to have  experienced distress and inconvenience as a result  of being 
provided with this unaffordable credit.  I agree with our adjudicator it is fair and reasonable for SCF to 
pay her £200 compensation to reflect that. 
I now invite  both parties to consider my provisional  findings  and let me have any further comments or 
information by the date below. After that Ill look at all of the available evidence and make my final 
decision. 
my provisional  decision
Subject to any further submissions that I may receive from the parties  by 28 October 2019,  my 
provisional decision  is I intend  to uphold this complaint.  I am minded to require  Santander Consumer  
(UK) plc (trading as Santander Consumer  Finance)  to 
1.cancel the finance  agreement with nothing further to pay;
2.arrange to take the caravan back at no cost to Mrs M;
3.remove any information  recorded  about  the finance from Mrs Ms credit file;
4.refund the deposit  of £6,000 along with the last two payments Mrs M made  towards the 
finance;
5.pay interest on the above refunds  at 8% simple a year from the date of payment  to the 
date of settlement;
6.pay Mrs M £200 compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
Ref: DRN8279250