K820x#14complaint
Mr Us complained that AWP P&C SA unfairly  refused  a claim he made on his mechanical
breakdown insurance  policy.
background
Mr U said he took his car to a manufacturers garage who was an approved  repairer for 
AWP. He said that dealer  refused to submit a claim because it said Mr U hadnt  had his car 
serviced in line with the requirements of the policy. Mr U complained to AWP because  he 
said when he bought the policy, hed been told he needed to have the car serviced once a 
year.
AWP said it hadnt received any notification of the claim from the manufacturers garage.
However, it added  that it was a requirement of the policy  that Mr U had his car serviced by a
manufacturers dealer  or service centre in line with the manufacturers specifications.  It said
if Mr U thought the dealer had incorrectly refused to submit a claim then he could ask it to do
so.
Mr U was unhappy with AWPs response  and brought his complaint to us. 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 24 January 2020 where I explained  why I 
thought AWP had done enough to put things right. In that decision I said:
I understand Mr Us also unhappy with the sale of his policy,  but that would need to be dealt
with separately.  In this decision I can only consider what AWP (and the dealer as AWPs
agent) might, or might  not, have done wrong.
The terms and conditions  of Mr Us policy say he needs  to have his car serviced in
accordance with the manufacturers specifications in order for his policy  to be valid and
claims to be paid.
Mr Us policy  also says that to make a claim he needs to take his car to the manufacturers
dealer or service centre who will make the claim on his behalf. AWP said it cant be held
responsible for the dealers actions. However, I dont agree.
As the policy informs  the policyholder they need to claim  through  the dealer, the dealer is
processing the request on AWPs behalf. In doing  this, I think  the dealer is acting as AWPs
agent. This means  the dealer has turned down the claim on AWPs behalf. Because  of this
Im satisfied we can consider this complaint against  AWP.
AWP said the dealer  turned Mr Us claim down because he hadnt had his car serviced.  This
isnt enough to persuade  me that it was reasonable for the dealer to have turned down the
claim on AWPs behalf. I say this because it hasnt  shown  how the lack of servicing  impacted
the claim he made. So, I dont think the garage should have turned down the claim.
However, I can see that when Mr U contacted AWP, it offered to consider the claim if Mr U
submitted it through another garage. I think this offer was fair and reasonable in the
circumstances, and enough to make up for the garage incorrectly turning  down  the claim. I
say that because Mr U didnt resubmit his claim. So, I dont think the garage turning down his
claim has caused him any further unnecessary  distress and inconvenience. Ive also asked
Mr U for further information about the repairs that he said he had carried  out. But he hasnt
Ref: DRN88158642provided anything  to persuade me his claim should  have been  paid.
Neither Mr U nor AWP responded  to my provisional decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither AWP nor Mr U responded, I see my reason to depart from my provisional 
decision. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision, I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 March  2020.
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8815864