K820x#14Complaint
Miss S complains  that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services  UK Limited  (MBFS) didnt provide 
her a settlement quote on her hire purchase  agreement (HPA) when she requested it. She 
says it took ten days for the information  to be provided.
Background
Miss S entered into a HPA with MBFS for a car. In April 2019,  she says she wanted to part 
exchange the car because she had identified another car she wished to acquire. On 15 April,  
she called  MBFS to ask for a settlement figure  but was told this couldnt  be provided due to 
an issue with MBFS automated system. She says she was told she would be called  when 
the issue had been resolved but she didnt hear back.
Miss S contacted MBFS the next day and the day following that and was told the issue  
remained and no quote could be generated. On 24 April she called again and she got the 
information she needed. She says she asked about  the issue  and the adviser said that it 
wasnt a system issue but a problem that had only affected her account.  Miss S says she 
paid the settlement amount because  she felt let down by MBFS. She says that by this time 
the car she had wished  to acquire had been sold.
MBFS says that Miss S contacted it on 15 April but unfortunately a system fault meant her 
settlement quote  couldnt be provided.  It says that the fault remained when Miss S contacted  
it on 16 April and 17 April. It says the issue had been escalated to the relevant department to 
establish the cause. The quote  was provided  to Miss S on 24 April and it says it also paid 
her a £148 as a gesture  of goodwill for the frustration and inconvenience caused. MBFS 
says that the system fault had affected multiple  customers calling on a certain day. 
Our adjudicator thought the refund of £148 agreed by MBFS was reasonable for the issue  
Miss S experienced. He understood  that Miss S had missed out on buying a specific  car but 
said that MBFS couldnt be held responsible for this.
Miss S responded to our adjudicators view.  She said that MBFS still hadnt provided a 
satisfactory response as to why it couldnt  provide her with the settlement quote. She said 
that if the fault was a 24 hour issue then it shouldnt have taken MBFS ten days to provide 
her with the information she had requested. She said that no one from customer services 
returned her calls and that she was told the issue only affected her account. She also said 
that on the call on 24 April she was initially told that the quote couldnt be provided and it 
was only after she asked  to speak to a manager that the information was provided.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Miss S was upset by the issue she experienced when she requested  a 
settlement quote.  She has explained  she had wanted to acquire a different car which was 
why she needed  the information.  The information  she needed was provided ten days  after 
her initial request.
Miss S says that she settled the agreement when the quote  was provided because  she felt 
let down by MBFS and that she now wishes she had the settlement funds available  to her. I 
Ref: DRN88345852appreciate her frustration  but it was her choice to settle the agreement at that time.  She 
could have chosen to remain in the agreement and so while  I understand Miss S point of 
view, as MBFS acted on her decision to settle  I find it has not done  anything wrong in regard 
to this.
Miss S wants an explanation of why the issue occurred and why she was told it only affected 
her account.  I understand why she wants further  details,  however MBFS has said it was a 
system fault that affected multiple  customers and, on balance, I accept this. This suggests  
that Miss S may have  been mistakenly told the issue only affected her account. While I 
understand why Miss S wants more  details about  the issue, I find that as this has now been 
resolved and it was explained as a system error, MBFS isnt required to provide further 
details.
The outstanding issue is whether the goodwill gesture paid by MBFS is sufficient. Miss S has 
explained she had to make numerous calls, was caused embarrassment by the issue when 
with the car dealer, and she missed  out on buying  another car because  by the time the 
information was provided to her the car was no longer  available.  
Given the upset  caused by the delay I agree that compensation should be paid in this case.  
Miss S was caused  stress  and inconvenience by having to make multiple calls and not 
receiving call backs when she expected them. The issue took time to resolve and when 
Miss S was making her calls the issue was still outstanding which could be why call backs 
werent made. However, this delay was stressful for Miss S as she as trying to buy another 
car. So while I understand the trouble and upset this issue caused I think  the compensation 
already provided  is sufficient. I say this because Miss S was paid £148 which  I think  
reasonable for the number of calls she made and the upset she was caused in how the issue 
was handled.
Miss S also missed  out on buying  the car she was interested in and while  I understand this 
must be disappointing I do not fin this is something I can hold MBFS responsible  for.
Therefore I find that MBFS  has done enough to settle this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited has done  enough  to 
resolve this complaint. Therefore  I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 February  2020.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8834585