K820x#14complaint
Mr F complained about Right Choice  Insurance Brokers  Ltd s service  in connection with his 
motor insurance policy.
background
Right Choice, an insurance broker, arranged a policy for Mr F with an insurer. Mr F was 
unhappy with Right Choices service. Right Choice said they werent  responsible for one of 
the issues, which was down to the insurer, but they did accept that aspects of their own 
service had been poor and so they offered  to waive their commission. Mr F didnt accept this 
and brought his complaint  to us.  
The adjudicator didnt recommend that his complaint  should  be upheld.  Although  she felt 
Right Choices service  had been poor she thought  that their offer of compensation was fair 
and reasonable.  Mr F didnt agree  and so his case has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr F said that he had applied for a personal  car insurance policy,  but Right  Choice arranged  
a business use one. And he said that they repeatedly chased him for photographic  address 
identification, even  when he was on holiday. This was even though  hed explained to them 
that he couldnt provide what they asked  for because of moving  house  and his driving 
licence not showing  his new address. He found  this so annoying that he asked Right  Choice 
to cancel the policy. But they said hed have to contact another  department  to do that. So 
Mr F just let the policy cancel automatically  for not providing identification.    
He also complained that hed been  charged  too much for the time hed been insured, and 
that Right Choice  had ignored  his requests for a breakdown of how this had been calculated.  
Ive looked at the temporary cover note and the motor insurance certificate that Right Choice 
sent Mr F, and both are clear that the policy was for personal use. Although they both also 
say Reason for Issue:  New Business, that just meant that it was a new policy.  So I dont 
think that Right Choice  did make a mistake  with the policy type, and they correctly  arranged 
a personal use policy  for Mr F.  
As regards  chasing  Mr F for the identification,  Right Choice said theyd had to do this 
because they wanted to ensure his policy  was validated.  I think  thats a not unreasonable 
intention but it was unfortunate that Mr F felt hassled  while he was on holiday. And I think  
that once he said he wanted to cancel  his policy, because he couldnt  provide the 
identification Right Choice  wanted,  they should  have done  more to help him. 
As regards  the charges that Mr F had to pay despite cancelling the policy, Right  Choice gave 
him a breakdown of these, which included broker and insurer  charges. But Mr F wanted  a 
specific breakdown  of the £297.55 charge for the time the insurer had insured him. Right 
Choice accepted they delayed in trying to answer  Mr F about this. But they said that they 
couldnt do any more  to explain the time insured charges, because  that was something that 
was the insurers  responsibility and wasnt something that Right  Choice could explain or 
change. They suggested that Mr F contact the insurer direct  about that.  
Ref: DRN89207302As the adjudicator explained,  its true that Right Choice dont have control over the insurers  
charges, so I dont  think that it was unfair of them to refer Mr F to the insurer as they did. As 
the adjudicator  also explained, its open to Mr F to ask the insurer  to explain their charge  and 
ultimately complain to this service  if hes unhappy with the explanation. Right  Choice is the 
broker and its the insurer who has the responsibility  for sending out the breakdown  so the 
charge for time insured is set by the insurer and Right Choice cant affect that or know how it 
was determined. Right Choices obligations are only to ensure the charges are displayed  
clearly, so that Mr F could  have  been aware  of them. And I think  that Right Choice did that. 
In the Terms and Conditions of Business under the heading  Your cancellation rights, that 
they sent him, it shows the charges applicable if a policy was cancelled, as here,  within  one 
month of the policy start date, and 30% of the premium is payable.  So I agree that Right  
Choice made him aware there was a premium due if the policy  was cancelled early.  I can 
see that Mr F found Right Choices attitude  frustrating, but I think that Right  Choice did what  
they could in that respect. 
Overall, Right  Choice  accepted that thered been  some failings on their part, and that theyd 
delayed in answering Mr Fs questions. They apologised for this. And, as gesture of goodwill, 
offered to waive their own commission on the policy of £288.40. That meant  that Mr F 
wouldnt have to pay this. I think that Right Choices offer is reasonable and, subject to them 
waiving that fee, I dont  think that Right Choice should be expected  to do anymore. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  its my final decision  that I dont uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 March 2020.
Rosslyn Scott
ombudsman.
Ref: DRN8920730