K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that a car he has been financing through an agreement  with BMW Financial 
Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS) has not been  of satisfactory quality.
background
Mr C took receipt of an almost new car in October 2016. He financed the deal through a hire 
purchase agreement  with BMWFS. 
In May 2018  an alloy cracked and the following month Mr C noted flaking paint on both 
wheel arches. The manufacturer  refused to cover the problem under warranty  so Mr C 
complained to BMWFS.  
But they too refused to accept responsibility  as they explained they were  only responsible for 
the quality of the car when it was supplied and they didnt think  there  was evidence here that 
either of the issues were  present  at that time. Mr C subsequently stopped  making payments 
towards his finance  agreement  and BMWFS  therefore  defaulted  it in December 2019 and, 
when payments werent received, they terminated the agreement  in January of this year.
So Mr C referred his complaint to this service and our investigator provided an opinion. She 
noted that, at the point Mr C complained, he had covered over 46,000 miles in the car and it 
was over a year and a half old. She agreed  with BMWFS that there wasnt sufficient  
evidence these faults were present at the point of supply, when BMWFS  were  liable  for the 
quality of the car, and she thought it was more likely theyd occurred because of wear and 
tear.
Mr C disagreed with the investigators view so the complaint was referred to an ombudsman 
for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators view. I know that will disappoint Mr C so please let me explain 
why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr C acquired  his car under a hire purchase  agreement. The hire purchase agreement  is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement  and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.  
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the car should  have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied.  If it wasnt then BMWFS, who are also the supplier  of the car, are 
Ref: DRN80952922responsible. The relevant  law also says the quality of goods  is satisfactory  if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price  and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied  to Mr C. This car had 
only completed 101 miles  when it was supplied and it was almost new so I would not expect 
anything to be wrong with it.
I take account of relevant law when deciding what is fair and reasonable. On this basis  if I 
thought the car was faulty when supplied and this fault made the car not of satisfactory  
quality, Id think it fair and reasonable to ask BMWFS to put this right.  
But BMWFSs responsibility for the car is not unlimited. Whilst they are responsible for its 
condition at the point of supply they are not responsible for faults that develop afterwards 
such as those relating  to wear and tear.  
Mr C first reported  faults in May 2018  about  a year a half after hed taken  receipt of the car 
and after hed completed considerably more than average mileage.
As hed had the car for so long I think its reasonable to suggest the onus was on him to 
demonstrate the faults were present at the point of supply and were not the result  of 
reasonable wear  and tear. Whilst I understand Mr Cs testimony that was the case, I can see 
that the manufacturer and BMWFS dispute  it. In those circumstances and without further  
evidence such as an independent engineers report, I dont think  it would be fair to suggest 
there is evidence the faults were there or developing at the point of supply and I dont think  
BMWFS have been unreasonable  rejecting Mr Cs complaint.
I understand that Mr C is also unhappy  that his warranty hasnt covered the problems hes 
had. The warranty isnt something that was financed through the hire purchase agreement 
and isnt therefore something I can fairly  hold BMWFS accountable for. Mr C would need to 
address any complaint about his warranty to the warranty  provider. With regard to his 
complaint with BMWFS I dont think theres sufficient evidence theyve done  anything wrong 
and I therefore  wont be asking them to take any further action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8095292