K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) declined his travel insurance theft 
claim. My references to IPA include its claims handling agents.
Mr R will see that my decision is about a different business to the one our investigator 
referred to in his correspondence. IPA is the insurer of the policy  and the correct business  
for my decision to be about. The change in business hasnt altered the outcome  of my 
decision.
background
Mr R took a taxi to the airport  at the end of a trip abroad. He asked the taxi driver  to stop for 
a drink and they stopped at a service station. Mr R says as he got to the shop  door the taxi 
driver told him he was moving the car to get fuel.
When Mr R arrived  home he discovered that a gold bracelet, MP3 player  and a small  bag of 
fridge magnets were missing from his bag. Mr R believes the items were  stolen by the taxi 
driver as the bag was in the boot of the taxi. He says his bag was carry on luggage and the 
only time it wasnt with him was when he went to the service  station.
IPA declined Mr Rs claim for theft under his travel policy for two reasons. First, Mr R hadnt  
got a report from the local police as the policy required. Second, the policy  didnt cover  
valuables left unattended.
Our investigator thought IPA had reasonably declined the claim.
Mr R disagrees  and wants an ombudsmans  decision. He says he understands IPA thinks  he 
shouldnt have left his bag unattended. But he says under his circumstances no one would 
have gone back  to the taxi for the bag when the taxi driver moved the car and he should 
have been able to trust the driver with his luggage.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont uphold this complaint.  I have to decide if IPA fairly and reasonably  declined  Mr Rs 
claim, and I think it did. Ill explain why.
One reason IPA declined the claim was that Mr R had left the stolen valuables unattended. 
The gold bracelet and MP3 player  are defined  as valuables under the policy. 
The policy says theres no cover for:
Loss, theft of or damage to valuables left unattended  at any time (including in a vehicle, in 
checked in luggage or while in the custody  of a carrier, tour operator or public transport 
operator) unless deposited in a hotel safe, safety deposit box or left in your locked 
accommodation.
Ref: DRN87358712The policy also highlights the significant exclusion that theres no cover for valuables left 
unattended at any time (unless  left in a hotel safe, safety deposit box or the policyholders 
locked accommodation).
The policy defines  unattended as: 
When you are not in full view of and not in a position to prevent unauthorised  interference 
with your property or vehicle.
So theres no cover under  the policy for the gold bracelet and MP3 player  that Mr R left in 
the boot of the taxi when he went into the shop. The items werent in his full view and he 
wasnt in a position to prevent unauthorised interference  with the item, they were 
unattended. The policy was clear about  the exclusion and the same or similar terms are 
found in most, if not all, travel  insurance  policies.
Ive read Mr Rs detailed  account  of what  happened.  Although  what Mr R did was 
understandable that doesnt mean IPA has acted unreasonably  in relying on the policy  
terms. It doesnt want to insure the risk of unattended valuables.  Mr R didnt have his 
valuables on him and he could have done.  Also, I dont think  he had any reason  to trust the 
taxi driver with his valuable items.  
Im satisfied that IPA can fairly and reasonably rely on the exclusion that valuables  have 
been left unattended  to decline the claim for the gold bracelet and the MP3 player. 
The fridge magnets  arent defined as valuables  under the policy.  But Mr R gives  their total 
value as £6 on the claim form which is less than the claim excess. So IPA doesnt need  to 
make any payment for the magnets.
As IPA can rely on the unattended valuables exclusion to decline the claim I dont  need  to 
decide if it can also fairly decline on the basis that Mr R had no police report  of the theft.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 June 2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8735871