K821x#15complaint
Ms S complains  about how Studio Retail Limited has managed her account  with it, when she 
was having difficulties making  her payments.
background
Ms S complained about how Studio has managed her account. She said that she had been  
in touch to tell it about difficulties she was having  making her payments, and asking it to stop 
adding interest to the account, but it didnt reply. She wanted us to look at what it had done.  
Studio sent Ms S a reply to her complaint.  That said that she hadnt made a payment onto 
her account  since 18 October  2018,  and her account was sold to a debt collection agency on 
24 October 2018. Studio said it hadnt  found  any failings in how it had interacted with Ms S 
before her account  was sold.
Studio sent us a large amount of correspondence between it and Ms S, and statements on 
her account  before it was closed. From  those, we can see that Ms S last made a payment in 
October 2017. 
Ms S replied to that letter, saying that she was having financial difficulties, due to lost wages, 
and an attachment  of earnings order. Studio got that letter on 21 February 2018, and it wrote 
to Ms S in response on 12 March, asking  for more details of her financial situation.  
Ms S wrote  to Studio on 19 March.  She didnt  provide those details of her financial situation.  
She told Studio she didnt  think it was helping her, it was just putting  more pressure on. So 
Studio wrote  again on 4 April, repeating its earlier request for more  details of Ms Ss financial 
situation. Ms S replied to that on 22 May saying that Studio was demanding money she 
didnt have. She said that she couldnt  pay her rent or council tax.
Studio sent Ms S an income and expenditure form to complete on 31 May 2018. Ms S 
replied on 4 June,  with a handwritten list of her income and expenditure, and saying shed 
repeatedly asked Studio to stop charging interest  on her account.  
Studio wrote  to Ms S on 19 June,  to say it would like Ms S to pay £10 per month, and it 
would stop charging interest. The first payment was due on 3 July 2018.  
On 14 September  Ms S wrote to Studio to say that none of her letters had been answered, 
and she was still being charged  interest.
No payments had been made  on Ms Ss account under the new payment plan. She hadnt 
made a payment since October 2017.  So on 6 October 2018, Studio sent Ms S a new 
default letter. That letter  said that at least 21 days after 6 October  2018  a demand would be 
made for the full balance on Ms Ss account. But her account was apparently  defaulted on 
24 October 2018. 
Ms S continued to write  to Studio  after the default  letter was sent. On 19 October, she 
complained again that she was still being charged interest, and offered a payment of £5 per 
week. On 30 October,  she said that she was out of work, and the threats from Studio were 
the least of her problems.  On 6 November, she complained that the account had been 
defaulted, and said she had offered £10 per month.  
Ref: DRN81733882Studio replied to her letters on 7 November. It said that it was sorry to hear of Ms Ss 
problems, but the account  had been defaulted,  and it was too late to avoid that now. Ms S 
was sent a notice explaining that her account  would be passed to external debt collectors in 
March 2019.
Our investigator said that she wasnt considering  the complaint that Ms S made in November 
2017 about how Ms S was spoken  to when she told Studio that her partner had her card. 
Studio had now upheld that complaint. 
But our investigator upheld Ms Ss complaint about how Studio had interacted  with Ms S, 
when Ms S was having trouble making  her payments.
Our investigator said that she thought  that Studio had been  responding to the letters  that 
Ms S sent. And the replies Studio was sending  were being sent to Ms Ss current  address, 
so our investigator thought it was more likely than not that Ms S got those  letters.  And she 
noted that Studio had offered to set up a payment plan for Ms S in June 2018.
But our investigator said that when  Studio  wrote  to Ms S about her complaint, it said that she 
hadnt made a payment since 18 October 2018,  and her account was sold to external debt 
collectors that month. In fact, Ms S hadnt made  a payment since  18 October 2017. And 
Studio had been offering  help to Ms S in putting her account back on track for almost a year,  
before the account defaulted and was sold. 
Our investigator thought that Studio should refund all charges and interest from February 
2018 until Ms Ss debt was sold. She noted  that Studio had already made a partial refund for 
this period. And she said that Studio should  pay Miss S £25 to acknowledge the stress and 
inconvenience that the error in its letter had caused her. 
Ms S said that she would accept that offer. But Studio  said it didnt agree. It thought  it was 
reasonable to pay £25 to make up for the mistake  it made in the letter it sent Ms S, But it 
wouldnt pay back the default charges it had applied to her account. It said that the charges 
added to Ms Ss account were valid. She hadnt made her payments.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I proposed  to uphold it in 
part. This is what I said then: 
-Ms S said that Studio hadnt been replying  to her letters. Id set out the correspondence 
above, that Studio has shown us. Our investigator thought that Ms S probably got the 
letters that Studio sent, because they were sent to the right address. I also thought that 
Ms S probably got the letters  that Studio sent. Many of the letters from her which I had 
seen appeared  to reply to the preceding  letter from Studio. One of Ms Ss letters to 
Studio was actually  handwritten on Studios letter to her. I didnt think I could uphold  
Ms Ss complaint that Studio wasnt replying to any of her letters.
-Ms S also said that she had told Studio that she was having  financial problems, and she 
thought it shouldve stopped charging her interest. I said I wouldnt expect Studio to stop 
charging Ms S interest, just because  she asked it to. And I thought that when Studio 
wrote to Ms S to ask her about her financial situation, it was trying to help her. I thought 
that what it did, after it issued its first default letter, was well-intentioned. But, 
unfortunately, I didnt  think  it ended up helping  Ms S. And I did think  that Studio 
Ref: DRN81733883shouldve handled  her account differently. I said I would set out what I thought  shouldve  
happened in this case. 
-Studio  sent Ms S a default letter in February 2018. She hadnt paid anything  onto her 
account since October 2017.  Our service  would usually expect that a default notice will 
be issued once  someone is between three and six months in arrears with their 
payments. So the notice that was issued  then was in line with what  our service would 
expect. 
-Ms S replied  to say that she was in financial difficulties.  She said shed lost over £200  in 
wages each month, and a further  £50 as a result of an attachment of earnings order.  She 
didnt make any offer of payment.
-Studio  knew then that Ms S hadnt  made any payment for some time. And her letter 
made clear that her financial situation  was not improving. There  was no offer of payment. 
-I thought that Ms Ss account shouldve been  defaulted at this stage. I understood that 
Studio may have  been trying  to help Ms S to reach an agreement to pay off this account 
without a default, but I thought  that Studio shouldve realised then that it was very 
unlikely that she would be able to do that. 
-Because I thought that Ms Ss reply  to Studios default letter  made clear that it was very 
unlikely that Ms S was going  to be able to get her account  back on track, I didnt think  it 
was fair or reasonable for Studio to leave  this account open, and try to reach an 
arrangement for Ms S to repay  her debt, after March 2018. And I didnt think  it was fair or 
reasonable for Studio to charge any further fees or interest on this account  after that. In 
these circumstances,  I thought that a prompt default, which wouldve put an end to any 
interest or charges on her account, wouldve been  in the best interests of Ms S.
-I thought that Studio  shouldve defaulted  Ms Ss account in March  2018. So I thought 
that it should now amend the default  date on Ms Ss credit file with all three of the major 
credit reference agencies, so that her account  shows a default date in March 2018.  I also 
thought that Studio should refund  any and all interest and charges after March 2018 to 
Ms S, to the extent that it hasnt  already done so. 
-I noted that Studio had agreed to pay Ms S £25 for the mistake in its letter  of 5 February  
2019. I thought  that provided a fair outcome to that part of this complaint. 
I invited the parties  to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Ms S said she had no further comments. Studio said it was happy to accept my decision.
my findings
Although neither side has offered anything  further, Ive still reconsidered all the available  
evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. I havent  changed my mind.
my final decision
My final decision is that Studio Retail Limited  must: 
-amend the default date on Ms Ss credit file with all three  major  credit reference 
agencies, so that her account shows a default date in March  2018;
Ref: DRN81733884-refund  any and all interest  and charges  after March 2018 to Ms S, to the extent that it 
hasnt already done so; and 
-pay Ms S £25 in compensation.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 June  2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8173388