K820x#14complaint
Mr O has complained that Endsleigh Insurance Services Ltd unfairly  cancelled  his motor  
policy.
background
Mr Os policy  was automatically renewed by Endsleigh on 15 September  2018.  He was due 
to pay his premium by instalments and said wanted  to change his payment date from the 
15th of the month to 30th of the month. He said that Endsleigh said he could only do this 
when his policy actually  started. 
This was then arranged  with the finance company,  which I shall call PC but Mr O was very 
unhappy he would be charged an admin fee of £5 to do so. So he called Endsleigh on 
18 October 2018 saying  he wanted to cancel his policy  but that he had paid up to 
15 November 2018. He then explained  he was unhappy about  this £5. The adviser put him 
on hold to ask about this £5 charge and Mr O said his phone died. He said he received  a 
letter from PC confirming  his new date for his instalment payment on 19 October 2018 and 
that the £5 admin fee would be taken.
Meanwhile however,  on 10 October 2018  PC wrote to Mr O telling him his payment due on 
15 September was refused. This was followed by a letter from Endsleigh dated 11 October  
saying the same thing.  On 16 October, PC again told Mr O his payment for 15 September 
had been refused. On 23 October, PC wrote again to Mr O asking him to make  the payment 
online. On 24 October, PC wrote to Mr O to say his credit facility would be cancelled, which 
might also cancel his policy. Also on 24 October, Endsleigh emailed  Mr O asking him to 
contact PC to arrange his payment. And on 14 November, Endsleigh  wrote  to say his policy  
was cancelled.  
Mr O said he was unaware  his policy had been  cancelled and he doesnt agree he should 
have to pay any cancellation fees. He was also unhappy the debt was sent to a debt 
collection agency. He believed the debt should be written off.
Endsleigh didnt agree so Mr O brought his complaint  to us. The investigator didnt think 
Endsleigh had done anything wrong so he didnt  think Mr Os complaint should be upheld.
Mr O didnt agree so his complaint has been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint. Ill now explain  why.
Its clear that PC had some system problems, which delayed it taking Mr Os first instalment 
from his bank via the direct debit mandate. It should  have taken it on 15 September  2018 but 
didnt try to take it until 4 October whereby his bank  declined it. Both PC and Endsleigh  
informed Mr O of this on 10 and 11 October  respectively.  
Following this, Mr O made the payment for September but wanted to change  the payment  
date. PC said it could do this but it would cost £5. So Mr O called Endsleigh to discuss this. 
Initially he said he wanted to cancel his policy but after a discussion about the cancellation 
Ref: DRN87943272charges, he simply wanted to know if this £5 fee could be waived. Endsleighs  advisor put 
him on hold to check but the call terminated  as Mr O said his battery had run flat. 
Whilst Mr O was under the impression  the payment date had changed there was no 
confirmation of this in this call or crucially from Endsleigh afterwards. However, Mr O said he 
received an email from PC on 19 October confirming the new payment date with the £5 
charge added. 
So Mr O said as far as he was concerned his next payment date was then 30 October. 
However, both PC and Endsleigh have  shown me they contacted Mr O following this. PC 
wrote on 23 October saying Mr O needed  to make a payment. Endsleigh wrote an email on 
24 October again saying a payment  was due and new direct  debit mandate  needed to be set 
up or otherwise his policy would be cancelled on 31 October. These were  sent to Mr Os 
correct contact details.  Mr O didnt make any contact with either  company.  And his policy  
was cancelled.
I think there was an element of miscommunication here.  But I also think Endsleigh and PC 
have both shown  they made contact with Mr O by email and letter  all sent to his correct 
contact details. Its also clear there  were  issues with PC being able to collect  his direct debit, 
which Mr O knew  given the issues in September. So because  Endsleigh  and PC have 
shown they informed Mr O of the payment  issues, I cant say that Endsleigh shouldnt have 
cancelled his policy as the appropriate notice was given to Mr O. 
And obviously Mr O was insured from 15 September to 31 October  but he had only paid one 
instalment. So I dont think Endsleigh has done  anything wrong in asking for payment for his 
time on risk plus its fees for cancelling his policy  due to the fact the instalment required 
wasnt paid. This is provided for in the policy terms and conditions. 
my final decision
I appreciate Mr O will be disappointed with my decision, but for these reasons, its my final 
decision that I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 July 2020.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8794327