K820x#14complaint
Mr S and Mrs S complain  that Tesco Personal Finance PLC unfairly refused a claim brought 
under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  in relation to a caravan  they purchased. 
They want  a refund of the purchase price  and compensation.
background
For ease of reading Ill mostly refer to Mr S. I previously set out the background to this 
complaint in my earlier provisional decision but for convenience I repeat it below.
Mr S tells us that in June 2018 he and his wife purchased a caravan from a company Ill refer 
to as P". Mr S states he used his Tesco credit card to make part payment  of £1,000  towards 
the purchase price  which was just in excess of £27,000. The balance  was covered by a fixed  
sum loan agreement provided  by another lender.
Mr S explains that the rationale behind the purchase was to provide a week-end holiday 
home which could  be rented  out during the school  holidays to cover the cost of annual  pitch  
fees and running  costs.  He states  he was shown a tariff list which  indicated  a letting price of 
£769 per week in high season.  And he further  states  that he was told this would be the net 
amount he could expect  to receive.  Mr S says that some months  later when the account  
statement was requested he discovered that the rental income was well below what  hed 
expected. And that 30% had been deducted  for market and cleaning  fees.  He says he 
wouldnt have bought the caravan if hed known  these actual net figures.  
Tesco told us that there  was nothing in the documentary evidence  to show that a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation had taken place. And that discussions had been conducted 
verbally. It said the 30% administration cost was detailed in the rental scheme agreement.
In my provisional decision I concluded that on a true construction any statement made 
verbally or by reference to the tariff list was limited in scope in terms of its factual  content.  
Statements about what will happen  in future dont amount to misrepresentations unless the 
party making the statement never  intended  it to occur or knew that it wasnt possible.
I said that when  Mr S entered the purchase  agreement - and subsequently  the rental 
scheme - any statement of fact contained  in the tariff guide, or made with reference  to it, was 
limited to representing that the prices shown  were those that were currently being used in 
relation to the various grades of caravan during specified time periods. I stated that Id not 
seen any information  to show that any such statement  was untrue. Nor was there any 
statement to the effect that rental  income was guaranteed. I noted that for actual lettings 
ending in August  2018  the statement of income showed three seven day periods where the 
income before commission  was between £579  and £758. And that the 30% charge was set 
out in the rental scheme agreement.
I explained that when considering the complaint I wasnt  deciding  Tescos liability  under 
section 75 - only a court  could do that. I said I took into account the relevant law and that 
includes section 75. But this service determines cases by considering what is fair and 
reasonable, as statute  requires us to do. I was deciding if Tesco did enough in considering  
Mr S complaint. And if it didnt, what else it should now do.
Ref: DRN82912252I concluded that there was insufficient information to show thered been any 
misrepresentation of the caravan in terms of the purchase agreement or the rental scheme 
agreement. I thought  Tesco had acted fairly  and that it was entitled to reject  the section 75 
claim.
I invited the parties  to respond to my provisional  decision.
Tesco responded saying it agreed  with my provisional decision and had nothing to add. Mrs 
S replied saying she disagreed with the provisional  decision. She further explained that the 
loan had apparently been wiped from Mr Ss credit  file. And that no payments had been 
made since August  2019.
my findings
I thank Tesco, Mr S and Mrs S for their responses. Ive considered all the available  evidence  
and arguments  to decide whats  fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither Tesco nor Mr S has chosen to send me any further information which deals with the 
substance of the complaint. Nor to comment on what I said in my provisional decision. It 
follows that I see no reason to change the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.
I find that theres insufficient information  to show there was any misrepresentation relating to 
the purchase of the caravan or to the rental scheme agreement.  I also find that Tesco acted 
fairly when  it refused  the section 75 claim.
Im unable to comment on the information  recently  provided in respect of activity on Mr S 
credit file. It didnt form a part of the initial complaint. But if there  are any inaccuracies  or 
discrepancies these would need  to be taken up with Tesco or the relevant credit reference 
agency.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 August  2020.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8291225