K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Canada  Square Operations Limited (trading as Egg)  mis-sold 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  to Mr B. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 2000.  Canada Square sold Mr B 
the policy at the same  time that he applied for the card online.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  be upheld. Mr B disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
Ive considered what Mr B and his representatives  have said, but Ive decided the policy 
wasnt mis-sold.  I will explain why:
I think Canada Square made  Mr B aware  that the PPI was optional and that he chose 
to take it  although I can understand  if he can no longer remember this. I have seen 
evidence of the online process  and this required the customer to actively  choose 
whether they want PPI. 
Canada Square  didnt recommend the PPI as being particularly suitable  for Mr Bs 
individual needs. This means  it didnt have to check if the PPI fitted his 
circumstances. It was up to Mr B to decide  that, taking into account what  resources 
(such as employer sick pay and savings)  he would have if he wasnt able to work 
through sickness or unemployment. 
The information Canada Square  gave Mr B about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it should 
have been. The formula for how much  the PPI would cost was there on the 
application webpage, but it could  have been  put more clearly;  and it didnt say how 
long the PPI paid out for. But I dont  think, in Mr Bs circumstances, full information  
about costs and benefits would  have affected whether he took the PPI. And it doesnt 
look like hed have been affected by any of the significant exclusions in the policy.  
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Canada Square  Operations Limited does not have to 
pay back the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
Ref: DRN82115032Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 June 2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8211503