K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs J have complained that Lloyds Bank PLC trading as Cheltenham  and Gloucester 
(Lloyds) mis-sold them  a mortgage  payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy  when 
they were applying for a homeowner loan in 2000. 
background
One of our adjudicators looked  at this complaint and thought that the policy wasnt  mis-sold 
but that Lloyds  should  pay back some of the money it had received because it involved a 
high level of commission and profit  share of which Mr and Mrs J werent informed. 
Mr and Mrs J disagreed  with the adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to 
me to consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint  and Ill explain  the reasons  for this.
Ive reached my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what  I consider is most 
likely to have happened in light of the available evidence  and the wider  surrounding  
circumstances.
Firstly, Ive looked at whether Lloyds made  it sufficiently clear  to Mr and Mrs J that the policy 
was optional. Lloyds  sold the policy to Mr and Mrs J at a meeting in a branch. Mr and Mrs J 
told us that it wasnt  made clear  to them that the policy was optional.  Theyve also informed 
us that they were told their loan application  would be looked on more favourably  if they took 
out the policy.
However, I can see from the paperwork that Mr and Mrs J signed  a separate PPI application 
form. Having considered this, I dont  think it suggests that the policy  was compulsory. And I 
think having read it, I think its most likely  Mr and Mrs J would have understood that the 
policy was optional. Ive also seen the letter sent to Mr and Mrs J after the sale confirming 
the sale of the policy  and this doesnt  present the PPI as compulsory either.
Of course,  I cant  be sure what was said during the meeting when the policy  was sold.  I 
accept its possible the adviser may have said something to make Mr and Mrs J think  they 
needed to take the policy  and thats why they completed the paperwork as they did. But I 
think its more likely  that the policy was recommended to them and they were told it was 
something it would be good to have  to protect the repayments  rather than they had to have 
it. Without stronger evidence that the adviser said or did something  misleading, I dont feel I 
can fairly uphold  the complaint on this basis.
Next Ive considered  whether the policy was suitable  for Mr and Mrs J. First of all, there were 
rules about  who could qualify for the policy and based  on the information thats been 
provided to us, it looks like Mr and Mrs J met those rules. 
Ref: DRN83751052Ive also checked  the main  exclusions  and restrictions  of the policy  and it doesnt look like 
Mr and Mrs J would  have been caught  by any of them.
Mr and Mrs J told us that they were entitled to benefits from their employers including sick 
pay and redundancy pay. They also told us that Mrs J was entitled to life insurance.
But I dont think this is enough for me to say the MPPI wasnt suitable. Policies like this are 
there to reduce  the pressure  of meeting payments  in financially difficult  times. If Mr or Mrs J 
were too ill to work or were made  unemployed, the policy would have paid towards their 
mortgage repayment. It was designed  to provide a specific safety net for their home. It would 
have given them peace of mind and security. In addition,  it would have allowed Mr and Mrs J 
to use any sick pay or redundancy monies for other necessary household expenses. And as 
the life insurance  provided a different type of benefit  to that provided  by the MPPI, there was 
no duplication. 
So overall, having considered all these  factors, I think that the recommendation was suitable 
for them and the MPPI would have provided  them with a useful benefit which was affordable  
for them. 
Finally, Lloyds had to give Mr and Mrs J information  that was clear, fair and not misleading 
so they could make the decision for themselves about whether or not to take the MPPI.  
Ive considered the possibility that Lloyds didnt give Mr and Mrs J clear enough information 
about the cost,  benefits, main exclusions and restrictions  of the policy.  
But the cost was comparable to the cost of other, similar policies available  at the time. And 
its possible Lloyds didnt  point out the main things the policy didnt cover.  But Mr and Mrs J 
wouldnt have been affected by any of those things. On balance, I dont think having better 
information would have dissuaded them from buying  the PPI. So overall, I dont think  this 
policy was mis-sold.
Which means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs J. But 
Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs J because:  
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs J about that. Because  Lloyds  didnt tell Mr 
and Mrs J, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC doesnt have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs J.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mr and Mrs J any commission  and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 April 2019.
Ref: DRN83751053Katrina Hyde
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8375105