K821x#15complaint
Mr B has complained that Zenith Insurance plc didn't  pay the full amount of his claim on his 
commercial vehicle motor  insurance policy.
background
Mr Bs van was stolen. When looking into his claim Zenith said the policy  address  and the 
address Mr Bs van was registered at were different.  The latter was his mums address. 
Zenith said that if it had known that it would have  charged him a higher premium. It settled 
Mr Bs claim. But it said that if hed insured  his van at his mums address it would have 
charged him additional  premiums of £1,748.48. It deducted that amount from the settlement 
it paid to Mr B.
Mr B brought his complaint about that to us. Our adjudicator didn't think it was fair for Zenith  
to deduct the extra  premium from the settlement. So he said it should pay that amount to 
Mr B and add simple interest  to it.
Zenith didn't  agree so the complaint's  been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im going to uphold it. 
When looking into Mr Bs claim Zenith found out that his vans  V5 document  (its log book) 
said the van was kept at Mr Bs mums address. It noted that Mr Bs driving license was also 
registered at that address. It asked Mr B for proof that he lived at the policy  address. Mr B 
said that he lodged  there but as he wasn't the council tax or utility  bill payer, he didn't have 
paperwork showing that address. But he did manage to find an invoice with the address on 
it.
Zenith wasn't satisfied  that Mr B lived at the policy address. It said that if hed told it the van 
was registered  to be kept at his mums address it would have charged him an additional 
premium. So it deducted those additional  sums from its settlement.
Ive considered whether or not it was fair for Zenith  to say that Mr B didn't live at the policy 
address. I can understand why Zenith was concerned that Mr B might have mis-stated  his 
address when he took out the policy. And Ive noted  that it appointed investigators  to look 
into Mr Bs claim. The evidence that Zenith  has provided from the investigators  say very little 
about Mr Bs address.  But I note that the investigators concluded that - following their 
enquiries - theyd marked the case as low risk. 
Mr B has explained that he still visits his mums  address to pick up post. So he hasn't 
bothered to change  his address on some  documents. Hes added  that giving his mums 
address has become something of a habit over the years. And that he wouldn't  have  been  
able to provide  council  tax or utility  bill information  with his name on it at her address either. 
Mr B has supplied  some information  to show that hes ordered  goods sent to the policy  
address. And, on balance,  Im satisfied by Mr Bs explanation that he lived at the policy  
address but hadn't updated his documents. If follows that I think Mr B paid the appropriate 
premium for that address.  So it wasn't  fair for Zenith to reduce its settlement of Mr Bs claim 
Ref: DRN89660762by £1,748.48. And I think it should pay that sum to Mr B now. It should add simple  interest  to 
that payment  at a rate of 8% simple  a year from the date it initially  deducted that sum to the 
date it makes payment.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I uphold this complaint. I require Zenith Insurance  plc to pay 
Mr B £1,748.48 which it deducted from the settlement of his claim. It should add simple 
interest to this sum from the date it initially  deducted  that sum to the date it makes  payment1.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 April 2018.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
1 If Zenith considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income  tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr B how much its taken off. It should also give Mr B a certificate showing this if 
he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HMRC  if appropriate. 
Ref: DRN8966076