K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains about the settlement made  by Aviva Insurance Limited after he made a 
claim on his Cherished Cars  motor  insurance policy.
background
Mr Cs car was damaged  by fire in 2014. Aviva paid him over £8,000  as a cash  in lieu of 
repairs (CIL)  settlement.  Aviva said hed agreed to that, subject to it considering  any future  
as yet unknown  damage to the engine. Mr C said the claim was left open  because he was 
also worried  about further damage  being  found in other places. He said Aviva had paid two 
other claims  arising from the same incident  - one in 2014 and one in 2016. So he was 
unhappy when  it wouldnt cover further work on the car in 2018. 
One of our investigators  reviewed Mr Cs complaint. She thought it was fair for Aviva  to say it 
had settled the 2014 claim. She noted that the work needed in 2018 wasnt related to the 
engine. She didnt think Aviva had paid another claim from Mr C in 2014.  
Mr C provided  an email  trail with Aviva  to show it had paid a recovery charge of £109.60  in 
2014 and £500 for electronics in 2016. Mr C said hed made four calls to Aviva in which  
hed said he thought the 2014 claim was still open. But those calls werent  recorded.  He said 
Aviva couldnt show  hed agreed to the CIL settlement. He said it couldnt be final if Aviva 
was prepared to pay for further engine damage.
As the investigator  didnt change her view,  Mr C asked for a review  of his complaint by an 
ombudsman. He asked  for a hearing  on the basis that a fair decision  couldnt be made 
based on the material that was available.  
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First of all, I dont think its necessary  to have a hearing to reach a decision about this 
complaint. I think Mr Cs submissions and Avivas notes are clear enough in setting out what  
led to the complaint and the issues Mr Cs concerned about. 
Mr C doesnt think there  was any agreement between him and Aviva in terms of the CIL 
settlement of his claim. The note recorded  by Avivas engineer in September 2014 shows  
that the matter  was discussed. Mr C accepts that, but he says the engineer was wrong to 
record that Mr Cs only concern was about unknown damage to the cars engine. Mr C says 
he was also concerned about  any other unknown damage.  But theres no evidence  of that 
other than Mr Cs recollection.
I dont think Mr C can show that he didnt  accept the CIL payment on the basis  set out in the 
engineers note. Settlement  agreements dont have to be set out in writing.  But if Mr C had 
concerns about  unknown  damage to the car in general, I think  he could have made  that clear 
to Aviva at the time by confirming his understanding of the settlement in writing. I think  that 
would have led to further discussion.   
I dont think Aviva needed Mr Cs consent  to settle  the claim as it did anyway. Under the 
policy, Aviva  has the right to do that as it sees fit. The policy says Aviva  may, at its option, 
Ref: DRN81454652either pay for repairs or pay in cash for the amount of the damage.  Most motor  policies  have 
similar terms. Insurers usually discuss the issue with the policy holder first (as Aviva did 
here) but the final decision is for the insurer to make. 
We only intervene in the way an insurer  has settled  a claim if we think  it has acted 
unreasonably. I dont think thats the case here. Usually when a CIL payment is made, thats 
the end of the matter. Here, Aviva  also agreed  to consider any damage  later shown to have 
occurred in the engine due to the fire. I think Mr C benefitted from what was in effect  a 
gesture of goodwill. I think its clear that Avivas offer didnt extend to covering  any damage 
elsewhere - which it considered had been  covered already in the settlement sum.    
Mr C says the evidence  of Aviva keeping the claim open for damage  other  than in the engine  
is that it paid for items other than the initial repairs. But the 2014 refund of the recovery 
service charge wasnt a repair issue. In 2016 Aviva covered  the cost of an electronics fault, 
but that was because it thought the issue was engine-related. So it fell within  the 2014 
agreement. I dont think the fact that Aviva  paid these sums shows the claim was left open 
for all other damage. 
After the fire Mr C had the damage to the car assessed, but it seems the restoration work  
was seriously underestimated.  Mr C says repairs  were delayed  due to the restorers 
scheduling problems.  It was four years after the initial claim that the restorer  said 50 hours  of 
extra work was required.  As the damage  seems to be visible  and significant, it isnt clear how 
it was missed initially. In my opinion, it seems  unlikely that in 2014 Mr C would have had any 
concerns about  such damage not being identified. 
I think it was reasonable  for Aviva to consider  that the estimate it was given in 2014 reflected 
the cost of repairing the car (subject to unidentified engine damage). As Mr C accepted the 
settlement at the time,  in my view Aviva discharged its responsibility to him under the policy.     
As I dont think Aviva  has acted unreasonably,  I cant uphold Mr Cs complaint. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the Financial Ombudsman 
Services rules, I must ask Mr C to accept or reject my decision before 10 March  2020.
 
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8145465