K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain  that they were badly advised about their debts by Totemic Limited.
background
In 2009, Mr and Mrs P approached Totemic for help with managing  their financial situation. 
After collecting information  relating  to their income and expenditure, Totemic recommended 
Mr and Mrs P enter into a Debt Management Plan (DMP). This meant a lower  monthly  
payment was negotiated with their creditors. The arrangement was reviewed every  year.
At the review in 2016  Totemic recommended Mr and Mrs P enter into an Individual Voluntary  
Arrangement (IVA). It proposed one to Mr and Mrs Ps creditors   a majority  of which  voted 
to approve it in a creditors meeting. Compared to a DMP, an IVA is a more formal  
arrangement. If one is approved, it binds all creditors even if they didnt approve it. It also 
allows the consumer  to satisfy all of their unsecured  debts, if they keep to the terms.
Shortly after an IVA was approved, the IVA supervisor passed Mr and Mrs Ps details to a 
Claims Management Company (CMC) which complained  on their behalf  that theyd been 
mis-sold PPI on a number  of their accounts. I understand that some of these  complaints  
were upheld which meant that Mr and Mrs P were due compensation in the region of 
£60,000. But because  theyd entered into an IVA, the bulk of this compensation was 
distributed to their creditors by the IVA supervisor. 
Mr and Mrs P werent happy  with how things had been handled. They complained  (via their 
representative) that an IVA shouldve been considered  sooner  than it was. They  also 
complained that Totemic  shouldve encouraged  them to complain about potentially  mis-sold 
PPI. 
The complaint was looked at by an investigator who didnt think  Totemic had done anything  
wrong in terms of providing  debt advice services. It had carried  out a detailed  investigation  of 
Mr and Mrs Ps circumstances and advised  them accordingly. The investigator also said that 
it wasnt Totemics responsibility to advise Mr and Mrs P about any other complaints they 
may have  had against other financial businesses. Mr and Mrs P didnt agree with the 
investigators opinion  so the complaint has been  passed to me to issue a final decision.
They also mentioned that the business  that sold them PPI took enforcement action against 
them in connection  with a debt of around £45,000  a number of years  ago. They  think it was 
wrong for it to take them to court over that debt if, at the same  time, it owed Mr and Mrs P a 
larger sum in compensation for mis-sold  PPI. This doesnt relate to anything  done by 
Totemic and so I cant  comment on it in this decision. If Mr and Mrs P have any concerns 
about it, they should raise these directly with the business in question.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in February 2019. It said:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments when looking at whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. And having  done so, I dont 
currently intend to uphold this complaint.
When giving  debt management advice, Totemic needed to ensure  it met the relevant  
rules at the time. These were set out in the Debt  management (and credit repair 
services) guidance published by the Office of Fair Trading (OFT).
Ref: DRN81118632These rules  say (amongst  other things):
3.2.1 All advice given  to consumers at any stage, and any action taken, 
should be appropriate to the consumers individual circumstances. When  
advising consumers on how to deal with their debt problems and/or in 
considering taking a consumer  on as a client, licensees should provide 
information and advice which is accurate, sufficiently clear and appropriate for 
the consumer.
[]
3.33 Examples of unfair  or improper business practices include:
a. failing to provide a clear and balanced explanation of all the options 
available to the consumer, including the relevant advantages, 
disadvantages, eligibility criteria, the debts  eligible  for inclusion,  the 
costs, and risk associated, with each debt solution option.
For example, the possible effects  on the consumer's credit rating, 
employment status and home
[]
e. failing to reasonably explain  to the consumer why the licensee 
recommends a particular  debt solution  and why other  options  are not 
considered to be (as) suitable or viable
Mr and Mrs P were  initially advised  in 2009. Unfortunately the long period of time that 
has elapsed since then means theres  only a limited amount of information  available 
about how Totemic  explained the options available. Its therefore  difficult for me to 
know for sure that Totemic met its obligations at this stage. Mr and Mrs Ps 
representative says Totemic shouldve considered the option  of an IVA much sooner 
than it did and perhaps from the outset. Totemic says that in 2009, its likely an IVA 
wouldve been rejected. Mr and Mrs P had a significant amount of equity in their 
home and it says that, at the time, most creditors wouldnt accept significantly lower 
payments from a customer with money tied up in the home. 
I have listened  to the recording  of the annual review  that was carried  out in 2015 over 
the phone. From listening to this recording, its clear that Mr and Mrs P were reluctant 
to consider any option that might result  in them losing their home  or losing control  of 
their home (for example, by having to borrow against the equity they held in it). At the 
end of the call, the adviser said that the only real alternative option available  was 
bankruptcy but points out that it would place their home at risk. Mrs P ruled out this 
option immediately.
Further on in the discussion, the adviser said the IVA could potentially  be an option 
but it would  link to the property in the 5th year  before I could recommend it to you, I 
would need a valuation of the property. In response,  Mrs P said: No, weve kept our 
property out of all this  you cant risk your home  so no, we wont  look at 
bankruptcy. 
Ref: DRN81118633I dont think the adviser did enough to make clear  to Mr and Mrs P what the 
differences between  the options of bankruptcy and an IVA were.  And I think  they 
might have been led to believe  that the impact  of these options  on their home  was 
indistinguishable.
I think its possible that this prevented Mr and Mrs P from entering into an IVA a year 
sooner than they did. However, Im not convinced Mr and Mrs P lost out financially as 
a result of this. The DMP was free, but the IVAs  required  the payment  of significant 
fees (at the time the IVA was proposed, these were  predicted to be around £15,000). 
Any financial  benefit that they mightve gained by entering into an IVA one year 
earlier wouldve been wiped  out by the significant fees that the IVA supervisor 
required that they pay. 
other issues
Finally, Mr and Mrs P are unhappy that Totemic didnt explore the possibility  that they 
may be able to make a claim  for mis-sold PPI. The compensation that later became 
available wouldve enabled  them to avoid entering  into an IVA. 
Although Mr and Mrs Ps details were  eventually passed on to a CMC, it didnt exist 
at the time they first approached Totemic for debt advice. And in any event, it isnt 
one of the expectations imposed on it by the guidance on debt management  so I 
dont think it did anything  wrong by not exploring  this possibility sooner than it did.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint   including the responses  to the 
provisional decision I received from Mr and Mrs P and Totemic. Having done so, Im not 
persuaded to depart  from the findings  I set out in provisional decision.
Mr and Mrs P responded to my provisional  findings to say that the quality of service  they 
received was poor. They say that whenever they contacted  Totemic  by phone, they werent  
able to help. They also dont think they were  given all of the options that were available to 
them. They struggled  with these debts for approximately ten years when they couldve been 
cleared much sooner.
As I referred  to above, there is only limited information available  about how Totemic handled 
things. But Im afraid Ive not seen any evidence to suggest it was difficult  for Mr and Mrs P 
to make contact with Totemic or that its representatives were unhelpful. I can understand 
why Mr and Mrs P must  have  found it incredibly frustrating to discover that these  debts 
couldve been paid off sooner. But for the reasons I explained, I think theyd have been 
reluctant to consider an IVA at the time they initially sought advice from Totemic. And 
although the PPI compensation couldve enabled  them to pay off the debt, that doesnt mean 
Totemic did anything wrong by not exploring  this possibility.  
Finally, I agree that Totemic couldve been clearer with Mr and Mrs P about the range of 
options available to them and the merits of each. But as I set out above,  I dont find its failure 
to do so caused Mr and Mrs P to suffer a financial loss. 
Overall, whilst Im sorry to have to disappoint  Mr and Mrs P, Ive not seen enough evidence 
to suggest Totemic did anything wrong  when advising  them  in connection with their debts.
Ref: DRN81118634final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 May 2019.
James Kimmitt
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8111863