K822xcomplaint
Mr K complains that Europ Assistance S.A. has paid only part of his claim under his travel  
insurance policy. He also complains about its handling of the claim. 
My references to Europ  include  its agent.  
background 
I set out the background  to this complaint in my provisional decision. In that decision 
I explained that I intended to uphold this complaint in part, and I set out how I thought the 
complaint should  fairly be resolved. I include an extract from that decision here:
Mr K made  a claim to Europ for a number of items  and some cash  he says were  stolen from 
his suitcase on his return trip to the UK. The bag had been  checked in on the flight.  The total 
claim value  was over £5,000.
Europ raised a number  of concerns about  the claim, including the value and quantity  of items 
stolen. But it agreed  to pay Mr K £2,000 of the £3,500 total policy limit. 
Our investigator upheld  the complaint in part, and explained to both parties the further items 
she thought Europ should pay for. But Mr K didnt  think  her recommended  settlement was 
fair and asked for a review. 
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I intend  to uphold it in 
part. 
I need to decide whether Europ has taken  a fair approach  when paying  Mr Ks claim.  Having  
carefully considered  all the evidence I think Europs approach was fair, in part, but didnt go 
far enough. Ill explain how I think Europ should fairly settle this complaint.  
the policy cover
The policy pays up to £3,500 for the value of the policyholders own personal possessions  
(not hired, loaned  or entrusted  to them) which are lost, stolen, damaged or destroyed  (after  
making allowance for wear and tear and depreciation). The policy defines personal 
possessions as suitcases  and their contents taken on the trip (as defined) together with 
articles worn  or carried  by the policyholder for their individual use during the trip. There  is a 
single item limit for personal  possessions  of £250  but no policy  excess. 
The policy says that within  24 hours  of discovery of the incident the policyholder must report 
loss, theft or damage of personal possessions to the police or carrier as appropriate. 
Delayed baggage  or personal  possessions damaged in transit must be reported  to the airline  
before leaving  the baggage hall and a Property  Irregularity Report (PIR) obtained.
The policy also lists what the policyholder is not covered for. This includes the loss of 
personal possessions  if the policyholder does not notify the carrier and obtain a written 
report within 24 hours of discovery  of the damage  or loss. It also excludes valuables not 
carried in the policyholders hand  luggage  (that is, carried on or about their person) while  in 
Ref: DRN83814052transit. The policy definition of valuables includes watches and leather clothing (apart from 
leather footwear). The policy also excludes any depreciation in value. 
The policy doesnt  cover  personal money  unless carried on the policyholders person or left 
in a locked safety deposit  box (or equivalent facility). 
the claim
Mr K has complained that Europ hasnt paid his full claim and also that its deducted 
amounts for depreciation. Ill comment  on its approach and whether I think it was fair. 
money, watch and leather  jacket
Europ was entitled not to pay Mr K for the lost money, watch and leather jacket, as these 
items were valuables as defined in the policy. This means they had to be carried either on or 
about his person (money) or in his hand  luggage. As they were in his checked-in suitcase, 
the items  arent  covered  under the policy and Europ doesnt have to make  payment for them.
depreciation
In common with most travel insurance policies, the Europ  policy  is not a new for old policy.  
The policy explains  that a deduction will be made for depreciation. Mr K makes the point that 
some of the items he lost resell for more than hes paid for them.  But I dont think I can fairly 
say that worn items  of clothing  have not depreciated, and I think  the scale  of depreciation 
Europ has applied is fair.
the kimono and aftershave
Europ has, in error, paid £97.20 for one item (a hoodie) where it didnt have evidence the 
hoodie had belonged to Mr K. It has also paid more than the single  item limit of £250 for 
three items, with overpayments  of £19.73, £153.20  and £81 respectively  so £253.93 for 
these three  items. So with the hoodie payment this means an overpayment  of £351.13 in 
total. Europ then applied a policy limit of £269.72  to reduce the total payment  to Mr K to 
£2,000. So taking into account the overpayment of £351.13 less the policy limit  reduction  of 
£269.72 I think Europ  paid Mr K £81.41 more than it was required to pay for the items listed  
in its final response letter.  
Mr K has now provided a receipt for the lost kimono, which our investigator has sent to 
Europ. He had already  provided Europ with a receipt for a designer  TF brand of aftershave  
with his claim. I think Europ should  pay for these  items less the appropriate depreciation 
(10% for the kimono  and 50% for the aftershave); less the £81.41 overpayment its already 
made. 
receipts addressed  to a relative
There were two more items   another hoodie and some footwear, which had been delivered 
to Mr Ks relative. Europ  asked that relative to confirm in writing  the items belonged  to Mr K, 
but he didnt provide that evidence. So I think it didnt have to pay for those items as its not 
clear they were his own personal possessions. 
Ref: DRN83814053the lost footwear
This leaves  the dispute around  the lost designer  training shoe footwear, which  Ill call shoes 
for ease  of reference.  On his original claim to Europ Mr K said that in addition to the designer  
clothes, sunglasses, money and two aftershave bottles  taken  from his suitcase nine pairs of 
shoes had also been taken. 
Mr K has provided Europ with receipts  for shoes. Hes also given us photographs which  he 
says are of him wearing three  different pairs  of shoes while on holiday. Ive already said that 
Europ was entitled not to pay for the one pair of shoes  it listed  in its final response letter 
because those shoes  were delivered to a relative. So this leaves an additional  eight pairs.
Europ has given various reasons for not paying  for the remaining eight pairs of shoes:
They were in different  sizes ranging from size five to size twelve.  In response  to its 
question about  this Mr K said: The other  size shoes, were taken to trade/sell. Those 
[Y designer brand name] shoes are worth  very very high amounts of money and in 
[destination country] there is a sneaker culture  where for a price you can exchange 
your size for another  or sell them. Unfortunately  I didnt get time to do that. But just 
google [Y] on ebay or google and you will see the value. 
Europ then said Mr K had stated the Y shoes  had been purchased  in various sizes 
for the specific purpose of re-sale to generate a profit,  and were  not for his own use 
during the trip. So it was unable to accept liability for these items (as its policy  covers 
only items owned by the policyholder and taken for their own use). It didnt cover 
items taken to exchange or sell. 
The number of trainers,  taken  together with the other  items  that were  taken out of the 
suitcase, would  have  been very bulky for an average suitcase.  At the very least  they 
seem to comprise an entire oversized suitcase of luggage, but Mr K says not all the 
items in his case were  stolen.  
Mr K didnt  get a PIR as required,  although  Europ accepts he reported the loss to the 
police. 
In response Mr K has said:
(His email to Europ dated  1 March 2018). He didnt say that the Y shoes had been 
purchased in various sizes for the specific purpose of re-sale,  as Europ had 
suggested. He said the shoes that were size 5 or 7 were used for that purpose.  The 
other shoes were his, for his personal use and had been taken (from  his suitcase)   
being the most expensive ones. He never said the shoes were taken for the sole 
purpose of resale. He listed six pairs of shoes that Europ hadnt  paid in the claim, 
which were worth more than £1,700. 
Hes provided receipts  for all the shoes in his size, together  with other receipts  
showing he owns shoes in similar  sizes. Hes pointed out variations in the US size 
guides, and says hes a size 9 to 10.
He reported  the loss to the airlines  ground staff and was directed  to the police.  Hed 
called Europ on the day of the loss and hadnt been told about getting the PIR. 
Ref: DRN83814054Our investigator had recommended Europ pay for the shoes in UK 8.5 to 9.5. Mr K didnt 
agree with this. And I dont think it represents a fair settlement to this complaint,  given  that 
I accept Mr K could have owned  and worn shoes in a range of sizes even if he was size 9-10 
UK size. Most of the shoes hes claimed for were in that size range, taking into account  
American sizing.
Mr K has shown  photos of himself  wearing three different pairs of shoes. Hes not said which  
pair he was wearing for the trip home,  although  to be fair hes not been asked about this. 
Europ has concerns about  the claim, and has suggested it might have been exaggerated.  
But even so its paid for most of the clothing,  sunglasses and aftershave items in Mr Ks 
case. So its not used claim exaggeration as a reason for not paying the claim at all. 
Rather its reason  for not paying for Mr Ks shoes seems to be that it thinks he took them  for 
resale purposes. But I think Mr K is correct that he didnt  say he took all the Y shoes for 
resale - that wasnt what he told Europ.  And he has sent photographs of himself  wearing 
some of the shoes. That said,  I do think Europ has reasonable concerns that at least  some  
of the shoes were  taken  for resale purposes, given Mr Ks initial comments  about  the re-sale  
market in the one of the countries he was visiting. Hes sent evidence he owned these 
shoes, and a number of other ones, and while they could be for all his own personal use on 
holiday Im not persuaded that they all were taken for that purpose.
Ive thought very carefully about a fair settlement  in this case.  Mr Ks claim for shoes 
exceeds £1,600. This would take the claim over the maximum  limit of £3,500  and there is a 
£250 single  item limit. Europ has already made  a payment of £2,000 (although  I appreciate 
Ive recommended it pay an additional amount for the kimono  and the aftershave, less the 
overpayment its already made). 
I think a fair approach  would be for Europ to pay an additional amount of £750 towards the 
shoes Mr K lost from the suitcase. In doing  so I recognise that Mr K did tell Europ that some 
of the shoes were  taken  for the intention of re-sale/exchange but equally hes shown photos  
of himself wearing three of the pairs  of more expensive shoes on holiday.  Using  the policy  
limit of £250  per single item I think this would be a fair and reasonable approach  to settle  this 
longstanding dispute.  
the claim handling
I think Europ was entitled to investigate the circumstances of the claim. I think  it could have 
given Mr K its answer earlier than it did but I dont intend to make any additional award over 
and above the amount Ive already recommended.
In summary  I said that a fair outcome would be for Europ to:pay to Mr K:
The amounts  claimed for the kimono (less depreciation of 10%) and TF aftershave 
(less 50% depreciation). Europ  can deduct  from this balance  the overpayment of 
£81.41 that its already made; and
£750 contribution  towards the lost shoes.
responses to my provisional  decision
Europ responded  to say it had no objections to my provisional decision. It would not make 
any payments until it had confirmation  Mr K had accepted my final decision. 
Ref: DRN83814055Mr K responded to say that he also wanted  to move  things forward,  but wanted  me to 
consider these points:
Hed not been overpaid for the hoodie  hes already proved it had been paid for and 
delivered to him.
Europ should  pay for his shoes in size range 9 to 10, as hed given us photos of him 
wearing the shoes and receipts for them. So hed proved his claim as far as he could. 
He took the shoes  to wear, did so and has provided photos to prove  that. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully thought  about the points Mr K has made. But I still think the outcome 
I proposed in my provisional decision was fair for the reasons set out in my provisional 
findings above and here.
Ive noted Mr Ks point  about the hoodie  (which Ill call the NB hoodie). Mr K had sent Europ  
a receipt for that hoodie, but the persons name on the order  and the delivery address were 
different from Mr Ks details.  I dont think Europ had to pay for that hoodie so the fact that it 
did pay for it counts as an overpayment.
I remain of the view that a part payment of £750 towards the shoes  is a fair outcome. Ive 
taken into account  Mr Ks comments about the shoes, both their sizes and the fact hes sent 
photos of himself wearing  them. But equally I think Europ had some  reasonable concerns 
about the number of shoes and about  the possibility of some  of them being taken for resale 
purposes. So I think its fair to take into account  all that evidence,  and that an additional 
payment of £750  is fair in settlement of the claim (in addition to the other payment Ive set 
out below). 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part. I order Europ  Assistance S.A. to pay to Mr K:
The amounts  claimed for the kimono (less depreciation of 10%) and TF aftershave 
(less 50% depreciation). Europ  can deduct  from this balance  the overpayment of 
£81.41 that its already made; and
£750 contribution  towards the lost shoes.
Europ Assistance S.A. must pay the total compensation within 28 days of the date on which 
we tell it Mr K accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest* on 
the compensation from the date of my final decision until the date of payment at 8% per year 
simple.
Ref: DRN83814056Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 February  2019.
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
*If Europ  Assistance  S.A. considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr K how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mr K a certificate  showing  this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN8381405