K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that The Society of Lloyd's (Lloyds) has declined  a claim against 
their buildings warranty policy. And also that previous works havent been  carried  out to a 
good standard.
There have been  several parties involved in this claim on behalf  of both parties. But for ease 
I will refer only to Mr R and Lloyds in this decision.
background
Mr R took possession of a new build property in August 2010  but as a result of some 
aspects of the build being non-compliant with the relevant regulations, Mr R says he wasnt 
able to move  into the property for some  time.  In 2011 Mr R made  a claim against a buildings 
warranty policy he had with Lloyds.
Initially this claim  was dealt with through Lloyds conciliation  service,  which  is normal practice  
for this type of claim.  As a result  of the conciliation  service,  a conciliation report  was 
produced outlining several  issues  with the build and making recommendations for their 
repair. But when the builder was unable to rectify  the numerous problems, Lloyds took on 
liability for the repairs under the terms of the warranty.
This claim  was ongoing for several years due to the number of problems found both at the 
outset and once  reparation works  began. Due to the timescales  involved in this claim, I wont 
repeat the timeline of events here and instead  focus  on the main issues  that led Mr R to 
raising a complaint with this service.
Mr R has raised  concerns about the stone cladding  on the exterior of his property. He says 
this is an issue that was raised previously when he first made the claim under the defects  
insurance section  of his policy with Lloyds.  However  this was disputed  by Lloyds and 
ultimately a new claim was raised  for this in 2017. But by that time it was too late to raise a 
claim under the defects  insurance section of the policy, so this new claim was considered 
under the structural  insurance section of the policy  and was declined. Mr R remains  
unhappy that the claim for the issues with the stone  cladding werent considered  as part of 
the original claim and that the new claim has been declined.  This has meant that Mr R has 
had to pay for these  works at his own expense.
Lloyds has also said that it has now paid in excess of £550,000  towards the original claim 
and that this exceeds the policy limits. Mr R is unhappy with the costs associated  with the 
claim and says that these  costs are due to unnecessary  costs  and poor claim handling.
Mr R also has outstanding  concerns relating to the installation  of his windows and doors, 
which he says have  been installed incorrectly which has invalidated the product guarantee 
provided by the manufacturer. And Mr R says that more  recently,  Lloyds has carried out 
works on his house and damaged some  of the blockwork for the property when moving  a 
boiler flue. Lloyds  has offered £200 as a gesture of goodwill  towards this issue  but Mr R 
states that it has cost him significantly more to repair.
Our investigator didnt  think this complaint  should  be upheld. In short  she said there was no 
evidence the stone cladding had been  raised  as part of the original claim and that Lloyds 
hadnt acted unfairly  in declining  the most recent  claim.  She hadnt seen any evidence that 
Lloyds had installed the windows incorrectly or that the installation had any impact  on their 
Ref: DRN85497082use and she thought the amount Lloyds  had offered in relation to the damaged  blockwork 
was sufficient.
Mr R didnt agree so the complaint has been  passed to me to consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
outcome as our investigator and for the same  reasons.
stone cladding
This policy consists of two levels of cover   Defects  insurance valid between August  2010 
and August 2012; and Structural Insurance  valid between August 2012  and August 2020.  
The first part is defects  insurance and I can see Mr R submitted his claim during this period 
of cover.  As a result, an investigation  was carried out under Lloyds conciliation  service.  As 
our investigator has explained, we cant  consider  any issues that occurred  during  this part of 
the claim or whether any further issues should have been considered as part of the 
conciliation service as it doesnt fall within our remit to consider.
Under the terms of this policy  Lloyds is only liable for the cost of rectifying  a defect with the 
property if it is discovered and notified  to the developer during the defects insurance period. 
The policy holder must  also notify  Lloyds within six months of the expiry of the defects 
insurance period.  The policy states that Lloyds has no liability if the defect isnt notified  to it 
within these timeframes.
Mr R says he raised issues  about the stone cladding while the defects insurance was in 
place  and that this was highlighted in the conciliation report, later emails  and an architects 
report which was commissioned by Mr R and has become the basis for much  of the 
reparation work at the property.
I have reviewed the conciliation report and while there is a reference to damp  patches within 
the garage, I havent seen  anything  that identifies  the stone cladding  as a defect  with the 
property during the period  of the defects insurance. Mr R has referred to an email from 
December 2012,  which refers to cladding and says that this shows the stone cladding was 
reported and accepted  during the period of cover. But having reviewed the context of that 
email, I think it is referring to the timber cladding which was accepted as part of Mr Rs claim 
and dealt with separately.
Having reviewed the reports provided  to this service, I havent  seen  any evidence that issues  
with the stone cladding were reported to Lloyds within the necessary timeframe or that Mr R 
was able to evidence that there was defect  with the stone cladding within the necessary 
timeframe. So while  it is now apparent  from later reports that there is an issue  with the stone 
cladding, I am unable to say that Lloyds should  have considered  this issue as part of the 
claim Mr R made under  the defects insurance section of his policy.
However, Mr R submitted a new claim for the stone cladding in 2017 under the structural  
insurance section  of his policy.  Lloyds has declined  this claim, so Ive considered  whether it 
acted unfairly in doing so. This section  of the policy covers the cost  of complete or partial 
rebuilding or rectifying work to the housing  unit which has been affected by major damage". 
Ref: DRN85497083Lloyds has declined this claim as it says Mr R hasnt evidenced that this issue has been  
caused by major damage, which is defined in the policy  as the destruction of or physical 
damage to any portion  of the housing  unit. The housing unit is defined  in the policy  and 
includes the structure  of the property, which includes any external finishing surface 
(including rendering) necessary for water tightness  of the external  envelope.  Lloyds has also 
relied on a policy exclusion; that major  damage  doesnt include wear and tear, namely  
normal dampness,  condensation or shrinkage.
Mr R has had a professional report carried out in relation to the stone cladding  and it is clear 
from that report that there are issues that need  to be rectified. It confirmed that the correct  
mortar and installation wasnt used so taking  this into account, I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable for Lloyds to rely on the exclusion  for wear and tear or class the mortar 
shrinkage as normal.  So I have then considered the other  issues  Lloyds has raised and 
whether this claim should be accepted  under the remaining terms of the policy.
For the stone cladding to be considered under this part of the policy,  Mr R would need to 
establish that it forms part of the structure  of the housing unit  so in this case  that it is an 
external finish necessary  for water  tightness  of the external envelope.   A report  in 2017  
stated that while the construction  and materials used  were poor, this will not lead to an 
instability of the house, as the outer leaf is effectively a finish  to the structure. Further 
evidence from an engineer states  that the stonework is not necessary for water tightness.
So, having  considered the reports provided to this service, Im not satisfied  that Mr R has 
proven that he has a claim under  this section of the policy for the reasons explained above. 
And I havent seen  any evidence  that a valid claim was raised  previously under the defect 
insurance section  of the policy.  So while I can clearly see from the evidence provided  that 
the workmanship in relation to the stone  cladding was of poor quality, I dont think  Lloyds 
acted unfairly in declining to cover  this.
policy limit and wasted  costs
This policy has a limit and specifies  that the maximum  the underwriter will pay for all claims 
relating to the housing unit under sections 3.2 and 3.3 of the policy  is £500,000 for any newly  
constructed housing  unitor the sum insured for the housing  unit, whichever is the lesser.  
The policy also makes a provision that this limit will be increased  annually (in this case  every 
August) in line with the RICS house  re-building cost index.
Lloyds has said that it has now paid out in excess of £550,000 in relation to this claim and 
has raised this a secondary point in declining Mr Rs claim  for the stone cladding.  As I have 
explained, I dont  think the Stone cladding is covered  under  the terms of the policy.  But I 
have also considered Mr Rs concerns about wasted costs.
Mr R and his representative  have raised  several examples of where they believe Lloyds paid 
for items on this claim that were unnecessary and where  they believe costs  were incurred as 
a result of the claim being poorly handled.
Mr R has also raised concerns about  excessive over ordering. And while  I can understand 
his concerns, it is common for contractors to over-order materials. I can see there were 
times when  poor workmanship by Lloyds contractors resulted in work  having to be redone. 
And as this was the fault of the contractor acting  on behalf of Lloyds, we wouldnt expect  
these costs to be included in the total claim costs.
Ref: DRN85497084In hindsight, it is easy to see where costs  could have been cut down but this claim has been 
ongoing for nearly 10 years and the scope of works has evolved significantly throughout that 
period as more  issues were uncovered  and rectified. Mr R hasnt presented me with any 
evidence showing that Lloyds has acted unreasonably in its expenditure during this claim.
However, as I dont think the stone cladding is covered under the policy,  I dont think  Lloyds 
needs to do anything further  in relation  to this issue at this time. However if Mr R were  to 
provide any new evidence that changed Lloyds position on the claim or raise any new 
claims that were accepted  then I would expect it to review the costs and consider whether 
any items have been included  which were  the result  of errors made  by its contractors.
window and door installation
The original  windows and doors were replaced  with a specific  brand as they were 
considered to be more  suitable for the type of property. I can see that there  were  initially 
some issues  with the way these were fitted  that needed to be addressed.  A review  of this in 
2016 noted that all the issues  had been rectified.  However Mr R remains unhappy wit the 
installation and says that the manufacturers  warranty for the product has been  invalidated  
due to the way it was installed  and he says this has been confirmed by the manufacturer.
While I realise  that Mr R would have liked to have the manufacturers warranty  in place, this 
isnt something that is specified under the policy. And we would expect any works  carried out 
to meet  the functional requirements  of the technical  manual. A report carried  out by the 
manufacturer stated  that the majority of windows  and doors only required minor  adjustments  
and still functioned  satisfactorily, and I havent  seen any evidence that the window and doors  
remain faulty or have  defects. So I dont think Lloyds needs to do anything  further  in relation 
to this issue.
damage to blockwork
Mr R has reported damage  to the blockwork  around  the boiler flue following some works 
carried out by Lloyds. Lloyds has confirmed that it removed the boiler and moved  the flue. 
And it says that a stone mason  replaced the external stone that had to be removed in order 
to move the flue. But it believes the block immediately above the flue had been  previously  
split and repaired so wasnt responsible  for that damage.
I cant say for certain whether the damage was caused by Lloyds when moving  the flue or 
whether it was caused previously. But it has been confirmed by two separate  surveyors  that 
this area of blockwork  needs to be rebuilt. Mr R has provided an opinion from a structural 
engineer which suggests there may be some  additional work that needs to take place, but 
his comments are very brief and dont confirm the costs involved in correcting this issue.
Lloyds has confirmed that while it doesnt accept  responsibility for the damage, it is willing to 
meet the costs  of these works in the sum of approximately £200, which is the amount its own 
contractors would charge  for the repair works. Mr R has said the works cost him significantly 
more than this (around  £6,000) but hasnt provided any evidence to show this or to show that 
he obtained comparative quotes in getting  the damage repaired,  given the significant  
difference in cost. So based on the evidence I have, I think  the offer made by Lloyds is 
reasonable and dont  think  it would  be fair to ask it to pay £6,000 towards Mr Rs costs  when 
Mr R hasnt evidenced these sufficiently.
Ref: DRN85497085conclusions
I have no doubt  that this property was built to a poor standard  and that it has required a 
great deal of work to bring it to a reasonable standard   and Mr R has my sympathies for the 
impact this must have  had on his life over the long period that the claim has gone on for. But 
my role is to consider whether Lloyds needs to do anything further to meet its requirements 
under the terms  of Mr Rs policy.  And in this case,  I dont think it does.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 July 2020.
Sara Falzon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8549708