K820x#14complaint
Mr A complained about a number of loans  he took out through a company called MYJAR 
Limited. Mr A says he was lent to irresponsibly and the loans caused him financial problems.
background
We now know that Mr A took out 3 loans from MYJAR  between  December 2017 and 
August 2018.  Ive enclosed a summary  of Mr As borrowing with MYJAR, based  on the 
information it provided to us. It can be found  in the appendix at the end of this decision. 
One of our adjudicators looked  into the complaint and said they thought  it shouldnt  be 
upheld. Mr A doesnt agree so it has come to me for an ombudsmans final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. Ive followed this approach when thinking  about  Mr As 
complaint.
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure that 
Mr A could repay the loans he was given in a sustainable manner. These checks  ought  to 
have taken into account a range of different factors, such as the amounts being lent, the total 
repayment amounts  and the consumers income  and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks  
might be reasonable  and proportionate. However,  certain factors  might point to the fact that 
MYJAR should have  fairly and reasonably done  more to establish that any lending was 
sustainable for the consumer. 
These factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. Ive carefully  considered all of these things 
and what they mean  for Mr As complaint.
Ref: DRN84310152MYJAR told us it carried out certain affordability  and credit checks before agreeing to lend to 
Mr A. Ive thought about this and Ive also looked  at the overall  pattern of lending history to 
him with a view to seeing if there  was a point at which MYJAR should reasonably have seen 
that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful.  Ive considered  whether, at 
some point, MYJAR should  have realised that it shouldnt  have  provided  any further loans.
With this information,  and bearing in mind what Ive said above about the length of the 
lending relationship, I think the checks which MYJAR  most  likely carried  out appear to have 
been proportionate for loan number 1. I think  the levels of likely checks, together  with the 
income and expenditure details provided  by Mr A himself, would have made this particular 
loan appear affordable for him. 
I note that having  paid this loan off, well ahead of the projected settlement date, Mr A wasnt 
provided with a second MYJAR short-term loan for almost another 7 months. And looking at 
loan number 2, the same situation appears  to me to exist in that the lending relationship was 
at an early stage and the financial details  provided by Mr A seemed again to suggest the 
borrowing was affordable. The loan was also for the same relatively  moderate  amount, so I 
dont think MYJAR would have suspected its lending was irresponsible  at this point either.
I acknowledge that loan 3 showed a slightly different pattern of lending and I also accept its 
possible that Mr A may have been indebted  to other  short-term lenders at this point. The 
amount being  borrowed  also increased quite a bit. But Mr A had agreed to the instalments 
being spread over 6, rather than 3 months,  which probably caused  the monthly repayments 
to appear within  his ability to manage. I also dont  think  the point had yet arrived  where I 
would have expected MYJAR  to carry out much more substantial  financial checking such  as 
fully reviewing his bank statements or more  detailed credit checks. 
So I think it was reasonable in this case for MYJAR to have relied on the information  it most  
likely had at the time to decide in deciding whether to lend to Mr A on all 3 occasions.  Im 
afraid that means  Im not upholding  his complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. I dont direct MYJAR Limited to 
pay Mr A any compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 February  2020.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Appendix
Ref: DRN84310153Loan  and Date Amount Scheduled 
InstalmentsRepaid Monthly Repayment
1  24/12/2017 £275 3 30/12/2017 £144
2  09/07/2018 £275 3 26/07/2018 £140
3  05/08/2018 £1,025 6 Outstanding £290
Ref: DRN8431015