K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that his mortgage lender The Mortgage Business Plc (TMB) increased its 
standard variable  rate (SVR) after an increase in the Bank of England base rate. Hes 
unhappy that it didnt pass on a decrease in base rate in the same way.
Mr W would  like TMB to guarantee that it will pass on any future decreases in Bank  of 
England base rate to its SVR.
background
In 2007 Mr W took out an interest only mortgage  with TMB for around £191,000. The 
mortgage was provided over a term of 15 years. Mr Ws mortgage  was taken out on a fixed 
interest rate of 5.74%  until 31 July 2009.
Since August 2009 Mr Ws mortgage  has been  on TMBs reversionary rate, also known  as 
its SVR. 
In 2018 Bank of England  base rate increased by 0.25%.  TMB increased its SVR by the 
same amount. Mr W complained about  this. He said TMB had given him incorrect 
information about when it might change its SVR in a phone call. Hed been told a change in 
base rate wouldnt affect TMBs SVR. Mr W was also unhappy  that TMB has chosen  to apply 
an increase in base  rate to its SVR in 2018, but it hadnt passed on a decrease in base  rate 
to its SVR a year earlier.
TMB gave a final response to Mr Ws complaint on 22 September  2018. It said it had given 
Mr W misleading information about its SVR over the phone. It apologised for this and offered 
Mr W £100 of compensation. But it didnt think it had acted unfairly  by its SVR not tracking  
base rate. TMB said it had told Mr W that the SVR was increasing on 4 August 2018. And 
that the SVR can change  and that an event, like a change in Bank of England base rate, 
might prompt TMB  to review the level of its SVR.  
Mr W disagreed  with TMBs response  and brought the matter  to us. Our investigator didnt 
think TMB  had acted unfairly and thought  the £100  offered  for incorrect  information given 
over the phone was reasonable to settle the matter. Mr W asked for an ombudsman to 
review his complaint  again. He replied to say, in summary, that hes worried that his 
complaint sets a dangerous precedent. Mr W wants TMB guarantee to him that it will pass 
on all future decreases in Bank of England base rate to its SVR.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I find myself in 
agreement with our investigator  and for broadly the same  reasons.
First, I acknowledge Mr Ws concerns about this complaint setting  a precedent,  and that it 
might have far reaching repercussions in terms of what  financial businesses  might be 
allowed to do. We provide  a different function to the financial regulator, and we dont  seek to 
regulate, fine or punish businesses. Equally were not set up to fulfil the same  function as a 
court and determine the enforceability of a mortgage contract. We seek  to find a fair 
resolution for consumers,  in the individual circumstances of each case. If we find that a 
complainant has suffered  financial loss as a result  of a mistake  or unfair treatment  by a 
financial business, we try to put things right. My decision is about whats fair and reasonable 
Ref: DRN86121872in the individual circumstances of this complaint  and doesnt comment on, or set a precedent  
for, wider matters than that.
Mr W doesnt think TMB has acted  fairly  in choosing  to pass  on increases to Bank of 
England base rate in its SVR, such as the increase of 0.25% in 2018,  but not pass  on 
decreases. I can understand the complaint he is making and why hes questioned whether 
this is fair treatment of TMBs customers.
Ive looked carefully  at Mr Ws mortgage offer and the terms and conditions  (2007) that 
applied to the mortgage. Together these documents set out how the mortgage was intended 
to operate.  This includes what interest rate applied  to the mortgage  at the outset and once 
the initial fixed rate ended. It also set out why the SVR might change  and the process that 
should be followed by TMB.
The mortgage offer set out that the loan was provided on a fixed rate of 5.74% until 31 July 
2009. After that time the mortgage would revert to TMBs SVR, which was 7.94% at the point 
the loan was taken out. Mr Ws mortgage has been on TMBs SVR since  August 2009 and 
this is in line with what was set out in the mortgage offer. 
Im conscious that Mr Ws not been able to take out a new product with TMB since 2009  
because his lender has operated as a closed book. This means  it hasnt offered any new 
lending or new interest  rate products to any of its customers since August 2008.
TMB has said that its SVR remained at 4.95% from 2007 to 2018. It was only in September  
2018 that it took the decision to pass on a 0.25% increase  in Bank  of England  base rate to 
its SVR.
In TMBs  terms  and conditions (2007), condition 6.7 says:
we can change the interest rate on any part of the capital at any time, unless the offer, any 
extra agreement or any flexible options agreement  says we cannot. We can change the 
interest rate for any of the following reasons.
There are seven reasons  given in condition 6.7. Relevant  reasons  for TMB deciding to 
change its SVR in 2018 were:
-a) To reflect changes  in the cost to us of raising  money we lend to our customers 
with mortgages  of residential property; and
-b) to reflect changes in interest  charged by other  major lenders (including the terms 
on which mortgages are offered  by them).
Clause 6.8 also cites a broader term:
We can also change  the interest  rate for any other valid reason.
These conditions are broadly drafted, and I consider they give TMB the scope to change its 
interest rates for a variety  of reasons. I note TMB  doesnt list changes  to Bank of England 
base rate as a reason  for changing its interest rate but Im satisfied that a change in base  
rate would have  an impact on TMBs cost of raising money, as well as affecting the interest  
charged by other major lenders. 
I consider that TMB made it reasonably clear  in the mortgage contract  that its SVR wasnt a 
tracker rate and wasnt designed to follow the Bank  of England  base rate by a certain  
Ref: DRN86121873margin. TMBs SVR is its standard reversionary rate, that applies to all mortgage customers  
loans outside  of an agreed  interest rate product such as a fixed, discount or tracker rate. 
Ive also thought about the level of other high street banks SVRs  at that point in time, and 
the wider banking environment. Having done so, I dont think TMBs SVR (either before or 
after the rate increase in 2018) to be out of line with other similar lenders at that point in time. 
Overall, I dont  think TMB was acting unfairly  or unreasonably by increasing its SVR in 2018 
following an increase in Bank of England base rate. And I also dont think TMB acted  
unreasonably by holding its SVR at 4.95% and not passing on a decrease  to Bank of 
England base rate in 2017.  As Ive said, TMB hadnt agreed that the mortgage  would track 
Bank of England  base rate when Mr W took out the mortgage in 2007.
There arent any contractual barriers, such as an early repayment  charge, that prevent Mr W 
from moving his mortgage to another mortgage  lender if hes unhappy with the level of 
TMBs SVR. However, I completely understand that there may have  been  other  practical 
barriers, such  as the mortgage being  in arrears,  that may have prevented Mr W from moving 
his mortgage elsewhere since making his complaint. 
Mr W has said hed been given incorrect information in a phone call about  the way TMB sets 
its SVR and that this couldnt and wouldnt change if Bank of England base rate fell. TMB 
has apologised for this incorrect information given  to Mr W. It has offered £100 for its 
mistake and the confusion  causedI  think thats reasonable to settle the matter.
my final decision
The Mortgage Business Plc has already made  an offer to pay £100  to settle the complaint. I 
think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. So my decision is that The Mortgage  Business 
Plc should pay Mr W the £100 offered,  if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 January 2020.
Emma Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8612187