K821x#15complaint
Mr N says Barclays Bank UK Plc, trading  as Barclaycard (Barclays) mis-sold him 
payment protection insurance (PPI).
background
Mr N applied for a credit  card in 2004 and a PPI policy was taken  out at the same  time. The 
policy provided a monthly  benefit of 10% of the outstanding balance  for up to 12 months if 
Mr N was unable to work due to accident,  sickness or unemployment. The policy  also 
provided life cover.
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Ns complaint. Barclays disagreed, so the complaint has been 
passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and 
Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr Ns complaint. Ill explain why.
The policy was taken  out by post and both Mr N and Barclays  agree that the policy  wasnt  
recommended to him. So Barclays didnt have to check  that the policy  was right for him but 
it did need to give him clear enough information to enable him to decide for himself if this 
cover was right for him.
Mr N has told us that at the time of the sale he was employed on a fixed term contract 
working for a government  organisation.  He has said this had been  the case  for four years 
prior to taking out the policy.  Having reviewed  the policy  terms and conditions  I can see that 
the policy excludes claims for those working  under these types of contracts if the 
unemployment is as a result of the end of the fixed term contract. The policy  also says that 
cover will be provided  for unemployment for those working under a fixed  term contract  if 
your  contract ends before it should  because the business is insolvent or goes into 
liquidation. 
Based on what Mr N has told us about  his role, and the terms in the policy  summary,  I think 
he would  have found it very difficult  to claim under this policy. It seems unlikely that, based  
on the type of organisation  Mr N worked  for, that the business  would  become  insolvent. As 
this appears to be the only situation covered by the policy for those working  under  a fixed  
term contract, it seems  unlikely he would have been  able to make a successful claim under 
this section of the cover.  
I cant see anything on the application  form completed at the time of the sale which  would 
alert Mr N to the limitations on the cover for this type of employment. So it doesnt appear 
that these restrictions  to the PPI were brought to his attention. And if Mr N had been clearly  
told about these  terms, I dont think he would have thought this policy would have been a 
good choice for him. 
Ref: DRN82606632Barclays has referred to government guidelines in relation to employees working under fixed  
term contracts and said that, it would  have taken this into consideration when handling a 
claim. Whilst I appreciate  Barclays  comments on this, I dont think  that how it may have 
considered a claim alters the fact that Mr Ns ability  to make an unemployment claim would 
have been limited when reviewing the policy terms upon which  the contract is based. And if 
he had been made aware of these limitations at the time of the sale, I think this would have 
impacted his decision to take out the cover.
So I think Mr N has lost out as a result of what Barclays  did wrong.
putting things right
Barclays should put Mr N in the financial position  hed be in now if he hadnt  taken out PPI. 
The policy should  be cancelled  if it hasnt  been  cancelled already and:
A.Barclays should find out how much Mr N would owe on his credit card if the policy hadnt 
been added  to it.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges.
Barclays should then refund the difference between what Mr N owes and what he would 
have owed.
If Mr N made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Barclays can take off what he got 
for the claim from the amount it owes him.
B.If  when Barclays works out what Mr N wouldve owed each month  without PPI - Mr N 
paid more than enough to clear  his balance, Barclays should also pay simple  interest  on 
the extra Mr N paid.  And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mr N 
wouldve owed Barclays something  on his credit card.  The interest rate should  be 8% a 
year.
C.Barclays should tell Mr N what its done  to work out A and B.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Barclays to take off tax from this interest.  Barclays  must 
give Mr N a certificate showing  how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr Ns complaint.
Barclays Bank UK PLC should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 July 2019.
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN82606633
Ref: DRN8260663