K820x#14complaint
Ms S has complained about  her home  contents  insurer Lloyds Bank General Insurance 
Limited in relation to a claim she made following a theft and which it declined to cover.
background
Ms S had a ring stolen from her. She called the police and notified Lloyds. She told Lloyds 
that shed been selling  her ring via a mobile phone app. She received interest from a buyer 
whod bought items from her before. She met him in the park. He said he would buy the ring 
for the purchase  price asked and made  the bank transfer. However, he told Ms S that the 
transfer would take about an hour to go through. Ms S said they could go back  to her house 
to make a coffee while they waited. They got into the buyers  car and drove to Ms Ss home. 
Ms S let them in and asked the buyer to wait downstairs whilst she went up to the kitchen to 
make a coffee. She left the ring in a room just off the hallway where the buyer  was waiting. 
When she came back down  the buyer and the ring (but nothing else) were  gone. 
The police found the buyer and charged  him with trespass and burglary. They noted hed 
been invited into the home, but when  hed entered a room  he hadnt  been given permission 
to enter  in order to take the ring he was considered to be trespassing.  
Lloyds said the loss wasnt covered. It said the policy excluded theft by guests invited into 
the home. It said it would  only make  an exception to this where deception had been used to 
gain entry.
Ms S said there had been a deception;  she thought the person was going to buy the ring but 
they clearly werent.  She said the policy  didnt  define  guests and as the person was there 
to buy something from her, he wasnt a guest. Ms S called Lloyds and it told her someone  
completing a business  transaction  would  be classed as a visitor. Ms S also felt it was 
significant that the police accepted that a crime had been committed.  When  Lloyds wouldnt 
change its decision Ms S complained to this service.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. He noted the policy wording and felt the 
situation Ms S had found herself in was fairly and reasonably excluded from cover. He also 
looked at the exclusion  in the policy for loss by deception. He noted the policy didnt define 
the word guest but felt it didnt need to. He considered the call Ms S had made to Lloyds 
but he didnt think  that changed anything because of the invitation Ms S had made.
Ms S was unhappy  with the outcome. She said as the police had accepted that a trespass 
had occurred she couldnt see why or how the insurer could get out of paying.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Miss Ss frustration but the insurance  policy she has doesnt offer cover for her 
against any criminal act. Rather it offers cover for certain types  of loss and, by virtue  of 
exclusions added into the policy, only in certain circumstances. 
That means that even  if a person is found  guilty of having stolen the ring, Ms S would only 
be covered for that loss in certain circumstances. One of the circumstances that isnt 
Ref: DRN85311642covered in respect of theft is where the theft is perpetrated by any guest invited into your 
home by you. The reason for that is that once in the home  the chances of a person being 
able to take something are greatly  increased.  So, by inviting the buyer in, Ms S, albeit it 
without intending  to, created a risk  one that wouldnt  have existed if hed had stayed on the 
other side of the locked  door.
Whilst the policy does  allow  for theft where  deception is used to gain entry to the home, 
cover for loss resulting from that type of theft is only allowed for when gaining  entry  is the 
only focus of the deception. Here it seems that the thief was focussed  on gaining  possession 
of the ring. The type of scenario that would most commonly be covered in respect of 
deception is where someone  poses as an agent of a utilities  company or similar, knocks  at a 
door with no warning theyd be coming  and asks to come  in to check  something.  The victim 
is then caught  off guard and trusts the scenario which has been  put in front of them  with a 
view to deceiving them into offering access. Once  inside the deceiver can look around  and 
steal whatever is available. That is a very different situation to what Ms S initially  told Lloyds 
had happened  to her.
Lloyds, as do most insurers, chooses  when it offers a policy,  what risks it wants to offer 
cover for and what risks it doesnt want to be liable for. And that is all set out in the terms 
and related exclusions. There is nothing  wrong in that, it is simply the way insurance works. 
I know Ms S thinks the use of the word  guest  makes  the exclusion unclear, particularly as 
the policy doesnt define the word. But I wouldnt expect an insurer  to define every word  
used in a policy,  particularly not where  it is using a word in its everyday  accepted  context. 
I dont think there is much  difference in understanding  between a guest and a visitor. Im 
satisfied the term is clear enough.  I understand that one of Lloyds call handlers may have 
felt there  was a difference but I think they were wrong and understand Lloyds is providing 
feedback in that respect. In any event,  this wasnt misleading information  that Ms S was 
given before the loss and/or that informed her decision as to whether to invite  the person into 
her home. So the fact that Ms S has unfortunately experienced a loss which  isnt covered  by 
her policy isnt Lloyds  fault.
Im satisfied that Lloyds  acted fairly  and reasonably when it declined the claim. Im not going 
to make it accept it or make any settlement to Ms S.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  I dont make any award against Lloyds Bank General 
Insurance Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 August 2019.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8531164