K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains that the vehicle he acquired  through a hire agreement financed by Hitachi 
Capital (UK) Plc wasnt of satisfactory quality. He wants to end the agreement  and return the 
vehicle.
background
Mr T told us that after receiving the vehicle he had issues with a warning light coming on and 
some trims not being fitted  properly. He said the vehicle was recovered  and later repaired. 
Mr T says he later arranged to have the windows tinted. Following which  he found that a 
speaker had been damaged. He says that he subsequently had to pay £100 towards this. As 
well as £18 towards  a courtesy vehicle. He says the vehicles also been subject to safety  
recalls. Mr T states hes no longer comfortable or happy driving the vehicle.
Hitachi told us that any faults with the vehicle had been corrected  and Mr T had accepted  it 
back. It said that recalls  are regularly released by manufacturers and dont necessarily mean 
there are issues with the vehicle. It said it was a preventative  measure. Hitachi  confirmed 
that an offer had been made to Mr T to pay for the cost of the speaker and courtesy  car but 
that hed not accepted.
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld. She said that the only 
fault identified  had been repaired. And that safety  recalls arent evidence of faults.  But are 
taken as preventative  measures. She said the two recalls had been  resolved in May 2019. 
She noted the offer of a refund of Mr Ts costs  - made by the vehicle manufacturer - and 
which Hitachi had passed on and thought this was fair.
Mr T didnt  agree. He said thered been  a lack of focus from the consumer perspective. As 
its not been possible to resolve this complaint an ombudsmans been asked to make the 
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  that things havent  worked  out as well as Mr T wouldve  hoped when he acquired  
this vehicle. Unfortunately, from time to time things do go wrong with mechanical items. 
Mr Ts hire agreement  is a regulated consumer credit agreement  and our service is able to 
consider complaints relating to it. Hitachi supplied the vehicle and its therefore responsible 
for a complaint about the quality of the vehicle. Whilst I dont apply the law - directly - I do 
take it into account. And relevant law here includes the Consumer Rights Act 2015  (CRA).
In summary,  the CRA states that - in order to conform  to contract goods - have to be of 
satisfactory quality when supplied. And if they dont  then a consumer has the right to reject  
the goods within certain time limits.  It seems here as if Mr Ts vehicle experienced faults 
within the first 30 days of supply. So potentially hed have had the right to reject  it. Instead he 
opted to have repairs carried out and accepted  the return of the vehicle when this had been 
done.
Ref: DRN82085152Mr T has subsequently told us that he was misled into thinking  he wasnt able to reject the 
vehicle and that it would be a difficult process.  I understand that Mr T says it was the original 
dealer which  was responsible for this statement - not Hitachi.  Im not able to say what  Mr T 
was advised as theres no record  of any conversation. But even if the dealer had given Mr T 
misleading information about this - and Im not saying this is the case - Hitachi wouldnt be 
responsible. I also think  its not unreasonable for a consumer to make their own enquiries 
about any statutory  rights that they may have. 
The vehicle was repaired  and Mr T later arranged to have the windows tinted by a company  
Ill refer to as A. Following this he discovered that a speaker had been damaged. Mr T has 
advised that he had to pay £100  towards repair  costs and A also made  a contribution.  
Theres no information to show the speaker wasnt working properly at the time of supply. 
And Mr Ts responsible for damage which occurs when the vehicle is in his possession.  
Hitachi passed on an offer made by the vehicle manufacturer, a company Ill call M, to 
refund his £100 upon proof of payment. Along with an offer to refund the cost of a courtesy 
vehicle whilst repairs were done. I understand Mr T declined this offer. 
I can see the vehicles  been subject to safety recalls. But Ive no information to show  that this 
was the result of actual  faults with the vehicle. Safety recalls  are often used as preventative 
measures. And theres insufficient information to show they affected  the performance  or 
quality of the vehicle.
In summary,  the vehicle  experienced faults shortly  after supply. These  faults were repaired 
and theres nothing to suggest that those  repairs  have failed. Im not of the opinion  that the 
subsequent recalls indicated that the vehicle wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of 
supply. Hitachi has indicated that in accordance with the terms and conditions of the 
agreement Mr T can choose to terminate it early.  But hed be subject to the contractual costs 
payable under the agreement if he exercised this option. Its fair and reasonable that Hitachi 
should seek to abide by the terms of the agreement. And I shant be asking it to do anything 
else. Accordingly, Im not upholding  this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 June  2020.
Stephen D Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8208515