K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Revolut Ltd blocked his account and asked him to provide information 
about payments  hed made into his account. He wants Revolut to explain why it needed  the 
information. And pay him compensation  for the inconvenience the block  to his account 
caused. 
background
Mr M has an app-based electronic money account  with Revolut.
In July 2018, Mr M received payments into his account from seven different bank cards.  
Following these payments, Revolut  decided to review Mr Ms account.  Whist it conducted  its 
review it blocked Mr Ms account.  This meant Mr M couldnt use the account. 
On 17 August 2018, Mr M contacted  Revolut via its online chat facility  to find out why his 
account had been blocked.  Revolut told Mr M that it had blocked Mr Ms account in line with 
the terms and conditions and asked him to provide evidence that the cards  which  were  used  
to make the payments into the account belonged to him. Mr M didnt provide any information. 
So Revolut didnt  remove the block on Mr Ms account.
On 22 August 2018, Mr M contacted  Revolut again  via online chat to try and gain access  to 
his account. Revolut asked him to provide copies of bank statements related to the cards  
used to make the payments in July 2018,  to confirm  his ownership of the cards.  Mr M 
provided information for one of the cards hed used but said he couldnt provide any other 
information as he no longer had the cards. He told Revolut its request was ridiculous and 
made a complaint.
Revolut said they have policies and procedures in place  for administering accounts, making 
funds available  and identifying fraud.  They said all payments may be subject to their usual 
fraud checks and that they may perform additional checks  if they think it necessary. They  
said their terms  and conditions allow them to do this.
One of our investigators  looked at Mr Ms complaint.  He said Revolut hadnt done anything  
wrong when it blocked  Mr Ms account  and asked him for information. Mr M disagreed and 
asked for an ombudsman to review  his complaint. So, the matter  has come  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that not being  able to access his account would have been very frustrating for 
Mr M. But for the reasons, I shall explain below I think Revolut acted reasonably  and havent 
treated Mr M unfairly.
Revolut required all customers to provide identity verification from 2017. This was in 
response to money  laundering  regulations affecting financial services  companies. So, I dont 
think it would  be fair to find Revolut at fault for responding to regulations intended to protect 
customers.
Ref: DRN86972952Revolut has provided  me with a copy of its online discussion with Mr M. From looking at this 
I can see that on 17 August 2018, Revolut asked Mr M to confirm the ownership of the cards 
hed used to top up his account. Mr M told Revolut that he couldnt do this because  he no 
longer had the bank cards  because some  of them had been  stolen and one of the bank 
accounts had been closed. Mr M contacted  Revolut again  on 22 August 2018. On this 
occasion Revolut  told Mr M that he could provide  them with a copy  of the statement 
corresponding to the cards hed used.  And indicated that the statement or a screenshot  of 
the online banking  needed to include the account  holders name and the card details 
connected to the bank  account. Mr M didnt provide this information.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the account that Mr M accepted  when he opened  
his account. Section 7.1 states:
7.1. You agree to cooperate with all requests made  by us or any of our third-party 
service providers on our behalf  in connection  with your Revolut Account, to identify  or 
authenticate your identity  or validate your funding sources or Revolut Transactions.  
This may include,  but not limited to, asking  you for further information that will allow  
Revolut to reasonably  identify  you, including requiring you to take steps  to confirm 
ownership of your phone  number or payment instruments or verifying  your 
Information against third party databases or through other sources.
So, Im satisfied that Revolut acted in accordance with the terms and conditions when it 
asked Mr M to provide  identify verification. And given the circumstances of this complaint, I 
dont think the request  was unreasonable. Im also satisfied that the request falls within the 
scope of their terms and conditions. 
The terms also say We reserve the right to close, suspend, or limit access to your Revolut 
Electronic Money Account  and/or the Revolut Services in the event we are unable to obtain,  
verify such Information or you do not comply  with our requests under 7.1 of these Terms. So, 
whilst I appreciate Mr M was annoyed  by Revolut blocking his account, I do think  it was 
entitled to do this under the account  terms. Mr M didnt provide the information it required. 
So, I cant fairly say Revolut has acted outside of their procedures. 
I know Mr M would like a detailed  explanation as to why Revolut decided to block  his 
account. But Revolut  is under no obligation to provide this to him  as much  as hed like to 
know. However, Im pleased to see Revolut  pointed Mr M to the relevant terms and 
conditions they relied on when reviewing  and suspending his account. And clearly told him 
what he needed to do to get his account  unblocked.
In summary,  I appreciate  Mr M will be left disappointed  by my decision. But for the reasons  
Ive explained  I think Revolut has treated Mr M fairly  in its decisions and handling of his 
account. So, Im not going to ask Revolut  to do anything. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 January 2020.
Ref: DRN86972953Sharon Kerrison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8697295