K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1997. Mr A says Northern  Bank Limited  mis-sold  him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr As case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Northern Bank had to make Mr A aware  the PPI was optional  and gain his consent before 
adding the policy to his card. I cant be certain  what was said at the time Mr A applied  for his 
card and PPI and there is limited information available. But this isnt unusual  considering 
how long ago the sale took place,  and that businesses arent required to keep this type of 
information indefinitely.  From the information  that is available  I dont have  enough to say that 
Northern Bank didnt make Mr A aware  the policy was optional, or that he didnt choose to 
have it.
Northern Bank recommended the PPI to Mr A so it had to check  that the PPI was right for 
him  and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example he wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  and he 
seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information Northern Bank gave Mr A about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But I think  he chose to take it out - so it looks  like he wanted  this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would have been useful  for him if something went wrong.  It also 
looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better  information  about the PPI would have put 
him off taking out the cover. 
Which means Northern Bank doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr A.
But Northern Bank will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr A because: 
Northern Bank got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr A about  that. Because Northern  Bank didnt tell 
Mr A, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Northern Bank  has basically  offered to pay back the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that 
offer is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr A has said, but these points dont change my decision.
what the business needs  to do
Ref: DRN80770502Northern Bank has to pay back to Mr A any commission  and profit  share it got that was more 
than 50% of the PPI premium. Northern Bank should also pay back  to Mr A any extra 
interest he paid because of that.
Northern Bank should re-work the credit card account and pay back to Mr A the difference 
between what Mr A owes and what he wouldve owed if the commission  and profit share it 
got hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Northern Bank should also pay Mr A 8%* 
simple interest if he paid off their credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr A can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Northern Bank  Limited does not have to pay back  all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr A.
But Northern Bank Limited does  have to pay back to Mr A any commission and profit share  it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 December  2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8077050