K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that Lloyds Bank PLC acted  unfairly and unreasonably by not putting 
comprehensive cancer cover in place. He wants matters put right.
background
Mr A thought  that he had comprehensive  cancer cover with B, an insurer. He said that he 
was advised about insurance by Lloyds in 1993 and he chose to take out comprehensive 
cancer cover at that time. Mr A said that he already had private health insurance and life 
assurance, so he wouldnt  have taken  out a personal accident  policy. Mr A was later 
diagnosed with cancer and made  an unsuccessful claim to B, who said that the policy  in 
place was a personal accident policy.
Mr A complained to Lloyds, saying that hed been  sold a policy with full cancer  cover  but it 
appeared that he didnt have such cover with the policy  he ended up with. He thought  that 
the policy he originally  taken out had been  changed over time. Lloyds said that Mr A had 
taken out a hospital cash plan policy in 1993 and it didnt  have much  of the paperwork from 
the time as it was about 25 years ago. The information provided  showed that the policy as 
sold was a personal accident policy with hospital cash  benefits,  originally branded  as Lloyds,  
but transferred  to B via other insurers. It didnt offer comprehensive cancer cover.  Lloyds 
paid £100 compensation  for any upset  caused by a mistake in one of its earlier  letters.
Mr A complained to us and said he thought hed taken out cancer cover much  earlier  than 
1993, though he later mentioned that he thought he had cover for both serious illness  and 
serious accidents. The investigators view was that while there  was little paperwork 
available, what existed  didnt support  Mr As position  it showed  that accident  cover  was 
provided from 1993 onwards, not health  insurance. Mr A hadnt provided any evidence that 
cancer cover was taken  out through Lloyds as hed lost his original documents; the 
investigator didnt  think  such cover was generally available  without  being  part of a health 
insurance policy. 
The investigator noted what the personal  accident policy  covered was different to that 
offered by a health insurance  policy, and provided valuable protection  meeting Mr As needs 
at that time. The investigator also said that due to the passage of time, it was fair and 
reasonable for Lloyds not to have the sale paperwork in full any more  the regulations were 
that records only had to be kept for three years. The complaint wasnt upheld.
Mr A disagreed. He said he took out full cover and what  he now had didnt compare to what  
he believed  he had been sold. Mr A didnt accept  that hed taken out a personal  accident 
policy and he always ensured  that he was fully protected for all possible insurable  events. 
Mr A said Lloyds and B had provided  false evidence and he had taken out the cover before 
1993. The investigator didnt change his view.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN82029012I wasnt present when Mr A was advised by Lloyds  about insurance.  Mr A says that he 
believes that he was advised earlier than 1993  and is adamant  that he was sold 
comprehensive cancer cover. From considering what Mr A has to say, I think  he accepts that 
the cancer cover wasnt a stand-alone  policy, but a part of cover  available for serious illness  
and accidents.  And it isnt unusual for memories  about when something  happened to fade or 
become slightly incorrect  when looking back 25-30 years. I have to make  my decision about 
what happened on the basis of whats more likely than not to have happened, bearing  in 
mind what  the parties have said, probability and the contemporaneous evidence  available.
Mr A has no independent evidence supporting what hes saying  happened. Lloyds has very 
little evidence but has provided  a copy of what it says was sold to Mr A in 1993  this is a 
personal accident policy, though what has been provided is generic due to the loss of the 
original documents.  From  the evidence available  to me, this is the policy which  ended  up 
with B  I can follow the chain from Lloyds to other insurers through to B. 
I would point out that its possible  to change the terms and conditions of a policy  over the 
years so it isnt necessarily suspicious if the cover has evolved over the course of about 25 
years. The same applies to changes in the premium   the policy  might  say originally that it 
will increase  by 5%, but nothing stops  a lower amount  being  charged. My point is that none 
of this shows that false evidence has been  provided. What has been provided in my view are 
generic documents showing the policy details at the time of sale. Its fair and reasonable for 
me to place weight  on those documents, particularly as theres no evidence to rebut them. 
While Mr A says I should ignore all the evidence and accept his account, as Mr A doesnt 
have any other evidence supporting his position and his memory in my view cant  be 
accepted as entirely accurate due to the passage  of time, I cant  find in his favour as he 
hasnt provided  evidence in support of his position.
The personal accident policy doesnt include comprehensive cancer  cover, and gives  
different benefits  to that offered by a health  insurance policy.  In the absence  of any evidence 
that Lloyds ever offered comprehensive cancer  cover, or that Mr A took that out either in 
1993 or earlier, Im not able to uphold  his complaint that he took out a different type of policy.
Mr A has said that he wouldve claimed under the personal accident policy if hed taken  that 
out in 1993 (or earlier),  and that this is proof  he didnt take out such  a policy.  I disagree. Mr A 
has lost the original documentation about the policy and I think its likely that over the years 
he has become confused  about the nature  of the policy  taken out so long ago. As Mr A 
observes, the life expectancy for those diagnosed with cancer in the early  1990s is different 
to the position now  theres no evidence that specific comprehensive cancer cover was 
available at that time, but cover for serious  illness did exist. As Mr A says, he understood 
that there  was cover  for serious illness and accidents  the policy  offered payments for 
hospitalisation and accidents. It excluded sickness and disease. It would seem this policy  
doesnt offer what Mr A now remembers that he thought it would cover,  but this isnt enough 
for me to find that there was another policy sold and hidden from my view.
I also cant say that the personal accident  was mis-sold. As Mr A says, he wished to be 
covered for all possible future events and the benefits were different to those offered by 
other types of policy. As Mr A was self-employed, and personal accident polices are 
attractive to those in his position, I think the policy did meet his likely needs  at the time.
Ref: DRN82029013Mr A feels  that Lloyds is at fault for not keeping the paperwork from the sale.  But the 
regulator has said documents in these circumstances only need  to be kept for a specific 
period, and data protection  law has developed in the meantime since 1993. It isnt 
reasonable or fair to expect financial businesses to keep records  for 25 years when no 
complaint has been made about the sale.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or reject my decision before 5 April 
2020.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8202901