K821x#15complaint
Mr E complains that Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros,  
S.A. mis-sold him a travel  insurance  policy. 
In this decision my references to Mapfre include  its agent that sold the policy.  
background
I set out the background  to this complaint in my provisional decision, which forms part of this 
final decision. I said I was likely to uphold the complaint,  for the reasons set out in this 
extract from my provisional decision:
In early 2017 Mr E contacted Mapfre about taking out an annual  travel insurance policy.  He 
needed cover for existing  medical conditions, and this meant  the premium was around £450. 
At the time of sale Mapfre said it would offer him a 20% discount if he renewed  his policy the 
following year.
In late 2017 Mapfre  wrote to Mr E. It said if he renewed his policy  before the renewal date, 
he would  be entitled  to a 20% discount on his renewal premium. Mr E did contact Mapfre  but 
it told him that the discount on the basic premium only. This was the premium  for the basic 
policy cover  (which cost around £140) before the medical endorsements were  added.  
Mr E complained that Mapfre  had mis-sold the insurance to him in 2017. He said that it didnt 
explain the discount would be applied only to the basic premium. Its renewal letter indicated 
the discount was off the renewal premium,  not just the basic premium. Mapfre  offered to 
increase the discount off the basic premium to 30%, but Mr E didnt accept  this was 
reasonable. He also said Mapfre hadnt given him clear information about the cost of the 
basic premium.
Mapfre said its sales team hadnt  offered a discount to mislead and it didnt accept it had 
mis-sold the 2017  policy. It said it would be rare to offer a discount  on the entire  premium,  
because the medical  premium could vary massively  in price, as opposed  to the basic (or 
base) premium, which is more static in price. Mapfre  said the discount was discretionary 
and could be withdrawn, although any withdrawal should only be with good  reason.  It said 
the offer to increase the discount  off the basic premium was reasonable. Mr E didnt agree 
and came to us. 
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. She thought  Mapfre had given Mr E misleading  
information although she didnt think the policy had been mis-sold.  She recommended that 
Mapfre offer Mr E a 20% discount off the entire renewal premium, not just the basic 
premium. Mapfre  agreed to this, but Mr E didnt  accept the offer.  He said the policy had been  
mis-sold in 2017, and hed not have  taken the policy if hed known the true information  about 
the 20% discount. Hed taken out travel  insurance  for 2018 with a different insurer. As an 
agreement couldnt  be reached,  the complaints  come  to me for review.  
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im likely to uphold it.
Ref: DRN81648262I think Mapfre gave Mr E misleading information when it sold him the policy  in 2017.  It might 
not have intended to do so, but that doesnt  make  any difference.  It told him hed receive a 
20% discount on his premium if he renewed the policy in 2018. Mapfre knew it was offering 
this discount from only the basic premium.  But it needed to explain this clearly to Mr E, 
because a 20% discount on £140  is obviously not as attractive  as a 20% discount on the 
entire policy premium of around £450.  
Mapfre says that it would have been  entitled to withdraw the 20% offer for the following year, 
for a good  reason. That may be so, but it should  have clearly  explained that to Mr E because  
I think it would have  affected his decision to buy a policy from Mapfre.
Mapfre is required to give information  that is clear, fair and not misleading at the point of 
sale. The information  about the 20% discount  was misleading, so I provisionally  find that it 
did mis-sell  the policy to Mr E.
Where a policy has been mis-sold I wouldnt usually base any compensation on the amount 
a consumer would have received had the misleading information been  true. So while  Mapfre  
has offered an amount  equal to 20% of the full renewal premium this isnt an award I would 
generally make. Rather, I would consider whether and to what  extent a consumer  would 
have acted differently  had they been  given the correct information at the outset, and I could 
consider any distress and inconvenience caused  by a mis-sale. 
Mr E says,  and I accept, that he decided to take out the policy with Mapfre because it offered 
him a 20% discount for the following years renewal  premium. I say this as he contacted  
Mapfre in response to its invitation  to renew with a 20% discount.  Also,  his annual  premium 
was fairly  substantial given his medical history, so saving around £90 on the following years  
premium was an attractive offer for him.
Like our adjudicator I dont think Mapfre is required to refund the policy  premium to Mr E for 
the 2017 policy year. He had the benefit  of the travel insurance policy. And even if hed not 
taken the policy with Mapfre it seems likely hed have taken travel  insurance with another 
insurer. Mr E hasnt  suggested he could have taken  a policy  with another insurer that was 
cheaper and/or had better cover  than Mapfres policy. And I can see it might be difficult to 
show that he was disadvantaged in this way.
But I think Mr E did suffer  a loss of expectation.  Hed taken the policy  with Mapfre believing  
the premium would be reduced  by 20% the following year,  and it came as a shock and 
disappointment to find out that Mapfre wasnt offering this to him. Mapfre  then didnt explain 
clearly the cost of the basic premium and the medical premium. He spent time and trouble 
trying to understand what Mapfre  was saying to him and in pursuing his complaint to it. He 
was disappointed it didnt accept it had mis-sold the policy.
Having considered all the evidence, I think the fair outcome is for Mapfre  to pay Mr E 
compensation for loss of expectation  and distress and inconvenience. I think a fair amount is 
£150. In arriving  at this figure I should explain that Im not a regulator and my awards are not 
designed to punish a financial business for doing  something wrong  or to act as a deterrent. 
Rather, I consider the impact on the consumer based on the specific facts of the case. And 
I think an award of £150 is fair and reasonable in this case.
Ref: DRN81648263responses to my provisional  decision
Mr E responded to say he was pleased that I was likely to uphold  his complaint. He accepted  
my provisional decision, unless any comments  made by Mapfre changed my decision;  if so, 
then hed want a right of reply. He asked whether Id forward  details of this matter to the 
regulator or whether that would be for him to do following the final decision.  He asked this as 
he thought a £150 penalty wasnt a deterrent to make sure this situation doesnt happen 
again. He said this matter had taken  a considerable amount of time and effort  since the 
events of January  2018 and thanked us for our assistance. 
Mapfre didnt have  any further comments to make and said it accepted my provisional 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both Mr E and Mapfre have accepted my provisional  decision.  So I see no reason to depart 
from the findings that I reached in my provisional  decision, for the reasons Ive given. 
I uphold this complaint  and require Mapfre to pay Mr E £150 compensation for loss of 
expectation and distress and inconvenience. 
As Mr E appreciates, Im not a regulator and so my award isnt intended to be a penalty or 
deterrent. I wont forward details of this complaint to the regulator, which is the Financial  
Conduct Authority  or FCA.  Its open  to Mr E to send details of his concerns to the FCA. For 
Mr Es information its my understanding that the FCA wont investigate  and report back  to 
consumers on individual  complaints. 
Ref: DRN81648264my final decision
For the reasons  given  in my provisional decision and in this final decision I uphold  this 
complaint. I require Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, 
S.A. to pay Mr E compensation of £150  for loss of expectation and distress  and 
inconvenience.
Mapfre must pay the total compensation  within 28 days of the date on which  we tell it Mr E 
accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay simple interest* on the 
compensation at the rate of 8% per year from the date of my final decision until the date of 
payment.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019.
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
*If Mapfre  considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs  to take off income tax from 
that interest,  it should tell Mr E how much  its taken off. It should also give Mr E a certificate 
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue & Customs  if 
appropriate.
Ref: DRN8164826