K821x#15Complaint
Mr S has complained that Loans 2 Go Limited  (L2G) provided  him with an unaffordable 
loan. He says L2G should  have seen that he had active defaults and a County  Court  
Judgement (CCJ)  and therefore shouldnt have provided this loan to him.  
Background and my provisional decision of 15 January 2021
L2G provided Mr S with a loan of £250 in December 2018.  This loan had an APR of 990.1%  
and an 18-month  term. This all meant the total amount repayable of £1,019.52 was due to 
be repaid in 18 instalments of £56.64.
One of our adjudicators looked  at this complaint and didnt think  that L2G had done anything 
wrong or treated Mr S unfairly. So he didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Mr S 
disagreed with our adjudicator and asked  for an ombudsman to review  his complaint.
I attach my provisional decision of 15 January 2021, which forms part of this final decision  
and should be read in conjunction with it. In my provisional decision,  I explained  why I 
intended to uphold Mr S complaint. I invited both parties to provide any further comments 
they may have had, by 29 January 2021, before I reached a final decision.
Following this, Mr S responded to confirm his acceptance of my decision. On the other hand, 
L2G didnt respond  to my provisional  decision or ask for any additional  time to do so. 
My findings
I have reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments, including  the responses to my 
provisional decision, to decide what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint.
I set out in some detail  why I intended to uphold Mr S complaint  in my provisional decision. 
In the absence of anything  further to consider from either party, I see no reason to change  
my conclusions.
So having  carefully considered everything, Im upholding Mr S complaint. 
Fair compensation  what  L2G needs to do to put things  right for Mr S.
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr S complaint for L2G to put things right by:
removing all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan from the outset.  Any
payments Mr S has made  should  be deducted  from the £250  he was originally  lent. 
L2G should treat any payments made  if and when the £250  was cleared as 
overpayments. And any overpayments  should  be refunded to Mr S;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments,  if any, from the date
they were made by Mr S to the date of settlement;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires L2G to take off tax from this interest. L2G must  give    
Mr S a certificate  showing  how much tax it has taken  off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN86186042Id also remind L2G of its obligation  to exercise  forbearance if, which at present appears 
likely, an outstanding balance remains  after all adjustments have been made to Mr S 
account and its the case that he is experiencing financial difficulty.
My final decision
For the reasons  explained above and in my provisional decision of 15 January 2021, Im 
upholding Mr S complaint. Loans 2 Go Limited  should put things  right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 March 2021.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN86186043COPY  OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
Complaint
Mr S has complained that Loans 2 Go Limited  (L2G) provided  him with an unaffordable 
loan. He says L2G should  have seen that he had active defaults and a County  Court  
Judgement (CCJ)  and therefore shouldnt have provided this loan to him.  
Background
L2G provided Mr S with a loan of £250 in December 2018.  This loan had an APR of 990.1%  
and an 18-month  term. This all meant the total amount repayable of £1,019.52 was due to 
be repaid in 18 instalments of £56.64.
One of our adjudicators looked  at this complaint and didnt think  that L2G had done anything 
wrong or treated Mr S unfairly. So he didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Mr S 
disagreed with our adjudicator and asked  for an ombudsman to review  his complaint.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending  -
including the key rules, guidance and good industry  practice - on our website. And Ive
referred to this when  deciding  Mr S complaint.
Having carefully thought  about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Mr Ss complaint. These two
questions are:
1.Did L2G complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself
that Mr S would be able to repay  his loan in a sustainable way?
o If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
o If not, would those  checks  more likely  than not have shown that Mr S 
wouldve been able to do so?
2.Did L2G act unfairly or unreasonably  in some other way?
Did L2G complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr S would be 
able to repay his loan in a sustainable way?
L2G provided this loan while it was authorised and regulated by the Financial
Conduct Authority  (FCA). The rules and regulations in place required L2G to
carry out a reasonable and proportionate assessment of Mr S ability to make  the
repayments under this agreement. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an
affordability assessment  or affordability  check.
The checks  had to be borrower focused   so L2G had to think  about whether
repaying the loan would cause significant adverse consequences for Mr S. In practice  this
meant that L2G had to ensure that making the payments to the loan wouldnt
Ref: DRN86186044cause Mr S undue  difficulty or adverse consequences.
In other  words, it wasnt enough  for L2G to simply think  about  the likelihood of
it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr S.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes  a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon  a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking.
Even for the same customer,  a proportionate check could  look different for different
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the longer  the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit  is
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an extended  
period); and
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed  a proportionate check
shouldve been  for a given loan application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances.
Ive carefully thought  about all of the relevant  factors in this case.
Were L2Gs checks reasonable and proportionate?
L2G says that it carried out an income  and expenditure assessment with Mr S prior to 
providing him with this loan. It also carried out a credit  check.  Mr S confirmed that he was 
earning around £1,300.00 a month.  But his payslips showed that he earned closer  to 
£1,000.00 a month. Mr S also declared he had expenses  of £400 but the results of the credit 
search led L2G to conclude Mr S only had a disposable income of around £325,  which  still 
left him enough to be able to repay this loan. In L2Gs view all of this 
Ive carefully considered  what L2G has said. And I accept  that the monthly repayments Mr S 
was committing to were relatively  small. But bearing  in mind the number of defaults and the 
active CCJ L2G saw on Mr S credit file, I dont think it was enough for L2G to estimate Mr S 
living expenses when  it considered it had reason to question what  hed declared and Mr S 
payslip had already shown that hed considerably overestimated his income.   
Ref: DRN86186045Bearing all of this in mind, I think that L2G needed  to take steps  to verify Mr S expenditure 
instead of choosing to rely on an over optimistic calculation of his monthly disposable 
income. Indeed  Id have to question just why it was L2G thought Mr S needed  to borrow  
£250 on such disadvantageous  terms if he had a monthly disposable income  in excess of 
this amount. 
As I cant  see that L2G took any steps  at all to address the mismatch  between Mr S 
disposable income and what his credit  file indicated about his financial position, I dont think 
that the checks it carried out before  providing  Mr S with his loan were reasonable and 
proportionate.
Would reasonable and proportionate  checks have indicated to L2G that Mr S would more 
likely than not have  been unable to repay  this loan?
As reasonable and proportionate checks werent  carried out before this loan was provided,
I cant say for sure what  they wouldve shown. So I need to decide whether it is more likely
than not that a proportionate check would have  told L2G that Mr S wouldve
been unable  to sustainably repay this loan.
L2G was required  to establish whether Mr S could make his loan repayments without 
experiencing significant adverse consequences   not just whether the loan payments were 
technically affordable  on a strict pounds  and pence calculation.
Ive carefully considered  the information  provided. Having looked at Mr S bank statements 
there are large cash withdrawals going  out of his account. And I think  that if L2G had probed 
the reasons behind these large cash withdrawals  it would have found out why Mr S credit  
file was in the way that it was and I think it is unlikely it would have  lent in these 
circumstances. 
Bearing all of this in mind, Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks  would
more likely than not have demonstrated that Mr S would not have been able to make  the
repayments to this loan without borrowing further  and/or suffering significant adverse 
consequences. And, in these circumstances, I find that reasonable and proportionate  checks  
would more likely than not have alerted L2G to the fact that Mr S was in no sort of position to 
make the payments on this loan without suffering significance adverse consequences.
Did L2G act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr S in some other way?
Having carefully thought  about everything  provided, Ive not seen anything to suggest that 
L2G acted unfairly  or unreasonably  towards  Mr S in some other way.
Did Mr S lose out as a result of L2G unfairly providing him with this loan?
As Mr S is being expected to pay interest  and charges  on a loan that he shouldnt  have been 
provided with, Im satisfied that he has lost out as a result of what L2G did wrong.
So I think that L2G needs to put things right.
Ref: DRN86186046Fair compensation  what  Im intending to say L2G needs  to do to put things right  for 
Mr S.
Having thought about everything, Im intending to issue  a final decision saying that it would 
be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of Mr S complaint for L2G to put things right 
by:
removing all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan from the outset.  Any
payments Mr S has made  should  be deducted  from the £250  he was originally  lent. 
L2G should treat any payments made  if and when the £250  was cleared as 
overpayments. And any overpayments  should  be refunded to Mr S;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments,  if any, from the date
they were made by Mr S to the date of settlement;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires L2G to take off tax from this interest. L2G must  give    
Mr S a certificate  showing  how much tax it has taken  off if he asks for one.
Id also remind L2G of its obligation  to exercise  forbearance if, which at present appears 
likely, an outstanding balance remains  after all adjustments have been made to Mr S 
account and its the case that he is experiencing financial difficulty.
My provisional decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im intending  to uphold Mr S complaint and tell Loans 2 Go 
Limited to put things  right in the way Ive set out above.
So unless the comments and evidence I get by 29 January 2021 changes my mind, thats 
what Ill tell L2G to do in my final decision.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8618604