K820x#14complaint
Ms B complains  that hire purchase agreement (HPA) arranged by Available  Car Ltd was not 
set up as agreed. She says she paid for insurance  upfront but this was included  in her HPA 
and she is being  charged interest.
background
Ms B entered into a HPA with Available  Car in August 2017. She says that when discussing 
her options  she decided to acquire Guaranteed Asset  Protection  (GAP) insurance. She paid 
for this upfront but it was then included in her HPA. The HPA sets out that interest is charged 
on the GAP insurance.  Ms B is concerned that she is being charged too much.
Available Car did not accept that the HPA had been  mis-sold. It says that everything was 
explained to Ms B and she chose to sign the agreements. It says that no additional interest 
is being charged as the total amount of credit  is the same as the cost of the car and that this 
amount was agreed with Ms B. The additional  items, a dashboard camera  and GAP  
insurance, were acquired and the cost of these was put as a deposit. Therefore if these were 
removed the deposit would also be removed  and the final position would still be a HPA with 
a credit amount  of £7,799.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. He agreed that the HPA was not as easy to 
understand as it could  have been.  But he didnt think that Ms B had suffered  any financial 
detriment. He noted that the total amount  of credit provided was what had been  agreed,  that 
is £7,799, and that interest was being  charged on this amount. He also noted that Ms B had 
received a refund of the interest  allocated  to the GAP insurance from the finance provider.
Ms B did not accept  our investigators  view and asked  for her case to be referred to an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Available Car acted  as a credit broker by arranging  the finance  for Ms B to acquire her car. It 
is in this role that I am considering this complaint.
Ms B is concerned that she is being charged  too much under her HPA and that the HPA is 
not what she agreed. I can understand why she thinks this but as our investigator has 
explained, I do not find that she is being charged  more than was initially  agreed.
I say this because,  having  looked at the documents, Ms B agreed  to acquire a car for 
£7,799. It was this amount that she wanted a credit  agreement for. She then acquired two 
further items, a dashboard  camera and GAP insurance. These came to a total cost of £548.  I 
understand that these items  were  paid for upfront and that Ms B did not expect them to form 
part of her HPA. 
Having looked  at the HPA, the cost of goods  is recorded as £8,028. This is the cost of the 
car plus the cost of the dashboard camera. There is then a separate box titled  financial 
Information  Insurances. This includes the cost of the GAP  insurance as £319.  Interest is 
then recorded  for the insurance  as £91.40.
Ref: DRN82990582However there is then a deposit amount of £548  deducted from the goods section. Therefore 
the total goods are recorded  as £7,480  that is £319  less than the amount Ms B agreed  to 
pay for the car. The £319 is then recorded  in the insurance section. The interest rates in both 
the goods section and the insurance section are the same. 
There is conflicting evidence regarding what was explained to Ms B. But overall, the total 
amount of credit in the HPA is £7,799  which is the amount I understand Ms B agreed to. 
Interest is charged  on this amount at the rate set out in the HPA. Therefore, while I accept 
the HPA is not set out as Ms B expected I do not find that that she has suffered financially 
because of this.
I understand the point about the approach not being clearly  explained.  However I do not find 
that there  is anything to suggest that Ms B did not wish to acquire the dashboard camera or 
the GAP insurance.  Therefore I find it more than likely that she wanted these products and 
so would have  acquired them had she been  provided with clear  information about how her 
HPA would be set out.
So, while I understand why Ms B is upset, I do not find that the issues she has raised have
had any adverse impact  on her and so I do not uphold  this complaint.
I also note that Ms B has received a refund from the finance provider for the interest amount 
allocated to the GAP  insurance.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 March 2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8299058