K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M say Bank of Scotland plc, trading  as Halifax (Halifax), mis-sold them a 
mortgage payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
In 1999 Mr and Mrs M remortgaged through Halifax and were sold a PPI policy  at the same  
time. 
The PPI was in Mr Ms name  only. Mr and Mrs M paid a monthly  amount of £12.42  for the 
policy. The PPI covered Mr M for accident,  sickness and unemployment for up to 24 months 
per claim, providing a monthly benefit of £234.42. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs M disagreed  with the adjudicators  
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ms case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  the complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs M say they didnt really have  a choice about taking the PPI and it was strongly 
recommended that they take it out. Mr and Mrs M say they did not request it, they hadnt 
had PPI protecting their earlier mortgage with another lender and didnt need this PPI.
First, I will look at whether  the policy was presented as optional. 
Having reviewed the paperwork, I cant see that the PPI was a condition  of obtaining the 
borrowing. On the mortgage application form that Mr and Mrs M have completed and signed 
it states We recommend that you consider our Mortgage Repayments Insurance  
Scheme. If the PPI had been compulsory I dont  think the wording would have been set out 
in this way. The wording indicates that it is an optional product.  Mr and Mrs M had to sign 
separately for the PPI within the mortgage application and I can see Mr M has signed. Mr M 
also had to complete  and sign a separate Mortgage  Repayments  Insurance  application 
(PPI) form. 
So from the information Halifax has provided I think Halifax made it clear that Mr and Mrs M 
didnt have to take out the PPI and that they chose to take it out to cover Mr M only.  
Ive then looked at Mr and Mrs Ms concern that they felt pressured by the adviser and were 
told by the adviser  that it was strongly recommended they take PPI. 
Ref: DRN83647982Its hard to know exactly what was said during the meeting.  I appreciate that Mr and Mrs M 
have tried to provide the best recollection  they have. And I would like to assure them  that I 
have taken their comments into consideration. But I have  to be persuaded that it was more  
likely than not that they were pressured into taking the policy.  As Halifax  advised them to 
take out the policy, I think its just as likely (as Mr and Mrs M recall  in their own testimony) 
they were told they should take out the policy, rather than they had to. And looking at their 
circumstances, I dont  think  that would have been unsuitable advice. I havent seen enough 
in this case to make  me to decide their version of events is what  more likely happened.  
As explained above, Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs M. And from the 
information Mr and Mrs M have given us about  their circumstances, it seems to have  been  
right for them at the time.  
Taking a mortgage  is a large, long term financial commitment, and there  can be serious  
consequences if repayments arent  met, so I think its possible Mr and Mrs M would have 
thought the cover useful.
While Mr M received good sick pay from his employer if he was unable to work,  the PPI 
would have covered the mortgage repayments for up to 24 months  for each  claim if Mr M 
wasnt able to work because of sickness  or lost his job.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs M held savings that they say they could have  used to meet  their 
repayments  but the PPI provided  them with a security that meant they wouldnt  have  to 
rely on savings to meet their repayments. And those  savings could  have been  used for 
something else or their original purpose.
So, all things considered,  I think PPI provided  a useful  benefit and I cant  fairly say that the 
advisers recommendation  was unsuitable.
I cant be sure how clearly  the adviser  explained  the cost of the PPI, but the cost is set out 
on the Mortgage Repayments Insurance application form. So I think  it likely Mr and Mrs M 
were aware of the monthly cost of the policy and of the benefit amount it provided. 
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs M about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But they chose to take it out - so it looks  like they wanted this type of 
cover. Mr M wasnt affected by any of the main exclusions or limitations that may have 
prevented him from claiming under the policy. And it seems like it would have been useful for 
them if something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable.  So I dont think better 
information about the PPI would have put them off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs M have said - including  what they have said about 
the sale and their circumstances at the time and not needing the PPI. But, for the reasons 
Ive given above, these points dont  change my decision.
Which means Halifax doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs M.
But Halifax  will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs M because  in 2017, 
following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), issued some  
new rules about how businesses should  deal with complaints about PPI. 
Ref: DRN83647983The FCAs rules and guidance set out how firms,  that are lenders, should assess a 
complaint to establish whether failure  to disclose commission gave rise to an unfair 
relationship under section 140A of the Consumer  Credit Act 1974 (CCA). And also how 
businesses should  determine the appropriate  compensation  (if any) to offer to a consumer.
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit  share from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium   and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties.  So to put that right,  the FCA said that 
businesses should  pay back  the amount of commission  and profit share that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. 
Halifax, in light of the FCAs rules and guidance,  looked at Mr and Mrs Ms PPI policy. 
Halifax said that the level of commission and profit share it received did create  an unfair 
relationship. So to put things right it offered to refund the extra  Mr and Mrs M paid each 
month for the time the commission and profit share it received was more than 50% of the 
cost of PPI. It also included 8% per year simple interest to compensate Mr and Mrs M for 
any time they were  out of pocket.  
Mr and Mrs M say because Halifax  didnt tell them about the level of commission it received,  
that in itself constitutes the mis-selling of their PPI. So Mr and Mrs M think  they should get 
everything back. But in this case, Halifax has made Mr and Mrs M an offer of compensation 
in relation to the level of commission it received that is in-line with the methods set out by the 
FCA.
So Halifax  has done what  the rules it must follow tell it to do.  
Ive thought about whether theres anything about  Mr and Mrs Ms particular complaint and 
circumstances that means Halifax should do something different to put right the unfairness 
caused by not telling them about the amount of commission and profit  share it got. But I 
dont think there is. 
In this case I think the offer thats been made is a fair way to resolve this complaint. So I 
wont be telling Halifax to do anything more.  
what the business needs  to do
Halifax has to pay back to Mr and Mrs M any commission  and profit  share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. Halifax  should  also pay back to Mr and Mrs M any extra  
interest they paid because of that.
Halifax should pay back to Mr and Mrs M the extra they paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. Halifax  should  also 
pay Mr and Mrs M 8%* simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs M can claim back the tax if they 
dont pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs M.
Ref: DRN83647984But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Mr and Mrs M any commission  and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so it doesnt need to do anything further.  But if the compensation hasnt  been  paid, 
Bank of Scotland plc should arrange  payment, ensuring the compensation is brought up to 
date.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 April 2019.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8364798