K820x#14Complaint
Miss T says Santander UK Plc didnt do enough  to help when  she fell victim to a banking 
payment scam. She says Santander should  have done  more to prevent the payment going 
through.
Background
On 19 August 2018, Miss T made an online payment of £2,080  from her Santander current  
account on the instruction of who she believed was a friend of her father.  
Miss T subsequently  discovered shed made the payment  to a scammer whod impersonated 
the friend and sent her an email containing the scammers own account  details.  Miss T 
contacted Santander on 27 August 2018 to tell it what had happened, and to see if there 
was anything it could  do to help. A few minutes  later Santander contacted  the scammers 
bank to see if any of Miss Ts money could be recovered. It seems only £11.30 remained in 
the account.
Miss T didnt hear back from Santander,  so she called back on 11 September  2018.  She 
mentioned that a standing order hadnt been paid due to the block  applied to her account. 
Santander paid her £12 for the banking  charges  she incurred and a further £50 for the 
distress shed suffered  as a result. Santander  also eventually confirmed that the scammers 
bank hadnt sent it the recovered funds so no money  could be reimbursed for that. Miss T 
was unhappy  with how Santander handled  things, so she complained. Santander said it 
couldnt be held responsible for the money shed lost since  shed willingly made the 
payment. It acknowledged that the name on the bill payment didnt match  the name of the 
beneficiary account holder but that it didnt check those details when setting up a faster  
payment.
Still unhappy with Santanders response, Miss T complained to us. Our adjudicator  looked  at 
what had happened  and didnt recommend the complaint  be upheld. They felt Santander 
hadnt acted unfairly  by allowing the payment to be made and didnt  think  it should have 
done more to help her recover her money. 
Miss T disagreed, saying Santanders security  processes were  inadequate and that this was 
supported by the subsequent introduction of the requirement for banks to check  account 
names when processing faster payments. The complaint was passed  to me to review afresh.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules,  guidance  and standards;  
codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  what I consider to have been good  industry  
practice at the time. 
In broad terms, the starting position at laws that a banks  expected  to process  payments and 
withdrawals that a customer authorises  it to make, in accordance with the Payment Services  
Regulations and the terms and conditions  of the customers  account.  And Ive taken that into 
account when  deciding whats fair and reasonable in this case.
Ref: DRN89751212But thats not the end of the story:
The law recognises that a bank may be liable to its customer if it makes  a payment in 
circumstances where  it has reasonable grounds  (although not necessarily proof)  for 
believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate  the funds  of its 
customer (known as the Quincecare  duty).    
Regulated firms like Santander  are also required to conduct their business with due skill, 
care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to the 
interests of its customers (Principle  6).  
And, as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have  
taken proactive steps to: 
identify and assist  vulnerable consumers  and consumers in vulnerable  circumstances, 
including those  at risk of financial exploitation  (something recognised by the FCA in 
recent years and by the British Bankers Associations February  2016 report improving 
outcomes for customers in vulnerable  circumstances);  
look to identify and help prevent transactions - particularly unusual or out of character 
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam (something also 
recognised by the British Standards Institutes October 2017  Protecting Customers from 
Financial harm  as a result  of fraud  or financial abuse  Code of Practice , which a 
number of banks  and trade associations were involved in the development of); and
 
in relation to branch transactions  follow  the Banking Protocol when available.     
This means  that there are circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, where a 
bank should, in my opinion,  fairly and reasonably take additional steps, or make additional 
checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make  a payment 
altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.  
This is particularly so in light of the environment created by the increase in sophisticated  
fraud and scams in recent  years   which banks are generally more familiar with than the 
average customer. 
In this case, I need to decide  whether Santander acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings  
with Miss T when she made a payment of £2,080 to a new payee in August 2018,  or whether 
it should have  done more  than it did.
But I dont think the payment  was particularly suspicious or unusual  enough  to say 
Santander ought to have  had concerns  that Miss T was being scammed. The amount Miss T 
paid made  wasnt  in itself suspicious and it was verified with a one-time passcode sent to a 
registered number.  Overall, I dont think the payment was sufficiently suspicious for me to 
conclude Santander  ought to have  identified that it may be potentially fraudulent.
Ref: DRN89751213Regarding Miss Ts point  that the beneficiary account holder and the payee name she gave 
didnt match,  Santander wasnt  required  to check those  details  at the time. Miss T suggests  
the requirement was introduced a few months  after she made the payment and that 
Santander should have carried out the check regardless of whether it was required to. 
The scheme Miss T refers  to, Confirmation of Payee (CoP), was originally announced in 
October 2018 but wasnt due to come into force for the UKs largest banks (including 
Santander) until July 2019. The deadline for implementing the scheme was then delayed  
until March and, finally, June 2020.  Given that the deadline for joining wasnt  until almost  two 
years after Miss T made her payment, and that the scheme doesnt apply retrospectively, I 
dont believe  it would  be fair for me to find that Santander should  have  done  more in this 
regard.
Even if Santander had flagged  the payment with Miss T, Im not persuaded she wouldnt still 
have authorised it. I say that because of the sophisticated nature of the scam and the fact 
that she clearly genuinely  believed she was acting on the instruction of her fathers  friend as 
to where to make the payment.
So, in the circumstances, I dont think Santander  did anything  wrong  by following the 
instructions Miss T gave and sending the money.
When Miss T told Santander that it had been  scammed, Santander acted  quickly  by 
contacting the scammers bank within  minutes  to see if any of Miss Ts money was still in the 
receiving account  and could be retrieved. Unfortunately, by that time  which, unfortunately, 
was eight days after the transfer was made   most  if not all of Miss Ts money had gone. Its 
not unusual in scams like this for the scammers  to withdraw funds quickly. 
Any further investigation into what happened  to the money after it left the scammers account 
wasnt the responsibility of Santander,  and it wouldnt have  unrestricted  access  to that 
information. So, contacting the scammers bank promptly  to try and retrieve the money was 
all Santander could  do to help Miss T at that stage.  
Its unfortunate that Miss Ts lost out, and I understand  that this whole experience will have 
been hugely upsetting  for her. But, in the circumstances,  I dont think I can fairly  say that 
Santander should have done more to prevent Miss T losing her money. I cant  hold 
Santander responsible for Miss T having  fallen victim to a scam, and I think it did what  it 
could to help once it knew what had happened. So, I dont think it would be fair to ask 
Santander to compensate  Miss T for that loss. 
That said,  I recognise that Santander could  have done more to keep  Miss T better informed 
regarding the attempted  recovery of her money.  But I think  the £50 Santanders already paid 
to Miss T  in addition  to the account  charge of £12 it reimbursed her  is appropriate in the 
circumstances. I dont  think  Santander needs  to pay her any more.
My final decision
For the reasons  given,  I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN89751214Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 November  2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8975121