K821x#15complaint
Mr K is unhappy that Wirecard Card Solutions Limited havent returned a payment he sent to 
one of their account  holders in error.   
background
On 6 October 2017 Mr K sent a payment of £290  from his Halifax  account to what  he 
thought was his Wire Card account. Unfortunately, he says he incorrectly typed in the 
account number,  by mixing it up with the reference  number.  The money therefore went  to a 
third partys  account. 
When Mr K hadnt received the money he contacted Wire Card on 10 October 2017 to ask 
what had happened. Wire Card replied to Mr K on 12 October 2017 explaining that the 
money had been  deposited into the account where Mr K had sent it to and this wasnt an 
account belonging to him. They  advised  Mr K to contact  his bank to arrange  a recall of the 
money. 
Mr K complained as he wanted Wirecard to refund him the £290. Wirecard didnt agree and 
said that by the time Mr K contacted it, there was no money  left in the third partys account.  
When the complaint  was brought to this service,  Wirecard disputed  that this service had the 
power to consider it. The complaint was subject to a decision by another ombudsman 
regarding this and they decided the complaint was one we could consider. As a result,  the 
merits of the complaint went  on to be considered by an investigator at our service.
Our investigator pointed  out to Wirecard that there was actually £7.43 left in the third partys 
account when  Mr K contacted it on 10 October  2017. Wirecard therefore offered to refund 
this to Mr K and pay 8% interest on this amount from 10 June 2017  to 3 March  2020, the 
date they made the offer. This totals  £1.62. They also offered £25 for any trouble  and upset 
caused. Our investigator  agreed this was a fair offer, adding that she would usually have 
expected the interest to be paid to date of settlement,  but the £25 offered by Wirecard more  
than covers this so the overall over is fair. 
Mr K didnt agree as he believes  Wirecard  should refund him the full £290. He says that the 
third party has committed an offence  under  the Theft Act 1968. He asked for a final decision 
by an ombudsman, so his complaint was passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Wirecard has offered  to refund the £7.43 that was left in the third partys account  when Mr K 
contacted it on 10 October 2017.  I think this is a fair offer as Ill now explain.  
Wirecard applied Mr Ks payment to the correct account, based the details given by Mr K. It 
has made no error here.  It therefore doesnt have any obligation  to refund the full £290 to 
Mr K. However, once it was on notice  of what had happened,  I would expect to see it take 
steps to help Mr K, who approached it as a customer  who couldnt locate his payment.  
Ref: DRN87988662Mr K has said he made an error  when  creating the payee through  his Halifax  online banking.  
When imputing his account number, he accidently used the first four digits  of his account 
number and the last four digits of his reference number. Ive seen nothing  to the contrary to 
show it wasnt a genuine mistake on Mr Ks part. His reference  number does  end in the last 
four digits  of the incorrect account number he used  to make the payment, so his version of 
events stacks up here. 
Given this, I think it wouldve been  fair for Wirecard to have  taken some  action when  Mr K 
notified it that his payment hadnt  credited  the intended account.  Mr K is a customer  of 
Wirecard and it was therefore  in the position where it couldve asked him some more  
questions about  what had happened. Had it done  so, I think  it wouldve become apparent 
Mr K had made a clear mistake, as detailed above.  Once satisfied of this mistake, Wirecard 
couldve then taken  some  short-term preventative action to stop the remaining funds being 
spent, while  it asked  the third-party  account holder about the payment. 
Wirecard did ask the third party about the payment on multiple occasions and received no 
response. I think at this point Wirecard should have sent any remaining money back to Mr K. 
Im satisfied this wouldve  been  fair and reasonable based on the circumstances  that being 
evidence of a clear and obvious mistake on Mr Ks part and a lack of response from the third 
party confirming the funds belong to them. 
When Mr K notified Wirecard of what had happened, unfortunately there was only £7.43 left 
in the third partys  account. Wirecard shouldve taken steps to protect  this amount and 
subsequent to not hearing back from the third-party  account holder, sent it back  to Mr Ks 
Halifax account. 
Wirecard has now offered  to refund the £7.43  which I think  is the correct  thing to do. Its also 
offered to pay 8% interest on this amount from 10 October 2017 to 3 March 2020  and pay 
£25 for any trouble or upset that may have been caused by it not being refunded sooner. 
Mr K is understandably unhappy and frustrated as anyone  would be in his situation. But I 
think most of the upset  is caused by the third party not returning his money, rather  than a 
delay in Wirecard refunding the £7.43. Its for these reasons that I believe the interest  
payment and £25 compensation is fair. 
I cant hold Wirecard responsible for the actions of the third party or indeed  the upset this 
situation has caused Mr K. It didnt  make a mistake  in crediting the funds to the third partys  
account  it was Mr Ks error that led to this. And it can only take steps to protect  whatever 
funds are left when its notified  of whats happened. It wouldnt therefore be fair for me to ask 
Wirecard to refund Mr K the rest of the £290.  Mr K would need  to seek alternative  means  to 
try and retrieve his money from the third party, as this is where  the fault lies. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint  and direct  Wirecard Card Solutions Limited to 
refund Mr K £7.43,  £1.62  in interest  and £25 compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 May 2020.
Ref: DRN87988663Sarah Brimacombe
Ombudsman 
Ref: DRN8798866