K821x#15complaint
Mr W (1) complains on behalf of his father, Mr W about charges Startline Motor Finance 
Limited applied  at the end of Mr Ws Hire Purchase Agreement.  He also complains that the 
price Mr W agreed  to buy his car for isnt the price on his Hire Purchase Agreement.
background
Mr W (1) says that Mr W took out a Hire Purchase  Agreement with Startline Motor  Finance 
Limited (Startline) on 5 January 2017  for a car. This was a 46 month  agreement  for 
£4,291.23.
Mr W (1) says the car never had a parcel shelf so he says he shouldnt  be charged  for this. 
He says Mr W called Startline to advise them of this. He also says Mr W told Startlne that the 
Hire Purchase Agreement had the wrong price for the car on it. He says the price  agreed 
was £2,849 not £2,995.
Mr W (1) goes  onto to say that Mr W decided to voluntarily terminate (VT) his agreement  on 
3 January 2019. He says when the car was inspected Startlne sent Mr W a letter asking him 
to pay £4,225.35 for damage to the car.
Startline investigated  Mr Ws complaint and whilst it didnt uphold it, it did reduce the charges 
for damage  down to £306.35. It said Mr W signed  the agreement  stating  the price  of the car 
was £2,995. And it had no evidence that the parcel  shelf hadnt been  present at the point of 
sale.
Our investigator upheld  Mr Ws complaint. She felt the revised charges Startline applied 
were fair with the exception of the charge for the missing parcel shelf. She felt on balance  it 
was more likely than not this hadnt been  present at the point  of sale.
She felt it was likely  that Mr W had agreed  a price of £2,849  not £2,995 for the car as Mr W 
had provided an advertisement for the car showing the lower price.
Finally she felt that Startliine could  have provided Mr W with a better service.
She recommended that Startline:-
-Refund Mr W £128.75 for the missing parcel  shelf. And add 8% simple interest to this 
payment from 27 March 2019
-Reconstruct Mr Ws loan agreement to reflect the sale price of £2,849 from 
5 January 2017 until the date of settlement.  And add 8% simple  interest  to this refund
-Pay Mr W £100 for his inconvenience.
Mr W accepted this view but Startline didnt. It said Mr W had reviewed  and signed  a Hire 
Purchase Agreement stating the car price of £2,995  It also provided  a call recording to 
confirm that this was the agreed price.
Our investigator considered this information.  As a result  she still upheld Mr Ws complaint. 
But was satisfied Mr W had agreed the higher price for his car. She no longer recommended  
Ref: DRN88167262that Startline reconstruct Mr Ws loan agreement to reflect the lower figure. But she still felt 
her other recommendations should  stand.
Mr W (1) said there was another  phone  call later on when  Mr W disputed the figure on the 
Hire Purchase Contract. However  he said Mr W had decided not to pursue this.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think there is any dispute that Mr W took out a Hire Purchase Agreement with 
Startline in 2017, VTd this agreement  in 2019,  and that Startline originally billed Mr W 
£4,225.35 for damage to the car on its return, but subsequently reduced this down  to 
£306.35
I think there are several issues here for me to consider - the sale price  of the car, the 
charges Startline applied and if any compensation is appropriate in this case.
Mr W has said he doesnt want to pursue the difference in the price  he thought he agreed  for 
the car and the price on his Hire Purchase Agreement. So I am not going to go into great  
detail about that other  than to note that all the documentation shows  Mr W agreed  the 
slightly higher price.  Thats not to say he didnt dispute this at some  point. But as Mr W has 
accepted our investigators view on this I dont intend to go into this further.
In terms of the charges Startline applied for damage at the end of the contract. Startline says 
these were applied  fairly,  but it accepted that repairs to a used car would be significantly less 
in terms of cost than to a new car and so reduced the amount owing down  to £306.35. 
Ive seen the VT form Mr W signed  which does state  he would be liable  for any damage over 
and above fair wear  and tear. But even so I imagine it must have been very stressful  for 
Mr W to get a bill for £4,225  thats almost  the value of his Hire Purchase  Agreement.  And 
on complaint a reduction down to £306.25, albeit in Mr Ws favour,  is a huge reduction.  I 
imagine this reduction probably  left Mr W as confused as the original bill did.
I think some  charges for damage  might  be expected. The items  are all listed  in the 
inspection report.  So I dont think I can reasonably waive the full amount outstanding as 
Mr W has requested.
However in terms of the missing parcel shelf  Mr W has sent us a photo showing the car 
without a parcel shelf. I accept Startlines comment that this photo is undated. I think its 
possible that in a used car this could have been missing at the point of sale.  Mr W is 
insistent it was and I have found  him to be very reasonable  and consistent  in his complaint to 
us. On that basis I think its more likely than not that the parcel shelf  wasnt  present when 
Mr W got the car and the cost of that should be refunded  to him.
In terms of the appropriateness or not of any compensation our investigator recommended 
£100 as she felt Startline could have  provided  a better  service  to Mr W. 
Mr W (1) has told us Mr W made numerous calls to Startline and the vendor about the 
figures on the Hire Purchase Agreement and the missing parcel  shelf. Startline hasnt given 
us any customer notes  but has told us it has no record of any calls. 
Ref: DRN88167263I cant see why Mr W wouldnt have made  phone  calls if he wasnt happy. But equally I cant  
see why Startline wouldnt have  a record of these.
However I do feel that £100  is fair compensation for Mr W for the distress  and inconvenience  
relating to the charges  Startline applied for damage to his car. I think  most  consumers  would 
find such a large unexpected  bill stressful. And if Mr W hadnt challenged this figure he 
would have been left with a considerable debt to pay that ,as it turns out, he only needs  to 
pay a small portion of. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
In full and final settlement  Startline Motor Finance Limited should:-
-Refund Mr W £128.75 for the missing parcel  shelf. And add 8% simple interest to this 
from the date of payment to the date of settlement
-Pay Mr W £100 for his inconvenience
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 March  2020.
Bridget Makins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8816726