K821x#15complaint
Mr Ws complaint  against 2 Plan Wealth Management Limited is about the advice he was 
given to transfer his personal pension. He has a number of concerns about the transaction 
including:
The investments  recommended werent suitable for his risk profile
The adviser wasnt acting with his best interests in mind   the motivation behind the 
advice was to gain an ongoing fee and no consideration was given to remaining with 
the existing contract
The adviser never offered advice on other non-performing assets
2 Plan Wealth took fees early 
He was wrongly advised to invest further  in the pension despite having Fixed  
Protection which the adviser was aware  of
2 Plan Wealth ceased to act for him despite written  confirmation that they would 
continue to manage the fund during the course of his complaint
2 Plan Wealth failed to act in an appropriate manner in dealing  with his complaint
Overall, the firm had been paid a significant  fee, but had failed to provide the 
appropriate duty of care.
background
I sent my provisional decision on this complaint  (dated 8 April 2020) to 2 Plan Wealth and Mr 
W. The background  to the complaint  and the reasons why I intended to uphold it in part were 
set out in that decision. A copy of the provisional  decision  is attached  and it forms part of this 
final decision. 
I asked both parties to send me any further evidence  or arguments that they wanted  me to 
consider before I made  my final decision.
Mr W didnt accept my provisional findings.  In summary, he said:
The findings regarding  the investment decisions appeared to be more opinionated  
than fact. He thought  it unfair  and inaccurate to suggest hed been advised to expect 
the intended return to be lower.  If a lower return was expected  by the adviser  he had 
a duty of care to advise him that his risk profile was inappropriate and unsuitable. 
This didnt happen.
The original fund he transferred from was made up of a number of investments.  It 
was no more a single  fund than the investment recommended. It had provided good 
returns and this was a strong indicator  of his desire to maintain that level of return.  
He could have  remained invested  in it and not paid for additional  ongoing advice. He 
said if increasing his new risk profile to match the risk profile  of the existing fund was 
a way to achieve similar  returns, he should  have been advised accordingly
He provided comparative figures  showing the original fund performance was better  
than the funds he was recommended to move  to. For example his existing fund had 
returned an average 5.3%  per annum over the previous 20 years.  And it had returned 
8.25% during the period prior to the complaint;  whereas  the new portfolio provided 
only 0.43% over this same period. He didnt think some  of the funds could rightly 
form part of a low risk portfolio
Ref: DRN86766352He thought it inappropriate to defend the advisers reaction to his initial verbal  
complaint and the firms  handling of it. It also went back on its agreement to manage  
the fund during the complaint period
I hadnt commented on the pattern of investments and that some monies had been 
invested later than agreed
It was the range  and frequency of errors that demonstrated the failure to provide an 
acceptable duty of care. The advisers  handling  of the Fixed Protection 16 was a 
prime example, and the fact he was able to avoid financial damage  shouldnt enable 
a full mitigation  of 2 Plan Wealths  duty of care. Therefore the identified  failings 
shouldnt be set aside
He thought the level of mitigation I had allowed the adviser in my provisional  findings 
gave the impression the firm had done very little wrong. He thought  a reprimand for 
the adviser and a decision that caused the adviser to realise  the lack of care and 
attention wasnt  acceptable might reduce the number of complaints made to the 
Ombudsman Service.
2 Plan Wealth said it accepted the provisional  decision. But asked  that I consider the interest 
rate applied to the £130.66 of 8%. It said that as the complaint related to advice received in 
2017 it wasnt appropriate to apply this rate which  Mr W would  not have achieved in any 
bank account  from May 2017 to date.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im satisfied my provisional  decision 
covered some of the points Mr W has raised. However I have  provided  further  comment  
where I think its appropriate to do so.
As I said in my provisional decision,  portfolio asset allocation  isnt an exact  science. And I 
referred Mr W to one website that offered guidance  on portfolio asset allocation but he can 
find many  more online. Im not aware of any specific rules issued by the regulator  and it is, 
essentially, a matter of professional opinion and good industry  practice rather  than a sharp  
line being crossed and a particular rule having  been  breached.
There are a number of funds that are made up of different asset classes but it is still good 
practice to have some diversification away from a single fund/fund manager.  Different  fund 
managers will have reasonable different opinions on the future  value of different asset  
classes. So different investments/funds will outperform others at different times depending  
on their different holdings/strategies. Its therefore  sensible  not to have everything in one 
basket  in a single fund;  it mitigates  risk in the event that a particular funds strategy is 
unsuccessful and results  in poor performance. This would have a greater impact  with over 
exposure to a single  fund.
Its usual practice for an adviser to first establish  a clients risk profile and attitude to 
investment risk and then take that into account in recommending suitable funds. Mr W has 
said his risk profile should have been adjusted to match his existing  fund. That wouldnt 
usually be the right approach  in effect,  tailoring someones attitude to risk to match a funds 
risk; the funds risk might not be suitable for their circumstances. However risk profiling is a 
tool used to help as part of a wider  discussion about risk. Clearly I cannot determine  with any 
Ref: DRN86766353reasonable degree of certainty  exactly what was discussed about risk. But Mr W was 
recorded as having a cautious attitude to risk, and he has previously said several times that 
his primary complaint is that the funds selected didnt match  this profile. 
With the benefit of hindsight  its now possible to see that Mr W may have got better returns  
in his original  investment.  But there  was no guarantee that would  continue  (I accept there  
were also no guarantees with the new funds either). But for the reasons I set out in my 
provisional decision Im satisfied that the advice was suitable.
Mr W has raised concerns about how the firm handled his complaint. However, again, as I 
explained in my provisional decision,  there was no clear right or wrong approach  (from a 
customer service  point  of view) in terms of whether the firm agreed to a meeting about  the 
complaint; its a judgement call on the particular circumstances.  I have seen cases where  
holding meetings helps to resolve matters informally. But I have also seen cases  where  it 
has complicated the situation and caused additional  disputes; leading to further  arguments  
about what has been said or agreed  in such meetings.  I accept that the firm could have 
chosen to handle the complaint differently. But it was entitled to keep the matter to written 
correspondence and it alerted Mr W to his right to come to the Ombudsman  Service  in its 
final response letter. If Mr W didnt agree with its findings or thought it hadnt dealt with all his 
issues he was able to contact us. 
Mr W has referred to the £38,000  single  investment  made in November 2017.  He has said 
this was outside the agreed timetable. However the £38,000 invested  on 14 November  2017  
was the re-investment  of a sale of a different fund realising £38,000 on 13 November 2017.
My role isnt to fine or punish firms or reprimand them for their behaviour  it is the Financial 
Conduct Authority  (FCA)  that regulates  firms  conduct and has disciplinary powers.
I realise that Mr W has strong feelings about  the matter.  And I am not condoning the firms 
behaviour or setting  it aside  the mistake about  the Fixed Protection  could  have had 
significant consequences. I agree this showed  a lack of attention  and care. But I dont think  
the firm were at fault on the core issues, or that there  were  multiple failures.  
Overall, Im not persuaded that the firm made an error(s) that caused Mr W a financial loss. I 
accept that may have  been more by luck than judgement in respect of the additional pension 
contribution and Fixed Protection. But ultimately  thats the actual position. I also accept that 
Mr W may have been caused some  concern  given his suspicions about the firms  
competence. But taking everything into account, I dont think  any further award  is 
appropriate in the circumstances other than the refund of the £133.06 plus interest.
2 Plan Wealth has questioned  the level of interest  that should  be paid on the award. 
However, for the reasons  I outlined in my provisional  decision, I think  the 8% simple  interest  
is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. The alternative wouldnt be an account rate of 
interest. It would be the investment return the £130.06 would have achieved had it remained 
invested. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out in my provisional  decision and above,  my final decision is that I 
uphold Mr Ws complaint  in part.
Ref: DRN86766354I order that 2 Plan Wealth Management Limited  pays Mr W £133.06. It should add interest at 
the rate of 8% simple  per annum  from 15 May 2017  to the date of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 June  2020.
David Ashley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN86766355copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr Ws complaint  against 2 Plan Wealth Management Limited is about  the advice he was given to 
transfer his personal pension. He has a number  of concerns about  the transaction including:
The investments recommended werent  suitable for his risk profile
The adviser  wasnt  acting  with his best interests in mind  the motivation behind the advice 
was to gain an ongoing  fee and no consideration  was given to remaining  with the existing 
contract
The adviser  never offered advice  on other non-performing assets
2 Plan Wealth took fees early 
He was wrongly advised  to invest further in the pension despite having  Fixed Protection which  
the adviser was aware of
2 Plan Wealth ceased to act for him despite written confirmation that they would continue to 
manage the fund during the course of his complaint
2 Plan Wealth failed  to act in an appropriate manner  in dealing with his complaint
Overall, the firm had been  paid a significant fee, but had failed to provide the appropriate duty 
of care.
background
In brief, Mr W first met with an adviser  from 2 Plan Wealth in March  2015.  Following further meetings  
the adviser recommended that Mr W transfer his existing pension that had a value of around 
£940,000 to a different pension  provider. The main reasons behind the transfer were that the original 
pension didnt  allow Mr W to remain invested past the age of 75 whereas Mr W wanted to defer taking 
his benefits and remain invested; and the investments in the new plan were aligned to Mr Ws 
cautious risk profile whereas the original plans underlying  investments presented greater risk. 
Mr W transferred  his pension to a Flexi Access  Drawdown (FAD) plan in line with the advisers 
recommendation. The transfer value  was invested in a range of funds. Mr W also took out took out 
Fixed Protection 2016.
Mr W subsequently became  concerned about the advice  that hed been given and complained to the 
firm. The firm didnt uphold his complaint. It thought that the advice  Mr W had been given was suitable  
to his circumstances and objectives  and the investments  were in line with his agreed risk profile.  
Mr W referred his complaint to us and it was investigated by one of our adjudicators. The adjudicator 
provided his initial assessment of the complaint which  Mr W disagreed with. There followed a series 
of exchanges of correspondence. And ultimately, the adjudicators view was, in summary, that:
The advice to transfer to another provider was suitable given  the circumstances 
Therefore he didnt  think  the motivation behind the advice was fee driven 
The investments were  aligned with Mr Ws cautious risk profile
It was the provider that had paid the fee early. And overall the total fees paid were in line with 
what he had agreed at the outset 
Although 2 Plan Wealth had informed Mr W that he could invest more money  into his pension 
whilst he had Fixed  Protection 16, this hadnt caused  a loss
He didnt  think 2 Plan Wealth had responded to the complaint inappropriately  and once it 
had issued  its final response letter it wasnt  obliged to continue  dialogue with Mr W.
Mr W didnt  agree with the adjudicators assessment and asked that it be passed to an ombudsman 
for consideration. 
Ref: DRN86766356my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Whilst Ive considered and taken into account everything thats been 
said, Ive focused on what I consider is material to deciding the outcome of the complaint.  
Mr W doesnt  appear to dispute that it was suitable to switch out of his existing  pension given the 
restrictions that applied to it at age 75. And Im satisfied that a switch  was appropriate in the 
circumstances. However, my understanding  is that Mr W thinks that he should  have been advised  to 
switch products with his existing  provider  so he could remain invested in his existing fund. Mr W has 
said It certainly was my objective to either match  or better the [existing pensions] performance. No 
self-respecting investor is likely to declare  a requirement  for a lower return.
Whilst I understand the point Mr W is making, I think it does  require context.  Mr W was recorded as a 
cautious investor. The fund that Mr W was originally invested in presented a higher degree of risk 
than cautious. Some lower risk funds will outperform  those presenting greater risk. But I think  the 
implication of switching to a lower risk investment  is that, all other things being equal, there would be 
a general expectation of lower returns in exchange  for a lower exposure to risk. Its not reasonable to 
compare the returns between  funds presenting  differing levels of risk.
In this case Mr W had a significant amount invested into the original fund both inside and outside of 
his pension; he was heavily exposed to the investment performance of this single  fund. This,  in itself, 
presents additional risk  any underperformance  will have a greater impact than if the same money 
was split between different funds/fund managers. The fund also presented  a higher degree of risk 
than Mr W had agreed to take.  Whilst some  exposure to the fund may have  been suitable  in an 
overall balanced  portfolio, Mr W was clearly  overinvested  in this single fund. 
Diversification is a well-known principle of portfolio risk management as it can help mitigate exposure 
to risk. As I have said above,  the single fund here presented a greater degree of risk than Mr W had 
agreed to take.  So whether  or not the adviser  said that the existing  providers bubble was about  to 
burst, in terms of providing suitable financial  advice, it wasnt unreasonable to reduce  Mr Ws total 
exposure to it. The plan recommended had a competitive  charging  structure compared  to both the 
existing provider and alternatives. And costs  were  also competitive, particularly  compared to what  the 
existing provider had indicated it would charge.
Fund and asset allocation isnt an exact science. There are numerous  websites showing suggested 
asset allocations for investors  requiring differing levels of risk. An example  is the Personal  Investment 
Management & Financial  Advice  Association (PIMFA) Private Investor  Indices. Different investment 
managers may have slightly different views on an appropriate allocation. But whats consistent is that 
a portfolio can include a reasonable proportion  of investments that individually  might be higher or 
lower than the particular risk in question. Whats key is ensuring an overall balance with the risk 
profile agreed on.
Mr W has said that the primary  point of his complaint is that the adviser failed to select  funds in the 
new pension that matched  his risk averse investment profile. Clearly I cannot  determine  the 
motivation behind  the advisers advice  with any reasonable degree of certainty.   But ultimately,  Im 
satisfied that the range  of funds selected was aligned  to the cautious risk profile that had been 
agreed, and Im not persuaded that the advice to switch was unsuitable.
Mr W has queried whether  its illegal not to disclose a payment made  into your bank account that you 
know to be incorrect. The payment here wasnt an unusually high amount; it was the correct  amount, 
but just paid earlier than the agreement  provided for. And it was paid by the provider and not by 
someone unexpected. So I dont think it was something that should have stood  out or that the firm 
should have automatically spotted and known it to be incorrect.
Ref: DRN86766357However, although  I dont think the payment itself was an error on the firms part, ultimately, I dont 
think it was a payment  it was entitled to under its agreement with Mr W. And therefore I think it should 
have refunded the payment when Mr W raised the issue.
The Authorisation of adviser remuneration form was signed by Mr W on 9 December 2016. I have 
copied the relevant extract from it below.
And the Client Consent form signed by Mr W on 1 December 2016 referred  to the costs of the 
ongoing service as a fixed charge of £1,800 per annum. For Frequency of Payments it said Ongoing 
payment to start immediately or on month and a 6 was handwritten.
The agreement is clear  in that the fees for the ongoing service only started to be deducted after a six 
month period. However  there  is some ambiguity as to whether they started to accrue  immediately, or 
also after the six months.
The first deduction was made on 15 May 2017 for £133.06  so a month early. The firm has said that 
the agreement provided for an amount  of £1,800 per annum.  It said the fees were stopped in April 
2018 and overall were  lower  than the £1,800 per annum  allowed for in the agreement.
The agreement said that the £1,800  would be taken proportionally on the agreed basis  which was 
monthly. And the deductions reflected this - mostly of £152.77 or £147.84 and reflected a day rate 
calculated on the £1,800 per year. The last charge made was on 13 April 2018 for £152.77, with 12 
deductions made in total.
In my view,  as the agreement was that the first fee would be deducted after six months,  the first 
deduction in May 2017 was premature. The agreement provided for 11 deductions  for the period  
between June  2017  and when the last deduction was made in April 2018. There  was no mechanism  
in the agreement to reclaim  fees that werent  due for deduction prior to June 2017 (either through  a 
higher proportional payment  or higher stating or end deduction to reflect amounts owing). And there 
would be very little material  benefit to Mr W if  the intention was that fees would accrue  between  the 
start of the plan and June  2017 but be payable  at a later date; the investment returns  on those fees 
not having  been deducted  being negligible.  I think  the only sensible interpretation  of the agreement  is 
that fees werent accruing  or payable for the first 6 months  and this is consistent  with how the fees 
were deducted apart from the early  deduction of that first fee.
So I think the firm were  overpaid by the value of the first deduction - £133.06 - and should  refund that 
money to Mr W.
Mr W has also complained that the adviser  never offered advice on other non-performing assets. He 
provided a copy of an e-mail he sent to the firm on 3 January 2017 requesting advice on his poorly 
invested cash  ISAs and funds held within a Trust.  He says this shows that he pushed  the adviser for 
further advice but, despite some work  on ISAs,  he still had over £200,000  un-invested.
Although Mr W wanted  further  advice  he has acknowledged that some advice  was subsequently 
given on ISAs. Mr W had a meeting with the adviser  on Wednesday  5 April and two recommendation 
letters were subsequently  sent about  ISA holdings. Whilst I accept  he may have wanted advice on 
other assets I think if obtaining such advice  earlier  rather than later had been a concern  to Mr W it 
would have been reasonable for him to have chased the adviser at the time of his April 2017 meeting 
knowing it appeared to have been overlooked.  There is a clear  difficulty  in saying how those  other 
assets might have been re-invested, in what way and when. Or concluding  that the lack of advice 
resulted in losses to Mr W  without the benefit  of hindsight.  
Its clear that the adviser initially recommended that Mr W made further contributions to his pension. 
And this could have had negative  consequences given Mr W had Fixed Protection  2016. This was 
clearly an error on the part of the adviser. However whilst it was Mr W himself that prevented this, 
Ref: DRN86766358ultimately no further contributions were made. So no damage was caused by the error  albeit I 
accept it would have undermined Mr Ws faith in the quality of the firms advice.
Like the adjudicator, Ive seen no persuasive  evidence  that 2 Plan Wealth failed to deal with his 
complaint in an appropriate manner. And although 2 Plan Wealth did initially confirm  that it would  
continue to manage  the fund during the course of his complaint, but then went  back  on that 
agreement, once  a relationship has broken down  and trusts lost theres  obviously a tension and 
scope for further dispute. I accept that it might have caused Mr W a degree of inconvenience,  but I 
dont think theres a clear right or wrong approach  and its a judgement call on the particular  
circumstances. 
Although I think the firm could  have done some  things  better as I have explained  above, I dont think  
its errors caused  any material financial detriment to Mr W (the isolated  fee apart). And for the reasons  
outlined, Im satisfied that the advice  to switch pension plans was suitable in the circumstances, in 
particular the new funds selected,  which Mr W has said was his primary  concern. 
my provisional  decision
Accordingly, my provisional decision is that I uphold Mr Ws complaint in part. 
I intend  to order that 2 Plan Wealth Management Limited  pays Mr W £133.06. Given the sum involved 
I currently intend that it adds interest  at the rate of 8% simple  per annum  from 15 May 2017 to the 
date of settlement  (I think this is pragmatic  given the amounts involved  and the work required  for the 
alternative - to obtain the investment growth on it).
David Ashley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8676635