K820x#14complaint
Ms T is complaining about Countrywide  Assured Plc because she says she was mis-sold a 
critical illness and income  protection insurance policy  alongside her mortgage.  She says she 
was told she needed to have the policy to get a mortgage.
background
In 2001, Ms T arranged  her first mortgage. At the same time, she was sold a critical illness 
insurance policy designed to pay a lump  sum if she suffered a serious illness. It also 
included income  protection  designed  to pay a long-term regular income if she couldnt  work 
due to ill-health. The policy  was set to run for the whole of Ms Ts life but I understand  she 
has since cancelled it.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld.  She didnt think  there  was 
enough evidence  Ms T was wrongly told she had to take the policy. She also felt it was a 
suitable recommendation.
Ms T didnt accept the adjudicators assessment  and asked for her case  to be reviewed.  She 
maintains she was told she had to have the policy and says that, as a first-time buyer, she 
didnt know any better.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
adjudicators conclusions for much the same  reasons. Im not upholding it.
Ive taken account of what  Ms T says she was told. But on their own and without additional  
supporting evidence, I dont think her comments are enough for me to say she was misled  
about the need to take her policy.
This notwithstanding, Ms T received advice and the adviser had a responsibility to make 
sure any recommendation  was suitable  for her circumstances and needs.
Ms T was taking on a significant financial commitment with her new mortgage. As a single 
person, I think it was reasonable to recommend she take a policy that would provide her with 
a lump sum if she became seriously ill and/or  a regular  income  if she couldnt work for a 
protracted period  due to ill-health. These benefits  would hopefully  have enabled  her to repay 
her mortgage and meet her other commitments  in those very unfortunate circumstances.
Because the policy was set up for the whole of Ms Ts life (rather than just for the term of her 
mortgage) and subject  to regular reviews, there could be a question about  whether it was the 
most suitable way of protecting  her commitment. The available evidence  indicates a policy  
with a set term was also recommended but didnt  go ahead in the end. The evidence also 
shows equivalent critical illness and income  protection cover with a term to match the 
mortgage would have been  more  expensive. As Ms T has now cancelled her policy  without a 
claim being made, I couldnt reasonably  say she was disadvantaged by being sold a 
cheaper, reviewable policy.
I appreciate my decision will come as a disappointment  to Ms T and isnt what  she was 
hoping to hear. I also understand why she may now regret taking the policy.  But I dont think 
Ref: DRN89706542theres sufficient evidence to show she was misled  about the need to take it and Im satisfied 
it was reasonable  to recommend she have  this type of cover.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 February  2019.
Jim Biles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8970654