K820x#14complaint
Mr C says Lloyds Bank  PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold him a payment protection insurance  (PPI)  
policy. 
background
In 1997 Mr C took out a personal  loan in a Lloyds branch. At the same time he was sold a 
single premium PPI policy. If hed made a successful claim on the policy, it could have  
covered the loan repayments for up to 12 months if he was made unemployed  which was 
the term of the loan  and for the remaining term of the loan if he had an accident or was 
sick. The policy also included life cover. 
Our adjudicator didn't think  the complaint should  be upheld. Mr C disagreed, so the case  has 
been passed to me for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding  
Mr Cs case.
Having done so, Im not upholding it. Ill explain why. 
Mr C says he wasnt given enough  information about the policy or told that he had a choice 
about taking it. Unfortunately,  Lloyds doesnt have a copy of the documents which were 
completed at the time of the sale. But this is understandable given how long ago it took place 
and businesses arent required to keep records indefinitely. 
But Lloyds has been able to give us a sample  loan agreement which  it says would have  
been used at the time for such branch sales. It has a section  about  PPI which has yes or 
no tick boxes to show whether the customer wanted  to take out that type of protection. And 
from experience of Lloyds sales processes at this time, I think its likely that this section 
would have been completed  after a discussion about  the policy had taken place.  and the 
yes box would have  been ticked if the customer had agreed to buy PPI. 
I can also see that the part of the loan agreement showing how much the PPI cost was 
headed OPTIONAL  LOAN  REPAYMENT PROTECTION. So on the information I have 
available, I think Mr Cs likely to have known at the time he had a choice about buying the 
policy and actively decided to do so. But I can understand why he might  not remember this 
now. 
I think its more likely Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr C. So it should have looked  into 
whether it was right for him. I dont know if it did this. But from what I know of his 
circumstances at the time, I cant see any reason  why it wouldnt have been right for him.
Mr C appears  to have been  eligible for the policy. And he doesnt seem  likely to have been 
affected by any of the main policy exclusions or limitations  a pre-existing medical condition 
as an example. 
I havent seen  any reason  to think the cost of the PPI was unaffordable for Mr C.
Ref: DRN89915332Mr C has said that because he was self-employed then the policy  wasnt right for him. But 
Ive checked the policy  terms and there isnt anything that would make it more  difficult  for a 
self-employed person to make a claim than for an employed person. And Mr C has told us 
that he wouldnt receive any sick pay if he wasnt able to work  or had any other financial 
means he could have relied  upon. So overall, I think the he would have found the PPI useful 
and offered him a worthwhile protection he wouldnt otherwise  have had.
If the loan had been repaid early,  Mr C wouldnt have been given a proportional refund of the 
premium hed paid for the policy. So this made it relatively inflexible. I cant  be sure that 
Lloyds considered this or explained the situation clearly to Mr C. But Ive seen nothing to 
suggest that is was particularly  likely that hed repay  the loan early.  So I dont think this 
inflexibility made the policy  unsuitable  for him. 
Lloyds also needed  to give Mr C enough  information for him to decide  if he wanted  to buy 
the policy. Its possible the information  Lloyds  gave Mr C about the PPI  and especially 
concerning the interest hed have to pay on the PPI premium  wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But he chose to take out the policy and so appears  to have wanted this type of 
cover. And I dont  think  the amount of interest,  at around £17, was enough to put him off. For 
much the same reasons that I dont think the policy was unsuitable for him, I dont think  
better information would  have  changed  his mind about  buying it.
Ive taken into account Mr Cs comments about  not being given enough information about  
the policy and the fact he was self-employed at the time. But because  of what  Ive said 
above, these points dont change my mind. So I dont think Mr Cs lost out because  of how 
Lloyds sold him the PPI.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 October  2019.
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8991533