K821x#15complaint
Mr P complains that a car he has financed through an agreement  with Lex Autolease  Ltd 
(Lex) is not of satisfactory quality.  
background
Mr P took receipt of a new car in June 2016. He financed the deal through a two year hire 
agreement with Lex. But the clutch failed  after 3,800 miles and hed like Lex to pay for the 
repair.
Lex commissioned an independent engineers inspection of the car. The engineer  said the 
failure was:
a result of abnormal  operator technique or the type of usage the vehicle has been  
subjected to
So Lex said they werent responsible for the repair costs as it was clear  to them  that the 
damage had been  done by driver misuse.  
Mr P was dissatisfied so he referred his complaint to this service  and our adjudicator  
provided his opinion. He noted  that the independent engineer  had not explained why 
manufacturing concerns  wouldnt be a problem.  He thought a reasonable person would think  
this failure was premature and it was for Lex to demonstrate  that the failure was a result  of 
poor driving  technique.  He didnt think theyd done that. So he suggested that Lex should 
pay for the clutch repair and reimburse any finance instalments for the period Mr P had been 
without a car or a courtesy  vehicle.
But Lex disagreed.  They said the rate at which the clutch failed was entirely dependant  on 
the style of driving and they didnt  need to prove the fault was down to poor driving style, just 
that the fault was not inherent or down to normal wear and tear. They therefore asked for a 
final decision  by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view and for similar reasons. Please let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr P acquired his car under a hire agreement. The relevant law says that the car should 
have been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Lex are responsible  and Id 
think it fair and reasonable to ask them to put this right. 
Ref: DRN83250982Mr P says he first talked to the dealership about  the failing clutch after about seven or eight 
months. The exact date isnt clear but the mileage hed completed is: hed only covered  
3,800 miles. Thats considerably lower than average mileage and I think its fair to take this 
into account when  considering whether its likely this fault was present or developing at the 
point of supply.  I dont think a reasonable person would expect the clutch  on a brand new car 
to fail so soon. So I have to consider whether that premature failure  was most likely to be the 
result of poor driving  style or usage or to be developing in the car at the point of supply.
Mr P has explained hes been driving  for more  than 50 years.  He says hes never 
experienced premature clutch failure  but that, as Lex have pointed out, is difficult  to prove.  
However, its clear hes not an inexperienced driver and I think its most  likely that he would 
understand the impact driving style would have on clutch failure because,  if he didnt, over 
the course of 50 years  he wouldve  damaged  a few clutches. And I think  its most likely he 
wouldve learned how to adapt his style to prevent such a failure.
So I think its most likely the fault was developing at the point of supply  but even if Im wrong 
about that, the relevant  legislation also says that when we consider satisfactory quality we 
should consider  whether the car has proven to be suitably durable. And here I dont think  the 
clutch has been.
In those circumstances Lex are entitled to one opportunity to repair the vehicle and so I think 
they should pay for the clutch repairs. The adjudicator has suggested that Lex also refund 
some of Mr Ps finance instalments for the period he was without use of the car and didnt 
have a courtesy vehicle.  Ive reviewed the history  thats been provided and think  its 
reasonable to suggest this was for about one month  and Im grateful to Lex for agreeing this. 
So Im asking them to reimburse the October  2017  instalment.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell Lex Autolease Ltd to:
reimburse the cost of the clutch repair of £1841.09  and add 8% simple interest from 
the time of payment  to the date of settlement
reimburse one monthly  finance  instalment in recognition of the loss of use Mr P has 
experienced
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 August 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8325098