K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that a car he is financing  through an agreement with FirstRand Bank 
Limited, trading  as MotoNovo  Finance  (MotoNovo), is not of satisfactory  quality.
background
Mr G took receipt of a used car in January  2018.  He financed the deal through a hire 
purchase agreement  with MotoNovo. At the point of supply the car was about  seven years 
old and had completed about 150,000  miles.
Mr G says the car has been  smoking  and misfiring since he took receipt of it. In May 2018 he 
had repairs to the brakes, suspension and wheels completed and the glow plugs and glow 
plug unit were replaced.
In June 2018 he complained to MotoNovo and they arranged for the dealership to look at the 
car. The dealership  replaced the fuel injectors  but there was some  delay as they lost Mr Gs 
keys. MotoNovo also arranged an independent  inspection of the car.
The independent inspector noted  that red diesel had been  used in the vehicle and there 
were fault codes showing that were consistent  with mapping issues with the ECU. They  also 
suggested that the glow plugs that had been  fitted  may not be compatible. They  didnt think  
there was evidence that any of the faults  noted would have been likely to be present when 
the car was supplied  to Mr G. MotoNovo  said that, as they were only responsible for the 
quality of the vehicle at the point of supply, they didnt think  they needed to take any further 
action.
But Mr G disagreed and he therefore  referred his complaint to this service  where  our 
adjudicator provided  an opinion.  He didnt think sufficient evidence  had been provided that 
the car was faulty or developing a fault at the point of supply. He thought MotoNovo  had 
been reasonable to replace the fuel injectors  free of charge and to provide a courtesy car 
and compensate Mr G for the days his car was in the garage and the keys were lost. He 
noted that Mr G had also complained he was unaware the warranty provided was only six 
months but he noted the warranty had been  provided at the point of supply when he thought 
Mr G would most likely  have been made aware  of its length. He therefore  didnt think there 
was evidence MotoNovo had done anything wrong or that overall, they needed  to take any 
further action.
But Mr G disagreed and he asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view.  I know that will disappoint Mr G so please let me explain 
why.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Ref: DRN86416932Mr G acquired  his car under a hire purchase  agreement. The hire purchase agreement  is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement  and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.  
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the car should  have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied.  If it wasnt then MotoNovo, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant  law also says the quality of goods  is satisfactory  if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price  and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied  to Mr G. The car here 
was around seven years old and had completed  150,000 miles. I think a reasonable person 
would expect a car of this age and mileage  to have some faults relating to wear  and tear and 
to consider that some components may be reaching the end of their operational life. 
MotoNovos responsibility  for the car is not unlimited. Whilst they are responsible for its 
condition at the point of supply they are not responsible for faults that develop afterwards 
such as those relating  to wear and tear.  
I take account of relevant law when deciding what is fair and reasonable. On this basis  if I 
thought the car was faulty when supplied and this fault made the car not of satisfactory  
quality, Id think it fair and reasonable to ask MotoNovo to put this right. 
The independent inspector didnt  think it was likely  any of the faults he noted on the car 
wouldve been present at the point of supply. He said the fuel in the car was probably  
agricultural red diesel  and he noted there were several fault codes showing,  some of which 
may be related  to the ECU being  remapped. The independent expert, who I note is a motor  
mechanic with 31 years experience, didnt think it was most likely these faults were present 
at the point of supply  and MotoNovo  have relied on his expertise when deciding not to 
support Mr Gs complaint.  But Mr G insists he didnt  put red diesel in the car and hes 
evidently surprised  at the mapping concerns. 
Where the information  Ive got is unclear or contradictory, as is the case  here,  I have to base  
my decision  on the balance of probabilities. I think it would be unreasonable  to suggest  the 
faults the car now experiences were  present at the point of supply  as the expert  says they 
probably werent. I think the fault with the glow plugs and the need to replace the fuel 
injectors is something that may fairly be anticipated  in a car of this age and considerable 
mileage so I dont think it would be fair to suggest their failure would indicate the car was not 
of satisfactory quality when supplied.
Ive looked at the quote from a garage  for repair work  that Mr G provided to MotoNovo in 
September 2018. MotoNovo refused to consider  that report as they said the mileage 
recorded on it was less than the mileage on an invoice supplied in May 2018. They also said 
that the quote wasnt letter headed.  I dont agree that this quote should be disregarded.  The 
mileage on the car noted by the independent  inspector  in July 2018 was 158,386 and Mr G 
has explained hes not been able to drive the car. Its therefore  feasible the estimated 
mileage recorded  by the garage would have been  158,000 and I dont think  the lack of a 
more detailed letter heading is overly concerning. An internet search  would suggest  the 
business is a small  enterprise.
Ref: DRN86416933However, whilst  the quotation  details several faults,  it doesnt make any suggestion as to the 
origin of those faults and, regardless, I find the independent inspectors report more  
persuasive as he has a duty to the court to provide  independent evidence.
So Im not persuaded that there is sufficient evidence to suggest the faults Mr G complains 
of were present  at the point  of supply and that MotoNovo need to take any further  action.
I note that Mr G also complains that he wasnt provided with a warranty  at the point of supply 
and that he wasnt  therefore aware  of its length. Ive seen  a copy  of the warranty  which was 
originally for three months but was extended  to six. Its clear Mr G was covered for the first 
six months and in the absence of any other evidence I think  its likely this warranty  was 
provided at the point  of supply as it was clearly active at that point.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 October  2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8641693