K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that Virgin  Money  plc (Virgin Money) didnt make  a promotional offer 
available to him and gave  poor service.
background
In 2018, Virgin Money  launched a new Rewards  credit card in partnership  with an airline,  
where cardholders  earn airline miles when they use the credit  card.  The airline had 
previously offered a similar card in partnership  with another credit card provider and Mr G 
had held one of those credit  cards.  Mr G took out a Virgin Money  Rewards credit  card and 
first used his card in May 2018.
Mr G later became aware through a third party website of a promotional offer called 
Winback Miles being made to Rewards  cardholders. The website   and its editor  - said that 
all cardholders whod held the airlines old credit  card were being  given the chance  to 
receive extra airline miles if they spent a minimum on their credit card over a set time period.  
Virgin Money hadnt contacted Mr G about this Winback Miles offer so he contacted it to ask 
why. Hed held the old credit card so thought he should have been  invited. After some back  
and forth,  Virgin Money said that hed need to contact the airline to discuss this because the 
airline had decided which customers to invite. Mr G didnt think this answer was good  
enough and escalated his query into a complaint. 
Virgin Money didnt  uphold Mr Gs complaint  because  it said the airline was responsible for 
the Winback Miles offer, but offered £60 as a gesture of goodwill for service issues. 
Mr G wasnt happy with this outcome. He says he then contacted the airline  but it told him to 
discuss the complaint  with Virgin  Money  so he feels  hes being  passed between Virgin 
Money and the airline and not been given a clear answer. He thinks he should have been 
invited to participate in the Winback Miles offer and wants to be awarded the value of the 
extra airline points  he thinks he shouldve been  able to earn.  
Mr G brought his complaint to our service for an independent view. An investigator 
considered the complaint but didnt uphold it because they considered  that the airline  was 
responsible for the offer, not Virgin Money  and the airline is not regulated by our service. 
Mr G wasnt happy with this outcome and asked for an ombudsman decision, so his 
complaint was referred to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconsistent or contradictory, I have  made  my decision based  on the balance of probabilities  
- that is, what I consider is most  likely to have  happened in light of the available evidence  
and the wider circumstances.
Ref: DRN81885542Ours is an informal dispute resolution  service, and not a regulator or court. I say that 
because Mr G has raised several points about the legal and relationship  between  the parties 
here that I havent  covered in my decision and I hope he doesnt see this as discourtesy or a 
failure to investigate thoroughly. A legal determination is better carried  out by the court. Its 
also important to highlight  that our service is impartial between, and independent  from, 
consumers and businesses. Ive considered all the available evidence,  everything Mr G has 
said, and the relevant  law and regulations, but my decision  focuses on what  I consider the 
crux of the issue here  whether Virgin Moneys actions here led to a fair and reasonable 
outcome for Mr G. 
Its clear from the evidence here that some  Rewards cardholders were  invited to participate 
in the Winback  Miles  offer, but Mr G wasnt one of them. Whats disputed   and what  I 
consider to be the crux of this matter  is whether Virgin Money didnt invite  Mr G to 
participate in an offer when it shouldve done, which  unfairly  disadvantaged him. 
Virgin Money has consistently said that it didnt select which  cardholders  would be eligible 
for the Winback Miles offer, and that the customers were chosen by the airline.  The evidence 
here is inconclusive,  but on balance Im satisfied that this is the most  likely  explanation. I say 
this because the airline had an existing relationship with these  cardholders  and a 
commercial reason to make the offer to them  but they were new customers  to Virgin  
Money. Virgin Money says it didnt  know which Rewards cardholders had held the earlier  
airline credit  cards. I also see that the Winback Miles invitations were sent by the airline, 
which leads me to think it led the offer.  And Virgin Moneys told us that its now asked the 
airline why Mr G wasnt sent an invitation to Winback  Miles and the airline explained that at 
the time the offer was made,  Mr G had set his contact preferences  so he wouldnt be sent 
marketing communications. Taking all these points together,  I find Virgin  Moneys 
explanation that it didnt  select  the customers to be plausible and consistent and, on 
balance, the most likely explanation. 
Even if Virgin Money had selected the customers invited to Winback  Miles  and, as Ive 
explained, I dont  think it did  Im not persuaded that Mr G should have been selected.  
Financial businesses are entitled to make promotional offers and set the eligibility  criteria for 
them. The Winback Miles communications Ive seen dont connect the offer to the former 
airline credit  card scheme, and dont say that all the holders of the earlier cards were eligible. 
That connection comes  from a discussion between Mr G and a third party  who doesnt 
represent Virgin Money or the airline. I dont think this third party explanation is enough to 
say conclusively that the offer was meant for all holders of the previous card, including Mr G.
I also cant see anything to suggest  that Virgin Money gave  Mr G reason to think hed be 
eligible to earn extra miles when he wasnt. Ive read the terms and conditions  that Mr G 
wouldve accepted  when he took out his Rewards  credit card and theres no reference  to this 
offer. Mr G has said that Virgin Money didnt invite him to participate in the offer or ever 
suggest he was eligible  for it. And Virgin Moneys  communications about Winback  Miles  
clearly say the offer was only available to customers whod received a personal invitation  
which Mr G knew  he hadnt. 
Taking everything together, Im not persuaded that Virgin Money shouldve invited Mr G to 
participate in this offer or that it ever gave him the impression that it would. Because  of this, I 
think it would  be unreasonable to order Virgin Money to give him the airline miles he says he 
wouldve earned from Winback Miles  particularly because he knew  he wasnt invited  to 
participate, so didnt  spend on his Rewards  card to earn the miles.
Ref: DRN81885543The second  part of Mr Gs complaint refers to how Virgin Money dealt with him here. I see 
that it didnt register  his concerns as a complaint at first, and Mr G didnt receive a call back 
hed been promised. This would have been  frustrating - but I think the £60 Virgin  Money paid 
him by cheque was fair in the circumstances. I understand  why Mr G thinks Virgin Money  
hasnt answered  his questions fully  but I dont think Virgin  Money set the terms of the offer 
so I think it was reasonable for it to refer Mr G to the airline for more information as it did 
here. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I do not uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 June  2019.
Katy Pillai
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8188554