K821x#15complaint
Mr G complains that Barclays Bank  UK PLC refused his application to open a basic  current
account. He also complains that Barclays gave him misleading information.
background
The background to this complaint was set out in my provisional decision in April 2019, an 
extract of which is attached and forms part of this final decision. So, I wont repeat that 
information here. 
In my provisional decision,  I set out why I intended to uphold  Mr Gs complaint in part. I 
invited both parties to let me have any further  comments and evidence. Barclays  said that it 
had nothing further to add. Mr G said:
The branch  manager said he believed that the banks refusal  to open an account was 
incorrect and asked  for his credit  history but the bank later told him that his credit 
history wouldnt change anything.
He believes that Barclays  decision was discriminatory.
The impact of the hard search  on his credit  file  hasnt been considered properly and 
it should be removed.
The bank  used  automated individual decision-making and he has a right not to be 
subject to that.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G says that the branch manager said he believed that the banks refusal  to open an 
account for Mr G was incorrect and asked  him for further information. I dont think  that alters  
the outcome here. It remains the case  that Barclays came to a decision it was entitled to 
make. Ive seen nothing  to support Mr Gs assertion that the banks decision was 
discriminatory. 
The search on Mr Gs credit  file accurately reflects what Barclays did. I see no grounds  on 
which to direct it to remove the search.  
Mr G is concerned about his rights  under  the General Data Protection Regulations. The  
Information Commissioners Office  is a more appropriate body to consider any such  
complaint. The link to its website is: https://ico.org.uk/make-a-complaint/
I see no reason to depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.  So, I 
dont think Barclays made an error  or acted unfairly in failing to open a basic bank account 
for Mr G. I remain of the view that there are no grounds on which  to direct  Barclays  to 
remove the record of its credit search. But some of the service Barclays gave to Mr G was 
poor and it has agreed to increase compensation by £150, making £250 in total.  I think thats 
fair.
Ref: DRN84102552my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold Mr Gs complaint  in part. I now require Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay Mr G 
compensation of £150 in addition to the £100 it has already  paid. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 June  2019.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN84102553extract of provisional decision
complaint
Mr G complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC refused his application  to open a basic current 
account. He also complains that Barclays gave him misleading information.
background
In July 2018, Mr G went into a branch  of Barclays in order  to open  a current  account. He says that 
Barclays told him that as hed only recently moved to the UK, he wasnt  eligible for a standard  
current account and it suggested he apply  for a basic bank account.  Barclays subsequently refused 
Mr Gs application for a basic bank account.
Mr G appealed against  Barclays decision but says that he didnt receive a response,  so he 
contacted the branch again.  Barclays then told Mr G that he should provide a copy  of his credit 
report to support  his appeal but later said that it wouldnt change the outcome of his application.
Mr G says he doesnt understand why Barclays refused his application. He says that the bank didnt  
respond to his request for clarification and gave him misleading information. He wants  Barclays to 
explain its decision-making  and the reasons  why it refused his application. Mr G also wants Barclays 
to remove searches  from his credit file and compensation.
In response to Mr Gs complaint, Barclays paid him compensation  of £100 in relation to the 
incorrect information it gave him and its complaint  handling.
Our investigator said that Barclays should remove any entries relating to Mr Gs application from his 
credit file and increase compensation  by £150.  She said that there was a general expectation that 
most customers would qualify for a basic bank account and where a bank refuses an application, 
wed expect it to explain  its reason for that decision. The investigator  said that Barclays couldnt now 
tell us the reason  why it declined Mr Gs application.
The investigator didnt think it was fair for the entries about this to remain on Mr Gs credit file when 
the bank couldnt explain  the reason for its decision or show  it hadnt  made  a mistake.  She thought  
that the compensation of £100 Barclays had already  paid didnt reflect the confusion, distress and 
overall impact this had on Mr G.
Barclays agreed to increase  compensation  by £150, making £250 in total. It didnt agree to remove 
the search on Mr Gs credit  file. It said that it had an obligation to report  accurate information and 
the search doesnt reveal that it refused  the application.
The investigator said that it isnt sufficient to rely on the fact that the entry  on Mr Gs credit file is 
factual, as we need to look at whats fair. She said that it wasnt  clear  why Barclays had refused 
Mr Gs application and reference to potential  reasons  was speculative.  The investigator said that 
she couldnt  be sure that Barclays didnt  make a mistake, so the fairest  think  is to treat the 
application as if it had never happened. She said that whilst Mr Gs credit file may not say that 
Barclays refused  the application, other potential  lenders  would see a search that didnt lead to the 
opening of an account  for reasons that cant be explained.
Ref: DRN84102554Barclays said that it was likely that the reason  it refused  Mr Gs application  was because he didnt  
have an extensive credit history in the UK but as it no longer  had the relevant  information, it cant be 
certain.
Mr G said that if we decide that we cant compel  Barclays to remove the credit search  from his 
credit file, hed ask it, as a very last resort, to open the account.
As there was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Banks have  a wide discretion about  to whom they do and dont offer accounts and the information 
they take into account in making those decisions. Provided that a bank doesnt make a decision 
unfairly or unreasonably, it is not something with which I would  ordinarily  interfere.
There are regulations about when and to whom a bank should provide a basic bank account. Thats  
because, as a matter of public policy, its important that individuals who dont have and dont qualify 
for a standard current account have access to basic  banking facilities. Those regulations  arent 
relevant here. Thats because one of the eligibility  criteria  for a basic bank account  is that a consumer 
doesnt have a payment account with another credit  institution  that has at least  the features of a basic 
bank account. I understand  that 
Mr G has another bank  account.
As the regulations about  basic bank accounts dont apply here, Barclays  isnt obliged to offer Mr G a 
basic bank account and doesnt have to give its reasons  for refusing Mr Gs application.
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that Barclays followed its usual process in relation to Mr Gs 
application and came to a decision it was entitled to come  to. Ive seen nothing to indicate  that its 
acted unfairly  or unreasonably.  So, I dont propose to ask it to review its decision.
Part of Barclays process involves  a credit search. There are no grounds on which  to direct
Barclays to remove the record of its credit search. It carried out the credit search  during the course of 
a properly considered application and the record of the search accurately reflects what Barclays did.
Some of the service  Barclays gave to Mr G was poor, in particular, it gave him incorrect information 
about how he could appeal its decision to refuse to open  an account. Barclays has agreed to 
increase compensation  by £150, making  £250 in total.  I think thats fair and I dont propose to direct it 
to pay any more.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  my provisional  decision is that I intend to uphold Mr Gs complaint 
in part and direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay him compensation of £150  in addition to the £100 it 
has already  paid.
Ref: DRN8410255