K821x#15complaint
Mr G complains that Barclays  Bank  UK Plc didnt  raise chargebacks on his behalf for 
payments hed made on his debit card.
background
In May 2018  Mr G phoned Barclays because he was concerned about two payments hed 
made to a website provider (W).  He said he was worried W wouldnt build his website to a 
suitable quality  and he wanted to know if hed be able to get his money back. Barclays 
advised Mr G to give W a chance to provide the service  hed paid for and to let it know if he 
wasnt happy with the outcome.
In January 2019 Mr G called Barclays again because he wasnt  happy  with the service W 
had provided. Barclays  told him it was too late to raise chargebacks  because  of the 
timescales that applied.  It said it only had 120 days to dispute a transaction.
Our investigator looked into Mr Gs complaint and thought  it should  be upheld.  She said 
Barclays had given  the wrong information about  the timescales. The transactions were for a 
service to be provided at a future  date.  This meant Barclays had 120 days  from the date the 
website was completed to raise  the chargebacks. Mr G received the final website in 
February 2019 so the chargebacks could have been  raised  up until June 2019.  Barclays  
could have raised the chargebacks in January  when  Mr G asked it to. It had the opportunity  
to review its decision in April 2019,  following Mr Gs complaint, but still didnt raise the 
chargebacks.
It was too late for the chargebacks to be raised  when  our investigator looked into Mr Gs 
complaint. But she thought Mr Gs claim would likely  have been  successful  if Barclays had 
raised them in time.  She recommended Barclays refund each of Mr Gs transactions to W 
(totalling £2,900) and add 8% simple interest  to the date of each transaction  to the date of 
the settlement.  She thought Barclays should pay an additional £100 for loss of expectation 
and inconvenience.
Barclays didnt agree with our investigators  proposed settlement. It said Mr G had been 
working alongside W up until they provided him with a near complete version of the website, 
and Mr G appeared to happy with what he was seeing. It could appreciate there  was a 
specification discrepancy  but, up until the final payment of £400, Mr G had continued to use 
Ws services. Barclays said it was happy  to refund the £400 plus a further £200 for the 
incorrect information provided about  being  unable to raise  the chargebacks. But it didnt  
agree that chargebacks would likely have been  successful.  A partial  service  had been 
provided and a website was provided so a full refund wasnt  something Barclays was willing  
to agree to.
I issued a provisional decision on 13 January 2020 where I explained  why I intended to 
uphold Mr Gs complaint. In that decision  I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Based on what Ive seen so far, I plan to 
uphold Mr Gs complaint. But I intend to reach slightly conclusions  to the investigator,  and 
this includes the redress I think is appropriate to settle it fairly.
Ref: DRN80037002Barclays has accepted  it should have raised  chargebacks for Mr G when he requested it in 
January 2019  as this wasnt out of time according to the VISA rules. But it says its only 
willing to compensate him for his last payment (of £400) as it thinks the chargeback  requests 
for his other payments  would likely  have been  unsuccessful.
The VISA rules mean its too late for Barclays to attempt any chargebacks  now.  But Barclays  
agrees that it should have attempted the chargebacks. So, Ive thought  about  the likelihood 
of them  being  successful to determine  Mr Gs likely financial loss. 
From what  Ive seen, Mr G made  four separate payments to W:
May 2018 - £650  initial payment for website
May 2018 - £1,350  payment for marketing package (including search engine 
optimisation, social media)
June 2018  - £500 for video and sliding feature
December 2018 - £400 for website protection and GDPR
Mr G has provided  us with copies of the emails between him and W. I can see he worked 
closely with W on the website. I know he feels that he did a lot of the work himself, but it also 
looks like W tried hard to accommodate Mr Gs requirements for the website. And Mr G 
indicated on many occasions he was happy  with much of the work  W was doing. 
From what  Ive seen and been  told, the website was built,  but it never  went live because W 
wasnt able to meet Mr Gs requirement for a sliding feature. I dont think a chargeback for 
Mr Gs initial  £650 payment would likely have been  successful  because a website was built, 
and Mr G seemed to be happy  with a lot of it. But W wasnt able to provide Mr G with the 
sliding feature he wanted. And hed made a separate payment of £500  for this. So, I think  a 
chargeback request for this payment  would  likely  have been  successful.  
As the website never went live, Mr G wouldnt have received the marketing package,  website 
protection and GDPR work he paid for. So, I think chargeback requests for his payments of 
£1,350 and £400 would also likely  have been  successful. 
It appears that Mr G tried to resolve things with W, and it agreed to refund some  of the 
money to him for the additional working  (marketing  package etc). But Mr G says he never 
received the refund.
putting things  right
I think a fair resolution to Mr Gs complaint is for Barclays to reimburse him for the three 
payments that he would likely have got back if Barclays had done chargeback requests. This 
is a total of £2,250. It should  also add 8% simple interest per year from the date Mr G 
requested the chargebacks until the date it makes the payment.
I understand this situation has been  very stressful for Mr G. So, I also intend to direct 
Barclays to pay him £200 it previously  offered  for distress and inconvenience in addition to 
this. 
responses
Barclays said it agreed with my proposed settlement.
Ref: DRN80037003Mr G said that he believed  all his chargebacks would have been successful if Barclays had 
raised them in January  2019 because there was no website and only one out five pages  had 
been completed. He continued to work  with W on the website until April 2019  and reduced  
the size of the website to help W complete it. The pages still didnt match  the agreed design  
and was never completed. It also took Mr G one year of hard work and stress to reach that 
point of website  completion. Mr G also provided  a link to the test website to show the point 
the website had reached.
Mr G thought the £200 Barclays had offered for distress and inconvenience should  be 
increased because  of the time that had passed. He also felt he should be compensated for 
the time hed spent  working with W after hed requested  the chargeback in January 2019  
and the time hed spent working  on his complaint  to our service.
He said hed had to move  to another city so he could survive on lower earnings and hed lost 
clients.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know Mr G feels  strongly that all his chargebacks would have been successful if Barclays 
had raised them when he requested them. But chargebacks arent guaranteed. From the 
emails Mr G has provided,  it seems that leading up to January 2019 W had done a lot of 
work on the website  including making  changes at Mr Gs request. While theres no way of 
knowing if any of the chargeback requests  would  have been successful, on balance, I think a 
chargeback of Mr Gs initial £650  was unlikely  to have been agreed. So, I still think it would 
be fair for Barclays to only reimburse him for the other three  payments.  
Mr G feels he should be compensated for the delay  in concluding  his complaint because 
Barclays didnt accept  our investigators recommendation. But Barclays had a right to 
disagree with our investigators view. And it will need to pay 8% simple  interest per year on 
the chargeback  amounts to ensure he doesnt  suffer a loss from the delay.
I appreciate Mr G has found the situation stressful and feels that its had a great impact on 
him financially. But theres no way of knowing  what would have happened to his business if 
Barclays had done the chargebacks. I dont think it would be fair to conclude  that Barclays  is 
responsible for a potential loss of income.
I understand this will be disappointing for Mr G who has put a lot of time and effort  into his 
complaint. But having  considered his points carefully,  I think  £200 is fair compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience  hes experienced.
putting things  right
Barclays should pay Mr G:
£2,250 plus 8% simple  interest  per year from the date Mr G requested the 
chargebacks until the date it makes the payment.
£200 for distress  and inconvenience.
Ref: DRN80037004my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr Gs complaint and direct Barclays  Bank UK Plc 
to put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 March 2020.
Anne Muscroft
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8003700