K821x#15complaint
Mrs T says Casheuronet UK LLC (trading as Quick  Quid) irresponsibly lent to her.
background
This complaint is about ten payday  loans that Quick Quid provided to Mrs T from December 
2009 onwards.  Mrs Ts last loan was provided  in August 2012.
Our adjudicator upheld  Mrs Ts complaint and thought that she shouldnt  have been provided 
with the loans from loan four onwards. Quick Quid disagreed. So the complaint was passed 
to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Quick Quid needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs T 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Quick Quid should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Ts complaint.
Having looked  at the overall pattern of Quick Quids lending history with Mrs T, I think that 
Quick Quid should  reasonably have  seen that Mrs T was unlikely to have been able to make 
her loan repayments in a sustainable manner by the time it provided loan four. I say this 
because:
Ref: DRN87634142By this stage, Mrs T had owed Quick Quid money for a pretty  much  unbroken  period 
of approaching nine months. In my view, Mrs T owing Quick Quid  money for this 
period of time, in these circumstances, was in itself a clear  demonstration  of Mrs Ts 
inability to settle her loans over the life of the credit agreement.  
loan five was for more  than loan four and it was provided days  after loan four was 
eventually settled.  So it ought to have been  apparent that Mrs T may have  been  
struggling financially  and Quick Quid ought  to have  checked  whether this was the 
case and offered assistance.
Mrs T wasnt making any real inroads into what she owed Quick Quid  and her 
indebtedness was being prolonged for an extended  period of time. Loan eight was 
provided more than two years  after Mrs Ts first. So Mrs T was paying  large  amounts 
of interest to, in effect, service a debt to Quick Quid over an extended period. 
I think that Mrs T lost out because Quick Quid provided these loans because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mrs Ts indebtedness by allowing her 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the number  of deferrals and the extended  period of time she owed Quick  Quid  money 
was likely to have  had negative  implications on Mrs Ts ability  to access mainstream 
credit and so kept her in the market  for these  high-cost loans.
So Im upholding  Mrs Ts complaint and Quick Quid should put things  right.
putting things right  what Quick Quid  needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mrs T paid on loans  four to nine;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove all interest and charges applied to loan ten from the outset. Any payments 
Mrs T has made towards  loan ten so far should be deducted from the new starting 
balance;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Quick Quid to take off tax from this interest. Quick Quid 
must give Mrs T a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
Its likely  that an outstanding balance will remain  on loan ten even after all the interest  and 
charges are removed. Quick Quid can deduct this outstanding  balance  from the 
compensation it now needs to pay Mrs T should  it wish to do so.
Ref: DRN87634143my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mrs Ts complaint. Casheuronet UK 
LLC (trading as Quick  Quid) should pay Mrs T compensation  as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 July 2019.  
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8763414