K822xcomplaint
Miss M complains that Pepper (UK) Limited, trading as Engage Credit, has acted unfairly  
towards her while she is suffering from financial difficulties. In particular, she says that it has 
refused to capitalise her arrears balance, provide her with a payment holiday, freeze interest  
for six months,  waive  any missed  payment  charges or change her mortgage  temporarily  to 
interest only. And she says she is unhappy with the unprofessional and inflexible attitude  she 
has received from Engage Credit since it took over her mortgage.
background 
Miss Ms mortgage was transferred to Engage  Credit in January 2014. And in 2018,  she 
made a complaint. She said she was suffering from financial  difficulties but it had failed to 
agree to the concessions shed asked for. And she was unhappy with the treatment she had 
received from Engage  Credit. 
Engage Credit responded to her complaint. It said, in summary:
It had considered her request to capitalise  her arrears balance but having reviewed 
her payment history  and income  and expenditure assessment, it had concluded that 
the increased monthly instalments would  not be affordable for her;
It was not able to convert her mortgage  to interest only as it was already an interest  
only mortgage. In addition, her mortgage did not include a payment holiday feature, 
so this option was not available to her. And, as a business, it did not offer an option  
of freezing interest. 
Having reviewed her payment history, the fees, charges and associated  additional  
interest had been applied to her account in accordance with the mortgage  conditions. 
However, a monthly arrears fee was charged  in two months where payments for 
close to the contractual monthly instalment were  made. As a gesture  of goodwill, it 
offered to reverse these fees totalling £47.
Engage Credit had been helpful  and cooperative  since Miss Ms account was 
transferred to it, and it couldnt  agree that it had acted improperly or in any way 
contrary to regulation;
Miss M had provided consent to her mortgage being transferred to a new lender 
when she accepted the mortgage conditions that governed her account. The original 
mortgage conditions  remained  unchanged after the transfer.  And it was satisfied that 
Engage Credit had continued to administer her account correctly  and in accordance 
with the mortgage conditions.
It did not agree that the call handler had been  aggressive or unfriendly during a 
particular telephone call;
It agreed that it had twice called her before 11am, despite warnings on the account 
not to do so, It apologised, and offered her £50 compensation;
Our adjudicator felt that Engage Credits response to Miss Ms complaint was fair. But 
Miss M doesnt agree, so her complaint  has been  referred to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ref: DRN89614492As our adjudicator explained, lenders are required to treat customers suffering financial 
difficulties fairly. But there is no set way in which lenders must offer support.
Miss M is unhappy that Engage  Credit has refused to capitalise her arrears.  But Engage 
Credit says that it declined her request  on the basis of affordability.  Adding the arrears 
balance to the mortgage would lead to Miss Ms monthly payment being  recalculated  (and 
increased) to ensure the extra amount is repaid over the remaining term. Engage Credit 
needed to be sure that Miss M could  afford  the revised payments. But it said,  and I agree, 
that the income and expenditure forms completed  showed that the current  mortgage 
payments were unaffordable. So Im not persuaded that Engage  Credit made an error by 
declining Miss Ms request.
Miss M is also unhappy that Engage  Credit wouldnt allow her to take a payment holiday. But 
it isnt required to do so unless this is a provision  of the mortgage  terms. That doesnt appear  
to be the case  here. Equally, it is not under an obligation to agree to freeze interest.  And it 
was not able to agree  to Miss Ms request to change her mortgage to interest only, as it was 
already an interest  only mortgage.
Engage Credit did review  the arrears fees when it considered Miss Ms complaint. And it 
agreed to waive  two monthly arrears fees of £23.50  each where the payment received was 
close to the full contractual monthly payment. I find this to be fair in the circumstances.
I appreciate that Miss M is unhappy  that her mortgage was transferred from her original 
lender to Engage Credit without her prior consent. But Im satisfied that Miss M would  have 
agreed to a transfer as part of the terms of the original mortgage. And, although  Miss M says 
that she didnt  get any correspondence  in relation to the transfer, Ive seen a copy of a letter  
dated 12 January  2014 sent to Miss M which explained that the transfer  had completed.  This 
letter also conformed  that the terms and conditions of the mortgage remained  unchanged.
Miss M also says that Engage Credits  staff were unprofessional and uncooperative. She 
says that this was particularly  difficult as she was in poor health. I sympathise with Miss M, 
who undoubtedly found the calls stressful. But I have listened to a number of the calls 
between Miss M and Engage Credit and I didnt hear any evidence to persuade  me that 
Engage Credits staff were abusive or harassing.  Lenders are entitled to contact customers  
suffering financial  difficulties, in order to make  payment arrangements and get the account 
back on track. 
Engage Credit has agreed  that two calls were made  before 11am, when Miss M had asked 
for calls only after that time.  It has apologised, and offered her £50 compensation. I find this 
to be reasonable.  
Ref: DRN89614493my final decision
My decision  is that the offer Pepper (UK) Limited  has made to Miss M is fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.  I leave  it to Miss M to decide if she now wishes  to 
accept the £97 that Pepper (UK) has offered to pay her.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 June  2019.
Alison Cribbs
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8961449