K820x#14complaint
Miss I complains that Nationwide Building Society has turned down her section  75 claim in 
connection with something she bought using her credit card.
 
background
Miss I bought an e-scooter online using her Nationwide  credit card.  She changed her mind  
about the purchase after reading poor reviews, but the scooter  had already been dispatched. 
The merchant said Miss I should reject the scooter on delivery, so that it could be returned to 
them. The merchant could then arrange a refund.
Miss Is neighbour took delivery  of the scooter. Miss I tried to return  it but the Post Office 
wouldnt accept it because it contained lithium batteries. 
Miss I says the scooter  was misrepresented because it was advertised  as a branded product 
when, in fact, only the battery was branded. 
Nationwide turned down Miss Is claim under  section  75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
(CCA), because she hadnt returned  the item to the merchant. In addition, Nationwide hadnt  
seen any evidence that the e-scooter  had been  misrepresented or that the merchant  was in 
breach of contract.
Nationwide paid £75 because its credit card department hadnt phoned Miss I as it said it 
would. But otherwise, it didnt uphold her complaint. 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld.  She wasnt  persuaded 
there had been  a breach  of contract  because the merchant had supplied  the item to Miss I. 
She concluded it hadnt breached the terms of its refund policy either, because Miss I hadnt 
returned the item.
In addition, the adjudicator didnt find the e-scooter  had been misrepresented  by the 
merchant. So overall, she wasnt persuaded that Nationwide had wrongly turned down Miss 
Is section 75 claim.
Miss I didnt agree with the adjudicators conclusions so the complaint has been passed to 
me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the adjudicator has explained, section  75 of the CCA says that in certain circumstances 
the borrower under a credit  agreement has an equal claim against the credit provider (in this 
case Nationwide) if theres been  a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier of 
goods or services.
Like the adjudicator,  I dont find theres been a breach of contract by the e-scooter supplier. 
The item arrived as it shouldve done,  and a refund hasnt  been processed because Miss I 
hasnt returned  the item to the supplier.
Ref: DRN87256412I understand Miss I couldnt return the item through the Post Office.  From  what Ive seen, 
however, it seems it may be possible to return the e-scooter  using a different courier.
In any event, Miss I is required to return the item in line with the suppliers returns policy.  It 
wouldnt be fair or reasonable to hold Nationwide responsible for any difficulties she might  
have in meeting  the policys requirements.
Miss I says the e-scooter  was misrepresented  because the supplier advertised it as a 
branded product. Im not persuaded thats the case.  I accept there is a brand logo on the 
website page,  but I havent seen anything to suggest that the merchant  was selling the e-
scooter as an item produced by that brand. The pictures supplied show  the merchants logo 
on the e-scooter.  And the product details only refer to the brand in connection with the 
scooters battery.
So overall, Im not persuaded that the e-scooter was misrepresented.
As I dont find there has been a breach of contract  or misrepresentation, it follows  that I dont 
consider Nationwide acted unreasonably  in turning down Miss Is section 75 claim.
Nationwide paid £75 for poor service which I think was reasonable in the circumstances. But 
it doesnt need to do anything else.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 February  2020.
Ref: DRN8725641