K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that a car that was supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with 
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited  wasnt of satisfactory quality.
background
A new car was supplied  to Mr S under a hire purchase agreement with Volkswagen  
Financial Services that he signed in July 2015. He returned the car to the dealer in June 
2016 because  there were  problems with its media  system. A fault was repaired under 
warranty. Mr S returned the car to the dealer in June 2017 because  the alarm  was activating 
and the cars  hazard lights were flashing. That was fixed  by a system update. Mr S returned 
the car to the dealer again  in November  2017 because the cars Bluetooth wasn't working  
correctly  which was repaired. But since then Mr S has had on-going issues  with the cars  
media system. He complained to Volkswagen  Financial Services  but wasnt  satisfied with its 
response so complained to this service. And hes since paid for the cars media unit to be 
inspected by a car electronics specialist. 
The adjudicator recommended that this complaint should be upheld. He thought  that the car 
wasn't of satisfactory  quality as it hasn't shown itself to be durable and the issues with the 
media system were  still present after multiple  repairs had been attempted.  So he 
recommended that Volkswagen Financial Services should allow  Mr S to return  the car and 
unwind his agreement. He said that it should refund Mr Ss deposit and the cost of the 
inspection (with interest), remove any adverse information from his credit file and pay him 
£250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience that hes gone through. 
Volkswagen Financial Services has asked for this complaint to be considered by an 
ombudsman. It says,  in summary,  that:
the first issue wasnt raised  by Mr S until eleven  months after the car had been  
supplied to him;
all repairs,  or attempts  at repair, have been carried out under warranty  and Mr S 
hasnt had to pay for any repairs;
since May 2018 the car hasnt been taken to a retailer within its network  which would 
suggest that, after the media unit was repaired on the last occasion, the issue hasnt 
returned; and
as theres no evidence of an electronic fault with the car, other than the issue that 
had been found  with the multi media  unit, it doesnt  believe that it has any ongoing 
liability with respect  to problems which might  develop over the course of the 
agreement.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Volkswagen Financial Services, as the supplier of the car, was responsible  for ensuring  that 
the car was of satisfactory  quality.  That will depend  on a number of factors, including the 
age, and mileage  of the car and the price that was paid for it. The car that was supplied to 
Mr S was new and I consider that it was reasonable  for him to expect that it would be free 
from even minor defects. Satisfactory quality  also covers  durability  which means that the 
components within the car must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but 
exactly how long that time is will depend  on a number of factors. 
Ref: DRN84313872Mr S first contacted the dealer about  issues with the cars media unit in June 2016  which 
was about eleven months  after the car had been supplied  to him. The issue  was repaired but 
Mr S had further issues with the cars  electronics  in June  2017 and a system update was 
required. But the media unit required further  work  in November 2017 and Mr S says that 
there continue to be faults with the cars media  unit. 
He arranged for the cars media  unit to be inspected by a car electronics specialist in 
January 2019  and the specialist confirmed that there was a fault and suspected  that there 
was a fault in the cars main media control  unit. Mr S paid £30 for that inspection.
I dont consider it to be reasonable to expect a new car to have these on-going issues with 
its media unit. Although the issues didnt  arise until about eleven  months  after the car was 
supplied to Mr S, there have been  a number  of faults and theres  evidence  to show that the 
unit is still faulty. So I consider that the car isnt as durable as it would be reasonable to 
expect it to be. And  as a result  of that - I consider it to be more likely than not that the car 
wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr S. 
A number  of repairs have  been made  to the cars media unit but there continue to be issues 
with it. So I find that it would be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for Mr S to reject 
the car. And I consider  that Volkswagen Financial Services  should  end the hire purchase 
agreement and collect the car from Mr S. Mr S paid a deposit of £650 for the car and hes 
paid £30 for the specialists inspection of the car. I consider  that Volkswagen Financial 
Services should refund those  amounts  to Mr S with interest and that it should ensure that no 
adverse information  about the agreement is recorded on Mr Ss credit  file.
These events will have  caused Mr S distress  and inconvenience. And I find that it would be 
fair and reasonable for Volkswagen Financial  Services to pay him £250  to compensate him 
for that distress and inconvenience.
Mr S has been able to use the car  even though there have been faults with its media unit  
and the cars  mileage  is now 28,264  miles. He says that he hasnt used the car since  getting 
the specialist report in January 2018. But I dont consider  that it would be fair or reasonable 
for me to require  Volkswagen Financial Services to refund to Mr S any of the monthly 
payments that hes made under the agreement  it can keep them as payment for the use 
that Mr S has had from the car.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I uphold Mr Ss complaint. And I order  Volkswagen 
Financial Services (UK) Limited to:
1. End the hire purchase agreement and arrange for the car to be collected from 
Mr S  both at no cost to him.
2. Refund to Mr S the deposit  of £650 that he paid for the car.
3. Refund to Mr S the £30 that he paid for the specialist inspection.
4. Pay interest on the amounts at 2 and 3 above at an annual rate of 8% simple  
from the date of each payment to the date of settlement.
Ref: DRN843138735. Ensure that no adverse  information  about  the hire purchase agreement is 
recorded on Mr Ss credit file.
6. Pay £250 to Mr S to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience  that 
hes been caused.
HM Revenue & Customs  requires Volkswagen  Financial Services  to deduct tax from the 
interest payment  referred to at 4 above. Volkswagen Financial Services  must give Mr S a 
certificate showing how much tax its deducted  if he asks it for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 July 2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8431387