K821x#15complaint
Mrs H and the estate  of the late Mr H complain  through  their representative that they were  
overcharged by U K Insurance Limited  (UKI) for over decade  for their automatically  
renewing home insurance policy. 
background
Mrs H and the late Mr H took out a home  insurance policy in 2003 that migrated to UKI from 
their previous insurer at their October  2005  renewal. The premium  for the 2005/2006 policy 
year was £292.95. The policy automatically renewed each year until the October 2015 
renewal. Just prior to that renewal (which was offered  at a price of £518.34)  Mr and Mrs H 
complained to UKI that it had been overcharging them  for years.  They said they didnt want  
to renew. 
Mr and Mrs H said theyd been able to secure cover  for the 2015/2016  policy  year for 
£109.94. They said there could be no justification  for there being such  a significant price 
difference between  existing  and new business.  They said that UKI had taken advantage of 
them because of their age and they wanted  to know how long the practice had been going  
on and by how much theyd been overcharged.  
UKI looked into Mr and Mrs Hs complaint but said the price  charged over the years had 
always been correctly  calculated according to its pricing structure. It said it couldnt provide a 
breakdown of the premiums because such information was commercially sensitive. It said 
the policy had been set to automatically  renew annually  prior to migrating to UKI. Finally  it 
apologised for not responding sooner to Mr and Mrs Hs request  to cancel their policy but it 
had arranged for that to happen  now. 
Unhappy with the outcome Mr and Mrs H complained to this service in January 2016. They 
said UKI hadnt explained why there  was such a huge difference in price  between new and 
existing business.  They said they couldnt accept a new business discount  equated  to 400% 
off the renewal price  theyd been  quoted. And they said they were unhappy UKI hadnt 
offered them  any compensation for the upset and inconvenience caused at their time of life. 
Finally they said UKI hadnt treated them fairly.  
Mr and Mrs H said they wanted  the difference refunded  between  the price of the new policy  
theyd obtained  and what theyd been paying  each year. They  said thered been no 
assessment of their demands and needs by UKI and theyd  never opted into automatic 
renewals. 
Our adjudicator investigated their complaint and, following her involvement, UKI said it would 
make Mrs H and the late Mr H a financial offer in order  to settle their complaint. UKI offered 
to pay them  £1,400. Our adjudicator thought this offer was fair but Mrs H didnt. Through her 
representative she said that a figure of £3,850 was more appropriate (calculated by 
multiplying £350  by the number of years the policy was held). 
UKI said it wouldnt increase its goodwill offer and asked for the complaint to be referred for 
an ombudsmans decision. 
Ref: DRN88420202my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not for me to tell UKI what price it needed  to charge Mr and Mrs H for their home  
insurance. Thats for it to decide, based in part on the risk of them needing to make a claim 
and its wider commercial requirements. But I can intervene if I think  UKI treated Mr and    
Mrs H unfairly  in the way it priced  their policy. 
Following our adjudicators investigation  of the complaint, UKI offered to pay Mrs H and the 
estate of the late Mr H £1,400.00.
I know that their representative  says they couldve made a saving  throughout the life of the 
policy and that UKIs  offer should be based on refunding them £350 a year for the 11 years 
the policy was in existence.  He says UKIs offer equates to a refund of £127.27  each policy 
year. And he says if he takes the final renewal offer price (not accepted)  of £518.34 and 
deducts from that £109.94 (the cost of the new policy they found) it represents an 
overpayment of £408.40.  
But Im afraid I dont agree. The price for the first year the policy  was with UKI was £292.95. 
So a refund for that year £350 equates to more than was paid. Not only for that year but the 
two policy  years that followed. And the price Mr and Mrs Hs representative has selected  for 
comparison is for a policy  that was never  taken up.
Its always difficult to work  out what saving  a consumer wouldve made over the years.  Just 
because a customer has recently identified a much  cheaper policy, doesnt  mean  thats the 
price they wouldve paid over the intervening period.  Insurers  are entitled to reassess the 
risks they are presented with at renewal and set the price accordingly.  And Mr and Mrs H 
mustve accepted the policy   at the price offered  when they first took it out. 
Mr and Mrs H had the benefit of cover  for their home  from UKI, and I note that they made 
two claims (one they withdrew).  When consumers  make a claim,  it typically affects the 
premium at the next renewal. Thats because  the fact a claim has been made affects the 
insurers perception  of the risk it is being  asked  to take on. And the greater the risk the more 
the insurer will usually charge for it. Of course insurance is there to provide cover  for 
unforeseen event.  But when claims are made,  insurers are entitled to take them into account 
when deciding what price  to charge for cover  at the next renewal. Thats not something  this 
service would normally interfere with. 
In deciding what fair compensation should  be, Ive taken into account the premium  history 
and Mr and Mrs Hs personal  circumstances.
I appreciate that the amount UKI has offered may not be as much as Mr and Mrs Hs 
representative hoped for. But, when considering complaints about  insurance pricing, 
calculating compensation isnt an exact science. Thats  because  theres no set price  that 
insurers charge for cover and its very difficult to determine what  saving a customer  may 
have made  and what its fair for a business to have  charged. But Ive looked carefully at their 
case and, when deciding  what fair compensation should be, Ive thought  about  their 
premium history, personal circumstances and our approach to these types of cases more 
generally. Having  done so, I think  that the compensation  offered by UKI of £1,400.00 is fair, 
taking into account  the particular circumstances  involved.
Ref: DRN88420203Finally, it is worth mentioning that Ive also thought about Mr and Mrs Hs complaint that UKI 
hadnt taken account of their demands  and needs  at any point. The policy  was sold on a 
non-advised basis. That means no advice  was given as to the policys suitability. The onus, 
in such situations,  is on the policyholder to make  sure the policy  they are taking out meets 
their particular requirements. So I cant reasonably hold UKI responsible for something it 
wasnt contractually required to do. 
my final decision
UKI has already  made an offer to resolve  this complaint and I think  this offer is fair in all the 
circumstances. 
So my decision is that U K Insurance Limited  should pay Mrs H and the estate  of the late   
Mr H £1,400.00 in settlement  of their complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H and the 
estate of the late Mr H to accept or reject my decision  before 24 October 2019. 
Claire Woollerson 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8842020