K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs E say Lloyds Bank  PLC mis-sold  them a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
background
In 1996 Mr and Mrs E took out a mortgage with Lloyds (which  was trading as TSB at the 
time). At the same time, they took out a PPI policy to protect their monthly mortgage 
payments if either of them was unable to work due to accident,  sickness  or unemployment. 
Both the mortgage  and the PPI were in Mr and Mrs Es joint names. The monthly benefit was 
split between Mr and Mrs E. So if either  of them  had made a successful claim on the policy it 
would have paid a portion  of the monthly benefit. And its likely that it would have done this 
for up to 12 months per successful claim.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs E disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaints been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Es case.
Where the evidence is incomplete  or inconclusive I need to decide what I thinks  most likely  
to have happened, based on the information  I have.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Es complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive seen a copy of Mr and Mrs Es mortgage  application. Although the copy is poor 
quality, I can see that it looks like the same type of application  form that Ive seen before, 
which did include clear, equally prominent options to take or decline MortgageSure  (a 
form of PPI). And it looks as if the box was ticked to take PPI. Ive also seen  a copy  of 
Mr and Mrs Es mortgage  offer, which refers clearly  to the PPI, and sets out how the 
benefit was to be divided  between Mr and Mrs E, and what the monthly premium for the 
cover was. I think  it would  have been clear to Mr and Mrs E from the mortgage 
application that PPI was optional.  So if they hadnt wanted the cover, Id have expected 
them to query this on receipt  of the mortgage  offer. I havent seen anything  to suggest 
that they did so. 
Taking everything into account,  I think Lloyds made Mr and Mrs E aware that the PPI 
was optional and that they chose to take it  although I can understand why they may no 
longer remember this, more than 20 years later.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs E. This means that it had a responsibility to 
check that the policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs E. But it doesnt look as if it was 
unsuitable, based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time.
Ref: DRN83377152Ive borne in mind  that Mr and Mrs E have told us that Mr E was self-employed when 
they took the policy out. Lloyds hasnt been  able to provide a copy  of the policy  
document that was in use when Mr and Mrs E took out the policy.  So Ive considered the 
oldest available policy document, which is from 1998. I think  its likely that the terms and 
conditions of the policy  were similar  to the one sold to Mr and Mrs E. Some  policies 
weve seen include  provisions that make it more difficult  for a self-employed  person to 
claim. But Im satisfied  that this one didnt. So I dont think the fact that Mr E was self-
employed made the policy unsuitable for him.
Mrs Es told us shed have been  entitled to six months full pay, followed by six months  
half pay from her employer  if shed been  off sick. But its likely that the policy  would have 
paid out for up to 12 months per successful claim. Thats  longer than Mrs E would have  
been entitled to full sick pay for. Whats more,  it would  have  paid out in addition  to any 
payments Mrs E received from her employer.  So she could have used those to meet 
other day-to-day expenses.
Taking everything into account,  I think the policy could have been  useful for Mr and 
Mrs E. The mortgage  was a long-term financial commitment,  and their property would 
have been at risk if they didnt keep up with their mortgage payments.
The cost of the policy was shown clearly  on the mortgage offer.  So I think Mr and Mrs E 
would have understood how much  theyd need to pay for it. And as they were paying for 
the policy monthly, they could  have cancelled it at any time if they no longer needed it.
Its possible Lloyds didnt point  out the main things the policy didnt cover.  But based on 
what Ive seen  of their circumstances at the time, its unlikely Mr and Mrs E would have 
been affected by any of these.  So I dont think better information  about the policy  would 
have put them off taking it.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Es complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 September 2019.
Juliet Collins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8337715