K820x#14complaint
Mr E complains that Gain Credit  LLC (trading  as Lending Stream) lent to him in an 
irresponsible manner.
background
Mr E has been assisted in making  his complaint by a family member. But, for ease, I will 
generally refer in this decision  to all communication as having been with, and from, Mr E 
himself.
Mr E was given three loans by Lending Stream between August and October  2012.  Each  of 
the loans was due to be repaid in monthly instalments as shown below. Mr E successfully 
repaid the first loan but a balance remained outstanding on the last two loans and was 
transferred to a third party by Lending Stream. A summary of Mr Es borrowing from 
Lending Stream is as follows;
Loan 
NumberBorrowing 
DateRepayment 
DateLoan 
Amount  Number of 
Repayments
1 12/08/2012 12/10/2012 £ 115 5
2 07/10/2012 - £   75 4
3 20/10/2012 - £ 315 6
Mr Es complaint has been  assessed by one of our adjudicators.  He didnt think 
Lending Stream had been wrong to give any of the loans  to Mr E. So he didnt recommend 
that the complaint should be upheld.
Mr E didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.  This is the last stage of our 
process.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Lending Stream needed  to take reasonable steps to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure that 
Mr E could repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks  could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably  
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer.  These factors  
include:
Ref: DRN86577452the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service.  This service isnt intended  
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct  
Authority. Instead  this service looks to resolve  individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide  that something  has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things  right by placing the consumer,  as far as is possible, in the position 
they would  have been if the problem hadnt  occurred.
Before lending to Mr E, Lending  Stream  asked  him for information about  his income and his 
normal expenditure. And Lending Stream gathered some information  from Mr Es credit file 
too. But it is important  to note that, generally,  the information a consumer might see, when 
they request a copy of their credit  file, might be very different to that seen by a lender. A 
lender might  only see a small portion of the credit file, or some data might be missing or 
anonymised, or the data might  not be up to date.  So, this may explain any differences  
between the information provided  by Lending Streams credit check and the information Mr E 
thinks it should have  seen.
I have seen a summary  of the results of the credit  checks  that Lending Stream performed. 
Those results did indicate that Mr E had faced some limited  problems managing  his money  
in the past  he had a couple  of accounts where  he was behind  with his payments. But that 
sort of credit  history isnt unusual for consumers who are taking these sorts of loans. I dont 
think the results of the credit checks should have  caused so much  concern that they should 
have led Lending  Stream to perform more detailed  checks  than Id normally expect  for loans  
of this nature.
So I think that the checks Lending Stream did before agreeing the loans were  proportionate. 
The amounts that Mr E needed to repay appeared affordable compared with the disposable 
income hed declared.  Given  these  repayment  amounts, what  was apparent about Mr Es 
circumstances at the time, and his borrowing history with the lender, I dont think it wouldve 
been proportionate for Lending  Stream to ask him for the amount of information that would 
be needed to show the lending was unsustainable before agreeing each of the loans.
I appreciate that Mr E says his circumstances werent  as good as hed declared.  But I think 
Lending Stream was entitled, as this early stage of its relationship, to rely on the information 
he provided about his finances.  I dont think there were any clear indicators that might have 
suggested to Lending Stream that he was struggling  to manage his money.
Mr E has also complained about  the information  he was given by Lending Stream  before he 
took out the loans. Amongst other things he says that Lending Stream didnt  tell him that the 
loans werent suitable  for long term borrowing, how it would  collect the repayments from his 
account or how to make  a complaint about  its lending.
Ref: DRN86577453Given the time that has passed, it is difficult for me to be certain  about  what information 
Lending Stream provided to Mr E when he took out the loan. But I havent seen anything that 
would make me think Mr E wouldnt  have  proceeded with his loan applications if hed been 
given different, or better,  information.  I dont  think there is anything  in the detailed terms and 
conditions Lending  Stream should have given him that would have persuaded Mr E that he 
shouldnt take the loans.
I appreciate that my decision will be disappointing for Mr E.  But  I havent  seen  enough to 
make me think that Lending Stream should  have done better  checks. I think it was entitled to 
rely on the information Mr E provided about his finances, and that information  suggested  it 
would be reasonable to agree the loans.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold the complaint or make  any award against 
Gain Credit LLC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 February  2020.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8657745