K820x#14Complaint
Mr Ms complaint is that Liverpool Victoria Friendly Society Limited (LV) initially  failed to 
transfer his benefits from an occupation  pension scheme (OPS) to LV in a timely  manner. 
And then it failed to transfer the pension  from LV to his new employers  pension  scheme 
within the timescale hed been promised. Mr M is also concerned that he was given incorrect  
information on multiple occasions, and overall  has been caused considerable distress  and 
inconvenience.
Background
In brief,  Mr Ms adviser sent an application to LV to transfer his OPS  to it at the end of March 
2018. 
Mr M spoke  with LV on 3 April 2018.  He was told it received a number of payments on a 
daily basis and without  the appropriate  reference  it would  be unable to allocate the funds to 
his pension.
LV received  the funds  on 9 April 2018.  Mr M called LV that day and requested  an update.  LV 
said it was waiting for the required documentation to allow it to apply the funds to his 
account. Mr M called  LV again on 10 April 2018 and enquired about  transferring a portion of 
his funds into his new employers pension scheme.  
LV received  the transfer  information  on 13 April 2018. Mr M called LV on that day and was 
told it was working to complete the transfer  that same  day.
Mr M had further conversations with LV on 16 and 17 April where he was told it was still 
being worked on.  LV called Mr M on the evening of 17 April confirming the transfer had 
been completed.  
Transfer discharge forms were sent to LV on 25 April 2018 in order  for Mr M to transfer his 
funds to his new employers workplace pension scheme.
Mr M was advised the process could take around  10 working days.  However, after the 10 
days LV confirmed, due to the complexity  of Mr Ms transfer, it could take up to six months  to 
complete.
Mr M subsequently  decided to cancel his transfer  from LV to his new work place pension  
scheme on 29 May 2018.
Mr M was unhappy with how he had been treated by LV and made a complaint to it. LV 
didnt uphold  the complaint and Mr M referred the matter to us. 
One of our adjudicators investigated the complaint but didnt think  that it should be upheld.  
He thought LV had processed  Mr Ms transfer to LV and responded to his communications  in 
a timely  manner. He noted LV had acknowledged it had provided incorrect information  on 
one occasion,  but it had apologised  for this. 
The adjudicator also didnt think the delays  in the proposed  transfer away from LV had been 
unreasonable given LVs duty of care to Mr M and the checks  it was required to make. 
Ref: DRN81623702Mr M didnt  agree with the adjudicators view. He said LV had provided incorrect  information 
to him on several  occasions causing  significant  distress and inconvenience. In particular he 
said it had:
Given inconsistent information about  when things  would and had been done by; what 
information was and wasnt outstanding and when the funds had been  received
Said it was normal for the transfer  request  to go to the financial crime team but then 
told it was a member of staff who had raised  concerns
Said it would  take about 10 working days to process the second transfer but then 
advised it could  take 6 months
Said it had requested  information from HMRC but HMRC had said it had received no 
such request. 
Findings 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Transfers from occupational pension schemes arent straightforward,  and there are various 
rules and regulations  that need to be followed  to ensure a compliant process.  This often  
involves the completion and exchange  of a number  of documents between a number of 
different parties,  for example the member,  their IFA, the OPS and the receiving scheme. And 
this leads to a greater risk of delays and/or misunderstandings. 
The proposed transfer from the OPS had been ongoing for some time even  prior to LVs 
involvement. And its clear  that Mr M was unhappy  with the time taken to process the 
transaction. However, what  I need to consider here are any failures by LV in particular, and 
the degree of distress  and inconvenience reasonably  caused  by those failures. 
LV may not have  completed the processing  of the transfer on the specific day it had said it 
was working to. And there  may have been some confusion about when funds had been 
received as opposed to the transfer process completed.  But I think any misunderstandings 
were cleared  up within a very short timeframe. And overall Im satisfied that the initial  
transfer to LV was processed  in a timely manner.  So whilst I can see that Mr M was 
particularly frustrated about the matter,  I think any distress and inconvenience  caused would 
have been limited during the initial transfer.  
I think there was some  confusion when  Mr M indicated he was thinking about transferring  
some of his pension away from LV to his employers  scheme. Mr M was told this would  just 
need him to send an e-mail setting out how much he wanted  to invest with LV and the 
amount he wanted  to transfer away. But in a later call he was told LV may not want to 
arrange a new policy where it was going to be immediately transferred elsewhere. Whilst I 
understand that Mr M may have  thought  the firm was providing inconsistent information, by 
this time events had moved on and he was considering transferring the whole amount. To a 
layman this might not have appeared to be significantly different. But from the firms 
commercial point of view there would be little benefit  in working to set up policies to then be 
transferred elsewhere  and closed. So Im satisfied the circumstances had changed from 
when it had given  the original information.  
Ref: DRN81623703Its clear from Mr Ms telephone conversations and his correspondence that hed become 
concerned with LVs reliability and the safety  of his funds. Mr M had also made it clear he 
didnt want the money  returned to his OPS   so I think  this caused him some  concern as it 
appeared to be a risk. And the additional  time over the 10 working days he was told the 
transfer would take from LV to his employers scheme caused  more worry. 
However, in my experience its fairly unusual for a scheme member  to transfer from an 
occupational scheme to a personal pension and then immediately want to transfer to another 
scheme. And this is consistent with what Mr M acknowledged during a phone  call to the firm;   
- that his adviser  had told him a second transfer  immediately  following  the first was not 
the norm.    
I think in most circumstances it would make  sense to transfer directly from the one 
occupational scheme to the other without the need  to transfer to LV in between. This is 
because, more often than not, transferring twice would incur unnecessary costs. 
Although a 10 day turnaround may have been given, I think it was an indication  rather  than a 
firm guarantee. This is because the time taken will depend on the particular circumstances of 
each case and will be dependent on the response  times of the different parties involved. 
As Ive said above,  there are various rules and regulations surrounding pension transfers 
and pension providers  have a duty of care to act in their clients  best interests.  There  are 
several reasons  why a provider might want to make further checks in these  particular 
circumstances, including  satisfying itself about the nature of the scheme  that Mr M wanted to 
transfer to from LV. So irrespective of to what extent  the referral to the crime team and 
checks it made were normal, ultimately, Im satisfied it was reasonable for them to be 
made. 
The provider has to balance  competing priorities in acting in its clients  best interests. On the 
one hand to provide a fast and efficient service. But on the other, to meet its regulatory 
obligations in protecting its clients which includes checks on the integrity of the receiving 
pension scheme. As Ive said above,  in my view it was making reasonable enquiries.
Overall, therefore, although  I accept  there  were some delays  I dont think these were due to 
failures on the part of LV. And I think it was trying to be helpful and acting in good faith when 
answering Mr Ms queries. Ive seen no evidence it was trying  to deceive Mr M. Although  its 
clear that Mr M was frustrated  with the matter,  given the circumstances and the timescales 
involved, I think any distress and inconvenience caused would have been limited.  
Final Decision
Accordingly, for the reasons Ive outlined above,  my final decision is that I do not uphold Mr 
Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or
reject my decision  before 19 January 2020.
David Ashley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8162370