K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy that The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited hasnt  
fairly assessed Mr Bs critical illness  claim.
background
Mr and Mrs B applied  for a Royal London  Personal Menu Plan,  through  a financial advisor, 
on 24 March 2016. Royal London sent Mr and Mrs B a copy of their completed application 
form on the same day, asking them  to check the answers theyd given to ensure they were 
accurate and nothing was missing. Royal London  also asked Mr and Mrs B to make  it aware 
of any changes. Mr and Mrs B returned the form to Royal London,  making no changes,  on 7 
April 2016.  
Mr B was then sadly diagnosed  with Brugada syndrome in November 2016. He made a 
claim for cardiomyopathy in October 2017.
Royal London didnt  accept Mr Bs claim as it said he hadnt  disclosed relevant information 
about his health at the time he took out the policy. 
Mr and Mrs B challenged Royal Londons  decision but it maintained its position. It agreed to 
refund the premiums  that had been paid towards  the policy because it thought Mr B had 
carelessly misrepresented his position at the time of the application.
Mr and Mrs B remained unhappy and so they referred their complaint to us. Mr B said hed 
only found out he had heart disease at the point he claimed, and he said hed told Royal 
London about his Accident and Emergency (A&E) attendances, so he couldnt understand 
why his claim was declined.
An investigator looked into Mr and Mrs Bs complaint but he decided  it shouldnt be upheld. 
He felt Mr B hadnt answered the questions  on the application form correctly  given  what  
appeared in his medical records (visits to A&E requiring investigations and follow up, 
referrals to specialists etc.),  and so he thought Royal London  had acted fairly in declining the 
claim and returning  the premiums.
Mr and Mrs B didnt  agree with the investigators  opinion. Mr B said he should receive at 
least half of the claim benefit.  He also explained that anyone can go to A&E at any time. And 
regarding his history  of chest pain, he explained  hed told Royal  London this was due to 
excessive night shift work.  
The investigator responded and said that he understood  anyone  can end up at A&E, but the 
reason Royal  London  had declined  the claim was because he hadnt told them about it. So 
he didnt think Royal London should  pay Mr B half the claim benefit.
Mr B said there was no connection  between his A&E visits and the diagnosis of his heart 
condition in October 2016.  He explained that all the information provided on the application 
form was correct and answered to the best of his knowledge. He clarified  hed had no 
diagnosis of a disease of any kind at the time of the application and so there was no reason 
for him to mention  anything.
Mr B asked for his complaint to be looked  at by an ombudsman and so its been  passed to 
me.
Ref: DRN89672452my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Id firstly  like to say how sorry I am to hear of Mr Bs ill-health. I can appreciate Mr and Mrs B 
are going  through a difficult time and I hope  that while my decision isnt the one Mr and Mrs 
B are looking for, my explanation helps to bring  some further clarity as to why I believe Royal 
Londons decision is fair and reasonable.
Royal London has shown  that Mr B answered  no to the following questions  when  he 
applied for the policy on 24 March 2016,  and confirmed the content of the application form 
on 7 April 2016. It says this led to him misrepresenting the status of his health:
Have you ever had, or do you currently have, any of the following:  
heart disease or disorder, circulatory disease or diabetes? 
In the last three years have you:
Been  referred  to a specialist, or had, or been advised to have,  any investigations. 
Including blood tests, biopsies,  ultrasounds, x-rays, CT/MRI or other  scan, ECG, 
echocardiogram or other heart investigation,  abnormal  smear  or mammogram, 
investigations using  an internal  camera such as endoscopy, colonoscopy or 
laparoscopy?
Are you awaiting referral, investigation, results or treatment  for anything else,  or do 
you have any other  symptoms for which you have no yet sought medical advice?
For example: Bleeding  from the bowels, change  in bowel habit, persistent cough, weight 
loss, onset of fits or seizures, dizziness, blackouts/fainting, a mole  or blemish which  has 
changed in appearance or any lump or growth
My role is to determine whether Royal London acted reasonably, taking into account all of 
the evidence,  the law, relevant guidance, and good  industry practice. I need to make  a 
finding on whether  Mr B misrepresented  his health (and whether he took reasonable care in 
answering what I consider  to be clear questions)   and whether Royal  London responded to 
this appropriately.
When a consumer hasnt  given an insurer relevant information in response  to clear 
questions its known  as misrepresentation.  If a misrepresentation has taken  place, it falls 
into one of two categories   deliberate/reckless or careless. An insurer  is allowed to take 
certain action depending on the type of misrepresentation.
Royal London has decided Mr Bs misrepresentation was careless. Having reviewed the 
medical evidence  very carefully, I agree. Ill explain why.
In May 2015  Mr B visited  an accident and emergency (A&E) department as he was suffering 
from abdominal pain. Later that month he presented with chest pain, and an ECG showed  
sinus rhythm. At this point  he was given a likely diagnosis of costochondritis. 
In August  2015  Mr B visited A&E again, once  more its noted he was suffering from 
abdominal pain, and he was advised  to see his GP to discuss a colonoscopy. And then in 
Ref: DRN89672453October 2015 its noted that he attended A&E again suffering from abdominal pain and had 
an abnormal  ECG. Its noted that Mr B needed  a cardiology referral to review the ECG report  
 its also noted  Mr B was given  a copy of this.
In late February 2016 Mr B saw a gastroenterologist  and its noted hed suffered from 
recurrent abdominal  pain for around  18 months, and had visited  A&E twice as a result.  He 
also had a colonoscopy.
In early March 2016 Mr B attended A&E with testicular pain and dysuria and its noted in his 
records that an ultrasound  would be arranged  and a follow up should  take place with his GP.
On the day of the policy application, Mr B saw his GP. His GP notes show Mr B had been 
experiencing a fluttering feeling  in his chest for a few days, shortness of breath and light 
headedness. Its also noted  that he saw a cardiologist a week  earlier, who had told him his 
ECG was abnormal, that he needed to have other  tests, and that there  was a risk of sudden  
death. His GP recorded Mr B needed  an urgent ECG and discussed Mr Bs symptoms with 
an on-call cardiologist.
Mr B applied for the policy on 24 March 2016  and confirmed the answers hed provided  
during the application  on 7 April 2016. Im mindful  the application form cover letter (that 
Royal London sent Mr and Mrs B along  with their completed application  form) also 
highlighted the importance of making sure the answers given were accurate, giving Mr B the 
opportunity to ensure the answers hed provided  were correct.  
Given the medical evidence shows Mr B was either  referred,  or waiting to be referred, to 
specialists for further investigations, and hed either had, or been advised  to have 
investigations relating to the symptoms he was experiencing, within the three years  leading 
up to his policy application, I dont think he answered the following questions  accurately:
In the last three years have you:
Been  referred  to a specialist, or had, or been advised to have,  any investigations. 
Including blood tests, biopsies,  ultrasounds, x-rays, CT/MRI or other  scan, ECG, 
echocardiogram or other heart investigation,  abnormal  smear  or mammogram, 
investigations using  an internal  camera such as endoscopy, colonoscopy or 
laparoscopy?
Are you awaiting referral, investigation, results or treatment  for anything else, or do 
you have any other  symptoms for which you have not yet sought medical advice?
While I appreciate he might not have  thought  his symptoms,  or the medical investigations or 
referrals were of particular significance, the above  questions he was asked were clear and 
not misleading. Its clear  they required a factual and honest answer. Insurers can expect 
customers to answer clear questions carefully, accurately, and to the best of their knowledge  
and belief  this isnt an exercise of judgement. So I think Royal London  has been fair in 
deciding Mr B carelessly misrepresented his health.
Ive considered what Mr B has said about  the fact he informed Royal London  about  his A&E 
attendances, but other than what he has said, there is no other  evidence  to support this. So 
Im not persuaded he did.
In cases of careless misrepresentation, the insurer is allowed to restore  the position that 
would exist if it had been given the correct information before the policy started. In this case,  
Ref: DRN89672454Royal London says that having  discussed the matter with its Chief  Medical Officer and its 
underwriters, it wouldve  been concerned about  Mr Bs health in March 2016  and a 
decision on the policy application wouldve been postponed until a full cardiac work-up  had 
been done. In this particular case, the investigations  werent complete until September  2016, 
with Mr B receiving a diagnosis in October 2016. Royal London  has provided evidence  to 
show it wouldnt then have offered any cover  after his diagnosis.
I think its reasonable for an insurer to apply a risk based approach as to whether it would or 
wouldnt have offered cover had it known about  Mr Bs medical situation at the time. It is for 
an insurer to decide what risk it will accept  in return for an agreed premium.  And based  on 
the available  medical evidence, I think its concerns were justified. So while  Im very sorry for 
what Mr and Mrs B are experiencing, I think Royal London acted appropriately in declining  
Mr Bs critical illness claim. And given Mr and Mrs B have a single insurance contract  (albeit 
one with joint cover),  I think  Royal London has acted fairly  in cancelling  Mr and Mrs Bs 
policy, in these particular  circumstances.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint against The Royal  
London Mutual Insurance Society  Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 May 2019.
Katie Doran
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8967245