K821x#15complaint
Mrs C says Financial  Insurance  Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
I issued my provisional decision on 19 December 2018 upholding this complaint  on the basis 
that I dont  think FICL gave Mrs C enough  information about the policy.  And I think this 
wouldve mattered to Mrs C as she had a pre-existing medical condition that wouldnt have 
been covered  under  the policy.
FICL hasnt  responded and with no new evidence to consider, I see no reason to depart from 
the findings in my provisional decision,  which I will repeat here for completeness.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs C case.  
Having done so Im upholding  Mrs C complaint and Ill explain why.
I dont think FICL gave Mrs C clear enough information about  the policy. I say this because I 
dont think it made it clear to Mrs C that pre-existing medical conditions wouldnt be covered. 
I think this would have  mattered to Mrs C because shes  told us that at the time she had a 
pre-existing medical condition.
Our adjudicator said that because Mrs C hadnt  received  treatment or seen a doctor  during  
the 12 months before the start date of the PPI policy, Mrs Cs medical condition  wouldve 
been covered.  However I dont agree, the terms say: any sickness, disease, condition  or 
injury which  you knew about or should  have known about or for which you received advice, 
treatment or counselling  from any doctor during the 12 months before the start date.
As Mrs C knew about her medical  issue before taking the PPI policy,  whether she saw a 
doctor or not doesnt  matter.  The policy wording  separates knowing about a condition  from 
seeing a doctor within 12 months. Mrs C has told us she an operation in 2000, so I dont 
think she wouldve been covered for her condition or any related issues as she knew about 
this condition prior to taking the PPI out.
Had Mrs C known that she wouldnt be covered for her pre-existing medical condition,  I dont  
think she wouldve taken out the policy. Mrs C has told us the condition didnt trouble her 
majorly until 2005. But I still think at the time of taking  out the PPI, just over a year later after 
having a major operation, she wouldve thought the most  likely  reason for her missing  any 
prolonged amount of time from work  would  be due to her pre-existing medical condition.
So I dont  think Mrs C wouldve bought  the policy if FICL had given  her enough  information 
about it. And I think Mrs C has lost out because of what FICL did wrong.  
putting things right
Ref: DRN84730292FICL should put Mrs C in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
A.FICL should find out how much  Mrs C would  have  owed  when she closed her store card 
account if the policy hadnt  been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mrs C owed when she closed her 
account and what  she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs C made a successful claim under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what  she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
B.FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs C would have 
owed when she closed her account  from when  she closed it until she gets the refund. 
The interest rate should  be 8% a year.
C.If  when  FICL works out what Mrs C would have owed each month  without PPI  Mrs C 
paid more than enough  to clear  her balance, FICL should  also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mrs C paid. And it should  carry on paying  interest  until the point when Mrs C 
wouldve owed FICL  something on her store  card. The interest rate should be 8% a year 
from then on.
D.FICL should tell Mrs C what its done to work  out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give   
Mrs C a certificate showing  how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I uphold Mrs Cs complaint against Financial Insurance 
Company Limited.  It should put things  right as explained above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 April 2019.
Simon Hollingshead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8473029