K822xcomplaint
Mrs H had an insurance policy with Aviva Insurance Limited. Mrs H has sadly passed  away, 
so this complaint  is brought  by a representative on behalf of Mrs Hs estate.  Mrs Hs 
representative is unhappy with the premiums Mrs H has paid during the time she had a 
home insurance policy from Aviva Insurance  Limited.
background
Mrs H has had a buildings  insurance policy that she took out through  her bank when she 
took out her mortgage. And in 2006  this policy migrated to Aviva who took over the 
underwriting of this policy. 
Weve been told that Mrs H trusted Aviva to provide her with a competitive quote each year 
the policy renewed. Mrs Hs representative says this didnt happen.  In 2017 Mrs Hs 
representative contacted the bank as Mrs H had developed Alzheimers and was unable to 
deal with her financial  affairs. The renewal invitation shed received was for £1,236.14  and 
she was quite shocked at the price. But the bank said there were other options, and it sold 
her a policy also underwritten by Aviva for £363.21 (this price later amended  to £480, as 
there was an address  error).  Mrs Hs rep believes that the premiums were  excessive and 
that Aviva  took advantage of a vulnerable  customer. 
Aviva responded to the complaint to say that it didnt think it had done anything  wrong. It said 
that it had pointed out in renewal documentation  that it had other policies available  and that 
customers could call up to get a quote for those. It also said that the policy that Mrs Hs rep 
was sold in 2017 had only just been  introduced to the market,  so couldnt have been sold 
before.
Before this complaint  came to me for decision,  Aviva made an offer to settle the complaint. It 
offered to refund a proportion  of the premiums  totalling £186.32, add interest  at 8% simple a 
year and pay £100 for the distress  and inconvenience caused.  Our investigator reviewed 
that offer and she thought  the offer was fair.
Mrs Hs representative doesnt  agree  with the amount being refunded and has requested an 
ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont have the power to tell a business  what its insurance should  have  cost.  I would be, in 
effect determining  or telling a business how it should  operate  and thats not my role. But I 
can look at whether Aviva has treated Mrs H fairly throughout the period she held her 
insurance policy. And Id need to consider whether what Aviva has offered is sufficient to put 
right any unfairness
We know that Mrs H has had this policy for a quite a long time. But for the purposes  of this 
decision I can only look from the point  when Aviva took over in 2006. In 2006,  Mrs H paid 
£688. And Aviva has explained to us that even though it wasnt  responsible for what  Mrs H 
paid before this, it can confirm that it kept the price  similar  to what  Mrs H had paid the 
previous year when  it took over the policy. 
Ref: DRN89557652Mrs Hs premium rose by approximately £80 per year until 2010. In 2009 she made  a claim 
for subsidence. But even after the claim the premium dropped  slightly in 2010 and she was 
paying £855.90. From this point the premium  started to rise again  until 2017 when Mrs Hs 
representative stepped in. Mrs H never engaged  with Aviva throughout these years.  
Mrs Hs representative says that Mrs H was an elderly woman  who had been a loyal 
customer to her bank for over 30 years. Her representative explained  that Mrs H wasnt  
financially astute and had a serious medical  condition, and she felt Aviva took advantage of 
this. She says this happened over many years. 
If I thought Aviva should have realised Mrs H wasnt the type of person who shopped  around  
for cheaper  insurance  regularly, and I thought it increased the price just because Mrs H 
didnt engage  at renewal,  that wouldnt be fair.  But I dont need to make a finding  on that 
point in this complaint, as Aviva has now offered to refund some of the insurance  premiums 
Mrs H paid and I think that offer is fair.
The offer its made is to refund  £186.32. This is the difference  between  what  Mrs H paid in 
2010 and what  she paid over the subsequent  years. Aviva has also offered additional 
compensation for Mrs H being out of pocket (which will be set at 8% simple interest per year) 
and £100 for the trouble  caused. 
Mrs Hs representative thinks that the refund should  be a lot higher. And thats because  of 
the alternative quote she received from Aviva  of £480. Mrs Hs representative suggests that 
if her insurance should have been around £480  per year,  then Mrs H has been  overcharged  
by approximately  £2,700 over the years she held the policy.  Mrs Hs representative agrees 
that 2010 is a fair year to start from. But she thinks Aviva should  pay the difference between  
the new alternative quote and what was paid in 2010, instead of calculating the refund from 
what was actually paid in 2010.
But the price that Mrs Hs representative is now paying for her insurance would have 
included a new customer discount. This is common practice  and I think  its fair that an 
insurer recoups that discount over the subsequent  years.  I dont think its fair to expect an 
insurer to maintain that discount for the duration someone has their policy. So, it wouldnt be 
fair for Aviva to use this premium when  working out its offer.  
Further to this, Aviva has told us that this new alternative policy  was first introduced  in 2016 
and would only have  become available  to Mrs H in 2017. Mrs Hs representative says that 
Aviva have exploited  a very vulnerable  elderly  customer who was naive of how insurance 
companies such as Aviva  operate. The representative says that Mrs H didnt understand that 
she could challenge  her renewal premium annually and if she had done,  she would have 
been switched  to an alternative  product or offered a more competitive price . She says that 
Aviva had a responsibility  to either  update the underwriting and pricing  of the product Mrs H 
held to more accurately  price her risk or to offer to switch her to another product where the 
underwriting and price  was more accurate.  
Under the rules  insurers have to be clear and transparent and have to treat their customers 
fairly. But its not Avivas  responsibility to just automatically move a customer onto a cheaper  
policy. That cheaper  policy may have many  restrictions not suitable  for the customer and 
may not provide the customer  with the cover  they want. And this could lead to complications  
going forward. But Aviva  does now have to tell consumers  if there  are other  options  
available, and its then up to the customer to decide what  to do.
Ref: DRN89557653I went back through the renewal notices provided, the earliest being 2012. And I can see that 
in its cover letters Aviva has told Mrs H that optional enhancements were available. It also 
makes clear  that the premium is calculated on the same level of cover  as the previous year,  
and that if you wish to amend  your cover or discuss any features or benefits of the cover  
options, then you are asked to call on a specific number. So, I dont agree that Aviva have to 
take partial responsibility for what happened. And I cant ask it to refund half the difference in 
premium as Mrs Hs representative has requested. 
But I do think its possible Aviva should have realised at some  point between 2010 and 2017 
that Mrs H wasnt shopping around. And if it took advantage of that, Id expect it to pay 
compensation. Here  Aviva has made  an offer as set out above,  and I think that compensates 
for anything  that might  have gone wrong.
In light of what Ive said above, and having considered Aviva offer, I think  its fair. It makes  
sure Mrs H hasnt  lost out if Aviva did increase the price just because  she didnt engage at 
each renewal in r years.
I also think Avivas  additional compensation offer of £100, for the trouble caused  to Mrs H 
throughout her complaint is fair.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Aviva Insurance  Limiteds offer to refund some  of the costs of 
the late Mrs Hs policy is fair.
Aviva Insurance Limited should also calculate  the additional compensation (set at 8% simple 
interest per year) owed  to the late Mrs H for being out of pocket of that money.
Aviva Insurance Limiteds additional  compensation offer of £100 for the trouble caused  to the 
late Mrs H is also fair. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the executor of 
Mrs Hs estate to accept  or reject my decision before 16 May 2020.
Derek Dunne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8955765