K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs L say that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold them a regular payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.  
background
During a meeting in 2001 Mr and Mrs L took out a joint mortgage with Lloyds. At the same 
time they took out a PPI policy. The policy was in Mr Ls name only and covered their 
mortgage payments  if Mr L was unable to work due to accident or sickness or lost his job. Mr 
and Mrs L also took out a further advance on their mortgage in 2004 and at the same time 
increased their PPI cover to reflect the extra borrowing.
Our adjudicator didnt  think their complaint should be upheld.  He thought Mr and Mrs L 
wouldve understood they had a choice in taking  the policy  and it wouldve suited their needs 
at the time. 
Mr and Mrs L disagree, they say they didnt know the policy  was optional and didnt need it. 
So their complaint has come to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ls complaint.
The initial policy  was sold during a meeting with a sales adviser. Lloyds had to make it clear  
the PPI was optional and not a condition of the lending. Mr and Mrs L say this wasnt done 
but havent given us much detail about what  was said during the meeting to make  them  think  
this. But I think thats understandable as the PPI was sold a while  ago. So Ive relied more 
on what the documents from the sale show.
Lloyds have given  us a copy of Mr and Mrs Ls mortgage and PPI application forms signed 
by them  both. I can see on the mortgage  application form that theres a separate  section that 
deals with PPI. It gives the option to either select to take PPI or decline it with a tick box next 
to both options. I can see that a tick has been  placed in the box to select PPI.
Given the importance of the financial commitment Mr and Mrs L were  making I think its likely 
they read the application form before signing it. And because Mr and Mrs L signed the 
mortgage application form after the section  on PPI I think  its likely they wouldve  seen  the 
different options  available in relation to PPI and understood they had a choice in taking it.
And I think Mr and Mrs L chose to take the policy because I can see that Mr and Mrs L went 
on to complete and sign a separate application form and direct debit mandate  for PPI. If they 
didnt want the cover I dont think they wouldve completed an application for it.
And I think Mr and Mrs L also understood this was the position when they took out a further 
advance in 2004 and increased their PPI cover  in line with the further borrowing. I say this 
because I can see the mortgage agreement says the only insurance  that needed to be taken 
Ref: DRN82181882was buildings  insurance and Mr L completed and signed a separate application for PPI 
increasing their cover.
Lloyds advised  Mr and Mrs L to take PPI. What this means is that Lloyds not only had to 
provide information  about PPI in a clear, fair and not misleading way so that Mr and Mrs L 
could make an informed  choice about buying PPI. It also had to make sure that if it was to 
recommend PPI that the policy was suitable for their needs and circumstances.
I dont know if Lloyds  did take all the steps it shouldve.  But I think PPI was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr and Mrs L for the following reasons:
Mr L was eligible  for the policy  and it doesnt  look like he wouldve been caught by any 
of the main exclusions  in the terms and conditions of the policy which  couldve made it 
difficult to make  a successful claim. 
At the time of the sale Mr L says he was entitled  to a good  level of sick pay and already 
had other PPI policies  in place he could use to make their mortgage payments if he was 
unable to work.  But the policy  wouldve paid out on top of any work benefits and for 
potentially longer for up to 12 months  if he was unable to work  due to accident or 
sickness or if he lost his job. And the other policies covered different loans and credit  
cards. 
So I think the policy wouldve provided  a useful benefit to Mr and Mrs L in their 
circumstances especially considering they were  taking  on a significant  and long term 
financial commitment. Given the implications  if they were unable to meet  their 
repayments I think they wouldve been interested in protecting them.  
There was nothing  to suggest  that the policy wasnt affordable  to Mr and Mrs L at the 
time. And if they decided they no longer wanted the policy  they couldve cancelled it.
I also need to consider  whether Lloyds  gave Mr and Mrs L information in a way which was 
clear, fair and not misleading so that they could make a proper choice about whether or not 
they wanted to take the policy out. I dont know if Lloyds did give all the information  as it 
shouldve. But for the same reasons  that the policy  was suitable and based on what  Mr and 
Mrs L have told us about their circumstances  at the time, I think they wouldve still taken out 
PPI if Lloyds had given them all the proper information.  
This means  Mr and Mrs L arent worse off as a result of any wrong  doing  by Lloyds.
Ref: DRN82181883my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint against 
Lloyds Bank  PLC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 August  2019. 
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8218188