K820x#14complaint
Miss S has complained  that The Equine  and Livestock Insurance Company Limited (ELIC) 
wouldnt continue to pay her claim for vet fees for her horse after the policy ended.
Miss S is represented by Mr R.
background
Miss S held an annual  equine policy  for her horse, which  provided  cover for vet fees 
amongst other things.  This policy expired on 1 October 2018, and had been renewed  
annually since 2014. 
Her horse suffered a back problem on 30 August 2018, with vet consultation on 10 
September 2018. Miss S claimed for these vet fees and ELIC paid this claim. 
However, on 1 October 2018, Miss S phoned  ELIC and because of her horses back 
problem, she felt this policy  was no longer suitable, as she wasnt  riding her horse and she 
wanted to retire him. So she took out a different policy for her horse under another  trading  
name of ELIC.  She asked  about  ongoing cover for her horses back problem and was told 
cover would end when the policy ended  and any fees incurred after this date wouldnt be 
considered. She disagreed with this and said she would take it up when she needed to 
claim.
On 17 January 2019, Miss S phoned ELIC again and said her horses  symptoms  of his back  
problem had continued and she would now need  to claim for the recommended 
investigations and possible  treatment. So she asked ELIC  to confirm  it would cover these 
costs. ELIC  explained  its liability for any claims ended when the policy  expired  on 1 October 
2018, as per the policy terms about  cancellation  and exclusions. Miss S didnt think  this 
applied, as her policy  had expired and wasnt cancelled. And she was of the view that cover 
for any condition lasted for 365 days after the first occurrence or until the policy benefit had 
been reached. 
Miss S complained and ELIC decided to pay her on going vet fees for her horse as a gesture  
of goodwill  up to 29 August 2019 and up to maximum of £4,750 plus up to £1,250 for such  
treatment as physiotherapy and hydrotherapy. 
Miss S remained dissatisfied  as she felt the claim should paid on the basis  of the policys  
liability to pay and not as gesture as goodwill. So she brought  her complaint to us.
The investigator didnt  think the claim was payable  given  the policy conditions and in view of 
ELICs goodwill gesture, he also didnt consider Miss Ss complaint  should be upheld.  Miss S 
disagreed and so her complaint has been passed  to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint. Ill now explain  why.
Miss S feels strongly that its unfair for ELIC to say conditions  are covered for 365 days 
subject to the policy limits when such  cover only continues if the policy  is renewed. Shes of 
Ref: DRN81827872the view that the regardless  of whether the policy expired or was even cancelled, the 365 
days cover  should  remain. Shes  of the view that if this isnt the case, its then coercion  and 
it deprives consumers of their right of choice when renewing a policy.   
ELIC provided a copy of another ombudsmans decision on a similar point, which decided 
that ELIC policy provisions were fair and reasonable. Miss S was of the view that this 
decision should be reviewed and overturned. She felt so strongly  about  the matter,  that she 
thought this service  should make a public  announcement about policyholders rights and that 
all insurers  should revisit their historic claim decisions.
First, let me explain  the remit of this service and indeed me. This is an informal  dispute 
resolution service set up by statute  to resolve consumers  complaints about financial 
businesses, which are regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We resolve  the 
cases on the individual facts presented by each party to each complaint. We dont create 
precedent, as each  decision turns solely on its own facts. A final decision made by any 
ombudsman is a final decision  and cannot  be overturned by another ombudsman  or indeed 
reviewed internally. That is not permitted by our rules as laid down both by statute and the 
FCA rules in its handbook, which are all available online. 
So I have  no remit to revisit the previous  ombudsmans decision, on which  ELIC relied.  As 
Miss S later conceded, neither do I have any remit to make  public announcements on these 
policies in general, or to require insurers to revisit all their historic claims. Thats because all 
that is solely in the remit  of the Financial Conduct  Authority (if at all) and certainly not in my 
remit or the remit of this service.
So now turning to the details of Miss Ss complaint, as she is aware, a policy  of insurance  is 
a contract. And in contract law, there needs  to be an offer and an acceptance  with the 
passing of consideration between the parties,  which then affirms that contract  and in effect  
seals the deal.  Here, this is to provide  insurance  on the basis  of the terms supplied  by ELIC 
for Miss Ss horse.  
So ELIC looked at Miss Ss application  for cover for her horse.  It agreed to accept her 
application on the basis of her answers to the questions it asked her. And then it made her 
an offer of cover having decided itself, what level of premium  to set for the risk she wanted  to 
cover. Miss S then accepted this offer and paid the consideration,  which was the premium 
amount ELIC required.  Miss S bought an annual policy, which crucially  requires the payment  
of premium each year,  in order for the cover to continue. Thats a term of the policy and is 
usually a term of any policy  of insurance,  so I dont find it at all unusual. Payment of the 
premium for each length of term of the insurance  policy is standard practice across the entire 
insurance industry. Simply put, if the premium isnt paid for whatever reason, the insurance 
cover stops.  I know of no other insurance  policy that doesnt require this payment of 
premium in order to benefit from the cover supplied. 
Its called  in legal parlance an indemnity policy for the purposes  of Miss Ss complaint given 
it concerns the cover  provided for vet fees.  It provides the indemnity  for the extent of the vet 
fees up to the policy  limits, solely on the basis that the premium  is paid.
Further, it was Miss S who choose  this policy, rather than ELIC actively seeking her specific  
business. In other words,  it wasnt an advised sale under the rules of Financial Conduct 
Authority. So it was solely Miss Ss choice  to decide on this policy, out of all the policies the 
rest of the equine  insurance market offered. This unadvised status is clearly detailed  in 
Miss Ss welcome letter dated 2 October  2014 and all subsequent renewals. 
Ref: DRN81827873In the general  notes  on the policy, it says quite  simply that this policy is a fixed  term contract  
of insurance not a continuous permanent health policy. So just like a private medical 
insurance policy for humans, cover is only provided for the term of the policy and not for any 
onward time period  beyond  the length of the term of the policy. As Ive previously stated 
Miss Ss policy was an annual policy, so its cover is dependent  on the annual payment of the 
premium ELIC required.
Under the general exclusions, at section  18, it confirms the policy doesnt cover any costs 
incurred after ELIC stopped receiving the premium. That is standard in all insurance policies 
for obvious reasons, as if the premium isnt paid,  the consideration cant be said to have 
passed and therefore the contract  is null and void. This is well-established contract  law for 
several centuries  now.
As Miss S had an annual policy, it provided  cover for any vets fees for any condition (subject 
to the policy  terms) for 365 days. Obviously since this is an annual policy,  the condition  
claimed for might exceed the 365 days of the annual policy, which  is why the policy provides 
that it automatically renews.  Miss S believes this is unfair and is of the view that given her 
horses condition  with its back started  in August 2018, she should have cover for any vet 
fees for that condition until August 2019, notwithstanding the fact that the policy  expired and 
wasnt renewed in October 2018. 
So in effect,  she is saying that the cover provided for vet fees by ELIC  outweighs  the normal 
rules of contract law namely  of offer, acceptance and consideration. She relies  on an opinion 
of a professor who is also a Queens  Counsel who I obviously cannot name due to data 
protection issues. The document is dated 19 February 2019.  It says the following:
"This policy  is contradictory. At first sight it seems  straightforward enough. The 
trigger of coverage for vets fees is injury  during  the policy period under section 8, 
limited to fees incurred  365 days  after the injury. Then policy condition 18 removes  
cover for costs  incurred  after premiums  are no longer received. There  is an ambiguity 
here and in my view condition 18 cannot contradict the clear words  of cover: it should  
be confined to, eg, the case  where the assured  stops paying premiums on the 
relevant due dates.  On the insurers construction, if a horse suffered a serious injury 
a few days before expiry,  they could simply refuse  to renew and thereby remove all 
lability for fees.
Trying to argue that condition 18 requires renewal  is giving the words much  more 
weight than they can bear."
But I consider that condition  18 doesnt  require renewal, as the policy  already provides 
elsewhere that its annual coverage  automatically renews. Section 18 is merely sensibly 
saying, in my view, that there will be no cover if the premium isnt paid and given the basic  
tenets of contract law for indemnity insurance  policies, I dont consider there is anything  
wrong in making  that point explicit in a policy such as this. More  so, given the policy  also 
explains its not a permanent health policy and that it requires payment of an annual 
premium. 
 
My role is to assess whether ELIC did anything wrong in dealing with Miss Ss claim.  And if 
so, has it done  enough to put things right. I dont consider  ELIC didnt anything wrong in 
telling Miss S at the time she decided to not renew this policy that cover for any conditions 
previously claimed for would stop.  Thats clearly in line with the policy terms and the fact 
Ref: DRN81827874ELIC explained this before Miss S made her decision not to renew the policy was 
appropriate in my view.
I consider it was also appropriate that when Miss S phoned in January 2019, ELIC  told her 
that her claim wouldnt be covered since the policy ceased to be in existence since  October  
2018. 
Far more importantly in my opinion, in an effort to appease Miss S, and given she had taken  
out another policy for her horse in October 2018, ELIC decided to pay Miss Ss claim for her 
horses ongoing back problem as a gesture of goodwill. So Miss Ss claim has been paid in 
any event. 
Therefore, Im of the view that theres  simply nothing more I can require ELIC  to do as 
regards this complaint.
my final decision
So for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 May 2020.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8182787