K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains OVO (S) Home Services Ltd caused damage to his home, as their engineer 
failed to attend an agreed appointment to fix his boiler, and a leak occurred some  days  later.
background
Mr M had 24-hour boiler cover with OVO (previously known as SSE).  A fault occurred, and 
OVO attended and fixed the problem, only for it to occur again  within  24 hours.  OVO  
attended again, and advised new parts  were  needed, and a new date was agreed  with Mr M 
for OVO to return and fit these. OVO failed to attend  the appointment.
Five days later, Mr M returned home to discover  significant damage caused to his home as a 
result of a water  leak, which he identified was coming from his boiler. An OVO engineer 
attended the next day, and whilst the boiler  couldnt be repaired,  he made it safe.  He also 
confirmed the replacement parts, promised after the previous visit, hadnt been ordered  
which is why an engineer didnt previously attend as expected.
OVO sent a regional manager to assess the damage caused, who concluded the leak wasnt  
caused by the faulty parts  not being  replaced, but by a separate  issue unconnected  with the 
previous visit/fault.  So, OVO said they wont pay for the damage caused by the leak.
Mr M wasnt happy with this and complained to OVO, saying had the engineer attended to 
replace the faulty parts, the separate fault would most likely have been identified.  And, his 
boiler operating  with faulty parts is likely to have helped cause the subsequent  fault that 
resulted in the leak. Mr M asked for OVO  to repay  the cost of the damage caused.
OVO accepted theyd  failed to order the spare  parts and attend  to replace them. But they 
repeated it was a different part of the boiler that was leaking, which wasnt connected to the 
earlier fault, or missed  engineer visit. OVO didnt accept responsibility  for the damage  but did 
agree to waive two months payments in recognition of their service failures. 
Unhappy with this, Mr M brought his complaint to us. Our investigator  didnt uphold it, saying 
he agreed the two respective faults  werent  connected. He also didnt think OVOs  engineer  
would definitely  have found  the fault that caused the leak - it was possible he may have 
spotted it, but our investigator couldnt make  that assumption. Our investigator  also noted 
Mr M didnt  contact OVO  after the missed appointment. But he agreed that OVOs offer of 
two months free cover  as compensation  for their service failures was fair in the 
circumstances.  Unhappy  with this, Mr M asked an ombudsman to review the complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
Theres no dispute OVO failed to order the replacement parts their engineer said were  
needed after his first visit. Or that, because of an IT glitch,  Mr Ms follow-up visit where these 
parts were  due to be replaced was missed.  OVO  accept  there  was a service failing here. 
The issue  for me to consider is whether this missed  appointment   and with it the opportunity 
to replace the faulty parts (expansion vessel and a pressure relief valve on Mr Ms boiler    
Ref: DRN87623052which Ill refer to as the boiler parts)   can be shown  to have caused, or contributed to, the 
subsequent fault that caused the leak. In considering this, I dont need  proof  the leak was or 
wasnt caused by the failure  to replace the boiler  parts. Instead, based  on the evidence 
available, I need  to decide if its more  likely  than not the leak was caused by these factors.  
And from what Ive seen, I dont think this is the case.
Mr M says, because  OVO  didnt attend  the appointment, there were two consequences.  
Firstly, the faulty boiler parts werent replaced,  which must have contributed  to the fault that 
caused the leak five days later. And secondly, had the engineer  attended as agreed,  hed 
have likely identified the other fault.  I do understand Mr M drawing  these conclusions.
However, OVO have  provided information  and a diagram (which  was provided to Mr M by 
our investigator) to explain why the respective faults are unconnected. The initial fault 
required the boiler parts to be replaced  these are part of the boiler circuit. The part that 
failed, causing  water to escape and cause the damage, was a pressure reducing valve  
(PRV) on the hot water inlet circuit. OVO explained these two circuits dont directly  interact  
with each other. OVO  also said there  was nothing to indicate a leak,  or likely to be one, from 
the hot water circuit PRV at the initial visit, five days earlier.
Ive seen nothing  to suggest  the unconnected  circuit  information  provided by OVO is 
incorrect, and Im persuaded by this evidence. I accept its possible the fault with the hot-
water circuit PRV may have become evident  on the day of the missed  appointment.  But I 
cant conclude, from the information available, that its more likely  than not the hot water  
circuit PRV  failure  would have been  identified had an engineer visited on the day expected 
(or shortly afterwards). Or that its more likely than not the subsequent  damage to Mr Ms 
home was caused  by OVOs failure  to attend and replace the boiler parts  when they should 
have done. So, as I dont think OVO is responsible for the damage caused  after the hot 
water circuit PRV failed,  I wont be asking  OVO  to do anything to repair this damage.
Im aware Mr M doesnt now think  OVO  waiving two-months payments (approximately  £48) 
provides enough compensation for the inconvenience he experienced. I agree Mr M was 
inconvenienced  he was told an engineer would visit to replace faulty boiler  parts, and this 
didnt take place. And he had to chase OVOs attendance after the leak was reported.  
Ive already said I dont  think  OVO are responsible for the subsequent  leak, and so I wont be 
able to award compensation for the distress  caused  by this. Which  leaves  the missed  
appointment and service  issues  for me to consider here. Given  the short time period 
between the missed appointment and the subsequent replacement  of the boiler  faulty parts, I 
think compensation of £48 is fair in the circumstances, so I wont  be asking OVO to make 
any further payment  to Mr M in this regard.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out about, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 July 2020.
Ref: DRN87623053Mark Evans
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8762305