K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage Mr J holds  with The Mortgage Business Plc (TMB). In 
essence, the complaint is that TMB  recorded adverse information about the mortgage on his 
credit file that has prevented him from getting another mortgage  when his deal with TMB ran 
out.
background
Mr J is a discharged bankrupt, and TMB  has admitted that it wrongly placed entries on his 
credit file for non-payment  of his mortgage.  TMB has removed the entries  from Mr Js credit 
file, apologised  and paid Mr J £500 compensation. Mr J believes the mistake  prevented  him 
from getting another mortgage elsewhere so he could sell and move.
Our investigator didnt  think TMB  needed  to do any more to resolve  the complaint; she 
thought it had dealt with it fairly. Mr J has asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  If I dont comment  on any specific point 
its not because  Ive failed to consider it but because I dont think I need  to comment on it in 
order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an 
overview and decide  whats fair in the round.
In essence, Mr J believes that what TMB has put on his credit  file is the reason hes not 
been able to get a new mortgage; not just a reason but the sole reason. In order to find in his 
favour, Id need to be persuaded, on the balance of probabilities, that all of the following 
were true:
that every time TMB has recorded information on Mr Js credit  file that a potential lender  
might consider adverse, its done so in error;
that no other existing  creditor  has recorded any information on Mr Js credit file that a 
potential lender might consider adverse; and
no other reason  exists  for lenders to be unwilling to lend to Mr J.
The first point has been conceded, but for completeness, Ill explain that the right to enforce 
the security in the event of discharge  from bankruptcy is preserved by section 281(2) of the 
Insolvency Act 1986. However, section 281(1)  says that where a bankrupt  is discharged,  the 
discharge releases  the borrower from all the bankruptcy debts. 
In the case at hand, this means  that Mr J isnt liable to pay the monthly  instalments and TMB 
shouldnt pursue him for payment. It follows that, if Mr J isnt liable to pay the monthly  
instalments, whether the monthly  instalments have been paid or not shouldnt have been 
reported to credit reference agencies in respect  of Mr J. That was TMBs  error.  although  if 
Mr J doesnt make the payments, TMB is entitled to enforce its security  over his property  to 
recover the money it lent.
On the second  point,  Ive seen Mr Js full credit file, and it shows that, aside from TMB, 
numerous other creditors of his have recorded  adverse  information  that might  have 
contributed to any difficulty he has in getting  a mortgage. On the third point, there  is, of 
Ref: DRN84894582course, the bankruptcy itself.  Mr J may have been discharged, but the bankruptcy  is also on 
his credit file and will remain  so for several  more years.
In all the circumstance, I cant fairly  say that any problem Mr J faces in obtaining a new 
mortgage is just because of the information  TMB  put on his credit file wrongly.  Overall,  I 
think its because of the cumulative effect of Mr Js wider financial situation. TMB has made  
what I consider to be a fair and proportionate response to the error  it made.  It doesnt  have 
to do more.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint, or make  
any order or award against The Mortgage Business Plc. My final decision concludes this 
services consideration  of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further  
consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 August 2019.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8489458