K820x#14complaint
Mr G is unhappy with changes made  to the terms of a travel insurance policy he and Mrs G, 
his wife, had the benefit  of as part of his account with Nationwide Building Society.
background
In 2018 the underwriter of the travel  insurance policy Mr and Mrs G had the benefit of (the 
underwriter) made certain changes  to the age requirements of the policy with effect of 
3 January 2019. Mr G is unhappy with that decision  so complained  to us. Our investigator 
didnt uphold  his complaint. Mr G disagreed so his complaint has been  passed to me to look 
at everything afresh and make a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  it.
Im satisfied that the underwriter took the decision to make changes  to the policy  so thats  
not something I can hold Nationwide responsible for. Mr G has also raised a complaint 
against the underwriter  and that is being considered separately to this complaint against  
Nationwide. 
However, I have considered the way in which Nationwide communicated the changes to the 
policy in its letter to Mr and Mrs G dated October 2018, and Im satisfied it clearly explained 
the changes that were  going to be made. 
The letter confirms that the policy would remain in place until 31 December 2019 but there 
would be some changes  with effective from 3 January 2019; from that date the requirement  
to take out an age extension upgrade would be lowered  from 75 to 70 years.  The letter also 
provided information about how to arrange that upgrade, if this was going affect them. It also 
explained the price of the upgrade would be increasing from £50 to £65. So I dont think 
Nationwide did anything  wrong. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im 
required to ask Mr G to accept or reject  my decision before 14 February  2020.
David Curtis-Johnson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8274390