K820x#14Complaint
Mr B is unhappy with the number of claims Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  plc (RSA) have 
recorded on the Claims and Underwriting Exchange (CUE). 
Background
Mr B had a policy of home and contents insurance with RSA.  He decided  to look for 
insurance with another provider but had difficulties as he had four claims registered on CUE. 
Mr B says only two claims should  be recorded  one in relation to his kitchen  floor and the 
other for a boiler leak. 
RSA looked in to Mr Bs complaint and noted  Mr B had made the following claims:
Date Section of policy Circumstances Amount paid
02/03/2015 Buildings sunken floorboards £1,389.00
16/05/2016   Escape of water leak from toilet cistern £0.00
17/05/2016 Home emergency leak from toilet cistern £156.30
07/12/2016 Home emergency leak from boiler £438.60
RSA noted Mr B decided  not to continue with the escape of water claim,  as it was likely  to 
come within his excess. As a gesture of goodwill RSA agreed  to remove  this claim from 
CUE, but said the other claims had been recorded  correctly. 
Mr B was unhappy with RSAs response and brought  a complaint to this service.  Our 
investigator said RSA was correct to register all four incidents on CUE, as all 
claims/incidents are added, whether  or not a payment was made. She provided  Mr B with 
details of the claim for a leak from the toilet cistern. The investigator  noted RSA had 
removed the claim  for 16 May 2016  from CUE  and said she thought  this was reasonable. Mr 
B didnt  accept the investigators opinion. He said he felt hed been treated unfairly and 
asked for a second  opinion, so his complaint has been passed to me to consider.   
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
Mr B accepts he claimed for sunken  floorboards and a leaking boiler. He disputes the two 
records for May 2016. Ive seen records to show Mr B contacted  RSA on 17 May 2016 to 
report a constant  leak under  the cistern. An engineer visited  Mr B and RSA paid for the 
required work to be done  under the home  emergency section of Mr Bs policy.  So Im 
satisfied this claim was correctly recorded  on CUE.
The other incident reported on CUE was for the same leak,  but under the escape of water 
section of Mr Bs policy the day before the home  emergency claim. I appreciate  RSA didnt 
take any action  or make  any payment for this incident, but believe RSA acted reasonably in 
passing details  of it on to CUE. CUE  is a shared database of home and other insurance 
claims and incidents  used by certain insurance  companies. Insurers who are signed up to 
CUE make a record of any incident  they are made  aware of, whether or not it leads to a 
claim. Mr Bs policy sets out what RSA record on CUE as follows:
Ref: DRN88425052CLAIMS HISTORY
Insurers pass information to the Claims and Underwriting  Exchange Register (CUE)  run by 
Insurance Database  Services  Ltd (IDS Ltd). Under  the conditions  of your policy, you must 
tell us about any incident (such as fire, water damage,  theft or an accident) which  may or 
may not give rise to a claim. When you tell us about  an incident, we will pass  information 
relating to it to the register.
Taking in to account the terms of Mr Bs policy I consider RSA acted  reasonably in passing  
details of all four incidents on to CUE,  even  though  RSA didnt make a payment for the 
escape of water claim. In any event RSA have  chosen to remove the escape of water 
incident from CUE as a gesture of goodwill. RSA have provided evidence  which  shows  only 
three incidents recorded on CUE. So Im not asking RSA to do anything  more.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 April 2020.
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8842505