K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that the car supplied  to him with finance from Black Horse Limited wasnt  
of satisfactory quality and he wants to reject it.
background
In June 2016  Mr S bought  a second hand car with an extended warranty,  financed  by a 
hire purchase agreement with Black  Horse. He paid a deposit of £1,500 under the finance 
agreement.
Mr S says the car had a rough sound but thought this was normal for a diesel which 
hed never  had before. He says he worked  nights and bought the car to get to and from 
work safely and easily. But he didnt drive  it far.
When Mr S bought  the car it had just over 47,000 miles on the clock and when it 
broke down,  around  16 months later, hed added less than 1,900 miles.
The Driver  Vehicle and Standards Agency, (DVLA), website shows the car had an MOT 
in April 2016 and in September 2017. Neither  test had any advisory notices  about  
problems with the car other than a nail in a tyre in April 2016. The car had been serviced in 
May 2016 and theres no evidence any problems were noted then.
Mr S has explained his car was involved in an accident the day after he acquired it. The 
bonnet and bumper were  damaged. Mr S discovered he didnt have the drive away  
insurance he thought had been arranged for him. He couldnt afford to repair the 
damage straight away and says he didnt drive it for over a year following the accident.
Mr S says the oil light came on when  he was driving  the car in October  2017.  He pulled 
into a garage to put some oil in straight  away but, as he was driving  off, the car shut down.
Mr Ss breakdown company inspected the car and suspected a problem with the timing 
chain/tensioners. Mr S paid a garage to inspect the car and diagnose the problem. 
They confirmed the timing chain had snapped while the car was being driven and 
repairs eventually costing  several thousand  pounds  needed  to be done.
The manufacturer of the car told Black Horse there hadnt been any relevant product 
recalls or quality enhancements for Mr Ss car. The DVLA website confirms there are no
outstanding product recalls for the car. The manufacturer has commented that a timing 
chain doesnt  have a life expectancy and can fail at any time.
The warranty company  had the car inspected by an independent engineer. The engineers 
opinion was that failure  of the timing chain was due to wear  and tear and that the fault 
wouldnt have been developing at the time Mr S took out the policy, which was the date 
the car was supplied  to him.
Mr S was told he couldnt  claim on the warranty because the breakdown  happened  due 
to wear and tear. He paid £450  for the cause of the breakdown to be diagnosed.  And 
hes spent a lot of money on taxi fares to and from work.
Mr S stopped making payments on his loan from around February  2018.  Black Horse was 
contacted by the garage and agreed to collect  the car. It paid the garage around  £4,830  
which I understand to be for the repair and storage charges. It sold the car at auction. 
Black Horse  credited the sale proceeds to Mr Ss account but it charged Mr S a 
Ref: DRN85910662repossession fee. Theres a balance outstanding  of around £3,700. And the account is 
subject to a default  notice.
Mr Ss complaint to Black  Horse  wasnt upheld so Mr S brought his complaint to this 
service. Our investigators  view was the timing chain wasnt  faulty when the car was 
supplied to Mr S and she didnt uphold his complaint on that basis. Mr S didnt accept the 
investigators opinion,  so the matters  been  referred to me to review. Ive came  to a different 
decision to our investigator and recently  issued a provisional decision explaining why an 
extract of which follows:
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Black Horse  is responsible for the quality of the car that it supplied to Mr S under  the hire 
purchase agreement.  The relevant law says the car shouldve been  of satisfactory  quality 
at the point it was supplied  to Mr S. And I take the relevant law into consideration in 
reaching my decision about  whats fair and reasonable.
When deciding whether or not the car was of satisfactory quality, there are a number of 
factors I need to take into account  including the age, mileage and price  paid for the car. The 
price of the car was fairly significant  at around  £12,000. I note the car was around four 
years old when it was supplied to Mr S and it had been driven over 47,000 miles. So its
reasonable to expect that it wouldve shown some  signs of wear  and tear. Taking  this into 
account I need to think about the durability of the timing chain that failed and whether, 
bearing those factors  in mind, it was reasonable to expect  it to have lasted  longer  than it 
did.
The independent engineer concluded  from his inspection the damage to the car resulted
from normal wear  and deterioration, and continuing to drive  the car in a damaged state led 
to it failing completely.  He said the deterioration shouldve been evident  to the driver as 
increased engine  noise, warning lights coming  on and general concerns about  how the 
engine was running. He also said if the car had been  referred to a repairer  much  sooner it 
might not have needed such  extensive  repair.
The engineer thought  the damage wouldnt  have  been developing at the time the car was 
supplied to Mr S. He bases this opinion  on the time and mileage  that had passed since  
that time.  I note that although  the car was around 16 months older by the time it broke 
down,
Mr S had added less than 1,900 miles to its mileage since the car was supplied to him. So 
Im not persuaded that the engineer could reasonably conclude on that basis alone  that 
the problem wasnt  existing when Mr S acquired  the car.
The engineers conclusion is also inconsistent with his comment engine noise wouldve 
been an indication  that something was wrong. Mr S has said the car was noisy when it was 
supplied to him. Its not clear if the engineer was given  this information, but its possible he 
wouldve come  to a different conclusion if he had.
Also the engineer doesnt consider whether it would have been reasonable to expect the 
timing chain to last longer  than it did bearing  in mind  the cars age and mileage of less 
than
Ref: DRN8591066350,000. I think a reasonable person would expect  major parts  in a car engine  to last longer 
in these circumstances.
Mr S has said he had an accident but I dont think the damage to the bonnet  and bumper 
hes described would have affected the timing chain. And the engineer didnt mention 
impact damage had any effect   he thought the failure was due to wear and tear. Mr S 
didnt use
the car until long after he bought it and did very few miles when  he started driving  it. Theres  
no evidence he misused the car or that the fact it was off the road for some time after the 
accident affected its condition. So I dont  think theres persuasive evidence  that misuse or 
lack of proper upkeep  or maintenance while the car was on or off the road led to the 
damage to the timing chain.
I can understand  why Mr S thinks now that the car had the problem at the point it was 
supplied to him given  the early rough  sound hes described and the fact that he hadnt  
driven many miles before it broke  down.  Its a shame he didnt have the car checked over 
when he first noticed the noise. But I think his explanation that hed never had a diesel 
before and thought that the noise was normal noise for a diesel engine is reasonable.
Mr S says he had no warning that something was wrong with the car until he saw the oil 
light on the day it broke down. Ive no reason  to doubt what he says.  I wouldve expected 
any warning lights coming  on to have  been  picked up when the car had its MOT  test. There
arent any relevant  advisory notices on the DVLA MOT records in either April 2016 or, after 
it was supplied, to Mr S in September 2017. And I havent seen  any evidence of a fault 
being noticed when the car was serviced  in May 2016. So I think its unlikely Mr S saw a 
warning light before the day the engine failed completely, particularly given the immediate 
action he says he took to fill up the oil when the light did come  on. And I dont think Mr S is 
to blame
for the car not being repaired  sooner.
Bearing all of the circumstances in mind I think its fair and reasonable to uphold Mr Ss 
complaint. On balance I think the evidence shows it was more likely  than not the car was 
developing the problem with the timing chain when Mr S bought it. And given the relatively  
significant cost and low mileage of the car, I think Mr S could reasonably  expect the car 
not to have suffered  such a catastrophic and costly failure as soon  as it did. So I dont 
think the car was of satisfactory  quality when he acquired it.
Mr S paid a deposit under the finance agreement  with Black Horse of £1,500 and he paid
£450 for an initial assessment of the damage carried out by the garage.  He also made  
payments totalling  £1,186.36 under the agreement  between October 2017 and January 
2018 when he couldnt use the car. I think Black  Horse  should reimburse Mr S these sums 
plus interest.
Mr S wanted to reject  the car and didnt  pay the repair  and storage costs.  Black Horse  paid 
the garage around £4,830  after the garage contacted it and has written that payment off. 
Its not clear if the payment Black  Horse made was in settlement of all of the repair and 
storage charges the garage raised. If not, I think Black Horse should indemnify Mr S in 
respect of any further costs the garage  may seek to charge and should  not try to recover 
from Mr S any payments  it has made or may in the future make to the garage.
Mr Ss account has a balance of £3,770.02. This is made up of arrears  that have accrued 
since Mr S stopped  making payments in February 2018 plus a repossession fee, less the 
Ref: DRN85910664sale proceeds of the car. Black Horse has said it isnt pursuing  the arrears  from Mr S but 
its placed a default on his account. I think Black Horse should remove  all record of the 
agreement including  any adverse information  related to it from Mr Ss credit file.
Mr S says not having the car has placed  a lot of strain  on his relationship with his family. 
Hes had to rely on friends  and family for help and support with taking his children  to 
school. And hasnt been able to have  regular contact with one of his children who lives a 
significant distance from him. Mr S estimates  hes spent over £5,000 on taxis and public 
transport, having  to put his children into breakfast and after school clubs  when he couldnt 
pick them  up and having to take unpaid leave when  he couldnt get help with childcare.
Although I appreciate Mr S has been  greatly  inconvenienced and the outcome of his 
complaint has been uncertain,  I think Mr S couldve taken some  steps  to mitigate  his 
difficulties and costs  perhaps by hiring  a car from February 2018 when he stopped making 
payments on his account. And he hasnt been  able to provide any documentary  evidence 
of what hes spent. But I think Black  Horse should compensate  him for the distress and 
inconvenience hes suffered - I think £250 would be a reasonable amount.
my provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I intend to uphold Mr Ss complaint  and to direct Black Horse
Limited to
1.Refund Mr S the deposit of £1,500  plus simple  interest at 8% a year from the date 
Mr S paid it, 26 June  2016, to the date they are refunded to Mr S by Black Horse.
2.Refund Mr S the payments he made on his account of £1,186.36 between 
October 2017 and January 2018 plus simple interest at 8% a year calculated 
from the dates Mr S made the payments  to the date they are refunded to Mr S 
by Black Horse.
3.Subject to Mr S providing  proof  of when he made payment, pay Mr S £450  for the 
costs of the initial inspection of his car following its breakdown on 5 October 2017 
plus simple interest  at 8% a year from the date Mr S paid it to the date of payment 
by Black Horse.
4.Indemnify Mr S for any further costs the garage that carried out the repair  and 
stored Mr Ss car may claim, and not try to recover any payment  its made  or may 
make in the future for this from Mr S.
5.Write  off the balance of Mr Ss loan account of £3,770.02 and any accrued 
charges since and remove the default placed  against Mr Ss account.
6.Take appropriate steps to remove  all record of the agreement  including any 
adverse information  related to it from Mr Ss credit  file.
7.Pay Mr S £250 for distress  and inconvenience. Black Horse  must pay this 
compensation within 28 days of the date on which  we tell it Mr S accepts my final 
decision. If it pays later than this it must  also pay interest on the compensation 
from the date of final decision  to the date of payment  at 8% a year simple.
If Black Horse considers  that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax 
from the interest it pays Mr S, it should tell Mr S how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mr S a tax deduction certificate  if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
developments
Ref: DRN85910665Mr S has accepted my provisional decision and I havent received any comments on it from 
Black Horse.  So I see no need to make  any changes to it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For the reasons  set out in my provisional  decision above I uphold Mr Ss complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ss complaint and direct  Black Horse Limited to
1.Refund Mr S the deposit of £1,500  plus simple  interest at 8% a year from the date 
Mr S paid it, 26 June  2016, to the date they are refunded to Mr S by Black Horse.
2.Refund Mr S the payments he made on his account of £1,186.36 between 
October 2017 and January 2018 plus simple interest at 8% a year calculated 
from the dates Mr S made the payments  to the date they are refunded to Mr S 
by Black Horse.
3.Subject to Mr S providing  proof  of when he made payment, pay Mr S £450  for the 
costs of the initial inspection of his car following its breakdown on 5 October 2017 
plus simple interest  at 8% a year from the date Mr S paid it to the date of payment 
by Black Horse.
4.Indemnify Mr S for any further costs the garage that carried out the repair  and 
stored Mr Ss car may claim, and not try to recover any payment  its made  or may 
make in the future for this from Mr S.
5.Write  off the balance of Mr Ss loan account of £3,770.02 and any accrued 
charges since and remove the default placed  against Mr Ss account.
6.Take appropriate steps to remove  all record of the agreement  including any 
adverse information  related to it from Mr Ss credit  file.
7.Pay Mr S £250 for distress  and inconvenience. Black Horse  must pay this 
compensation within 28 days of the date on which  we tell it Mr S accepts my final 
decision. If it pays later than this it must  also pay interest on the compensation 
from the date of final decision  to the date of payment  at 8% a year simple.
If Black Horse considers  that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax 
from the interest it pays Mr S, it should tell Mr S how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mr S a tax deduction certificate  if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 August 2019.
Julia Wilkinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8591066