K820x#14complaint
Ms B complains  that Cheap Financial  Claims Limited (CFC) made a claim on her behalf  for 
mis-sold payment protection  insurance (PPI) without her permission.
background
Ms B has had a successful claim against Lender L for the mis-sale  of some PPI policies.  The 
claim was submitted by CFC. CFC has explained  that Ms B signed  up to its services in 
November 2018.  In March 2019, Lender  L wrote to both Ms B and CFC to say the claim had 
been successful.  Ms B received  an invoice from CFC for its work, but she has complained  to 
say that she never authorised the claim.
Ms B has explained that she received a number of calls from CFC and she ignored them.  
She later called CFC to ask for evidence that she signed up to its services   and asked it to 
stop sending her messages. It sent her evidence that she had provided an electronic 
signature but Ms B has said the signature doesnt match hers.  CFC offered to reduce Ms Bs 
fees by £60 as a gesture  of goodwill. Ms B brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator said she felt that CFCs fees were due. She explained that shed  not seen 
evidence of Ms B trying to cancel her agreement with CFC before the claim had been 
successful. Ms B disagreed. She explained that she has evidence that the signature doesnt 
match hers,  and she has evidence of making  a number of calls to CFC to explain that she 
wouldnt be corresponding with them further as she didnt authorise a claim to be made. She 
asked for an ombudsman to make  a decision so the complaint has been passed to me. 
Ms B has provided evidence of her phone  calls and signature for me to review.  CFC has 
also submitted further evidence  to show it didnt receive the calls from Ms B, and a copy of 
the terms and conditions that it says Ms B accepted.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
Ms Bs signature
Ms B has maintained that she didnt  sign the forms authorising CFC to make  claims on her 
behalf. She says the signature  doesnt  match hers. And shes provided us with a letter from 
her bank branch  manager which confirms the signatures dont match. CFC has explained 
that the signature was obtained electronically, and was submitted from Ms Bs mobile phone. 
It has provided a screenshot which confirms the sign-up happened  from Ms Bs phone.
Ive had to decide whether I think,  on balance, Ms B authorised CFC to make  these claims 
on her behalf. Having considered the evidence, Im persuaded  that she did. CFC has only 
been able to make claims to Lender  L because  it had certain information about Ms B. I dont 
think it wouldve been able to obtain  this information unless Ms B had given it to them, or had 
permitted them to obtain the information. I can also see that the signature  which  has been 
completed electronically so its likely to differ to Ms Bs handwritten signature  came  from 
Ms Bs mobile phone.  So, on balance, I think its likely  Ms B did authorise CFC to make  the 
claims on her behalf.
Ref: DRN84863562Calls
Ms B has said throughout this complaint that she made a number of calls to CFC to confirm 
that it didnt have authorisation to make  the claim for her. She has said she doesnt feel its 
fair to pay the fees for the claim. CFC has said that Ms B didnt make any calls to it until after 
it requested its fees, and even then it was only one call in July. It has provided call logs.  But 
the calls logs it provided differ   on one it says no inbound calls were received; on another  it 
says one inbound call. But Ive seen  Ms Bs call records which  show  that she called CFC on 
a number of occasions  some of these calls were over four minutes long. So I think  Ms B 
has called  CFC on a number of occasions  and Im persuaded that she spoke  to someone. 
However, I dont think this means that the fees arent due to CFC.
The records  of calls Ms B has made  to CFC are all after Lender L had upheld  her claim and 
made a payment to her. So I think the calls were made to challenge the fees. I can 
understand Ms B doing this, as she doesnt  believe  she gave the authority to CFC to make a 
claim on her behalf. But I can see that CFC sent Ms B correspondence before the claim was 
successful explaining that it was submitting a claim.  And Lender L had written to Ms B to 
explain it was investigating. Ive not seen  evidence of Ms B contesting the claim had been 
made prior to the claim being successful. And the money she has received from Lender  L in 
relation to the claim has only been  paid because CFC made  the claim on her behalf. So I 
think that its fair for CFC to charge its fees based on the claim it submitted being successful.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 November 2019.
Charlotte Wilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8486356