K820x#14complaint
Miss M complains that Canada Square Operations Limited trading as Egg mis-sold her a 
payment protection insurance policy (PPI) in 2002 when she applied  for a credit  card on line.
background
Miss M applied for her credit card over the internet. At that time she also bought PPI. 
The PPI would have  cost around  £0.74  per £100 of the outstanding balance  on her credit 
card and on a successful claim would have paid 10% of that balance  if she couldnt  work 
though accident or sickness or if she lost her job for up to 12 months.
She says during the application  process  it was strongly  suggested she needed the protection 
the PPI gave to get her credit  card.  She also feels that she didnt need the policy as she 
would have received sick pay from her employer and her family and friends could have  
helped if she lost her job or couldnt  work.
Our adjudicator didnt  think this complaint should be upheld. Miss M disagreed with this view 
and asked for her complaint to be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Miss Ms case.
Whilst I appreciate Miss M will be disappointed with my decision, I would like to explain why 
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.
Miss M says she was led to believe she had to have it to get her credit card so the first thing 
Ive thought about is whether Miss M was given  a fair choice about taking out the PPI.
Egg has provided copies  of the screenshots Miss M would have seen when she applied 
online for her credit  card and the PPI. The screen  asks Miss M to select an option - yes to 
protect her repayments or no to decline  the PPI. And although I appreciate  Miss M doesnt 
remember now as it was such  a long time ago, I think she likely would have had to select an 
option. I think she could  have selected  no if she didnt want the PPI. I have thought  about  
what Miss M has told us about thinking it was part and parcel of her application for her credit 
card but I dont think the wording on the form would  have led Miss M to believe she had to 
take out the policy in order to get her credit card. I also think  Miss M would  have received a 
welcome letter from Egg and that the PPI appeared on her credit  card statements as a 
separate entry so if she had wanted to question the PPI she could have done so at any time.
And Miss M says she was pressured into taking out the policy.  But I dont think she spoke to 
anyone when she made her application.  Theres nothing  about the wording  on the form 
which makes me think she would have felt she had to take out the policy or she wouldnt get 
her credit card. Whilst I accept that Miss M has given me her honest  and best recollection of 
events, I have also taken  into account that the sale took place nearly  17 years ago. And 
thinking about all the paperwork,  together with what we know about these types of sales  at 
Ref: DRN85907472the time,  I think its more  likely that Miss M was given  a choice about buying the PPI knowing  
she could refuse it if she didnt want the cover.  
As the PPI was taken out online, I dont think it was recommended to Miss M. So Egg didnt 
need to make sure it was right for her. But it still needed to give her enough information so 
she could make an informed choice about  whether or not she wanted the PPI.
Its possible the information Egg gave Miss M about  the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve  
been. But even  if Egg had given  clearer or better information about the PPI I dont think it 
would have put Miss M off taking out the policy.
I say that because Miss M was eligible for the PPI and based on what Ive seen of her 
circumstances at the time it doesnt  look like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or 
limits on the PPI cover as she was working  and in good health  - so I think  the PPI could have 
been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable  for her.
I can see Miss M says she was entitled to sick pay from her employer - for up to six months 
full pay followed by six months half pay. So she says she didnt need the policy.  As Egg 
didnt recommend the PPI, it didnt have to make sure it was right for her. It was up to 
Miss M to decide if she needed it. But Ive thought about her circumstances. Whilst I accept  
she might  have had generous sick pay, this policy would have paid out for up to 12 months - 
so it would have  paid out in addition to and for longer than Miss Ms full sick pay lasted. And 
although shes told us that her family  and friends could have helped if she fell into difficulty  
and I appreciate they would have wanted  to help, such type of help cant always be 
guaranteed particularly in the long term as circumstances  can change. So I still think the PPI 
would have been useful if she lost her job or couldnt work through  accident or sickness.
So in summary,  even if Egg had given her clearer or better  information, I dont think Miss M 
would have changed her mind  about  buying the policy. I still think she would have taken it 
out. Overall I dont think Miss M lost out as a result  of anything Egg did wrong and I dont 
uphold this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 April 2019.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8590747