K821x#15complaint
Mr R complains that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (which Ill refer to as Admiral) 
didnt give him clear information about  his plug and drive motor insurance  policy  and about 
its service. My references to Admiral  include its agents.
Mr R will see that my decision is about a business  with a slightly  different name  to the one 
our investigator referred to in correspondence.  Admiral is the lead insurer for the plug and 
drive policy and the correct business for my decision to be about. It hasnt objected  to the 
change of business. The change hasnt affected the outcome of my decision.
background
Following a phone call with Admiral Mr R took out a telematics plug and drive  motor 
insurance policy. The plug and drive unit (PDU) measures driving  behaviour which can give 
a premium discount. The policy started  on 17 May 2018.
Mr R didnt use the PDU so on 11 June  2018  Admiral removed the premium  discount. Mr R 
complained that:
Admiral told him the plug and drive element of the policy was free and it didnt tell him 
about the 15 day time limit to plug in the PDU
it charged him £174.82 in premiums as he didnt  use the PDU within the timeframe
he didnt have enough ports to use the PDU  as he already used the two USB ports  
for his sat nav and phone
when he called to complain about the premiums Admirals representative didnt value 
him as a customer or help him.
Admiral said it had told Mr R in the sales call that he needed to plug the PDU into his car 
within 15 days and the information was also clear  in the policy  documents.  When  Mr R called 
to complain Admiral said its representative could have said she would listen to the sales call 
before responding to Mr Rs complaint and it offered £20 compensation for his 
inconvenience.
Mr R complained to us. He doesnt  want the policy discount removed.
Our investigator thought Admiral hadnt  told Mr R about the consequences of not plugging in 
the PDU  in the sales call. He said Admiral  should  refund to Mr R any additional premium it 
charged and pay Mr R an additional £50 compensation.
Admiral disagreed and wanted an ombudsmans opinion. It said it had given Mr R the 
required information in the sales call and policy. Also, it sent Mr R an e-mail and letter on 
24 May 2018 warning  him about  the loss of discount if he didnt  plug in the PDU  by 8 June 
2018. It had told Mr R the PDU was designed  to fit into cars 12 volt adapter.
my provisional decision
I made  a provisional decision  that I was intending to not uphold  this complaint. I said:
I think Admiral  fairly removed the premium discount  and gave Mr R reasonable service. Ill 
explain why.
Ref: DRN85455222plug and drive  policy  information
Ive listened to the sales call. Mr R had got an on-line quote  for Admirals policy and phoned 
Admiral to discuss. It quoted Mr R for a hard install telematics unit policy and then told Mr R 
he qualified  for a plug and drive.  Mr R asked if there  were any additional  costs  for that. 
Admiral said no which was a reasonable response as there was no difference  between  the 
costs to insure the car on either product.
Admiral told Mr R in the sales call he should receive the PDU  within  7-10 days  which must 
be signed for. If he didnt  plug in the PDU within 15 days it could lead to the loss of discount 
hed been given or result in it cancelling the policy.
Im satisfied that Admiral  did tell Mr R in the sales call about the time limit to plug in the PDU  
and the consequences if he didnt.
Im also satisfied the information is clear in the policy document  Admiral sent to Mr R.
In addition Ive seen the letter and email Admiral sent to Mr R on 24 May 2018. They said his 
PDU had been  dispatched, he should receive  it shortly, he should plug the PDU into his car 
and that Please be aware, failure  to install your device by 08/06/2018  will result  in your 
policy either being subject to a loss of discount or your policy  may be cancelled.
The letter and email  clearly gave Mr R the time limit to plug in the PDU  and the 
consequences if he didnt.  They  also told Mr R to contact Admiral if he had any questions. 
He didnt contact  it to say he had a problem until after the discount  was withdrawn.
Mr R says he couldnt plug in the PDU as he was already using the USB ports in the car for 
other devices. In the sales call Admiral  told Mr R the PDU needed a 12 volt adaptor. The 
policy says the PDU  needs to be plugged in the cars 12 volt adaptor.
Admiral says a USB isnt required for the PDU. But even if a USB port was required Admiral 
was clear that Mr R had to plug in the PDU to have his driving monitored in exchange  for a 
discounted policy and it was ultimately  his decision if he didnt do so.
Admiral fairly withdrew the premium discount  as Mr R didnt  plug in the PDU  which  was a 
requirement of the discount that it had made  clear  to him.
complaint call
Ive also listened  to the complaint call Mr R made  to Admiral.  He said Admiral  was being 
unfair and he wasnt  feeling valued as a customer.  I think Admirals representative was 
professional and understanding. She didnt say anything to make Mr R feel not valued as a 
customer.
Admiral has told us that on its re-reviewing the call its representative acted  within its 
procedure by not saying she would first listen to the sales call. It initially  paid Mr R £20 
compensation for the service  in the call which was very fair. I think Admirals  representative  
helped Mr R as much as she could at that stage and it gave reasonable service.
Ref: DRN85455223overall
As I think  Admiral acted fairly in withdrawing  the discount and gave  reasonable service  it 
doesnt need to pay any refund or make any compensation payment to Mr R.
responses to my provisional  decision
Admiral said it didnt  have  any further comments.  Mr R didnt agree with my provisional  
decision. He said if he was told specifically that the discount would stop he would have 
ensured the PDU was plugged  in. He said he had to pay about £600 more  for the policy  
despite only being paid £20 compensation for the lack of customer service so he didnt feel 
valued as a customer
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Rs response  hasnt  changed my mind.  He says he would have made  sure he plugged in 
the PDU  if he was told the discount  would  stop if he didnt. But Ive explained in my 
provisional findings above why I think Admiral had made that clear  to him. Admiral  told Mr R 
in the policy  sales  call, the policy document and its letter and email to him on 24 May 2018 
when he had to plug in the PDU  and the consequences if he didnt. Im satisfied Admiral 
acted fairly  in withdrawing the discount.
Ive also explained  above why I think Admiral  gave Mr R reasonable service and that its 
payment of £20 compensation  to him for his inconvenience was very fair.
For the reasons  Ive given in my provisional  findings and these findings I dont uphold this 
complaint. Admiral doesnt  need to pay any refund or make any compensation payment to 
Mr R.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 November 2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8545522