K821x#15complaint
Mrs V has complained about the handling  of a claim under her mobile phone insurance
policy with Assurant General Insurance Limited.
Assurant uses agents to deal with claims on its behalf. Any references to Assurant in this
decision should be read as including anything said or done  on its behalf by those agents.
background
I issued a provisional decision in this matter  in February 2020, part of which  is copied  below: 
In August 2018, Mrs V made a claim under her policy as her phone was damaged.  She
asked Assurant to repair or replace the phone.
Mrs V paid the £100 policy  excess on 12 August 2018. The phone was collected  at the end
of September  and a replacement was sent on 1 October 2018. The first replacement was
found to be faulty  on arrival and this was exchanged  on 3 October 2018. Mrs V reported that
the second replacement was faulty  on 1 November 2018 and was unhappy that she was told
shed have to pay to return it for inspection. A collection was arranged and the phone was
received back on 22 November 2018. It was confirmed on 27 November that the phone
would be replaced  and the third replacement was ordered on 3 December  2018.
However, this third replacement phone  didnt arrive. Assurant said that initially  the couriers
told it the phone had been signed for but then the phone was received back  at its depot  on
19 December 2018.
Having not received this replacement, Mrs V bought a new phone herself for £750, which
she says was an unplanned expense. Mrs V is very unhappy with the handling  of the claim,
the time taken to provide  the replacement phones; she was without a phone  for considerable
time as a result; she had to make numerous calls to the bank and insurer; and then the third
phone that was sent was lost by the courier.
Mrs V says the situation made her cry every day due to stress and she was prescribed 
antidepressants.
Mrs V would like Assurant  to refund the cost of the phone she bought and refund the
£100 policy excess, as she was twice  given a faulty replacement  phone.
Assurant offered Mrs V £185 for the phone and £100 as compensation for the distress and
inconvenience. Assurant  says it replaced the handset in October  2018 via a doorstep
exchange, as Mrs V had reported it was not working immediately after shed received it.
However, normally it would require the phone  to be posted back, at the policyholders
expense, as this is not covered by the policy.
One of our investigators  looked into the matter. He didnt think  that Assurant should pay the
cost of a new mobile phone, as the policy provides that it could provide a refurbished
handset of the same make and model. He thought the evidence available showed that a
suitable refurbished  replacement could be purchased for the £185 Assurant had offered.
The investigator did acknowledge the considerable delays on Assurants part but considered
the offer of £100 compensation (comprised  of £50 for the delayed order  and £50 for delivery
problems) was fair. He did not recommend therefore  that the complaint be upheld.
Ref: DRN86130072Mrs V does not accept  the investigators  assessment.  She says she only wanted  to be
reimbursed for what she paid for an old model of her phone;  Assurant failed to stick to any of
its agreed timescales to replace the phone;  she had to make made frequent calls and was
given misleading  information; Assurant wanted  to avoid having a third faulty phone returned.
As the investigator  was unable to resolve the complaint it has been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no explanation  as to why it took until the end of September  2018 to collect  the
original phone from Mrs V  almost six weeks after shed paid the excess. There were also
several other  considerable delays which seem  to me could have  been  avoided. The most
significant was when, having received the second phone back from Mrs V on 22 November
2018, it took until 4 December  2018 for the replacement to be dispatched to her. This
replacement was then lost by the courier company  and received back  by Assurant  on 19
December 2018.  It then subsequently offered the cash settlement.  Given that she had not
had a phone  for around a month at that point, I can understand why Mrs V decided to buy a
new phone  herself.
From the evidence available I am satisfied that the cash settlement of £185 for the value of
Mrs Vs phone is not unreasonable. There is no convincing evidence from Mrs V that she
could not replace her original phone for that amount.  The policy  allows replacement phones
to be refurbished and Assurant has provided evidence that refurbished phones  of the same
make and model, from various  sellers and classified as good to pristine,  can be obtained for
between £222  and £185.
However, I do not consider that £100 is enough to compensate Mrs V for all the delays and
things that have gone wrong in this case.
Assurant says the replacement phones were  replaced under their repair  warranty and
effectively therefore  that they are dealt with outside  the insurance terms. I dont agree. It was
obligated to indemnify Mrs V for her original faulty phone   i.e. to repair  it or provide an
adequate replacement for it. By early  December 2018 it had still not fulfilled its obligations in
response to her claim lodged in August 2018, as no adequate replacement had been
provided to her. And for considerable periods during that time she was without a phone  at
all.
I consider the sum of £225 to be more suitable compensation for this, to also reflect  the
number of calls she had to make and having  to then buy a new phone  herself,  when one
should have been provided  to her.
my provisional decision
I intend to uphold this complaint and ask Assurant General Insurance  Limited to pay the sum
of £225.
Ref: DRN86130073responses to my provisional  decision  
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional  decision with any further information or 
arguments they want considered. Neither Mrs V nor Assurant have responded. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments again to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any new information or arguments, I see no reason to change 
my provisional findings. I remain of the opinion that Assurant should pay £225 compensation 
to Mrs V, in addition to £185 for the phone. 
 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and ask Assurant General Insurance  Limited  to pay Mrs V: 
£185 as cash  in lieu of the replacement of her phone; and 
£225 as compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by the handling of 
her claim. 
(If Assurant has already  paid any part of this to Mrs V, it only need now pay the remaining 
balance.)
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs V to accept or
reject my decision  before 13 April 2020.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8613007