K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs J say Santander  UK Plc mis-sold  them a mortgage payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
I recently issued a provisional decision  on this complaint, which included the following:
This complaints  about  the sale of a regular premium PPI policy  taken out in 2003 to protect 
Mr and Mrs Js new monthly mortgage  payments. The policy covered Mr J only, if he couldnt  
work due to disability  or unemployment.
Our adjudicator recommended  the complaint be upheld. They considered  that Mr J wasnt  
eligible for the policy as hed only been  employed for just over one month  at the policys  start 
date. And to be eligible for the policy, Mr J had to have been in paid work (of at least  16 
hours per week) for at least six months. 
Santander disagreed saying that, while Mr J was only employed for around  one month,  the 
policy allowed him to claim once hed been employed continuously for six months in total. So 
Santander argued that the policy would still have become useful for Mr and Mrs J.
The complaint was passed  to me to review afresh.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Js case. 
Having done so, I dont intend  to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs J say they cant remember  PPI being added or discussed.  Santander, on the 
other hand, has provided a copy of their mortgage  application which shows they ticked a box 
to say they wanted PPI. The box next to it to decline PPI was left unticked.
Overall, I think Mr and Mrs J were aware that they had a choice as to whether to accept the 
policy or decline it. But, given the time thats passed since  the sale, I can understand why 
they dont remember  this now.
Theres been some doubt  as to whether Mr J was in fact eligible for the policy. He was in 
continuous paid employment of at least 16 hours  per week but he hadnt  been in continuous 
employment for at least six months at the start date.
But Santander pointed  out that the policy terms allowed consumers  to become eligible for 
the PPI once theyd  been  employed for six months continuously. 
So Mr and Mrs J could take out the PPI  but Mr J would only have been eligible  to claim 
under the policy  just over four months  later.
Ref: DRN88731192Santander recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs J. This is important because it meant 
Santander had to check if the PPI was right for them. And, based on what  Ive seen of Mr Js 
circumstances at the time in particular, I think it was. 
Mr and Mrs J could claim under the policy once  Mr J had been employed for six months 
continuously. Given that the PPI was there to protect Mr and Mrs Js mortgage,  which  was 
due to run for a number of years, I dont think theyd  have been put off by the fact he had to 
wait a further four or so months  before they could claim. So I dont think  Santanders 
recommendation was unsuitable for this reason.
Taking a mortgage  is a significant financial commitment. Borrowers stand to lose their home 
if they dont keep up with repayments.  And Mr J was the main earner. So, while  Mr J may 
have received some employer benefits,  the PPI would have protected  the mortgage for up to 
12 months per claim if he was unable to work  due to disability or if he lost his job. 
I also note that Mr and Mrs J didnt have any other savings or insurance  policies  they could 
have used to meet the repayments.  So, all things considered, I think the cover could have 
provided a useful benefit and I dont believe that the advisers recommendation was 
unsuitable.
Santander also had to ensure it gave Mr and Mrs J clear information about  the PPI to allow  
them to make an informed  decision about whether to take it. As Ive said, I think  that Mr and 
Mrs J chose to take it out  so it looks like they wanted this type of cover. And it seems  like it 
would have provided useful and affordable protection for them if something went wrong. So 
I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put them off taking out the cover. 
Taking everything into account,  I dont believe Mr and Mrs J have lost out because of how 
Santander sold them the PPI.
my provisional decision
For the reasons  given,  I dont intend to uphold this complaint.
I asked the parties  to reply with any further  comments or evidence  they might  have before I 
looked into the complaint again.
Mr and Mrs J confirmed they had nothing further to add to my provisional decision.  
Santander didnt  reply.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account  in deciding  
Mr and Mrs Js case.
Having done so, and bearing  in mind the parties responses (or lack of) to my provisional 
decision, I see no reason  to reach  a different decision now.
Ref: DRN88731193my final decision
For the reasons  given,  I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 July 2019.
Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8873119