K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc closed  his account, without prior notification.
background 
Mr S said that HSBC had closed his account without  any notification  and without  giving him 
any reason. It had sent back  his money.
Mr S said that he thought  this was extremely unfair. He didnt  have a loan with HSBC, wasnt 
in the overdraft facility and didnt  owe HSBC any money. He said he was being discriminated 
against. Mr S wanted HSBC to pay him £1,000 in compensation for the stress, hassle and 
harassment.
Mr S has also sent our service  a final response  letter about a payment HSBC made to him in 
2014. Our investigator  has explained to Mr S that we cant  consider a complaint about  that. 
HSBC told us that it took a decision in 2014 to close Mr Ss current  account and his 
investment account.  It said that Mr S had become  abusive when  he was in a branch. So 
HSBC said it had then taken the decision to close his accounts. 
HSBC said that it couldnt  see that it had confirmed in writing  that it was going to close  both 
the accounts, so it would be happy to pay Mr S £50 now to say sorry for that. But it said that 
he wouldve realised from the letters that it had sent him subsequently that his account had 
been closed. 
HSBC has shown our service letters it sent to Mr S referring to the account closures. 
Our investigator said that Mr Ss account  had been closed due to his behaviour towards 
staff. She said that she was satisfied that HSBC  had closed his account  in line with its terms 
and conditions. 
Our investigator said that our service cant tell a bank who it should offer banking services  to. 
Banks can decide that for themselves, in the same way that customers can choose who they 
bank with. She said that we could only consider if a bank had closed an account in line with 
its terms and conditions,  and treated a customer fairly. She said that HSBC  had done that. 
Our investigator said she hadnt  seen any evidence that HSBC  had discriminated against 
Mr S, or that it had harassed him in any way about  his account closures.
Our investigator said that HSBC hadnt  sent Mr S a letter to say that it was closing  his 
current account. It had offered to pay him £50 to make up for that. Our investigator said that 
was fair, especially because HSBC had decided  to close Mr Ss account  straight  away, so 
the impact on him of not getting that letter would be minimal. He would only ever have 
received it after his account  was closed. 
Mr S didnt agree with that. He said he wanted  more compensation. He said that this had 
affected his health, and he had depression.  
But our investigator didnt change her mind. She said that a payment of £50 for not sending 
an account closure letter would be fair. She also said that when Mr S had referred  to 
Ref: DRN88891592harassment, he seemed  to be talking about a separate issue, which is the subject of court  
proceedings, and not considered as part of this complaint. 
Our investigator told Mr S that an ombudsman would consider his complaint, and it was 
passed to me for a final decision.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I proposed  to uphold it in 
part. This is what I said then: 
-Mr S held an investment account  and a current account with HSBC. Both of these had 
been closed. 
-I reviewed  the decision that HSBC  took to close Mr Ss accounts. I thought that was in 
line with the terms  and conditions of Mr Ss accounts. And I didnt think it was unfair or 
unreasonable for HSBC to take that step.  I also hadnt seen anything  to make me think 
that HSBC had discriminated against  Mr S, or that it had harassed him.
-But I wanted to look at how this closure  decision was implemented. Mr S did seem to 
have been notified  in writing of the closure of his investment account. I understood that 
he wasnt notified in writing of the closure of his current account.
-Our investigator said that she thought  that £50 was enough to make up for this, because  
she thought that Mr Ss current  account  was closed  immediately. She said that it 
wouldnt have made much difference whether a letter  was sent or not, because  Mr Ss 
account would still have been  closed  before  he got any written notification  of that. 
-I could see why our investigator  thought this. HSBC hadnt told us much about how 
Mr Ss current account was closed, and it had referred to a term of his accounts which 
gives it the power to close accounts immediately. But it looked from the letter  we had 
about his investment  account as if that wasnt closed immediately. So I asked if Mr Ss 
current account was closed instantly, even though  he was given notice of the closure of 
his investment account. 
-In response,  HSBC  said that the current account wasnt closed instantly. It was closed  
over time, and in line with a collections process. 
-I thought that meant that not issuing a letter telling Mr S about the account closure 
probably had more of an impact than our investigator thought. I didnt think we could  say 
now that this letter  would definitely  only have got to him after his account was closed.  I 
thought it was more likely that he wouldve received this letter while  his account was still 
open, and that he couldve avoided a considerable amount of inconvenience if hed been 
warned that this account was going to close. 
-Mr S wouldve  had some time to make alternative banking  arrangements if HSBC  had 
issued a letter telling him it was planning to close his current account. Because it didnt  
do that, it seemed  likely that Mr S didnt know that his account was going to be passed  to 
collections, and restrictions  on account  usage  may have come as an inconvenient and 
unpleasant surprise  to him. 
Ref: DRN88891593-I thought that HSBC  should pay Mr S an additional £100, on top of the £50 it had 
previously offered, to make up for that. 
I invited the parties  to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
HSBC said that it was happy  to agree to my proposed  decision.  Mr S didnt  reply.
my findings
Even though  neither side has offered anything further, Ive still reconsidered all the available 
evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. I havent  changed my mind.
my final decision
My final decision is that HSBC UK Bank  Plc must pay Mr S a total of £150  in compensation 
for this complaint.  It can count any compensation it has previously paid for this complaint 
towards that total.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 April 2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8889159