K821x#15Complaint
Mrs S has complained about short-term loans granted to her by CashEuroNet  UK LLC 
(CEN) trading as QuickQuid (QQ) and Pounds to Pocket (P2P). Mrs S says she couldnt  
afford these  loans and that CEN  didnt  take appropriate steps  to check whether she could 
afford them when  she took them out. 
Background
CEN agreed  ten short-term loans for Mrs S between February 2012 and July 2013. The 
majority of these loans  were payday loans from QuickQuid, repayable  over one or two 
months. Loans 6 and 9 were instalment loans from Pounds to Pocket, and were  repayable  
over 11 and 12 months respectively.  
Loan 10 was a flexible credit agreement  (flex credit)  provided by QuickQuid. This was a 
credit facility that allowed Miss S to draw  down money up to a pre-agreed credit limit, with a 
view to repaying it  potentially over a period  of up to 10 months. Ive set out a summary of 
lending below. 
loan 
no.business 
entityapplicationprincipal 
amount  (£)no. of 
instalments  
duehighest monthly 
repayment  due (£)
1 QQ 02/02/2012 300 1 389
2 QQ 29/02/2012 700 1 907
3 QQ 11/05/2012 800 1 1,012
4 QQ 30/05/2012 800 1 1,036
5 QQ 30/06/2012 800 1 1,036
6 P2P 25/07/2012 1,000 11 169
7 QQ 08/11/2012 950 1 1,230
8 QQ 28/12/2012 950 2 1,230
9 P2P 29/06/2013 1,150 12 182
flex 
creditbusiness 
entityapplication credit limithighest monthly 
repayment due (£)
10 QQ 11/07/2013 950 305
One of our adjudicators has looked into Mrs Ss complaint already and recommended  the 
complaint be upheld in part. He felt the checks CEN carried out on loan 1 were 
proportionate, but that the checks carried out on the remaining  loans werent. 
He thought that had CEN carried  out proportionate checks, it wouldve concluded that loans  
2  6 wouldve been unaffordable for Mrs S, and it would  not have agreed to them.  
He also thought that the pattern of lending itself,  buy the time Mrs S took out loan 7, 
shouldve indicated to CEN that Mrs S was no longer using these loans for short-term use, 
and that it was irresponsible to continue  to lend to her at this point.
CEN disagreed with the findings. And Mrs S raised  no new arguments  in response to the 
adjudicators assessment.  So as no agreements been reached at this stage, the case has 
come to me, as an ombudsman, for a final decision.
Ref: DRN89457092As it seems loan 1 is no longer in dispute, my decision will focus on CENs decision to 
approve the remaining loans -  loans 2  10 as listed  above. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The adjudicator, in his view, set out why he thought CENs should not have agreed to loans 
2  10 for Mrs S. And having reviewed the file in full, I agree with the adjudicators findings, 
Ill explain  why.
Looking at CENs decision to lend - CEN needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it 
didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate 
checks to make sure Mrs S could  repay  her loans  in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account  a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and Mrs Ss income  and expenditure. With this in mind, 
in the early stages  of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks  might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that a lender should fairly and reasonably have  
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These would 
include where:
a consumers income is low or the amount to be repaid takes up a substantial portion 
of their income 
the amount,  or amounts, due to be repaid are higher 
there is a larger number and/or frequency of loans 
the period  of time during which a customer has been provided with borrowing is long.
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Bearing all of this in mind, I think that there  are three  key questions  for me to consider in 
order to fairly and reasonably determine Mrs Ss complaint. These  questions  are:
1.Did CEN,  each  time it lent, complete reasonable and proportionate checks  to satisfy 
itself that Mrs S would  be able to repay  in a sustainable way? If not, would those 
checks have shown  that Mrs S would  have been able to do so?
2.Taking into account the short-term purpose of the loans provided, did the overall 
pattern of lending  increase Mrs Ss indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable  or 
otherwise harmful?
3.Did CEN  act unfairly or unreasonably  in some other way?
1. Did CEN, each time it lent, complete reasonable and proportionate  checks to satisfy  itself 
that Mrs S would be able to repay  in a sustainable  way? If not, would those  checks have 
shown that Mrs S would  have been  able to do so?
Ref: DRN89457093When Mrs S applied  for loan 2, shed been  borrowing  from CEN  for around a month. Her 
initial loan was for £300, but loan 2 was for an increased amount of £700 and taken out only 
a day after she repaid the balance on loan 1. Because of this, I think CENs checks 
shouldve gone  further to ensure that Mrs S could afford to meet her repayments 
sustainably. 
CEN recorded Mrs Ss income as £1,500 a month when she applied  for loan 2, but it didnt 
seem to record any details of her outgoings, such as her monthly living costs and credit 
commitments. But even before I look into Mrs Ss monthly outgoings,  the highest monthly 
repayment on loan 2 was over £900, which represented around  60% of her monthly income.
So I think for this reason  alone, knowing that its likely Mrs S would have  had other monthly 
commitments, I think CEN shouldve realised a loan repayment of this size, against the 
monthly income declared, would not be sustainably  affordable for Mrs S. And as a 
responsible lender, I dont think it shouldve agreed  to this loan.
Looking at loans  3  6, Mrs Ss financial position remained relatively unchanged.  CEN 
continued to record  her monthly  income  as £1,500, and for the most part, the highest 
repayments on the loans she took out throughout this period amounted  to over 60% of her 
net monthly income. So for the same reasons I think CEN should not have agreed to loan 2, 
I think it was also wrong  to have approved loans 3  6 for Mrs S.
2. Taking into account the short-term purpose of the loans provided, did the overall  pattern of 
lending increase Mrs Ss indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise 
harmful?
Ive looked at the overall pattern of lending. Ive looked to see if there was a point at which 
CEN should reasonably have seen that further  lending was unsustainable, or otherwise 
harmful. And so CEN should have realised that it shouldnt have provided any further  
lending. Given the particular circumstances of Mrs Ss case,  I think that this point was 
reached around the time she applied for loan 7. I say this because:
Mrs S had now been borrowing from CEN for around nine months. And she wasnt 
making any real inroads  to the amount  she owed  CEN at this point. And was in effect 
paying large amounts of interest to service this debt over an extended period
the amounts  Mrs S was borrowing had steadily been increasing, and CEN ought  to 
have realised it was likely her indebtedness was increasing unsustainably 
Ref: DRN89457094I think that Mrs S lost out because CEN continued  to provide borrowing from loan 7 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mrs Ss indebtedness by allowing 
her to take expensive  credit over an extended period of time
the sheer number  of loans was likely to have had negative  implications on Mrs Ss 
ability to access mainstream credit and so kept her in the market for these high-cost 
loans
So Im upholding  Mrs Ss complaint about  loans 7 onwards because the overall pattern of 
lending increased  her indebtedness  in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful  
and she lost out as a result.
Did CEN  act unfairly or unreasonably  in some other way?
Ive carefully thought  about everything provided.  Having done  so, Ive not seen anything that 
leads me to conclude  CEN acted unfairly  or unreasonably towards Mrs S in some other way.  
What CEN  should  do to put things right
I think CEN was wrong to have approved loan 2 - 10. So it needs to refund all of the interest 
and charges Mrs S paid towards these loans.
Specifically, it should:
-refund  all interest and charges Mrs S paid on loans 2 to 10; 
-pay interest on these refunds at 8% simple  from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement*;
-remove any negative information  about loans 2 to 10 from Mrs Ss credit file;
-the number  of loans taken from loan 7 onwards means any information  recorded 
about them  is adverse. So all entries  about  loans 7 to 10 should be removed from 
Mrs Ss credit  file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires CEN to take off tax from this interest. CEN must give 
Mrs S a certificate  showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons  set out above I uphold Mrs Ss complaint  in part. 
And I require  CashEuroNet UK LLC to put things  right as described  above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 August 2019.
Brad Mcilquham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8945709