K821x#15complaint
Ms B complains  that Pinnacle Insurance Plc agreed  to honour the sum insured under her
income protection policy, even though she was over-insured, but when she submitted  a
claim it was only paid up to the policy limit.
background
Ms B has an income protection policy arranged by Pinnacle who administer the policy  on
behalf of the underwriters. Shes had this policy for some years. In late 2016 Ms B contacted
Pinnacle to increase her cover under the policy, as she was starting a new job on a higher
salary. The increased cover Ms B wanted  was agreed and she was sent a new policy
schedule which detailed  her cover.
In November 2017 Ms B received another salary increase  and contacted Pinnacle to further  
increase the cover under her policy. But she was told they couldnt increase her cover
further, as she was already over insured, but they agreed to honour the sum she was
already insured for, despite this being  more than the policy limit.
In early April 2018 Ms B was made redundant and submitted a claim under  her policy.  Her
claim was accepted but only up to the monthly  policy benefit limit of £3775,  and not the sum
of £5417 which Pinnacle had agreed  to cover her for.
Ms B complained to Pinnacle who said when Ms B contacted them  in late 2016 to increase
her cover, she was aware the maximum monthly benefit covered by the policy should not
exceed 75% of her pre-claim earnings, up to £45,000 and 33% of any pre-claim  earnings
over £45,000, less existing benefits.  They also said shed had the policy  for 20 years and
shed made  claims in the past. But they did accept that during the call Ms B made  to
increase her cover, shed  calculated  the monthly  cover she wanted by dividing her annual 
salary by twelve. This wasnt the correct way to calculate the monthly  benefit,  but it had been  
accepted by the call hander.
Pinnacle also said that when Ms B was advised  she was over insured in November 2017,
she was wrongly told they would honour the cover agreed December 2016, and this was
later confirmed in writing. Pinnacle made  an offer to resolve Ms Bs complaint which she
didnt accept as she wanted her claim to be paid in line with the monthly benefit Pinnacle
had agreed. When  replying to Ms Bs complaint Pinnacle told her theyd decreased her
monthly direct debit and they issued her a new insurance certificate showing her maximum
monthly benefit as £3775. But she had already submitted her claim before this was done.
Ms B complained to our service. Our investigator considered the case  and felt Pinnacles
offer was reasonable. So she didnt recommend that the complaint  be upheld.
Ms B was unhappy  with our investigators opinion and the case came to me for a decision.
I issued my provisional decision on 9 December 2019. In it I said:  -
Pinnacle has accepted that they wrongly  allowed Ms B to increase her cover  under her
policy to a figure exceeding the maximum monthly policy benefit in December 2016. They
acknowledge that in December 2017, when Ms B was advised  she was over-insured, she
was told verbally that she could  keep her current level of cover. And that this was confirmed
in writing.
Ref: DRN82018002What I need to decide is whether the compensation they have offered Ms B is fair and
reasonable.
Ms B has told us that shes still unemployed and claiming benefit under  the policy.  The
policy has a deferred  period of one month.  She submitted  her claim in April 2018  and has
been receiving  benefit of £3775 a month since May 2018. Benefit under the policy is payable
for a maximum of 24 months.
To resolve  Ms Bs complaint Pinnacle said they would reduce her cover,  going  back to
December 2016,  to the policy limit of £3775. Refund the proportion of her monthly  premiums
which related to the over insured sums.  Pay simple  interest of 8% per annum on the 
refunded premiums, and they offered £250 compensation for trouble and upset and loss of
expectation.
Had the fact that Ms B was over insured simply been picked up when she submitted her
claim, I think  the offer Pinnacle has made  would have been reasonable. But having
established that Ms B was over insured  they confirmed she could keep the benefit provided
by her policy. And she relied on that, continuing to pay her monthly premium for the agreed  
cover. So, I think Ms B is entitled to the cover Pinnacle agreed  she could keep. 
To put things right I require Pinnacle  to make up the shortfall between the benefit payments
Ms B has received under  the policy and the monthly  benefit of £5417 agreed  by them,  from
the date her claim was first paid until she finds employment, or until the maximum claim
benefit period  is reached, whichever is sooner. Pinnacle can deduct  from this sum any
additional premiums  that would  have  been due on the increased benefit,  if these  have been
refunded to Ms B. Pinnacle should  also pay Miss B interest on such  payments at an annual
rate of 8% simple, from the date each payment would have been due under the policy.
In addition, Pinnacle should  pay Ms B £250 for trouble and upset, as they offered, if this
hasnt already been paid.  Pinnacle told Ms B this offer was made in respect of loss of
expectation, and any trouble and upset this had caused. While Ive said that Ms B is
entitled to the cover  agreed by Pinnacle,  I still think shes experienced trouble and upset, as
shes received less than the agreed sum due under her policy since  May 2018. So Pinnacle
should still pay her £250  for trouble and upset, if this sum has not already been  paid.
So my provisional decision was that I upheld Ms Bs complaint.
Ms B has confirmed that she accepts my provisional  decision. But she has said it would be 
helpful if I could  clarify  the status of her cover going forward.  Whether  it should  remain at the 
higher level, and if so, who would be responsible for the additional payments if Pinnacle 
were no longer administering the policy.
Pinnacle have  indicated that they dont accept my decision. They  accept that they made  a 
mistake in wrongly increasing  Ms Bs monthly  benefit in 2016. And a further mistake in late 
2017 when they told Ms B she could keep  this increased benefit.  They  accept that in 2017 
they had the opportunity to correct  the error made  in 2016 and reduce Ms Bs benefit. 
But they say the following are the key points in this case:
Regardless of what happened  historically with the monthly benefit and the mis-advice 
Ms B was given  she would always have found  herself in claim position.
Ref: DRN82018003If the monthly benefit had not been  wrongly  increased in 2016 Ms B would still have 
received the same monthly benefit she is receiving from the underwriters of the 
policy.
If the monthly benefit was reduced  to what it should have been  in 2017, Ms B would
still have received the same monthly benefit she is currently receiving from the 
underwriters of the policy.
Pinnacle say Ms B has paid an increased  premium for a benefit she wasnt entitled to and 
theyve proposed refunding this, together with interest, putting her back  in the position shed 
have been in had the error not occurred. And they say theres  been  a loss of expectation 
which theyve offered to compensate Ms B for.
While Pinnacle say they understand why Ms B is upset and that she relied on the information 
they provided they dont agree that the compensation Ive proposed is reasonable. They 
accept Ms B hasnt received what she expected but say this doesnt mean shes lost out 
materially. When a mistake  has been  made, as in this case, they say they should try and 
rectify the mistake by putting Ms B in the position she would have been in had the mistake 
not happened. And they say the award  Ive suggested isnt justifiable or reasonable, given 
the facts of the case, and for a non-material  loss.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Pinnacle dont  dispute  that they gave  Ms B wrong  advice, or that when this was realised, 
rather than reducing  her cover, they told her she could keep this level of cover.  I accept that 
regardless of her level of cover Ms B would have  submitted a claim when she was made 
redundant, as that is what the policy covers  her for. I also accept that if Pinnacle hadnt 
made mistakes in 2016, and again in 2017,  Ms B would have received the same monthly 
benefit she is now receiving.  
But I dont accept that because of this Ms B hasnt suffered a material loss. Nor do I accept 
Pinnacles argument that Ms B was paying an increased premium for cover she wasnt 
entitled to, so its sufficient compensation for them to refund the increased premiums plus 
interest. And I also dont  accept that Ms B has only suffered  a loss of expectation.
In late 2017 Pinnacle told Ms B she was over-insured, but she could keep this cover. 
Ms B relied on this, she continued to pay the premiums for this level of cover, and her policy 
documentation confirmed  that she had cover  for a monthly benefit of £5417.  So I dont think  
Ms B had any reason to believe she didnt have  this level of cover, and I dont accept 
Pinnacles argument that this was just a loss of expectation. Or that theres  no material loss. 
Based on the documentation Ms B received from Pinnacle, issued after they made their 
admitted mistakes,  her loss is the difference between £5417 and the sum shes currently  
receiving from the underwriters, which is a material loss.
So while Ive considered Pinnacles  arguments  I havent changed my opinion  that Ms B is 
entitled to the cover  Pinnacle agreed she could keep.
Ms Bs policy provides cover for a maximum of 24 months. In my provisional decision I said 
that I required Pinnacle to make  up the shortfall  between the benefit payments Ms B has 
received under the policy and the monthly premium  of £5417  they agreed, from the date her 
Ref: DRN82018004claim was first paid until she finds employment, or until the maximum claim period is 
reached. And this is regardless of whether Pinnacle continue  to administer the policy  for the 
whole of the claim period.
Ms B made her claim before Pinnacle  issued  new policy documentation  which  provides 
cover with a policy  limit of £3775. While I cant comment on any future  claim, I would expect 
it to be assessed  under the cover Ms B has in place when that claim is made.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold Ms Bs complaint against Pinnacle Insurance Plc. And to put things right I require 
them to do the following: -
To make up the shortfall between the benefit payments Ms B has received  under the 
policy and the monthly  benefit of £5417 they agreed she could keep, from the date 
her claim was first paid,  until she finds employment, or until the maximum claim 
benefit period  is reached, whichever  is sooner. Pinnacle can deduct  from this sum 
any additional premiums  that would have  been  due on the increased benefit, if these 
have been refunded  to Ms B.
To pay interest on such payments at an annual rate of 8% simple, from the date each 
payment would have  been due under the policy.
To pay Ms B £250 for trouble and upset, as they offered, if this has not already been 
done.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 February  2020.
Patricia OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8201800