K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that Nationwide Building  Society (Nationwide) mis-sold them a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy in connection with a loan in 1997. The loan was 
jointly held and only Mr R was covered for the PPI. 
background
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. Nationwide disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, and so 
the complaint  was passed to me. 
I issued my provisional decision in respect of this complaint on 1 April 2019, a copy of which 
is repeated below, and so it forms part of this final decision. In my provisional decision I set 
out the reasons why I was minded not to uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint. 
I asked the parties  to the complaint to let me have any further representations that they 
wished me to consider by 1 May 2019.  At the time of writing  both parties told us that they 
had received the provisional decision. Mr and Mrs R have responded and repeated some of 
the testimony they gave initially. Nationwide told us that they had no further submissions  
they wished to make. So I am proceeding to my final decision.
my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Rs case.
In my provisional decision I explained  that,
After reviewing all of the information provided in this complaint, I do not intend upholding Mr 
and Mrs Rs complaint. I explain why below.
Ive first looked at whether Nationwide gained  Mr and Mrs Rs consent and whether it made 
clear to Mr and Mrs R that the policy was optional. It is maybe  not surprising that neither 
party has been  able to provide the actual credit  agreement from the sale,  considering that 
these events happened over 21 years  ago. And Nationwide  has told us that due to the time 
that has passed, it is not able to say whether the loan was secured or unsecured. However, 
Nationwide has provided samples of the sort of credit agreements that Mr and Mrs D would 
have signed in either event. I think its more likely than not Mr and Mrs D would have signed 
an agreement like these to get their loan funds.
Both credit agreements describe the PPI as Optional Credit  Insurance and show  the monthly cost 
for it. So having considered all the submissions I have received in this case, I think its more  likely 
that Nationwide wouldve  made Mr and Mrs R aware that the PPI was optional and that they chose 
to take it, even though Mr and Mrs R may not remember that now, many  years later. 
Nationwide didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs R so it didnt have to check  if it was right for 
them. But it did have to make sure Mr and Mrs R got the information they needed to decide  if it was 
right for them. 
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs R about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But they chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like they wanted  this type of cover. 
Ref: DRN89586062Based on what Ive seen  of their circumstances at the time it seems  Mr R was eligible for the policy  
and it doesnt  look like he was affected by any of the exclusions from or limitations to the PPI 
cover. 
And Ive considered that whilst Mr R told us his initial sick pay was good it dropped significantly 
after six months. And Mr and Mrs R told us they had no other means  they could have relied on 
such that they may have had to ask their wider family for help. Upon  a successful claim the PPI 
policy couldve paid out for up to at least 24 months  if ill health  stopped  Mr R from working and 
possibly for the remaining term of the loan. And the policy could have paid out for up to 12 months  
if Mr R lost his job. So, considering all of the above  I think Mr and Mrs R couldve found the policy 
useful. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put them  off taking  out the 
cover.
So I dont  think that Mr and Mrs R lost out as a result of anything  Nationwide might  have 
done wrong.
I have considered all of the evidence and arguments  from the outset in order  to decide what  
is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In responding to the 
provisional decision, Mr and Mrs R repeated  some of the testimony  they gave initially  when  
bringing their complaint  to us, and which I considering  in reaching my provisional 
determination. In the absence of any further points for me to consider, I find no reason to 
depart from my original  findings as set out in my provisional decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, and within my provisional decision, I do not uphold  Mr and 
Mrs Rs complaint that the PPI policies and life cover were mis-sold,  and I make  no award 
against Bank of Scotland Plc. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs R 
either to accept or to reject my conclusions, in writing, before 25 May 2019.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8958606