K820x#14complaint
Miss B says Provident  Personal Credit  Limited (trading as Satsuma Loans) irresponsibly lent 
to her.
background
This complaint is about five instalment loans Satsuma provided to Miss B between  
December 2013  and February 2015. Miss B borrowed amounts ranging between  £130 and 
£400 to be repaid in 13 weekly instalments. The highest expected  monthly repayments 
ranged between  £56 and about  £172. Miss B borrowed continuously with no significant 
breaks in the lending.  Loans four and five overlapped. Miss B repaid loans one to four. 
When Miss B complained  to Satsuma that the loans  were unaffordable, it upheld  her 
complaint about  loans  four and five. It refunded her interest for these two loans, with interest, 
and removed adverse  information about  them from her credit  report.  But Miss B remained 
unhappy. 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  Miss B disagreed  
and so the complaint was passed  to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Satsuma needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Miss B could repay  the loans in a sustainable manner. These  checks  could take into account 
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment  amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Satsuma should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet  a 
higher repayment  from a particular  level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ref: DRN83620052I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Satsuma was required to establish 
whether Miss B could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments  were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Bs complaint.
As the adjudicator has already explained, Satsuma has upheld  Miss Bs complaint about 
loans four and five and provided the redress Id have required if Id have upheld them. So I 
wont consider these two loans  further.  
Satsuma asked Miss B for information about  her income and expenditure and it carried  out 
credit checks. For loans one to three,  Miss B said her monthly  income was £1,100  and her 
expenditure was £650. This left her with a disposable income of £450 to meet  her highest 
expected loan repayments of £112,  £107.68 and £172.32. I think  Satsuma carried  out 
proportionate affordability checks for these three loans  taking  into account their size and the 
stage of the lending relationship.
For loans one to three,  given the loan amounts, what was apparent about Miss Bs 
circumstances at the time and her history  with Satsuma, I dont think  it wouldve been  
proportionate to ask her for the amount of information needed to show the lending  was 
unsustainable. There wasnt  anything in the information Miss B provided or the information  
Satsuma shouldve been aware  of, which meant  it wouldve been proportionate to start 
verifying what Miss B was saying. 
From the information that Miss B had provided,  these  three  loans looked affordable. I cant 
see that there were  any signs  at this stage that Miss B was having problems managing her 
money or was in financial difficulties. So I cant say that it was wrong for Satsuma to have 
provided loans  one to three. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 March  2020.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8362005