K821x#15Complaint
Mr G complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc misrepresented how interest  is applied  to a three  
year fixed  rate savings  account. 
Background
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions are set out in my provisional 
decision dated 4 December 2019  a copy of which is attached and forms part of this decision. 
In my provisional decision I explained  why I intended to uphold this complaint and what 
HSBC should  do. I asked  both parties to provide  any additional comments  or information  
they wanted me to consider before I made  my final decision. I also asked Mr G to forward  
anything he had to show he could have received returns  in line with the incorrect information 
HSBC provided elsewhere. 
In response, HSBC  said it accepted  my provisional  decision  and didnt provide any further 
information for me to look at. Mr G responded to say that he didnt have anything  to show he could 
have received a better return elsewhere and, due to the passage of time,  hes not able to get that 
now. Mr G said he was certain he could have got the same return  from alternative providers.
My findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I still think  this complaint should be upheld. 
I take Mr Gs point  that because of the passage of time the information available to him now 
is limited. We have  the ability to look at historic rates available via market  journals. And Ive 
used those resources  to check whether there  were  savings  products in place that would 
have given returns in line with what HSBC said Mr G would receive when he applied. 
I recently asked the investigator to forward details of the alternative  products I found to 
HSBC for their comments.  The products were on the market at the time Mr G decided  to 
proceed with HSBC. 
The investigator explained I was satisfied there were other products available at the time 
Mr G applied to HSBC  that would have given  a similar return  to the compound interest  
returns he was told he would receive. The investigator advised that if I didnt receive  any 
new information or comments from HSBC I would proceed to issue my final decision and 
uphold Mr Gs complaint. 
HSBC responded  to my provisional decision to say it accepted.  It hasnt come back to us 
with any new comments or information  after the investigator recently got in touch.
As a result of the information obtained, and in line with my provisional decision,  Im 
upholding Mr Gs complaint and directing HSBC to pay him £1,073.62. That figure  
compensates Mr G for the compound interest  he was led to believe would be paid when  he 
decided to proceed with HSBC. 
HSBC has agreed to pay Mr G £250, in line with my provisional decision. I remain  of the view 
that £250 fairly reflects the impact of HSBCs  error so Im going to proceed  with that award.  
Ref: DRN80134782My final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and direct  HSBC UK Bank Plc to do the following: 
-Pay £1,073.62 to cover the missing interest
-Pay £250 for the distress and inconvenience  caused
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 April 2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman 
Ref: DRN80134783Copy of Provisional  Decision dated 4 December  2019
Complaint
Mr G complains that HSBC  UK Bank Plc misrepresented how interest is applied to a three year fixed  
rate savings account. 
Background
Mr G opened a three year fixed  rate saver account in February 2019 and paid in £1,000,000. Prior to 
deciding to take out the HSBC savings account Mr G was given  promotional material that said 
compound interest  would  be applied annually. Mr G says that feature was one of the reasons he 
decided to go ahead with HSBC and that he believed that after three years his savings would accrue 
£61,208 in interest. 
On 19 February 2019 HSBC wrote to Mr G to confirm his account had been set up and provided  a 
different figure of £60,164.38 for the total interest earned at maturity. 
On 9 August 2019 HSBC  wrote to Mr G again to say it had made  a mistake in the promotional  
information. HSBC explained that interest is only payable  on the sum invested, not on interest earned. 
HSBC said its 19 February 2019 letter contained a correct figure for the total interest earned. 
Mr G complained but HSBC didnt respond so he referred his concerns to our service. An adjudicator 
looked at what happened.  HSBC said Mr G could  remove his funds from the savings  account without 
penalty but wasnt willing to cover the interest Mr G says hes lost out on. The adjudicator  thought 
HSBCs offer was reasonable but Mr G didnt  agree and asked to appeal.  As a result,  his complaint 
has been passed to me to make a decision. 
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, Ive reached a different decision to the adjudicator. I dont 
agree that HSBCs offer to let Mr G withdraw his funds penalty free is a fair way to resolve his complaint. 
Id like to begin by explaining  how our service works. Mr G says HSBC is contractually obliged to pay 
annual compound interest  so it should  compensate  him for the interest hes lost out on. But we are an 
alternative to the courts and operate differently. Whilst we will always consider the law, our approach  
is to decide a complaint based on whats fair and reasonable. The means we wont automatically tell a 
business to stand  by a genuine error. 
HSBC says it doesnt offer any savings accounts that pay compound interest and that the promotional  
literature contained  a genuine mistake. Its also pointed out that the terms Mr G agreed to when he 
applied for the savings account confirmed that compound interest wont be paid. 
But I have to balance  that against the other information HSBC gave Mr G before he decided  to proceed. 
The promotional literature Ive seen provides clear and definitive figures that show interest as being 
compounded each  year.  Whilst I appreciate  the account terms dont reflect  the promotional  literature, I 
think it was reasonable for Mr G to proceed with the understanding that he would receive compound  
interest on his savings. Im satisfied from what Ive seen that HSBC  misrepresented  the way interest is 
applied to this savings account  which formed part of the reason Mr G decided to proceed. 
When a business misrepresents a product or service Ill consider what  the customer  would have done 
differently if the correct information had been provided. In this case, I need to decide  whether the 
compound nature of the interest was the key feature that persuaded 
Mr G to proceed with HSBC  and this product. 
Ref: DRN80134784There is a potential  loss of £1,073.62 in this case which  is a lot of money. But I think its reasonable to 
note that the sum invested  is £1,000,000 so even small  differences  in interest will have a reasonable 
impact on the return. To put it another way, if Mr G had saved £10,000  the difference  at the end of 
three years would be around £10.74.  So whilst I appreciate £1,073.62 is a lot of money, Im not sure 
that way the interest was explained in the promotional  information  was the deciding factor. 
At this stage, I think Mr G would most likely have gone ahead even  if the way interest is calculated  
and applied  was correctly explained. I think the interest rate payable was more  important (and had a 
greater impact on the overall return) than whether compound interest was applied annually. 
But if Mr G is able to provide any product  literature  from the same period that shows  an alternative 
business offered compound interest applied annually  at the same interest  rate and term as his HSBC 
savings account, Ill take it into account when making  my final decision. In addition, if Mr G can send 
in something to show he could  have  got another  savings  product over the same term and would have 
led to a similar level of return as he was quoted by HSBC  Ill take that into account  as well. 
HSBC says Mr G can withdraw the funds penalty free if hes unhappy  with the way the product works. 
But Mr G has quite reasonably pointed out that the financial climate  is very different today when  
compared to the start of the year. I think thats a very reasonable point and I agree that the same 
products arent now necessarily available.  I note, for instance, that at the time of writing HSBCs own 
savings products  are paying lower returns than when Mr G applied.  So I can understand why Mr G is 
concerned at the prospect  of finding a comparable product now.  
In response to the investigator Mr G says hes spent  a lot of time and effort following up on HSBCs  
mistake. I agree with him and can see that the situation has been frustrating,  time consuming  and 
inconvenient. In addition, Mr Gs invested an important amount of money  with HSBC and I can 
understand why any error made by the business would be particularly concerning. Ive taken  that into 
account when deciding what level of compensation to award. Taking  everything Ive seen together, I 
intend to tell HSBC to pay Mr G £250 to reflect  the impact of its errors  as well as the distress  and 
inconvenience caused.  
For the reasons  Ive given above, I intend to uphold  this complaint.  As matters stand, Im not 
persuaded Mr G would  have taken  a different product with another business even if the way interest is 
paid was correctly explained by HSBC.  But, if Mr G can send me promotional literature from the same 
period that shows he could have taken another three year savings product that paid the same rate of 
interest but on an annual compound basis Ill consider it. In addition,  if Mr G can send in something to 
show he could have got another  savings  product over the same term and would have led to a similar  
level of return as he was incorrectly quoted by HSBC Ill take that into account  as well. Essentially, if 
Mr G can show he had other options on similar terms at the time that would have paid the same level 
of return  Ill most likely tell HSBC to cover his loss. 
Once I have the above, Ill be able to make a final decision on Mr Gs other options at the time.  
My provisional decision
My provisional  decision  is that I uphold this complaint and direct HSBC UK Bank Plc to do the following:  
-Pay Mr G £250 for the distress  and inconvenience  caused
-Subject to evidence  and review, if Mr G can show he could have  received a return elsewhere in 
line with the information and levels HSBC incorrectly  gave in its promotional literature,  I intend to 
tell it to compensate  him for the loss
-If Mr G choses to leave the product, HSBC should  allow him to do so penalty free
Mr G and HSBC  have  until 4 January 2020 to send me any additional information  or comments  they 
wish to make before I make  my final decision. 
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8013478