K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that Amigo  Loans Ltd lent him money irresponsibly because  they failed to 
conduct a proper affordability check  before the loan was agreed.
background
In January 2016 Mr R entered into a loan agreement with Amigo. The loan was for £2200 
over a period  of 24 months. In December 2016 Mr R entered into a top up loan agreement. 
The top up loan settled Mr Rs first loan and was for £5500 over a period  of 48 months. After 
taking out the loan Mr Rs financial circumstances changed and he was unable  to make  the 
repayments.
Mr R complained to Amigo saying that the loan was unaffordable. He felt that Amigo had 
offered him the option to top up his loan too quickly and was unhappy  that Amigo  had 
refused to freeze  interest  on his account.
Mr R also complained that Amigo didnt offer him the opportunity to make  reduced monthly 
repayments before contacting the loan guarantor.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She said that Amigo had carried out reasonable 
and proportionate checks before it agreed the loan. She didnt feel that Amigo  had acted 
unfairly in contacting the guarantor because Mr R had already told Amigo  that he couldnt 
afford to make  any repayments.
Mr R didnt agree. He said Amigo had pressurised him into taking the top up loan.  He felt 
that it should have been clear to Amigo that the loan was unaffordable because  of the 
number of defaults on his credit  file. Mr R said that he had made an offer of reduced  monthly  
payments to Amigo but his offer was refused.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whether  its appropriate to advance credit lenders must undertake reasonable 
and proportionate checks to see if lending is affordable.  The checks the lender is required to 
do depend on several factors including the amount  of credit,  the level of repayments, what 
the lender knows  about the customer and the information the customer has provided.
When Mr R applied for the loan he provided Amigo with information about  his income and 
outgoings including his existing creditors. Amigo used this information to work  out Mr Rs 
disposable income. Amigo is entitled  to rely on the information provided  by Mr R. Based on 
what Ive seen the information provided by Mr R suggested that the loan was affordable.
Mr R applied for the top up loan online.  He provided information about  his income and 
outgoings. Amigo has said that it spoke to Mr R about his payments details and to confirm 
his responsibilities. Amigo also carried out a credit check which  showed that Mr R hadnt 
taken out any new loans with other lenders since the first Amigo loan.
I appreciate that Mr R has said that he defaulted on loans in the past.  But this isnt 
necessarily a reason  for Amigo not to agree the loan. Amigo loans are slightly  different to 
Ref: DRN82815492other types of loan insofar as the loan is guaranteed.. And even if Mr R had defaulted on 
loans before, he had a good track record with Amigo, including a loan which hed had in 
2012.
On balance Im satisfied that Amigo carried  out reasonable and proportionate checks to 
make sure that the loans were affordable.
Ive taken into account what Mr R has said about  being offered the top up loan too quickly  
and about feeling pressurised into taking it out. I havent seen anything to suggest  that 
Amigo pressurised Mr R into taking the top up loan. On the available evidence Mr R initiated 
the application for the top up loan online. Ive listened  to the telephone call between Mr R 
and Amigo in December  2016 when Mr R took out the top up loan. Mr R said that the funds 
were for a holiday and for Christmas expenses.  Its possible that Mr R was feeling some 
pressure at this time of year to find extra money  but I cant  fairly say that Amigo  pressurised 
him into applying  for the top up loan.
I understand that Mr Rs financial  circumstances have changed since  he took out the loan. 
But in considering whether Amigo lent responsibly to Mr R I have to consider the 
circumstances at the point in time when the loans were agreed. In January 2016 and 
December 2016,  the available information  showed that Mr R could afford the loans.  So Im 
unable to say that Amigo  has done anything wrong  in agreeing  the loans.
Ive also considered how Amigo treated Mr R when he was unable to make his loan 
repayments. When a consumer gets into financial difficulties a business should treat them  in 
a positive and sympathetic  way.
I can see that Mr R contacted Amigo to let them  know  he was experiencing financial 
difficulties. By this time,  the account  was in arrears  and Amigo  has said that Mr R told them 
that he was unable to make  any repayments.  Amigo has said that it went  through Mr Rs 
income and expenditure with him at this time and found him to be in deficit where making 
any payments would have put his priority bills at risk. Because  of this and even though Mr R 
offered to pay £50m per week, Amigo didnt agree to a reduced payment plan. 
Based on the available information I cant say that Amigo has acted unfairly  because  it would 
have been irresponsible to accept any payments from Mr R when it was clear  that his 
outgoings already exceeded his income.  In the circumstances, I dont think that Amigo  acted 
unreasonably in contacting Mr Rs guarantor.
For the reasons  Ive given I dont think Amigo lent irresponsibly and I dont think  Amigo acted 
unfairly when Mr R experienced financial  difficulties.  Therefore I wont  be asking Amigo to do 
anything.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Emma Davy
Ref: DRN82815493ombudsman
Ref: DRN8281549