K822xcomplaint
Mr A has complained about his insurer AXA Insurance UK Plc as he believes it is set on 
declining his claim, which is part of an industry  wide ploy to scam customers  out of money. 
Hes also unhappy that it asked him to pay an increased premium when it found claims he 
didnt know his previous insurer had logged  against him. 
background 
Mr A arranged cover with AXA via an on-line  website in January  2018. He was asked  to 
disclose whether, in the last five years, hed claimed for anything  or had any previous 
incidents or losses. Mr A disclosed two claims within the given timeframe.
In August  2018  Mr A noticed the floor at the bottom  of the stairs was giving way when  
trodden on. He checked the basement and found some beams were  damaged,  coming away 
from the wall. He called AXA.  Mr A says he was told that wasnt covered. He checked his 
policy and called AXA back, stating he had cover  for accidental  damage so felt the problem 
with the beams  should be covered. 
AXA wasnt  persuaded the damage was likely accidental, as covered by the policy.  Around 
this time AXA discovered that Mr A had made  three claims in the five-year  period hed been 
asked about when the cover was arranged and it noted hed only declared  two. AXA 
reviewed the insurance contract and noted  it would have charged  Mr A £160  more if it had 
known about the additional  claim.  It said it would send a surveyor  out to progress the claim 
but only if Mr A paid the additional premium. Mr A felt that was unfair. He felt AXA,  as do all 
insurers, had set out to take his money  and not pay his claim. He said this was an industry  
wide issue and complained to this service.
Our investigator explained that we arent the regulator  we can look at what  AXA has done 
in respect of his situation, but we cant look at concerns about the industry  as a whole. He 
noted that AXA didnt have any right to demand  the increased premium in this instance. He 
said it should deal with the claim, and if that was settled it could do so proportionately. He 
didnt suggest  that it pay any compensation. 
AXA initially  disagreed with the investigators findings. But it later accepted what he said.
Mr A initially  agreed with the findings but he later changed his mind. He said that it was no 
good now for AXA to send  a surveyor  its intent would be to find a way to not pay and then 
add multiple claims to his history as his previous insurer had done so he would get caught in 
a further trap by any future insurer.  He said he would appoint his own surveyor,  but he 
wouldnt allow any surveyor appointed  by AXA to attend. Mr A said again how this is all a big 
scandal within the industry designed to make  insurers money. Mr A said he wanted 
compensating for his trouble.
Our investigator told Mr A that we cant look at complaints about  industry-wide issues. He 
also clarified he was satisfied by the findings  hed made and wasnt  persuaded to add 
anything to them.
Ref: DRN81934062my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This service is not the industry  regulator and isnt responsible for policing the industry as a 
whole. So whilst  I understand Mr A has concerns about how insurers operate  and that he 
believes most are complicit in carrying out a scam to obtain  money  without paying  out when 
claims are made, that isnt something  I can consider or look into. What  I am here to do is to 
look at what transpired  between Mr A and AXA in respect of the claim he made to it for 
damaged joists.
I know Mr A thinks AXA was dismissive of his claim from the outset.  And I can understand 
why that would be frustrating for him. However,  given the circumstances and the damage 
Mr A found  and reported, it doesnt  surprise me that AXA had doubts  that this was a claim it 
would cover under the policy. But AXA recognises that it really needed an expert to assess 
the damage and it did ultimately agree to send a surveyor  out. AXA though  said it would only 
do this if Mr A paid it an extra premium that it had decided it was due. 
When a prospective policyholder arranges cover, they are obliged to take reasonable care to 
correctly answer all questions put to them  by an insurer.  If they provide  incorrect  information 
as a consequence of not taking reasonable care, the insurer, when it discovers  the error, is 
legally permitted to take certain  action. All of this is set out in regulations.  The regulations 
say that if the insurer would  have  charged  a higher  premium and there is an on-going claim, 
the claim can be settled proportionately. There is also an option  for an insurer  to give notice 
that it is terminating the policy  but in that instance  it still has to consider any claims. The 
regulations dont allow for an insurer  to halt a claim whilst demanding money  is paid. 
I know Mr A says he thought he gave  the right information but it seems  that he didnt check 
his claims history before answering the relevant  question.  The details regarding the claim 
amounts and type were wrong,  as well as one claim being missing altogether. I know  Mr A 
says he wasnt aware  the third claim had been  recorded by his insurer, but he could have 
checked his history.  I think  the fact that he didnt meant he didnt take reasonable care to 
ensure all the correct  information about his claims was provided to AXA. 
That means that AXA was able to apply the higher premium  that is allowed for in the 
regulations. But the regulations, as I said above,  dont  allow an insurer to demand  that such 
is paid prior to a claim progressing. AXA has now accepted that and agreed to progress  the 
claim. I think  that is the fair and reasonable thing for it to do. And Im not going to say it 
should pay compensation to make-up for the delay that has occurred in the interim. I dont 
always award compensation for failures. My awards  arent made to punish  insurers and 
sometimes I consider that getting  the claim back on track  is a sufficient remedy.  I believe 
that is the case here.  
I know Mr A doesnt think that AXA will progress his claim  genuinely and honestly, but Ive 
no reason to think that it wont.  In any event, AXA is entitled to assess the claim Mr A has 
made to it, and a reasonable  part of that process  is for it to have an expert  consider the 
damage reported which it is being  asked  to repair (or pay to repair). If Mr A wants  his claim 
to progress he will need to cooperate  with AXAs reasonable claim investigations.  
Ref: DRN81934063my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require AXA Insurance  UK Plc to progress Mr As claim by 
appointing a surveyor, as offered, to assess the damaged beams  and, from there, make a 
decision on the claim. If the claim is to be settled, AXA Insurance  UK Plc will be able to do 
so proportionately in line with the difference between the premium Mr A paid and that which  
it wouldve  charged if it had been  aware from the outset of the existence of all three  claims. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 May 2020.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8193406