K820x#14complaint
Mr O complains about the way CIS General Insurance Limited  (CIS)  handled  a claim he 
made under his motor insurance policy when  a third party  vehicle hit his car in a car park.
background
In July 2018, Mr O parked  his car in a car park. When he returned, he found that a foreign 
registered vehicle  had reversed into the rear of his car. He took what particulars he could  
from the driver and claimed under his CIS insurance  policy.
Mr O wanted to use his own repairer  and got an estimate from it of £715 for repairing the 
damage. CIS said it would  have to have  the car inspected  before it could  authorise  the repair 
and instructed an independent motor engineer. 
The engineer said that in its opinion  the damage resulted from two separate  incidents when 
the car had been hit from two different directions  one on the corner of the rear bumper on 
the drivers side, and the other on the passengers side of the boot lid. It thought it likely that 
the car park incident caused the bumper damage  but not the boot lid damage.
The engineer estimated  that the part of the estimate attributable to repairing the bumper 
damage was £357.08.  CISs own engineer agreed it was likely there had been two separate  
incidents. Mr O had an excess of £400  on each claim he made on the policy.  So CIS said it 
wouldnt pay for the bumper damage  as this was within the excess. Mr O could make  a 
separate claim for the boot damage, but this claim  would  be subject to its own excess  of 
£400.
Mr O complained to CIS. He thought  he shouldnt  have  to suffer  the excess as the incident 
wasnt his fault.  CIS explained that as it had been unable to make contact with the third party 
driver or their insurer, and would have to meet  the cost of the repair, the excess was 
correctly chargeable  under the policy.
Mr O had a separate  motor protection policy and CIS advised him to contact  the insurer  of 
that policy with a view to tracing and pursuing  the third party driver for reimbursement of 
what he had to pay.
Mr O also complained to CIS about  it treating the two areas  of damage as separate  claims 
with the result that it wouldnt pay either  under the policy terms. However  CIS considered  it 
was justified in doing so in view of the opinions of the independent engineer and its own 
engineer. Mr O was unhappy  with this and complained to us.
Mr O then took the car to a different repairer  who was a main dealer for his make of car. It 
produced an estimate of £1,416.36 for repairing the bumper damage. The independent 
engineer accepted that this estimate was reasonable for work done by a main dealer, and 
CIS authorised this work.  It said it would  pay the cost over and above the amount of the 
£400 excess.
It said it was in touch  with Mr Os legal expenses insurer about tracing the third party driver 
and their insurer, but neither had made any progress  on this. It had told Mr O that he might 
be able to make a claim against  the Motor Insurers Bureau if the driver proved  untraceable.
Ref: DRN87349222Our investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld.  Mr O hadnt  been 
present when the vehicles collided. He said he had washed his car numerous times and 
hadnt seen either area of damage until after the accident occurred.
The independent engineer and CISs  engineer both considered that two incidents had 
occurred, and the bumper damage  was consistent  with the collision. Mr O hadnt provided 
any evidence to the contrary, so the investigator had to rely on the engineers  evidence.  
Based on this she thought CIS had acted reasonably in dealing with Mr Os claim.
It had authorised the second estimate Mr O obtained from the main  dealer. And it was still 
trying to make contact with the third party driver in conjunction with Mr Os legal expenses  
insurer. CIS had said it was happy  to review what damage the accident caused if Mr O could 
produce evidence  that it was all caused by the collision.
Mr O responded to say, in summary, that:
CIS couldnt say for sure what happened at the time of the collision,  so he thought it 
should pay for all the damage to his car;
he had a witness who had seen what had happened but CIS wouldnt speak to them; 
and
he wanted to get an independent report about what caused  the two areas  of damage 
but CIS said it wouldnt accept this.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr O says he wasnt aware  of either  area of damage before the incident in the car park. So I 
understand why he thinks  the third party driver caused both areas of damage.
However both the independent engineer and CISs own engineer say that in their 
professional opinion the damage resulted from two separate incidents when the car had 
been hit from two different directions  one on the corner of the rear bumper on the drivers 
side, and the other  on the passengers side of the boot lid. They  thought it likely that the car 
park incident  caused the bumper damage  but not the boot lid damage.
I asked the investigator  to obtain  a statement from the witness  Mr O said he had. The 
statement produced  reads  as follows:
I was a passenger  in my friend's [car] on the xx July 2018. When he parked the car in [the] 
car park, there was a parking space  beside  us.
I was the first person to arrive back at the car park. I could see a large  white  van trying  to 
pull out of the gap next to our car. I could  see that there was not enough room for him to turn 
and come out and the next thing,  I saw the side door of the van come in contact with the 
back of our friend's car. I shouted for him to stop pulling  out. If I had not been there I think he 
would have continued trying to get out of the space  and causing more damage to the [car].
Ref: DRN87349223In technical matters, we tend to place most reliance on expert opinions, if these are 
available. In this case both the independent engineer an CISs own engineer  consider that 
only the bumper  damage was caused by the car park incident. Having read the statement of 
Mr Os witness,  I think, if anything, it supports their views. It mentions only one collision  to 
the back of Mr Os car caused  by the van pulling out of a space alongside Mr Os car.
Mr O complains that CIS has said it wouldnt accept any independent report  he might obtain 
about what caused the two areas  of damage. However in a letter to the investigator on         
1 November 2018 CIS said:
In regards  to all the damage being incident related, [this]  is currently  in dispute  as our 
engineering evidence confirms otherwise given the areas and height  of the damage.  If Mr O 
is able to provide  evidence  from an expert confirming otherwise, I'm happy to review this 
with our engineering  team. However Mr O hasn't  provided any expert  evidence  to help show 
that this isn't from 2 separate incidents.
So CIS is saying, as I would expect it to, that it will consider any expert evidence that Mr O 
cares to produce. 
However, on the evidence available at present, I think  CIS has treated Mr O fairly in 
considering his claim. 
Mr O has said that his motor protection insurer has now managed to trace the third party  
driver. Hopefully this may enable Mr O to recover his uninsured excess in respect  of the 
claim CIS has paid. It may also enable CIS to recoup what it has paid on this claim so that it 
ceases to be treated  as a fault claim on Mr Os insurance record.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint,  and make  no order  against CIS General 
Insurance Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 April 2019.
Lennox Towers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8734922