K821x#15complaint
Miss P and Mr P complain that Secure  Trust Bank  Plc (Secure Trust)  mis-sold them a
sickness, accident and unemployment insurance  (a type of payment protection plan  PPP)
in 1988 and in 1995.
background
In November 2018 I issued my provisional  decision.  In it I explained why I was intending  to 
uphold this complaint from the time it was sold in 1988 and in 1995. My provisional decision 
is attached and forms part of my final decision.
I asked both parties to come back to me with any further information they wanted me to 
consider before making my final decision.
Miss P and Mr P didnt have anything further  to add. Secure Trust disagreed  with my 
decision. It said in summary:
The financial strength  of One Bill customers was comparable to the market  average - 
the One Bill account wasnt marketed towards people in financial difficulty.
The One Bill account is a bill payment service. It was not for people who required 
assistance in managing  their finances. The fact that a weekly/monthly fee was 
charged meant that if people were in financial difficulty they wouldnt have chosen the 
product - this would be counterproductive.
Secure Trust disagreed that the costs were  unclear. And it said customers were  
provided with a monthly/weekly cash price at the time they took out the policy. It 
would expect a numerically literate  person to be capable of calculating  4.5%  or 7.5%  
of a weekly bill payment. In addition providing  an indication of the cost of the policy 
over the long term is impossible. The cost of the policy  rose and fell in line with a 
customers bill payments, outside Secure Trusts control.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Miss P and Mr Ps complaint.
Ive thought about what Secure Trust has said in response to my provisional  decision. But 
these points havent changed my mind. Ive still decided to uphold  this complaint.
In my provisional decision,  I explained  that in both 1988 and in 1995 I didnt think the costs  
were clear. I appreciate that Secure Trust has said that it disagreed  with this point. But as I 
explained, I think its more  likely  that Miss P and Mr P would have been sent the schedule of 
costs after the time of the sale and I dont  think it would  have been  easy  for them to work  out 
the premium of the policy. I also explained that I didnt  think Secure Trust would have 
explained that Miss P and Mr P would have needed to continue  to pay the premiums  if they 
made a successful claim.
Ref: DRN83697882I also considered whether  it would have made a difference if theyd been  given clearer  
information in 1988 and in 1995.  I think it would have mattered to them. I said that I thought  
they likely  set up the One Bill account  to manage their outgoings and that they likely would 
have wanted to budget  carefully - regardless of whether they were in financial difficulty  or 
whether they wanted to use it as a bill payment service. In order to budget carefully, I think 
they needed to understand exactly what the costs of the policy were. Ive explained that I 
dont think they would  have understood the true costs  and I think its likely that this would 
have made  a difference. So I think Miss P and Mr P lost out as a result of what Secure Trust 
did wrong and I uphold this complaint.
putting things right 
Secure Trust should  put Miss P and Mr P in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken 
out the PPP in 1988 or 1995. Secure Trust should:
Pay Miss P and Mr P the amount that was paid each month for the PPP;
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until Miss P and Mr P get 
it back. The rate of interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then 
on;
If Miss P and Mr P made a successful claim under the PPP policy,  Secure Trust can 
take off what they got for the claims from the amount it owes.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Secure Trust to take off tax from this interest. Secure 
Trust must  give Miss P and Mr P a certificate  showing how much tax its taken off if 
requested.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 February  2019.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN83697883copy of my provisional decision
complaint
Miss P and Mr P complain that Secure Trust Bank  Plc (Secure Trust)  mis-sold  them a sickness,  
accident and unemployment insurance (a type of payment protection plan  PPP) in 1988 and in 
1995.
background
In 1988 Miss P and Mr P opened a One Bill account with Secure Trust. This account  helped to 
manage household bills. At the same time they were sold PPP in Mr Ps name only. This covered  
Miss P and Mr Ps monthly bill payments if Mr P couldnt work because of sickness or if he had an 
accident. This policy didnt cover him if he lost his job. In 1988  it would have  cost them 4p for every £1 
unit of benefit. In 1995  the cover changed so it now included unemployment cover,  as well as 
accident and sickness cover. But the policy cost increased to 7.5p per every £1 unit required. It still 
covered Mr P only.
Our adjudicator didnt think the policy  sold in 1988 was mis-sold. He said he thought  although  the 
costs werent clear, taking into account the cost and the benefit, he still thought  Miss P and Mr P 
would have taken out the policy. But he said he thought the policy from 1995 was mis-sold. He didnt 
think the information  about the costs and the benefits was clear  enough  but this time he thought if 
Secure Trust had given clearer information then Miss P and Mr P wouldnt have taken out the cover. 
Secure Trust disagreed with this view and asked that the complaint be referred  to an ombudsman for 
a final decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. I think the issues for me to consider are the same as those  about 
PPI. Weve set out our general  approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and Ive 
taken this into account in deciding  Miss P and Mr Ps complaint.
Im intending  to uphold this complaint in full. I will explain why.
As both policies were  sold such  a long time ago, neither  Miss P, Mr P nor Secure Trust has all the 
paperwork from the time of the sales. This isnt unusual and its understandable as businesses  arent  
required to keep records indefinitely. But I dont have a lot of information  about  the way these  policies  
were sold to Miss P or Mr P. Where the evidence is incomplete, I will make my decision on the 
balance of probabilities, that is, whats more likely  to have happened taking into account  any evidence 
that is available, what the parties have told us and what we know about these types of sales.
I dont think its likely  Secure Trust recommended the PPP either in 1988 and 1995 to Miss P and 
Mr P. That meant  although it didnt need to take reasonable steps to make sure the policy was 
suitable for them; it still needed to give clear enough  information  so Miss P and Mr P could decide  for 
themselves whether or not they wanted to take it out. I dont think the information Secure Trust  gave 
them was clear  enough for them to make an informed  decision about what  they wanted to do.
Our adjudicator didnt think in either sale the costs were clear. I agree. But he said in 1988 if Miss P 
and Mr P had been given better information they would  have still gone ahead with their decision to 
buy the policy  in 1988. I dont agree that Miss P and Mr P would have bought this policy in 1988 if 
they had been given better information.
1988 sale
Secure Trust has provided some copies of schedule  of liabilities  which it says would have been sent 
to Miss P and Mr P and set out the cost of the PPP. And it says it would  have given the cost of the 
Ref: DRN83697884cover as a cash figure  at the time the policy was taken out. But I dont think  Miss P and Mr P would 
have been given the schedule at the time of the sale - I think this would have been sent to them 
afterwards. I also dont  think  it would have been easy for Miss P and Mr P to work  out exactly  how 
much their premium would be and I dont think they would  have understood that the costs of the policy  
could vary depending on the amount of Miss P and Mr Ps bills or how much the costs of the PPP 
would be in the long term.
So even if Miss P and Mr P had been told that the cost of the policy was 4p per every £1 unit of cover 
in 1988, I dont think  it would  have been easy or clear enough for them to understand how much  they 
were paying.  Ive also taken into account that this policy didnt cover them for the same things as the 
policy in 1995 - it only provided accident and sickness cover. And I dont think  Secure Trust  would 
have explained that they needed to keep paying the premiums if they made a successful claim which  
would mean  the benefit from the policy  was less than Miss P and Mr P thought  it would  be.
1995 sale
Again Ive thought about the schedule  of liabilities paperwork provided and what Secure Trust  has 
said about giving the cost as a cash figure at the time the policy was taken  out. But as Ive explained, 
I dont think Miss P and Mr P would have been given  the schedule at the time of the sale - I think this 
would have been sent to them afterwards. And I dont think  it would have been easy  for Miss P and 
Mr P to work  out exactly how much  their premium would be. And I dont think  they would have 
understood that the costs  of the policy could vary depending on how much Miss P and Mr Ps bills 
covered by the PPP were, or how much the costs of the PPP would be in the long term.
The cost of the policy  was considerably higher in 1995 - 7.5p per £1 unit of cover. I can see that in 
1995 the policy would  have covered Mr P for accident, sickness and unemployment but this cost was 
considerably higher than in 1988. And I still dont think it would have been easy or clear  enough  for 
them to understand what they were paying. And I dont think Secure Trust  would  have explained  that 
they needed to keep paying the premiums if they made a successful claim  - that might mean the 
benefit from the policy  was less than Miss P and Mr P thought it would be.
I need to think if this would have made a difference to Miss P and Mr P and whether they would  have 
been put off buying the cover if they had clearer or better information  in 1988 and in 1995.
Overall, I think  this would have mattered to Miss P and Mr P. As they were  setting up the One Bill 
account to manage their outgoings, its likely  they would have wanted  to budget their outgoings 
carefully and they might  not have been  in a strong financial position. So I think  it wouldve  been 
important to them  to understand  exactly what the costs of the policy would be. If the costs had been 
properly explained,  I dont think  they would have thought the PPI was good value  for money  either in 
1988 or in 1995 and I dont  think they would  have  bought the PPP on either  occasion.
Overall, I think  Miss P and Mr P lost out because of what Secure Trust did wrong. So I intend to 
uphold this complaint.
Ive thought carefully about  what  Secure Trust has said about being unable to accept that the costs  
werent clear and that we havent  expressed  how it should have stated the costs but these points  
dont change  my decision. I dont think the information provided was clear enough  for Miss P and Mr 
P to understand the true cost of the policy. And I think they would have  been put off buying  the PPP in 
1988 and 1995 if they had been given  better information.
putting things  right 
Secure Trust should put Miss P and Mr P in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out the 
PPP in 1988 or 1995. Secure Trust should:
Pay Miss P and Mr P the amount that was paid each  month for the PPP;
Ref: DRN83697885Add simple  interest to each payment from when  they paid it until Miss P and Mr P get it back. 
The rate of interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on;
If Miss P and Mr P made a successful claim under  the PPP policy, Secure Trust  can take off 
what they got for the claims from the amount it owes.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires Secure Trust to take off tax from this interest. Secure Trust  must 
give Miss P and Mr P a certificate showing  how much  tax its taken  off if requested.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im planning to uphold  Miss P and Mr Ps complaint and to direct 
Secure Trust Bank Plc to pay the compensation Ive set out above. 
I now invite  both parties to give me any further information  they want me to consider before I make my 
final decision  by 28 December 2018.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8369788