K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance Plc (RSA) should  be responsible for the 
repair to the water pump on his car as he feels it should have been  included in the repairs  it 
carried following an accident.
background
Mr P was involved  in an accident  and claimed under his motor  insurance policy. RSA 
arranged for his car to be repaired by one of its approved repairers (AP). When the repairs  
were completed the car was returned to Mr P.
Shortly after this the engine management  light began to show up on Mr Ps car. He reported 
this to RSA as he believed to be related to either  the accident damage  or the recent  repairs.  
RSA arranged for AP to look in to this.
AP carried out a full system scan on the car and identified a problem with the coolant pump. 
Mr P did not accept this and wanted  a full assessment carried out and so he took the car to a 
main dealer  to be assessed and sent the report to RSA.
RSAs internal engineer considered the report and said:
The water pump on the vehicle is fine the fault is with the auxiliary  electric  water 
pump this only works when the vehicle need  it, the electric motor inside the unit has 
failed this is not accident damage this is were  and tear[sic]
RSA then issued  its final response to Mr P saying that the fault was wear and tear and not 
accident related,  so it wouldnt be covered under his insurance policy.
Mr P was unhappy with this and so brought his complaint to our service. The investigator  
didnt uphold  the complaint and didnt think RSA needed to do anything  more. Mr P 
disagreed with the investigator and so the matter has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where  theres a dispute about  what happened,  Ive 
based my decision  on what I thinks more likely to have happened  in light of the evidence.
Although a number  of issues  have been raised,  this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision. Having done so 
I have to tell Mr P that Ive reached  the same outcome as the investigator for broadly the 
same reasons, Im not sure theres much I can usefully add here,  but Ill explain my thoughts.
Mr Ps policy  does  not cover for wear and tear repairs.  As the warning light only came on 
after AP repaired the accident damage on Mr Ps car, I can understand why he thought it 
must be linked  to either the accident  damage or the repairs.  But in order  for me to conclude  
this there  would need to be some evidence to support it and I havent seen any that does.
 
I considered the post-accident report where all of the accident  damage was listed  before the 
repairs were carried out and there is nothing included  in this that would point towards the AP 
needing to work on or near the water pump.
Ref: DRN89028222Mr P provided RSA with a link to a report from the main dealer, the link is no longer active  and 
so I havent been able to access  the report and have  been told by Mr P and RSA that it is no 
longer available. As I havent been able to see this for myself, Ive considered what  both RSA 
and Mr P have said about the report. But I have  placed  most weight on what our investigator 
saw when he viewed  it.  Based  on this I am persuaded that the main  dealer report  didnt 
suggest that the fault was in any way related to the accident damage or the repairs.
As the main dealer  report was independent,  Im satisfied  that on balance its more  likely than 
not that the fault with the water pump did not relate to the accident damage  or the repairs 
carried out by AP and the timing of the failure was just a coincidence. Based on this I wont 
be asking RSA to cover the cost of its repair.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold  Mr Ps complaint 
about RSA.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 May 2020.
Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8902822