K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  that St. Jamess Place Wealth Management Plc mis-sold them an 
interest-only mortgage. They say the SJP adviser  fabricated inflated income figures  and 
encouraged them to borrow £450,000 rather than the £250,000 which they originally asked 
for. There was no discussion about how theyd repay the loan at the end of the term. 
Mr and Mrs M say the mortgage  was unaffordable, and that this should have been clear  from 
the outset.
background
In 2007 Mr and Mrs M took a mortgage loan of about £450,000  using SJP as their broker.  In 
2017 they complained to SJP that it had mis-sold the mortgage to them. Theyd only 
intended to borrow  £250,000 but SJP had recommended  they increase this to £450,000. 
Mr Ms income was self-certified which was inappropriate, and there was no discussion 
about repayment.
SJP responded  to Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. It said it held little documentation  from 2007 
but did have a copy of the online application form. This showed Mr Ms self-employed  
income as £95,507  and his income from the previous two years. The application form 
showed Mrs M was employed  by B Ltd with an annual gross salary  of £10,500. The 
application also showed they had rental  income  and theyd told SJP they had a buy-to-let 
property. The application form showed  they were each saving £500  per month into ISAs  
which would be used  to help repay  the loan.
SJP said Mr and Mrs M were given an offer of loan which detailed the monthly repayments, 
and as they chose to proceed with the mortgage it was reasonable to conclude this was 
affordable and they were happy with the level of borrowing. Mr and Mrs M had complained  
that they didnt  need  the additional £200,000  but SJP found  it difficult to understand why 
theyd agreed to almost  double the amount to be borrowed if it wasnt  likely  to be needed. 
They hadnt  raised any objections at the time. 
Without having any further  documentation,  SJP had searched online and could see the 
extensive renovation  work which Mr and Mrs M undertook on the site of their property. SJP 
believed the extra £200,000 borrowing was required and used. Mr and Mrs M had sold their 
property in June  2016 for £930,000  and the mortgage was repaid at that time.
Mr and Mrs M replied  that the figures provided on their application of £95,507 for Mr Ms 
income and the previous two years  were fabricated by SJP.  It wasnt correct to conclude that 
they could afford such a high level of borrowing.
SJP acknowledged  there was a note suggesting Mr and Mrs M wanted £250,000 on an 
interest-only basis, with a term of 17 years. But it was difficult  to understand why they didnt 
raise any concerns when  they received letters and the loan offer from the lender which 
clearly stated they were  looking  to borrow £450,000  over 25 years. These  documents also 
showed the monthly cost and the effect  on Mr and Mrs Ms repayments should there be an 
interest rate increase.  
Mr and Mrs M werent happy with this and brought their complaint to this service. They said 
theyd moved in 2001 with no additional mortgage owing to a friend lending them £250,000  
added to funds  they already had. In 2007 the friend  needed his money  back  so theyd 
approached SJP. Their  requirement was to borrow £250,000.
Ref: DRN83073242Theyd discussed the property, which was a large  traditional bungalow which  had planning 
permission for conversion into a two-storey house. The conversion costs were about  
£140,000 and SJP suggested they added this and another £60,000 to the total to help with 
the mortgage repayments giving  a grand total of £450,000. They  said theyd started the 
conversion works in 2008. The works  took seven years to complete mainly  owing  to funds 
running out and building costs rising. In 2013  they ended up with a property that wasnt  
complete and a mortgage they couldnt  afford. Eventually with the help of another loan from 
a friend  they managed to complete the work  and sell the property  in 2016.
Our investigator didnt  recommend Mr and Mrs Ms complaint  be upheld. He said hed looked 
at the information that Mr and Mrs M had stated was inaccurate in the application.  Mr Ms 
income was shown on the application form as being  £82,734 in 2004, £87,951 in 2005 and 
£95,507 in 2006. However, Mr and Mrs M had said that their actual  combined  income  was 
around £30,000 at this time.
Mr and Mrs M had also disputed  the inclusion of yearly rental income of £4,500. They  said 
that their second property  was never  rented out or ever intended  to be rented out, because 
Mrs Ms mother lived there. The sale of the same  property  was also listed  as part of the 
repayment method  for when the interest-only  mortgage came to an end. The information  
about the ISA accounts wasnt accurate either.
The investigator said the regulatory  requirements  for mortgages had changed over the last 
few years.  He had to consider Mr and Mrs Ms complaint based on the regulations and 
normal industry practice in 2007.  At the time the loan was taken out in 2007, self-certification 
was a widely accepted industry  practice.  As Mr M was self-employed,  the investigator  was 
unable to say that SJP acted inappropriately by allowing Mr and Mrs M to self-certify in 2007. 
Owing to this and taking into account the regulations in place  at the time, the investigator  
couldnt hold SJP responsible for the information  Mr and Mrs M had said was inaccurate in 
the application.
The investigator said the amount being  borrowed was clearly set out in both the application 
and the mortgage offer. If Mr and Mrs M didnt  want  to borrow this amount they could have 
reduced it. The home improvements appeared to have been completed. Mr and Mrs M had 
stated that they started the work in 2008,  and it took about seven years  to complete.
The investigator said that as it appeared Mr and Mrs M intended to use the extra  funds to 
complete the home improvements, and those works were then carried  out, the 
recommendation didnt appear to be one that he could say SJP was at fault for.
Mr and Mrs M didnt  agree and asked  for an ombudsman to look at the case. They  said 
theyd supplied SJP with their joint income  of £30,000. SJP had totally ignored  this and had 
fabricated the figures of £82,734 in 2004,  £87,951  in 2005, and £95,507 in 2006.
There was never any rental  income  from the second  property.  There  were no ISA accounts 
in their names. All this information was falsified by SJP as shown in the advisers  
handwritten notes.
They said the lender had made no checks to assess their ability  to repay  the mortgage. It 
should have a duty of care to act in their best interest. It failed to exercise the proper skill 
and care, diligence and competence which were  demanded of it as a reasonably competent 
lender.
Ref: DRN83073243my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As this was a self-certified  mortgage  taken out in 2007, Mr and Mrs M were responsible for 
ensuring the information given to the lender  in the mortgage application was accurate. Self-
certified mortgages wouldnt have been unusual in 2007 for consumers who were self-
employed.
The three years income figures are indeed recorded in the advisers handwritten  note, but 
that doesnt mean he must have fabricated  them.  Its equally consistent  with their having  
been (a) made up by the adviser  or (b) given to him by Mr and Mrs M. And those income 
figures are the only documentary evidence available:  I havent been provided with accounts 
or tax returns or any other evidence to verify  Mr and Mrs Ms figure of £30,000.
Nor have  I seen anything  to show that the mortgage was unaffordable.  The income levels  
which were put forward  in the application dont appear to highlight any problems with 
repaying the mortgage, and Mr and Mrs M appear  to have maintained  the repayments each 
month for nine years. It hasnt been  suggested they went into arrears at any time.
Mr and Mrs M also say the lender made  no checks to assess  their ability  to repay the 
mortgage, and that this was a breach of a duty of care and a failure to exercise  proper skill 
and care. But whether or not that was the case,  its not something  I can deal with on a 
complaint against  the broker.
For these reasons I dont  consider this complaint should be upheld.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 June  2019.
Edward Callaghan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8307324