K820x#14complaint
Mr Y complains that he was mis-sold a Silver Added Value Account  (SAVA) by Lloyds Bank 
PLC (Lloyds). 
background
Mr Y held bank accounts with Lloyds from 2002.  His first accounts did not have a fee.
He took out the SAVA in September 2011  which incurred a monthly fee. Lloyds added some 
additional benefits to the SAVA under the Club Lloyds brand in 2014.
Mr Y says the SAVA was mis-sold.
Our adjudicator looked into Mr Ys complaint and thought that it wasnt mis-sold. Mr Y 
disagrees so the complaint has come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Y says the SAVA was mis-sold. In my view,  I dont  agree and Ill explain why.
Mr Y was aware he could  have an account with no fee as hed had one without a fee for 
many years. So I think he chose to take out the SAVA based on Lloyds advice and 
information.
Lloyds advised  Mr Y to take out the SAVA.  So, Lloyds needed  to provide Mr Y with sufficient 
information about the SAVA to make  an informed choice. And in recommending  the SAVA, it 
also needed to take adequate steps  to ensure that the SAVA was a reasonable fit for Mr Ys 
circumstances.
The SAVA contained a range of benefits including AA breakdown cover,  European travel 
insurance, mobile phone  insurance and sentinel card protection. I dont know  what  Lloyds 
said or what information it gave Mr Y but Mr Y has told us about his circumstances at the 
time. 
He had a car which he regularly  used,  he travelled  regularly abroad, he had a mobile phone  
and he had financial cards to protect. And he wasnt affected by any of the exclusions in the 
insurance policies  on offer.
So in my view Lloyds  advice to him to take out the SAVA was not unsuitable  and he could 
have chosen at any time later whether to continue with it. And there was no information that 
he didnt receive  that would  likely have put him off taking the SAVA.  
So I dont  think Mr Y lost out by taking out the SAVA.
Mr Ys main complaint is that when he made a claim on his mobile phone insurance  it took a 
week for Lloyds appointed  insurer to provide a replacement  phone,  whereas the adviser 
who sold him the SAVA said it would be replaced in 24 hours.  He says that the quick 
Ref: DRN87815152replacement was important to him as he needed to communicate regularly  every  day with his 
mother who was ill.
As I said above, I dont  know  what was said to Mr Y when he took out the SAVA.  But the 
policy doesnt mention a time limit of 24 hours  for replacing a mobile  phone  or indeed any 
time limit. I think there was enough  of interest  to Mr Y in the SAVA  that Lloyds adviser didnt 
need to give this incorrect information.  I note that Lloyds record of the discussion it had with 
Mr Y refers  to his consideration of the car breakdown cover but does not mention  discussing 
the mobile phone  insurance. And I think its more  likely than not that if Mr Y was relying on 
the phone  being replaced within  24 hours  for potential emergency purposes that he would 
have checked  the terms and conditions  of the SAVA phone insurance  at the time to see if 
this cover was included. 
So while I dont doubt Mr Ys honest  recollections,  I think Mr Ys memory may be mistaken  
and I dont think I can reasonably conclude he was incorrectly told his mobile phone would 
be replaced in 24 hours  at the time of the SAVA  sale. Nor does the evidence suggest that 
mobile phone insurance  was the main reason he agreed to the account anyway.
So in my view the SAVA was not mis-sold to Mr Y and he didnt lose out as a result of 
anything Lloyds may have done  wrong.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ys complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 July 2019.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8781515