K820x#14complaint
Mr L is unhappy with how NewDay Ltd dealt with his credit card account. He feels a 0% 
money transfer wasnt applied correctly so he paid more interest than he should have.
background
Mr L had an existing credit card with NewDay and received various promotional offers from 
them about  it. In February  2018, Mr L accepted an offer of 0% interest on money  transfers 
for six months and agreed a money transfer of £1,800 - which  was immediately paid as cash 
into his bank account.  
Mr L continued to use his credit card as usual but shortly after, he noticed he was being 
charged interest on the whole outstanding balance  rather  than just new purchases. So he 
contacted NewDay  to ask them to look into this. Mr L said that after receiving conflicting 
information from NewDay about what the charges related  to, he asked for a statement 
showing all the interest and charges that had been  applied to his account  but he never  
received this.
Mr L said that he felt pressured  to make the minimum credit card payments  NewDay  
requested  despite not agreeing with them. He said he didnt want  to damage his credit  file 
by not making  the payments but he felt that he shouldnt be paying  them.  So he complained 
to NewDay.   
NewDay didnt uphold  the complaint. They said that the interest had been applied to Mr Ls 
outstanding balance correctly. And although  the 0% interest was applicable  on the money  
transfer, there would  still be interest  payable on the other purchases hed made. They  said 
that if Mr L didnt want  to pay any interest on his credit card, then he needed to clear the 
balance for this spending at the end of each month.  
They apologised that Mr L hadnt  received the statement  hed requested but confirmed  
theyd sent this to him in May 2018  when hed asked for it. They also said that theyd  sent 
him another  copy  in August 2018 when theyd  been made aware  it he hadnt received it. Mr 
L didnt agree so he asked this service to look into his complaint. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld. She said that she couldnt see 
any interest had been added  incorrectly to the money transfer amount. She also gave Mr L a 
copy of the interest  amounts that had been  applied   which corresponded with his monthly 
statements. So she didnt think that NewDay  had treated Mr L unfairly.  
Mr L didnt agree as he said this information didnt match  what  he was seeing online. So he 
asked for an ombudsman to review  his case. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding it for 
broadly the same reasons  as the investigator.
Mr L said he felt interest  payments had been  applied  incorrectly  to his balance each month 
and that hed been charged interest  on the money  transfer. He also said that the interest 
shown on the monthly  statements didnt match what hed seen on his online account. Ive 
Ref: DRN81971982looked at the monthly statements, the interest  summary and the interest applied each month, 
and based on the outstanding balances and the applicable interest rate, Im satisfied that the 
correct interest amounts  have been  applied.  However, as Mr L didnt provide the online  
screen prints requested  by our investigator, Im unable to confirm  if these were correct.
Ive looked at the monthly statements and I think its clear in the Your Interest Rates  
section that the rate applicable  to the money  transfer was 0% until 12/08/18 - and that there  
were different rates applicable to different transactions  when they are applied. Mr L also said 
he felt the interest  was incorrect as it had been  applied even when he hadnt  made  any 
purchases that month. Ive seen there were occasions where there werent  any transactions,  
yet interest was applied  and Ive looked  at the interest. But Ive seen that the interest was 
only charged on the outstanding balance - less the £1,800 money transfer. 
Ive also seen that on the August statement, some  interest was applied  on the £1,800, 
however this was because the 0% interest rate was only until 12/08/18 and interest  became 
payable on the money transfer balance from this date. So based  on this evidence,  I dont 
think NewDay have treated Mr L unfairly  with the interest amounts theyve  applied.  
I recognise that Mr L will be disappointed with my decision. But based on everything  Ive 
seen, I cant say NewDay have done  anything wrong. So I wont  be asking them to do 
anything more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against NewDay  Ltd.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 February  2019.
Jenny Lomax
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8197198