K821x#15complaint
Mr E complains that an appointed representative (AR) of Intrinsic Financial Planning Ltd 
(Intrinsic) gave him unsuitable  advice to switch his existing  personal pension to a self-
invested personal pension (SIPP) and make an investment in an unregulated investment 
called Sustainable AgroEnergy. He thinks Intrinsic  is responsible  for the advice and that it 
should accordingly compensate him for the loss he has suffered. A legal representative (the 
representative) has made the complaint on Mr Es behalf. 
background
At the outset it should be noted that, since I issued my provisional decision on this complaint, 
Intrinsic Financial Planning Ltd has changed its name to Quilter Financial Services  Ltd. So 
the respondent in this complaint is now Quilter Financial Services Ltd and it is that business 
which will be bound by the decision,  if it is accepted by Mr E. But, to avoid confusing  
matters, Ill refer to Quilter Financial Services Ltd under its old name, Intrinsic, in the 
background and findings  of this decision, as I did in my provisional decision.
At the time of the events subject to complaint (late 2011) Mr E had an existing relationship 
with an AR of Intrinsic  called Ideal Financial Planning Ltd (Ideal), having received  advice on 
switching his personal pension from an advisor at Ideal in 2009. 
Mr E says he was contacted by a Mr D (a different  advisor to the one who had given him 
advice in 2009) at Ideal in September 2011,  and advised to switch  his personal pension  to a 
SIPP, and make an investment in Sustainable AgroEnergy. He says he accepted  this advice,  
and completed some  forms. The value of his personal pension was then switched  to a SIPP 
with Berkeley Burke, and an investment was made in Sustainable AgroEnergy using some  of 
the money. The investment failed, and the amount Mr E invested  was lost. 
Intrinsic disputes that it is responsible for Mr Es loss. It does not think advice was given by 
Ideal to Mr E and says that, in any event, Mr D was only authorised by it to deal with 
mortgages  so he had no authority to give investment advice. 
Weve been provided with copies of the following  documents which  I consider to be relevant:
A letter from Ideal to Mr E dated 16 September 2011, confirming an appointment with 
Mr D on 24 September 2011.  The footer of that letter says Ideal Financial Planning 
Ltd is an appointed representative of Intrinsic Financial Planning  Ltd. 
An investment application submission form dated 5 October  2011. That form 
records it has been completed/submitted by Mr D at Ideal Investments, and 
appears to be a cover sheet for the Berkeley Burke SIPP and Sustainable 
AgroEnergy investment application  forms. It was sent to a business called Marcus  
James. 
A Berkeley Burke SIPP application form, signed by Mr E on 5 October 2011. That 
form asks if Berkeley  Burkes financial advice  business was Mr Es advisor, to which 
he answered no. The next section of the form asks those who answered no to 
provide details of their advisor.  This section has however been left blank. 
Berkeley Burkes alternative  investment  letter  which was signed by Mr E, and 
witnessed by Mr D, on 5 October 2011. That letter includes the following declaration: 
Ref: DRN89591592I acknowledge that I have been offered the opportunity to seek professional financial
advice however I have  chosen not to seek advice for this transaction.
A deed of appointment for the Berkeley Burke SIPP, signed on 27 October 2011 by 
Mr E, and witnessed  by Mr D.  
Various annual statements issued by Berkeley Burke in relation  to the SIPP,  which 
each say Mr D at Ideal is the financial advisor  associated with the SIPP. 
Our adjudicator looked into things and concluded Mr Es complaint was not one we could 
consider against  Intrinsic.  In short he said that because Mr D was only authorised  by Intrinsic  
to deal with mortgages any pensions advice  given by Mr D was not business for which 
Intrinsic was responsible.  
Mr Es representative did not accept  this view. It has made submissions on the law it thinks  
is relevant and said, essentially, that it believes Intrinsic is responsible  for anything done by 
its appointed representatives and that Mr Es complaint  should  therefore be considered 
against Intrinsic. 
I recently issued a provisional decision.  I provisionally decided that Mr Es complaint was 
one we could  look at, and that it was fair and reasonable to uphold  it and ask Intrinsic to pay 
compensation to Mr E. In short, I said I was satisfied Mr D, acting for Ideal, had given Mr E 
advice, and that this was business for which Intrinsic had accepted responsibility. I then went 
on to say that I thought the advice  was unsuitable,  and that it was therefore  fair to ask 
Intrinsic to put Mr D in the position  he would likely have been, but for the unsuitable advice.  
A copy of my provisional findings  is attached, and forms part of this decision. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whether this complaint 
is one we can look at. Neither party has made any comment on my provisional  findings on 
jurisdiction. And I remain satisfied that this complaint is one I can look at, for the reasons set 
out in my provisional  decision. I have therefore  reconsidered whats  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint. Neither party has made any comment on my provisional  
findings on what is fair and reasonable either, and I remain  satisfied that it is fair and 
reasonable to uphold  the complaint, for the reasons set out in my provisional decision.
In summary,  for the reasons set out in my attached provisional findings, my final decision is 
that this complaint is one I can consider, and that it is fair and reasonable to uphold it. I say 
this because:
I am satisfied that Mr E was given advice to switch to the SIPP  and make the 
investment in Sustainable AgroEnergy. 
I am satisfied that advice was given by Mr D, acting for Ideal, and that it was 
business for which Intrinsic accepted responsibility. 
The advice was unsuitable  Mr E should not have been advised to switch and make 
the investment.  
Ref: DRN89591593I have therefore  reconsidered what is fair compensation. 
fair compensation
My aim to put Mr E as closely as possible to the position he would probably now be in if he 
had been given suitable advice. Ive not seen  any evidence that Mr E was actively  seeking to 
make any changes to his pension  I think he was prompted to do so by Mr D. So I think it 
more likely than not that Mr E would have kept his existing personal  pension, but for the 
unsuitable advice.  
So, to compensate Mr E, Intrinsic should compare the current  notional transfer value of 
Mr Es personal pension, had it not been  moved, to the current  notional transfer value of the 
SIPP, and pay the difference. 
When carrying out the comparison any additional sum paid into the investment should  be 
added from the point in time when it was actually paid in. Any withdrawal,  income or other 
distribution out of the investment should  be deducted at the point it was actually paid so it 
ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point on.
The Sustainable AgroEnergy investment should  be assumed to have no value, when  
carrying out the calculation, as it currently has no realisable value.  I appreciate its possible 
this investment might pay a return in future. So, in return for the compensation, Intrinsic may 
ask Mr E to provide an undertaking to pay it any amount he may receive from the investment 
in the future. That undertaking must allow  for any tax and charges that would be incurred on 
drawing the receipt  from the pension. Intrinsic will need to meet any costs  in drawing up the 
undertaking.
If there are any difficulties in obtaining  a notional valuation, then the FTSE WMA Stock 
Market Income Total Return  Index  should  be used instead. That is a reasonable proxy for 
the type of return  that could have been achieved if suitable funds had been chosen taking 
account of Mr Es likely  attitude to risk.
Intrinsic should pay the compensation into Mr Es SIPP to increase its value by the total 
amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief.  Compensation should not be paid into the SIPP if it 
would conflict with any existing protection or allowance. 
If Intrinsic  is unable  to pay the total amount into Mr Es SIPP, it should pay the amount  direct 
to him. But had it been possible  to pay into the plan, it would have provided a taxable 
income. Therefore  the total amount  should  be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax 
that would  otherwise have been paid. 
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr Es actual or expected marginal rate 
of tax at his selected retirement age. For example, if Mr E is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer 
at the selected  retirement age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. 
However, if Mr E would have been  able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should  be 
applied to 75% of the compensation.
future SIPP  fees
Although the Sustainable AgroEnergy investment  may have no realisable  value, it is possible  
that Mr E may still have to pay fees for holding it in his SIPP.  And it is unlikely he will be able 
to remove the investment  from his SIPP. 
Ref: DRN89591594Had the switch  not gone  ahead, Mr E would not have  made  the investment. So if Mr E does 
have to pay ongoing fees to the SIPP Intrinsic should  pay him an amount equal to the fees 
that would  be payable over the next five years.  I think five years should  be sufficient time for 
things to work themselves out with the investment, so Mr E can remove  it from his SIPP or 
sell it. This money should be paid into Mr Es pension, if possible.  
upset
Mr E will have been caused significant  upset  by the events this complaint relates  to, and the 
loss of, in effect,  all of his pension fund. I think that a payment of £500 is fair to compensate  
for that upset.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  I uphold Mr Es complaint. Quilter Financial Services  Ltd, previously 
called Intrinsic Financial Planning Ltd, should  calculate and pay compensation as set out 
above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 August 2019.
John Pattinson
ombudsman
my provisional  findings  - jurisdiction
I have considered all the evidence, in order to decide whether  this service  can consider 
Mr Es complaint. 
some preliminary points 1: the basis for deciding  jurisdiction:
I must decide whether  we have jurisdiction to consider this complaint on the basis of our jurisdiction 
rules, including the relevant law they are based on or incorporate, based on the relevant facts of the 
complaint which I must  decide on the balance  of probability when in dispute.  
I cannot decide  the issue on the basis of what I consider  to be fair and reasonable  in all the 
circumstances. That is the basis on which  the merits of complaint will be determined if we have 
jurisdiction to consider it.
some preliminary points 2: authorised and exempt persons:
Ref: DRN89591595S19 Financial Services  and Markets Act 2000 prohibits a person from carrying on a "regulated 
activity" unless he is "an authorised  person"  or "an exempt person".
Intrinsic was an authorised person. Ideal was not. At the time of the events  in this complaint s.39(1)  
and (3) created an exemption from s.19 for "appointed representatives" in these  terms: 
"(1) If a person (other  than an authorised person) 
(a) is a party to a contract with an authorised person ("his principal") which  
(i) permits or requires him to carry on business of a prescribed description, and
(ii) complies with such requirements as may be prescribed, and
(b) is someone for whose activities in carrying on the whole or part of that business  his 
principal has accepted responsibility in writing,
he is exempt from the general prohibition in relation  to any regulated activity comprised  in the 
carrying on of that business for which his principal has accepted responsibility
(2) A person  who is exempt as a result of subsection (1) is referred  to in this Act as an 
appointed representative.
(3) The principal of an appointed representative is responsible, to the same extent as if he 
had expressly  permitted it, for anything done or omitted by the representative  in carrying on 
the business for which he has accepted responsibility."  
Intrinsic had such an agreement with Ideal. I will refer it as the s.39 Agreement.
The Financial Ombudsman  Service can deal with certain complaints against Intrinsic as a regulated 
firm/authorised person.  That may include  complaints  about the acts or omissions of its appointed 
representatives. That is why this complaint is against Intrinsic rather than Ideal.   
In 2011 the financial  services regulator in the UK was the Financial  Services Authority. In 2013 it was 
replaced by the Financial  Conduct Authority. For convenience I will just refer to the FCA,  or the 
regulator, throughout.
Intrinsics position:
Intrinsic has made a number of points in response to the complaint and in relation to jurisdiction.  It 
says:
Theres no evidence to show  Mr E was given any advice to switch to the SIPP and make the 
investment.
If Ideal  was involved,  it was only as agent or introducer (I assume it means an agent or 
introducer to Berkeley Burke).
Ideal  was not permitted to advise on unregulated  investments such as Sustainable  
AgroEnergy. 
So in short  Intrinsic says it did not, and does not, accept responsibility for the advice  about which Mr E 
complains and the ombudsman service does not have jurisdiction to look at a complaint against it.
Ref: DRN89591596what is the complaint? 
In order  to decide whether we can or cannot consider  a complaint it is necessary  first to decide  what  
the complaint is.
The original complaint  letter from Mr Es representative to Intrinsic included the following basis of 
claim:
Our client was advised  by you to transfer their pension savings into a SIPP. Your  adviser
was fully aware that our client was considering  investing in SGG [Sustainable AgroEnergy] once the 
pension transfer to the SIPP was complete. Indeed, the whole process was directed  toward this 
outcome.
It is therefore  clear that the complaint does  not relate to the suitability of the Sustainable  AgroEnergy  
investment alone. The complaint is about the suitability of the advice to switch  to a SIPP in order to 
make that investment.  
was advice given? 
Mr E is neither  a sophisticated nor experienced  investor. So I think it very unlikely that he would have 
switched his personal  pension  to a SIPP in order to make an esoteric unregulated investment unless 
he had been advised to do so. So I think Mr Es recollection that he was given advice  is plausible. It is 
also supported by the available evidence. 
It appears Mr E attended an appointment with Mr D on 24 September 2011,  following the letter from 
Ideal dated 16 September 2011 inviting  him to that appointment. And around a week and a half later 
Mr E completed the necessary forms for the switch  process  to begin, and the investment to be made. 
Mr D witnessed those  forms, and sent them off to Berkeley Burke, via Marcus James (which appears 
to have been  some sort of distributor of Berkeley  Burke SIPPs investing in Sustainable  AgroEnergy). 
I think  it being  very unlikely Mr E would have done what he did without advice, the fact the documents  
were completed shortly  after a meeting with Mr D at Ideal, and the involvement of Mr D in the 
completion of the forms all strongly  suggest this was an advised transaction, and that it was Mr D at 
Ideal that made  the arrangements for the transaction to complete. 
I note that Mr E agreed, when signing the Berkeley  Burke alternative investment declaration, that he 
had decided  not to seek advice. It is not clear  why Mr E signed the document  that included that 
declaration. However the declaration is in my view clearly wrong, and I note there was no option for 
Mr E to say he had been given advice  so it seems Mr E had no option but to sign the form making 
that declaration to allow the investment to proceed. I also note that the section of the SIPP application 
form in which the details of the financial advisor  were  to be given was left blank. But I think that can 
only have been an oversight,  and that the details of Ideal were  given to Berkeley Burke  at some point, 
as the statements issued by Berkeley Burke each say Ideal is the financial advisor associated  with the 
SIPP. 
I note that Intrinsic has mentioned Ideal acting in the capacity of introducer  or agent.  I assume  it 
means an agent of or introducer to Berkley Burke. However, Mr D was clearly acting for Ideal when 
giving advice. As mentioned, Mr E was sent a letter by Ideal, inviting him to the meeting  at which  I 
believe the advice was likely given. Mr D said his business was Ideal  Investments when completing 
the form sent to Marcus James. And Berkeley Burke clearly understood that Ideal  was Mr Es financial 
advisor, as that is what  it recorded,  and was reflected in the regular statements  sent to Mr E. 
I am therefore satisfied that Ideal did advise  Mr E to switch his personal pension to a SIPP with 
Berkeley Burke in order  to invest in Sustainable AgroEnergy, and made  arrangements for that to 
happen. 
Ref: DRN89591597can we consider a complaint  about  that advice?
the compulsory jurisdiction:
This type of complaint, if we can consider  it, comes within  our compulsory  jurisdiction.
Under s.266  FSMA:
A complaint which  relates to an act or omission of a person (the respondent)  in carrying on an 
activity to which the compulsory  jurisdiction  applies is to be dealt with under  the ombudsman 
scheme set up under the Act (ie the Financial  Ombudsman Service) if the following conditions 
are satisfied:
othe complainant  is eligible and wishes to have the complaint dealt with under  the 
scheme
othe respondent was an authorised person at the time of the act or omission to which  
the complaint relates
othe act or omission occurred  when the compulsory  jurisdiction rules  were  in force in 
relation to the activity in question.
Compulsory jurisdiction  rules means rules made by the FCA specifying the activities to 
which they apply
Intrinsic (the respondent  in this complaint) is an authorised person and was at the time of the events  
to which this complaint relates.   
It is not disputed that Mr E is an eligible complainant and he wishes to have his complaint dealt with 
by the Financial Ombudsman Service.
The compulsory jurisdiction  rules are set out in the DISP section of the FCA rule book.  And the 
compulsory jurisdiction rules/DISP rules applied  to the type of activity complained about in this case at 
the time of those events.  I will consider whether they cover the facts  of this particular complaint further 
below. 
what do the DISP rules cover in general terms?
In general terms  the DISP rules lead to a number of jurisdiction  tests all of which must be satisfied. 
Those tests, in broad terms, are:
do we have jurisdiction over the respondent firm? 
does  the complaint relate to an activity we cover?
is the complainant  eligible?
do we have territorial jurisdiction?
are the time limit rules complied with?
The tests are inter-related to a degree. I will deal with each  of them. Its convenient to deal with the 
second point first.  
what do the DISP rules cover  regulated activities:
DISP 2.3.1R says we can 
consider a complaint under  the Compulsory  Jurisdiction if it relates to an act or omission  by a 
firm in carrying onregulated  activitiesor  any ancillary activities, including advice,  carried 
on by the firm in connection  with them. 
Ref: DRN89591598The guidance at DISP 2.3.3G says 
complaints about acts or omissions  include  those in respect of activities for which the firmis 
responsible (including business of any appointed representative or agent for which the 
firmhas accepted responsibility)". 
As mentioned  above, under  section 39(3) of FSMA:
 the principal of an appointed representative is responsible, to the same extent as if he had 
expressly permitted  it, for anything done or omitted by the representative in carrying on the 
business for which he has accepted responsibility.
DISP2 also contains the following guidance: 
2.1.4.1G interprets  "carrying on an activity"  as including:
(1) offering,  providing  or failing to provide  a service  in relation to an activity;
(2) administering or failing  to administer a service in relation to an activity;"
2.3.3G interprets "complaints" in this way:
"Complaints about acts or omissions include  those in respect of activities for which the 
firmis responsible (including business of any appointed representative or agent for which 
the firmhas  accepted  responsibility)."
is this a complaint that relates to an act or omission when carrying  on a regulated activity?
S.22 FSMA defines "regulated  activities" as follows: 
"(1) An activity  is a regulated activity for the purposes of this Act if it is an activity  of a 
specified kind which is carried  on by way of business and 
(a)relates to an investment of a specified kind;
(4) "Investment" includes any asset, right or interest.
(5) "Specified" means specified in an order  made by the Treasury."
The relevant Order is the Financial  Services and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated  Activities)  Order 2001 
(RAO). Article  4 provides:
"4.  Specified  activities:  general
(1)The following provisions of this Part specify kinds  of activity for the purposes of section 
22(1) of the Act (and accordingly any activity of one of those  kinds, which is carried on by 
way of business and relates to an investment of a kind specified  by any provision  of Part 
III and applicable to that activity, is regulated activity for the purposes of the Act)."
The rights  under a personal pension scheme (which includes a SIPP)  is specified as investments by a 
provision in Part III (Article  82).  
Advising on investments is a specified activity under  Part II (Article  53). So is arranging deals in 
investments (Article 25). And so is agreeing to advise on investments or arrange deals in investments 
(Article 64).  
is the complaint against  a firm that is subject to our jurisdiction?
Ref: DRN89591599Intrinsic is subject to our jurisdiction. It is, and was at the time of the events  complained about, 
authorised by the regulator.  According  to the FCA register Intrinsic currently has permission to:
advise on investments  
advise on pension transfers and opt outs
arrange/bringing about  deals in investments
agree to carry on regulated activities
So far as I am aware Intrinsic had the same permission at the time of the events in this complaint.  So 
the activities  the complaints  relate  to were activities that came within the scope of Intrinsics 
authorisation from the regulator.
But Intrinsics  point is that Ideal was acting outside the scope  of the s.39 Agreement  meaning it had 
not accepted responsibility for the advice. Put another way Intrinsic is saying Ideal was not acting for it 
when the advice was given. So it says it is not subject to our jurisdiction in relation to this complaint.
This is the point at the heart of this jurisdiction dispute. Was Ideal acting in its capacity as Intrinsics  
appointed representative when  it gave  the disputed advice? 
The issues are involved.  I will set out my view on this issue step by step.
is Intrinsic responsible for the acts and omissions  the complaint  is about?
As mentioned  above, the guidance at DISP 2.3.3G says: 
complaints about acts or omissions  include  those in respect of activities for which the firmis 
responsible (including business of any appointed representative or agent for which the 
firmhas accepted responsibility)". 
So a principal  is answerable for complaints about the acts or omissions of its appointed representative 
in relation to the business  it has accepted  responsibility for.
Appointed representatives  are not employees of the principal firm. They are independent  and might 
not act only for the principal  firm. Sometimes those who operate  as appointed representatives  operate 
other businesses also.   So sometimes it is clear than a person who happens  to be an appointed 
representative does something on his own account (or in some other capacity)  rather than as 
business for the principal.
In the case of Emmanuel v DBS Management Plc [1999]  Lloyds Re P.N 593 a principal (under the 
s.44 Financial Services Act 1986) was held not to be liable for activities that were held to be outside 
the scope of the business the principal had accepted  responsibility for. In that case  the claimant had 
been advised  to subscribe  for shares in and lend money to the appointed representative itself. 
Another example is in the case of Frederick v Positive Solutions [2018] EWCA Civ 431. That case 
concerns agency rather than s.39 appointed representative issues.  Nevertheless the case gives an 
example of a person having a connection with a regulated  business  and doing something on their own 
account. In that case the person who was an agent for Positive  Solutions (for some purposes) was 
held to be engaging  in a recognisably  independent business of his own   a property investment 
scheme.    
In this case Ideal gave  advice  to switch  a personal  pension to a SIPP to invest in Sustainable 
AgroEnergy. That advice was not documented in a recommendation letter  from Ideal.  But, as I set out 
above, there  is ample evidence to associate Ideal with the advice and arrangements. And the 
personal pension was one on which Ideal had previously  given advice to Mr E. It held details of this 
pension, which was with a provider  had Intrinsic allowed Ideal to deal with. It therefore seems to me 
that this is not a case where the appointed representative was obviously acting on its own account.
Ref: DRN895915910So the facts of the case mean this is not a case where  the act or omission  was clearly an act by a 
person who happens to be an appointed representative  but who was acting in some other capacity. 
But that does not mean the appointed representative was definitely carrying  on business Intrinsic had 
accepted responsibility for. I have to look at it more closely. 
what does accepted responsibility mean here?
It is important to keep in mind here that I am talking about appointed representatives  acting in their 
capacity as appointed representatives. So I am discussing a creation of statute  not common law 
agency.
I note the following comments made by the courts:
Page v Champion Financial Management Limited  [2014]  EWHC 1778, Mr Simon Picken  QC sitting  as 
a Deputy Judge of the High Court said:
12at the hearing before me [counsel] confirmed that he was not seeking  to argue that 
Section 39(3)  gives rise to vicarious liability in the strict (legal) sense. This was a sensible 
concession since it is clear  that Section 39(3)  does  not entail the imposition of vicarious  
liability: see, by way of illustration, Jackson & Powell  on Professional Liability (7th Ed) at 
paragraph 14-017.
In Ovcharenko v Investuk  Ltd [2017]  EWHC 2114, HHJ Waksman QC said:
49  Section 39(3) renders an entirely  separate statutory liability and has nothing  to do, on 
the face of it, with the law of agency.  It does not require an agency to be proved before it can 
be activated
In that case  the judge did also make clear that there might also be an agency relationship between  
the principal  and the appointed representative depending on the facts  of the case. However  for 
present purposes  it is important to concentrate on the precise terms and scope of the appointed 
representative status rather  than common law agency principles. 
As mentioned  above, at the relevant time s.39 said:
 
"(1) If a person (other  than an authorised person) 
(a) is a party to a contract with an authorised person ("his principal") which  
(i) permits or requires him to carry on business of a prescribed description, and
(ii) complies with such requirements as may be prescribed , and
(b) is someone for whose activities in carrying on the whole or part of that business  his 
principal has accepted responsibility in writing,
he is exempt from the general prohibition in relation  to any regulated activity comprised  in the 
carrying on of that business for which his principal has accepted responsibility
(3) The principal of an appointed representative is responsible, to the same extent as if he 
had expressly  permitted it, for anything done or omitted by the representative  in carrying on 
the business for which he has accepted responsibility."  (my emphasis)
So under s.39 the principal  (Intrinsic) is required  to accept responsibly for that business which is a 
reference back  to business of a prescribed  description.
However the case Anderson v Sense Network [2018] EWHC  2834 makes it clear that the words part 
of in s.39 allow a principal  firm to accept responsibility  for only part of the generic  business of a 
prescribed description.
Ref: DRN895915911I will first deal with the meaning prescribed business and before dealing with the part of point.  
what does prescribed mean here?
The interpretation section, s. 417 FSMA,  says that where not otherwise defined, prescribed means 
prescribed in regulations  made by the Treasury. Such regulations have been made  the Financial 
Services and Markets  Act 2000 (Appointed Representatives) Regulations 2001 (as amended  from 
time to time). Regulation  2 covers descriptions of business  for which appointed representatives  are 
exempt. Regulation  3 covers  requirements  applying  to contracts between authorised persons  and 
appointed representatives. 
what was prescribed business at the relevant time?
The advice in this case was in 2011.
At that time the Financial  Services and Markets Act 2000 (Appointed Representatives) Regulations  
2001 said:
2. Descriptions of business for which appointed representatives  are exempt

(a)an activity  of the kind specified by article 25 [of the RAO] (arranging deals in 
investments) where the arrangements are for or with a view to transactions relating to 
securities or relevant  investment.
(b)
(c)an activity  of the kind specified by article 53 of that Order (advising on investments)
(d)an activity  of the kind specified by article 64 of that Order (agreeing to carry on 
activities), so far as relevant to an activity  falling  within subsection(a) [or] (c) 
is prescribed  for the purposes of subsection (1)(a)(i) of section 39 of the Act (exemption  of 
appointed representatives).
So prescribed business  is business which  is defined at a high level. It means business  in the sense 
of certain regulated activities. It does  not mean business  in any greater level or particularity. So it 
does not mean business in the sense of an individual transaction.
So in this case it means,  say, advising on investments (under Article 53 RAO).  It does not mean 
advising Mr E on his particular investments.  
As I have said, Intrinsic was authorised  to carry out the above regulated activities in this case.
What was the prescribed business  Intrinsic accepted responsibility  for in this case?
The s 39 Agreement  between Intrinsic and Ideal expressly incorporated the Compliance  Manual. The 
agreement itself said:
4.1 The member is an Appointed  Representative of Intrinsic  for the purpose only of carrying 
on the Business.
Business was defined as: 
the business  of acting as an Appointed Representative of Intrinsic on the terms set out in this 
Agreement.
The Compliance  Manual was more  helpful on this point.  It included:
the regulated activities for which Intrinsic have approval  are as follows:
a)arranging (bringing about) deals  in;
Ref: DRN895915912b)making arrangements with a view to transactions in;
c)advising on; or
d)agreeing to carry on a regulated activity in (a)  (c)
in relation to designated  investments, mortgages, pure protection and mortgage-related  
general insurance
As appointed  representatives of Intrinsic, members can therefore carry  out those activities 
detailed above (dependent  on any restrictions inherent in your contract),  these are referred  to 
as the Scope of Permissions  
So the prescribed business Intrinsic permitted its appointed  representative Ideal to carry  on was 
arranging deals, advising on investments and mortgages and certain  insurance and agreeing  to 
arrange deals and advise  on investments mortgages and insurance. Intrinsic accepted responsibility 
for that business  as follows: 
6. INTRINSICS OBLIGATIONS
Intrinsic agrees with the Member:
6.1 Responsibility
To accept regulatory responsibility for such activities of the Member as may be from time to 
time expressly authorised  under the terms of this Agreement as required  by Section 39 of the 
Act.
So in this case Intrinsic  did in principle authorise Mr D or Ideal to advise on investments, arrange 
deals in investments and agree to do both.  
However Intrinsic  says it only authorised its appointed representative to give investment advice 
through advisers who were registered individuals  meaning advisers it had authorised to give 
investment advice and who were registered as advisers with the regulator.  
The s.39 agreement includes:
5. MEMBERS OBLIGATIONS
The Member shall have the following obligations:
5.1 Conduct of Business
5.1.1 The Member shall comply with the provisions  of schedule 2.
Schedule Two of the s.39 Agreement includes:
2 Personnel
2.1 The Member may appoint  Personnel to carry on the Business,  provided that any such  
Personnel:
2.1.1 are approved  by Intrinsic; and
2.1.2 where  Intrinsic considers it necessary, become an Appointed Representative of Intrinsic;
2.1.3 where  necessary, are approved by the FSA;
2.1.4 have completed  successfully,  any training course provided by Intrinsic from time to 
time
Intrinsic says it had not authorised Mr D to advise  on investments  or pensions. Intrinsic says that 
accordingly, Ideal was not authorised by it to give investment advice  here. 
Intrinsic also says it puts other limits on the business it accepts responsibly for. In effect  it says it 
authorises Ideal to give investment advice  but only if certain conditions  are met, such  as the 
investment being on its approved list.  
what do the courts say about these types of restrictions?
Ref: DRN895915913In Ovcharenko v Investuk , HHJ Waksman said the following (where D1 was the appointed 
representative and D2 was the principal).
First the court set out the purpose of the statutory provision it was interpreting.  The judge said:
21 Section 39(3) then says: 
(3) The principal of an appointed representative is responsible, to the same extent as if he 
had expressly  permitted it, for anything done or omitted by the representative  in carrying on 
the business for which he has accepted responsibility.
That, therefore, is a statutory attribution of liability against,  here, D2 for the activities of D1 in 
the way I have described. 
Then the judge said:
33  the whole point of section 39(3) is to ensure a safeguard for clients who deal with 
authorised representatives  but who would not otherwise be permitted to carry  out regulated 
activities, so that they have  a long stop liability target which is the party which  granted  
permission to the authorised  representative in the first place.  In my judgment,  section 39(3) is 
a clear and separate statutory  route to liability. It does no more and no less than enable the 
claimant, without law, to render the second defendant liable where there have been defaults  
on the part of the authorised  representative in the carrying out of the business and which 
responsibility had been accepted
34 [counsel for D2]  has relied upon certain other provisions within the authorised  
representative agreement.  He relies on paragraph 4.3 which is simply  a promise by D1 to 
D2 that it will not do anything outside  clause 3.
35 All that does is regulate the position inter se between D1 and D2. It says nothing  about the 
scope of the liability of D2 to the claimants  under section 39(3). The same  point can be made 
in respect of clause 4.7 which says, "The representative will not carry out any activity in 
breach of section 19 of FSMA [sic  this should be s.39 as per the quote from clause 4.7 in 
paragraph 9 of the judgement and the following description of the clause]  which limits the 
activities that can be undertaken or of any other applicable  law or regulation". Again,  that is a 
promise made inter se. 
36 The reason for those  promises  is obvious. D2 will be, as it were, on the hook to the 
claimants as in respect of the defaults of D1 and if those defaults have arisen  because D1 
has exceeded  what it was entitled to do or has broken the law in any way, then that gives a 
right of recourse which sounds in damages on the part of D2 against D1. If [Counsel for D2] 
was correct, it would follow that any time there  was any default on the part of an authorised 
representative, for example,  by being in breach of COBS,  that very default  will automatically 
take the authorised  representative not only outside the scope of the authorised representative 
agreement but will take D2 outside the scope of section  39(3) , in which  case its purpose as a 
failsafe protection for the client will be rendered  nugatory; that is an impossible construction  
and I reject it. 
The judge in TenetConnect v Financial Ombudsman Service  [2018] agreed with the above. In that 
case the network principal had argued that it was not responsible  for advice to invest in investment in 
which it did not authorise  the appointed representative to deal. The judge  said:  
the decisions in Martin  v Britannia and in Ovcharenko are clearly against [Counsel for 
TenetConnect]. The fact that [the appointed representative] had no actual authority, express 
or implied, to act as he did on Tenets behalf, nor was he held out by Tenet as having  such  
authority, does not answer the s.39(3) issue.
So it is clear  that the courts think that at least  some  conditions on the authority given to an appointed 
representative in s.39 only apply as between the parties, that they regulate  the position inter se.
Ref: DRN895915914Does that mean all terms in the contract apply  in that way?  The answer to that question is no 
because of the words part of in s.39.
what about the part of point?
None of the cases I have referred to above really considered this point.  But it was dealt with in the 
most recent  case on the subject Anderson v Sense Network [2018] EWHC 2834. In that case  the 
judge, Mr Justice Jacobs,  said:
133. There is no indication in the wording of section 39, or in the case-law, that indicates 
that the business  for which responsibility is accepted is to be determined not by reference to 
the contract, but by reference  to the authorisations granted to the principal which  are to be 
found in the Financial Services register
136. I agree with the Claimants that liability under section 39 (and its predecessor) cannot 
simply be answered by asking whether a particular  transaction  was within the scope of the 
ARs actual authority
137. In Ovcharenko, HHJ Waksman QC considered  the scope of Clause  3.2 of the AR 
agreement in that case,  and went on to hold that the relevant investment advice was "firmly 
encompassed by the permitted services in the authorised  representative agreement": see 
paragraph [32]. He said that the "business for which responsibility  had been  accepted 
encompasses the services  set out in Clause 3 of the authorised  representative agreement".  
Thus, section 39 was engaged notwithstanding other provisions of the AR agreement which  
imposed obligations or restrictions upon the AR; specifically, not to offer inducements, and an 
obligation not to do anything outside clause 3. The judge considered that these restrictions 
were matters which applied between the principal and the AR inter se, and did not affect 
liability under s.39.
138. Most recently,  in TenetConnect,  Ouseley J applied  the decisions in 
both Martin  and Ovcharenko, in circumstances  where  it was common ground that liability 
under s.39 "was not to be determined as a matter  of the contractual law of agency": see 
paragraph [61]. The basis of the decision  in TenetConnect was that the relevant advice  on 
"unregulated" investments was sufficiently closely linked to the advice  on regulated 
investments, which the AR was authorised to give. The case therefore again  supports the 
proposition that in ascertaining the scope  of section 39, and the question  of the business  for 
which the principal has accepted  responsibility, it is relevant to consider the terms of 
agreement between the principal and the AR. It is implicit  in the decision that if the advice  on 
the unregulated investments  had not been sufficiently closely linked to advice which  the AR 
was authorised to give, then there would  have  been  no liability under  section 39.
139. I also agree with the Claimants that the authorities indicate that it is appropriate to take a 
broad approach when seeking to identify the "business for which  he has accepted 
responsibility". The fact that there may not be actual authority for a particular transaction, for 
example because of breach of an obligation not to offer an inducement (Ovcharenko), or 
because there  was no authority to advise  on a related  transaction (TenetConnect),  or 
because certain duties  needed to be fulfilled before a product was offered,  does not mean 
that the transaction in question falls outside the scope of the relevant "business"  for which 
responsibility is taken. Equally, the approach must not be so broad that it becomes  divorced 
from the terms of the very AR agreement relied  upon in support of the case that the principal 
has accepted responsibility for the business  in question.
Ref: DRN895915915140. In the present case, I agree with Sense  that the scheme,  and advice in connection with 
that scheme, were  well beyond the scope of the "business"  for which Sense accepted 
responsibility pursuant to the AR agreement. It is beyond serious argument that the activities 
of MFSS and Mr. Greig in relation to the scheme, both in terms of operating it and advising 
upon it, were wholly unauthorised. It is no part of the ordinary business  of a financial adviser  
to operate a scheme for taking deposits from clients. As the Claimants expert,  Mr. Morrey, 
said: "operating the scheme, so having  the monies  under your control, clearly is not the work 
of a financial adviser". Mr. Ingrams evidence  was that he knew  that a firm of financial 
advisers should not be involved  with the scheme, including because the firm was not allowed  
to handle client money  and that the scheme was business of a kind that a properly regulated 
firm should not be involved with. Mr. Ingram was referring  to the express prohibitions in 
clause 5.3.6 and 5.3.7 against MFSS accepting or holding or handling client money.
what does all this mean?
All this means a principal  is responsible for the acts and omissions of an appointed representative 
acting within their actual authority. It also means that sometimes a principal is responsible when the 
appointed representative acts beyond their actual authority. And sometimes a principal is not 
responsible when the appointed representative acts beyond  their actual authority. And the test in the 
Anderson v Sense Network  judgment is that the principal is responsible when the act or omission is 
sufficiently closely connected to the activities  for which the actual  authority was given.  
my view  about the restrictions in the appointed  representative agreement  in this case:
exclusion of advice  when not given  by an approved/registered individual:
In this case Ideal  the appointed representative - was given authority for the regulated activity of 
advising on investments under the s.39 agreement. That is the starting position.  So if Mr D gave 
investment advice he was doing an activity Ideal had been  authorised to do. It was not just sufficiently 
closely connected to the authorised activity as contemplated  in the Sense Network  case   it was one 
of the activities for which actual authority had been given.
If I am wrong about that, my view is that the giving  of advice  by Mr D is sufficiently closely connected 
to the activity Ideal was authorised to carry on to mean Intrinsic is responsible  notwithstanding that 
the act is beyond  the actual  authority granted in the s.39 agreement.  Schedule 2 of the s.39 
agreement seeks to control the way in which the appointed representative conducts the business  it 
conducts not what business  it conducts.  This restriction is, in my view,  the same as or closely  
analogous to certain  duties  needed to be fulfilled  before a product was offered as mentioned in the 
Sense Network case.  
Alternatively the clause is similar in effect to the widely  drawn clause 4.7 in the Ovcharenko  case  that 
said the appointed representative:
will not, for the duration of this agreement, carry out any activity  in breach of section 39 or 
of any other  applicable law."
The court decided (in paragraph 35 of the judgment quoted above)  that the restriction regulated the 
position as between the parties only. Breach of the clause did not mean  the appointed representative  
was acting  beyond the scope of the authority given by the s.39 agreement. Or at least, following the 
case of Sense Network , a breach of such a clause does not mean the appointed representative  is 
acting beyond  the scope  of his authority if the conduct is sufficiently closely connected to the activity  
for which actual authority  was given. And in my view there is the required degree of connection here 
given that the appointed representative was authorised  to give investment advice  in the foundation 
provisions in the agreement.
Ref: DRN895915916In all the circumstances I do not accept  that Intrinsic is not responsible simply  on the basis that Mr D 
was not authorised by it to give investment  advice.
advice restricted to approved products
The Intrinsic  Manual includes the following:
All firms regulated by FSA entered  the depolarised  regime  on 1 June 2005. As an appointed 
representative of Intrinsic you will be restricted to the distribution channels and product 
ranges chosen by Intrinsic . Intrinsic has chosen to offer the products from a limited  number of 
companies in respect of Designated Investment  business,  commonly refer to as Multi-ie
Intrinsic has chosen to offer the products from a limited number  of companies  in respect of 
Designated Investment business, commonly  referred to as Multi-tie
The first three sections of the s.39 agreement deal with:
the commencement date and the identity of the parties.
A short section saying the agreement incorporates  various other documents including  the 
compliance manual.
an interpretation section.
Section 4 is the appointment section. It says:
4.1 The Member is an Appointed Representative of Intrinsic for the purposes of carrying on 
the Business.
4.2 The Member is not permitted to represent other counterparties or to carry on any other 
Regulated Activity or to promote,  sell or advise on any financial services or plans other that 
the Plans without the express written consent of Intrinsic, except the Member may make 
introductions to Independent Financial Advisers as permitted  by Intrinsic from time to time.
Business is defined as:
The business of acting as an Appointed Representative  of Intrinsic on the terms set out in 
this Agreement.
Plan is defined as:
Any policy,  investment agreement, mortgage or other agreement  or service specified from 
time to time in this Agreement.
Intrinsic has also provided a copy of its key facts about our service  and costs  document  from 
January 2010 which was normally handed to clients. It includes the following:
2. Whose products do we offer?
Investment
We offer products from the whole market
We can only offer products from a limited number  of companies.
Ask us for a list of the companies whose products we offer.
We only offer products from a single group of companies
The second  option of a limited number of companies with a list available  on request was ticked  on 
some versions of the form provided by Intrinsic.
Ref: DRN895915917Intrinsic says neither Berkeley Burke SIPP  nor Sustainable Agro Energy were  specified  under the 
agreement. It says they were not Plans on its approved  list. And I accept  that is the case.
On the face of it therefore  advising on taking out of the Berkeley Burke SIPP and the scheme 
investment Sustain was not business Ideal was appointed to carry on.  
However that advice did not occur in isolation. There was also advice to Mr E move away from his 
existing personal pension. This is what is known as a pensions switch, which  was something Intrinsic 
did have the authority to advise on. And, subject to conditions, it was something an appointed 
representative was permitted to advice on under the s.39 agreement. I also note, as mentioned 
earlier, that the personal  pension Mr E was advised to switch  away from was with a provider on 
Intrinsics list i.e. was a Plan. 
This means  that in principle  Intrinsic gave  Ideal (subject to conditions) authority to review 
Mr Es personal pension and give advice upon  the merits of switching it to a SIPP, with a view to 
making an alternative investment. 
So in my view  subject to conditions  which  I will consider below   in principle Ideal was authorised by 
Intrinsic to give advice to Mr E on his pension switch.  
And further if Intrinsic authorised  that advice it means it is also responsible for all of the transaction  
including the transfer to the non-Plan Berkeley  Burke SIPP and the non-Plan Sustainable  AgroEnergy  
investment.
exclusion of UCIS advice
The Compliance  Manual says advising  on UCIS  is a specialist activity  and outside the appointed 
representatives scope of permission. And Intrinsic says the investment was a UCIS.
I do not however  need to consider whether or not giving advice on UCIS is sufficiently closely linked 
to the activities for which authority was given. This is because the complaint is not exclusively  about 
any UCIS advice. The complaint is about advice  to switch  away from the personal  pension to a SIPP 
in order to make the investment. This advice is not caught  by this exclusion in the s.39 agreement  
relating to UCIS advice.   
special requirements for pension transfers
Intrinsics Compliance Manual says that pension switching should be treated in the same way as 
pension transfers.  Advice to move  from a personal pension to a SIPP is a pension switch according 
to the regulators rules.  If the advice  is to transfer from an occupational pension to a SIPP,  thats a 
pension transfer according to regulators rules. But according to Intrinsics  Compliance Manual both 
should be treated as pension transfers.
In the Compliance  Manual  the adviser  is required to pass Intrinsics  pensions transfer test
before advising on (what Intrinsic calls) pension transfers.
Intrinsic says Mr D had not passed its pension transfer exam and so was not authorised  by it to give 
the disputed pension advice.
It is the case that advice to transfer from an occupational pension to a personal pension  must be 
given by or approved  by a qualified  pensions transfer specialist under the regulators rules. That 
requirement does not however cover pension  switching.  There  was
no regulatory requirement for such advice to be given or approved only by a suitably
qualified specialist at the time of this advice.
In this case the Mr D gave  pension switching not pension  transfer advice.  So in my view the
requirement to pass the internal pension transfer exam  at least  as regards pension
Ref: DRN895915918switching  was like the other procedural restrictions referred  to above.
in summary
For all the reasons discussed above it is my view that this is a complaint against Intrinsics  appointed 
representative acting in its capacity as Intrinsics appointed representative. The complaint relates  to 
business Intrinsic accepted  responsibility  for and Intrinsic is subject to the jurisdiction of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service for complaints about that business.
These remaining  points can be dealt  with quickly  as they are not in dispute.   
is Mr E an eligible  complainant?
Mr E is a natural person  who was acting for purposes outside his trade profession or business when  
he was advised by Ideal.  And he was a client of Ideal and therefore a client of Intrinsic. In my view Mr 
E is therefore a customer of Intrinsic and I am satisfied he is an eligible complainant.
territorial jurisdiction:
The compulsory jurisdiction  covers complaints about activities of a firm (including  its appointed 
representative) carried on form an establishment in the UK. There is not dispute that the activities 
complained about here took place from an establishment in the UK. 
was the complaint  made in time?
Mr E complains about advice in 2011. He complained about that advice with six years of the disputed  
advice. And he referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service with six months of 
Intrinsics final response letter  in reply to the complaint. The complaint was therefore made  in time.
my provisional  decision on jurisdiction
For the reasons  discussed  above it is my provisional  decision that I can consider this complaint.
my provisional  findings  - merits
As I am satisfied Mr Es complaint is one I can consider, I have considered all the available evidence 
and arguments to form a provisional view on what  is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
In considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint I am required to 
take into account:
relevant law and regulations; regulators rules and guidance and standards; and codes of 
practice;
and where  relevant  what I consider to be good industry practice  at the relevant time.
In January 2013 the FSA issued an alert on pension transfers  with a view to investing into 
unregulated products  through  SIPPs.
This complaint involves advice to invest in an unregulated investment scheme  through a SIPP.  
Although the alert had not been issued at the time of the advice in this case, the alert comments  on 
how the rules  at the time should have been complied with. As such  the alert sets out guidance  albeit 
informal guidance that had not been published at the time  on how adviser firms should  have acted  
in 2011.
The alert included the following:
Ref: DRN895915919It has been brought to the FSAs attention that some  financial advisers are giving 
advice  to custom ers on pension transfers or pension switche s without assessing the 
advantages and disadva ntage s of investme nts propose d to be held within the new 
pension. In particula r, we have seen financial adviser s moving custom ers retirement  
savings to self-invest ed persona l pensions (SIPPs) that invest wholly or primarily in high  
risk,  often  highly  illiquid  unregulate d  investme nts  (some   which  may  be  in Unregulated   
Collective   Investment   Schemes) . Examples   of   these   unregulated investme nts are  
overseas property developm ents, store  pods,  forestry and film schemes, among other non-
mainstream propositions.
The cases we have seen tend to operate under a similar advice model The financial 
adviser does not give advice on the unreg ulated investme nt, and says it is only providing 
advice on a SIPP capable of holdi ng the unreg ulated investme nt (e.g an overseas 
property development). When customers express an interest in the unregulated investment, 
the customer is introduced to a regulated financial adviser to provide advice on a SIPP 
capable of holding the unregulated investment. The financial adviser does not give advice 
on the unregulated investment, and says it is only providing advice on a SIPP capable of 
holding the unregulated investment 
Financ ial advisers using this advice  model are under the mistake n impression that this 
process means they do not have to conside r the unregulate d investme nt as part of their 
advice  to invest in the SIPP and that they only need to conside r the suitability of the SIPP 
in the abstract. This is incorrect.
The  FSAs  view  is  that  the  provision  of  suitable  advice   generally  requires 
consid eration of the other investm ents held by the custom er or, when advice is given on a 
product which is a vehicle for investm ent in other produc ts (such as SIPPs), 
consid eration of the suitability of the overall propositi on, that is, the wrapper and the 
expected unde rlying investme nts in unregulated schemes. It should be particula rly clear to 
financial adviser s that, where a custom er seeks advice on a pension transfer in 
impleme nting a wider investment strategy the pension  transfer must take account of the 
overall investme nt strategy the custom er is contemplatin g.
For  example,  where  a  financial  adviser  recommends  a  SIPP  knowi ng  that  the 
customer will transfer out of a current pension arrangement to release funds to invest in an 
overseas property investment unde r a SIPP, then the suitability of the overseas property 
investme nt must form part of the advice about whether the customer should  transfer into 
the SIPP. If, takin g into account the individual  circumst ances of the custom er, the 
original pension produc t, including its unde rlying holdi ngs, is more suitable for the 
customer, then the SIPP is not suitable .
This is because if you give regulate d advice and the recomm endation will enable 
investme nt in unreg ulated items you cannot separate out the unregulated elements from 
the regulated eleme nts.
There are clear requirements unde r the FSA Principles and Conduc t of Business  rules and 
also in established case law for any adviser, in the giving of advice, to first take time to 
familiarise themse lves with the wider investment and financial circumst ances. Unless the 
adviser has done so, they will not be in a positi on to make recomm endations on new 
produc ts.
The above guidance is clear.  The advice to switch to a SIPP cannot  reasonably  be considered by the 
adviser in isolation. The suitability  of the proposed  investment  should also be considered. 
was the advice suitable  for Mr E?
Ref: DRN895915920There does not appear to have  been any formal assessment made  of Mr Es attitude to risk at the 
time of the switch to the SIPP  and the investment. Mr E has told us he has very little investment 
experience. Weve been  provided  a copy of a brief, undated, fact-find document. Its not clear when 
that was completed, but it records Mr E had no savings or investments, beyond  his pension, which 
seems consistent with what he has told us. Mr E also had very modest pension  savings  the 
personal pension he switched had a value of around £10,000. So he should not have been exposed  
to a significant level of investment risk. 
I think,  in these circumstances, the advice to switch to a SIPP and invest  the majority of the money  in 
Sustainable AgroEnergy was clearly unsuitable. Given the sum involved,  the advice to switch to the 
SIPP, in itself, was clearly  unsuitable, as the SIPP  had a (relative to the amount) high level of fixed 
charges associated with it. And the investment  of most of the SIPP in a scheme that involved  
Jatropha bean  plants in Cambodia entailed significant risk, which Mr E would have neither  the 
capacity nor tolerance for.
So my current  view is that it is fair and reasonable to uphold the complaint, as the advice  for which 
Intrinsic is responsible was clearly unsuitable for Mr E. 
Ref: DRN8959159