K820x#14complaint
Mr M has complained that Society of Lloyds has declined his claim for damage to his silage 
mower under his Farmers insurance policy. Ive referred to Lloyds throughout this decision 
for ease,  even though the policy was actually underwritten  and the claim dealt with by a 
syndicate within Society of Lloyds. 
background
Mr M claimed for damage to his mower,  which he says happened when it went  over a 
concrete manhole  cover  in a field. Mr M provided  an estimate to repair the mower  at a cost 
of over £5,000.  Lloyds  sent an engineer to inspect the mower. He concluded the damage  
was due to mechanical  failure from wear and tear. And  because  of this report   Lloyds 
declined the claim.
Mr M complained about this with the help of his insurance broker.  And his broker offered to 
arrange for the repairer whod provided the estimate  to take the damaged part off the mower 
and run it without it to show the problem wasnt due to wear  and tear. Lloyds referred the 
matter to an in house  engineer and the head  of the company the engineer whod inspected it 
worked for. And Lloyds then maintained it was right to decline Mr Ms claim. 
Mr M went through Lloyds complaint procedure and Lloyds eventually issued a final 
response, saying  it was satisfied the claim had been  correctly  declined. 
Mr M complained to us and one of our investigators  considered it. In his first assessment he 
said he thought  Lloyds was entitled to reject Mr Ms claim. But he issued  a second 
assessment saying Mr M should  be entitled  to get an independent engineers  report and 
Lloyds should  reconsider the claim in light of it, if he did so. 
Lloyds didnt object  to the second assessment. But Mr M initially  said he was unhappy it and 
asked for an ombudsmans decision.  He explained  Lloyds should  have taken  up his offer to 
have the repairer  remove the damaged part and run the mower without it. But then in 
November 2016,  Mr M told the investigator he was getting an engineers  report. However, to 
date he hasnt provided this. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN84699072Mr Ms policy provides the following cover  for his mower:
Section 2 - Loss of or damage to your vehicle
We will insure your vehicle against loss or damage (less any excess that applies) caused by:
Accidental or malicious damage, flood damage  or vandalism
Fire, lightning, self-ignition  and explosion or
Theft or attempted theft, or taking your vehicle  away without your permission
And this section of the policy has the following exceptions:
1.The amount  of any excess shown on your schedule
2.Any amount  as compensation for you not being  able to use your vehicle (including the 
cost of hiring another vehicle)
3.Wear and tear
4.Failures, breakdowns  or breakages of mechanical, electrical,  electronic or computer 
equipment
This means  I think  if Mr Ms mower was damaged when the blades or another  part of it hit a 
concrete manhole  cover  Lloyds would be obliged to pay his claim, as this would  clearly  be 
accidental damage.  And it does seem that whatever caused the damage to the mower it was 
sudden and unexpected as far as Mr M was concerned. This means I think  Lloyds needs to 
be able to demonstrate that one or more of the exceptions listed  above applies to defeat  Mr 
Ms claim. 
The engineer that inspected the mower said the following in his report:
I attended the above address to do a vehicle inspection as instructed, after doing  a general 
vehicle condition check which showed  the vehicle in an average general  condition, I went  on 
to examine the specific faults and found  the following:
The bed showed signs of damage where  the cutting  blades have cut the bed housing,  signs 
of wear and irregular  seating at the top collar arrangements  and both bearing wear  would 
result in incorrect seating of blades.
The blades  have cut into the bed
In this case there was no evidence to support the vehicle owners suggestion that the 
damage noted at the time of the inspection was the result of a sudden  and unforeseen 
incident with the damage  in our opinion,  being a direct result of long-term in-service  age 
deterioration, which has occurred over the life of the mower.
I.e. there was some evidence of minor dings and dents, which should be considered  as a 
result of normal in service usage with the main  damage being caused by worn bearings 
inducing misalignment of the cutters resulting in the reported damage.
In conclusion the damage to the mower is not consistent with a sudden and unforeseen 
incident i.e. we believe that the worn bearings, on the silage lead carrier have resulted in in-
service vibration which ultimately  has cut into the mower bed.
Ref: DRN84699073There is some damage to the mower  bed however,  however  this in our opinion  has not 
resulted in the mower  bed becoming  inoperable and should  be classed as secondary  
damage only.
I think the engineers  comments  support Lloyds view that the damage was caused by wear  
and tear leading  to failure of certain parts. And I think this means Lloyds was entitled to rely 
on exceptions three  and four set out above  to reject  Mr Ms claim. I appreciate  Lloyds 
declined the option of having the engineer remove the damaged  part and show that the 
mower would still run, but I think it had strong  evidence from its engineer  and it was 
reasonable for it to rely on this and maintain its rejection of Mr Ms claim.
But, I agree  with the investigator that Mr M should  have the opportunity to provide an 
independent engineers report. And that if he provides this Lloyds should  review it and then 
reconsider his claim in light of it. I can see Lloyds did offer this option to Mr M after he 
complained. And it offered  to cover the cost of the report if it altered their decision on his 
claim. And I think this is a reasonable solution.
So, I think the fair and reasonable outcome to Mr Ms complaint is for Lloyds to reconsider 
his claim in light of an independent engineers report if Mr M provides one. But I dont think  it 
needs to reconsider  his claim unless he provides this.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that Society of Lloyds decision to decline 
Mr Ms claim  was reasonable. But, if Mr M provides  an independent engineers report  on the 
cause of the damage to his mower, Society of Lloyds must reconsider  his claim in light of it. 
Society of Lloyds must cover the cost of the report if it leads to it settling Mr Ms claim. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mr M to accept  or 
reject my decision  before 28 May 2020.
Robert Short
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8469907