K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) policy  which Mr S 
says he bought with a mortgage in 1991.
Santander UK Plc is now responsible for answering  this complaint but at the time it was 
trading under the Abbey National brand. Mr S says that during the application process  he 
was made  to feel the MPPI was something  he had to buy with his mortgage.
For consistency and to keep things simple,  Ill refer mainly to Santander.
background
One of our adjudicators has assessed this case and told Mr S the complaint shouldnt be 
upheld. He disagreed and asked  for an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. 
Santander carried out, in my view, a poor initial investigation into Mr Ss complaint. More  
could and should have been done  to establish whether Mr S had taken out MPPI  and I can 
fully understand  that his impression of how Santander handled his complaint isnt good.
Santander said, for example, that hed never  paid any premiums  towards  this policy  and it 
categorically said he therefore hadnt lost any money. However, its not true that Mr S 
hadnt paid out any money as he himself produced evidence that he had paid £31 per 
month for the MPPI cover in 1991 and possibly in 1992. He says this went  on until he paid 
down the mortgage in 1999.
I think its fair to acknowledge however that this sale was a long time ago. So its not 
unusual that Santander cant provide much at all by way of sale documentation. Its 
electronic records of the sale are also very sparsely populated. But Santander  re-
investigated matters  and subsequently agreed  he had been paying premiums.  It said,  
however, that there was no evidence to support Mr Ss claim that he was told the MPPI was 
all part and parcel  of having the mortgage. It says the forms he would  have signed   and 
the processes  he went through   would have all shown  Mr S the policy was optional.
Santander provided us with an example  of the type of form Mr S would have used to get 
the MPPI.  I agree that this form would have demonstrated to Mr S that this was an optional 
extra and not something he needed  to have. He would have also had to sign a direct debit 
instruction to transfer the monthly  premiums to the third-party insurance company and he 
would have received a schedule and other  relevant  information about the policy.
Given the journey  Mr S has had with the business thus far, its perhaps not surprising that 
he considers Santanders  response  to be no more than supposition. But in the absence of 
hard evidence  from a sale thats now 28 years  old, Im afraid thats all we have. And on the 
Ref: DRN88282402balance of probabilities, I think its more likely he would have known it was optional. Weve  
seen a few similar sales to this and I think the evidence points to a discussion about MPPI 
during the mortgage interview and him then agreeing  to take the policy out.
I accept all this isnt conclusive. But the MPPI application form was separate  to his 
mortgage application and the example  Ive seen certainly doesnt portray  the MPPI as 
compulsory. So theres as much to say the policy was recommended  to Mr S - as there is to 
speculate about  it being compulsory. I think hes more likely to have consented  to the MPPI.  
Santander had a duty to make sure the cover was suitable  for Mr Ss situation.  Overall, I 
think it was.
This is because Mr S appears  to have been eligible for the cover and not caught by any of 
the main exclusions  we sometimes see in these policies. I agree Mr S would  have had 
some sickness protection with his job at the time.  Ive thought very carefully about this and 
all the circumstances  Mr S told us about.  But I dont think these things  made the MPPI 
unsuitable for him. The mortgage would have been secured against his home  and so the 
consequences of him not being able to keep up payments could  have been  serious.  In the 
event of a successful claim, the MPPI was payable for up to 3 years for sickness  / disability 
and for 12 months  for unemployment. In my experience, this level of cover  was relatively 
generous and would have  been  in addition to any other means he had in place at the time.  
So although  I cant say why Mr S decided to buy this policy,  I dont  think  Santander 
recommending it to him was unreasonable. 
Santander also had a duty to provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading. 
Obviously I cant confirm  if he was told everything  he ought to have  been.  But I can see the 
costs of the cover were  set out on letters  Mr S agrees he received and I think  he had 
enough information on which to make an informed  decision. 
I understand Mr S feels strongly about this, but its more likely the policy  wasnt mis-sold. 
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint. And I dont direct Santander UK Plc to do anything  more.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 November 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8828240