K820x#14complaint
Mrs M has complained that AXA Insurance UK Plc has unfairly refused to pay her claim 
under the personal accident  section  of her travel  policy.
background
Mrs M had an accident when abroad in August 2014 where she broke her right heel bone.  
Although that healed,  Mrs M said she remained in pain,  lacking  in capacity and was confined 
to a wheelchair.
She made a claim to AXA under the personal  accident section of her travel policy  for 
permanent and total disablement. However,  AXA said this accident exacerbated her 
previous medical  conditions, which  meant  her present medical condition didnt satisfy the 
policy condition.
Mrs M complained but AXA didnt  change its stance so she brought her complaint to us. The 
investigator didnt  think  AXA had done  anything  wrong. Mrs M didnt agree so her complaint 
has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint and Ill explain why.
I do understand and appreciate that Mrs M will be very disappointed with my decision.
Mrs Ms travel policy comes as part of her bank account and is underwritten  by AXA. Part of 
the benefits listed under this policy is personal  accident and travel accident cover. Mrs M is 
claiming her accident, in fracturing her right heel whilst away on holiday in August 2014, 
caused her to become permanently and totally disabled. The policy  says that in order  to 
qualify for payment of a claim under this means as follows:
Permanent Total Disablement
-means disablement  which medical  evidence confirms and having  lasted  
for a period of at least 12 consecutive months  from the date of the 
occurrence will, entirely prevent YOU  from engaging in, or giving any 
attention to, any relevant business or occupation for the remainder of 
Your life.
.
What is covered
We will pay one of the benefits shown below if You sustain Bodily Injury which shall 
solely and independently of any other cause, result within  two years in Your death,  
Loss of Limb, Loss  of Sight or Permanent  Total Disablement.
In Mrs Ms claim form, she said this fracture caused her to be unable  to walk.  Normally a 
heel fracture like this would take a few weeks to heel and once there were no complications 
one would be back walking relatively  normally within a two or three months. So fracturing 
Ref: DRN89702752ones heel in the type of accident  Mrs M had, would not normally result in a Permanent  and 
Total Disablement (PTD) claim. The medical notes at the time of the accident, dont mention 
any abnormality of the fracture or that any out of the ordinary  issues were to be expected.
In order for AXA to pay Mrs Ms claim, Mrs M has to show that her medical evidence shows 
Mrs Ms disablement is permanent and total and caused solely by the accident  Mrs M had in 
breaking her right heel bone. Its not for AXA to get any medical evidence, instead it is for 
Mrs M to obtain the medical evidence, which proves her claim.  Unfortunately,  I think the 
evidence Mrs M has obtained doesnt  show this.
First, its clear from all the medical  evidence that the fracture in her right heal healed  
normally. From all the x-rays and scans, there were no issues with the healing process of 
this fracture. So from this, theres  no evidence of any abnormality that would cause the 
extent of Mrs Ms present  pain or lack of capacity. 
Mrs M obtained  a report from a consultant orthopaedic surgeon dated  4 December 2018 and 
I shall call him Mr G. He gave a very helpful  and full history of Mrs M condition. He said Mrs 
Ms medical team did notice in 2014 following her heel fracture that she had hypersensitivity  
to her skin on both lower  legs and also upper  limbs which  is very likely  to be because of the 
Guillian Barre syndrome.  They  did consider  referring her to the Pain Team  for what 
appeared to be symptoms  suggestive of chronic  regional pain syndrome (CRPS). He also 
noted she has no peripheral reflexes which probably are related to her Guillian Barre 
syndrome. Further, when  the MRI which Mrs M had done, didnt pick up any CRPS,  he 
discussed this with the radiologist who confirmed MRIs sometimes  dont pick up CRPS. So 
he then referred Mrs M to a neurologist who saw her in August  2018. That neurologist was of 
the view that Mrs M was suffering CRPS. But crucially the neurologist thought her CRPS 
was probably sensitised  by the Guillian Barre  syndrome rather  than it being the cause  of her 
problem.  
So it seems  very unfortunately Mrs M has developed CRPS  following on from her heel 
fracture. However, it also appears this happened because she previously suffered from 
Guillian Barre syndrome  as in suffering that sensitised her to develop  CRPS. The definition 
in the policy, which Mrs M must  satisfy,  is that her permanent  and total disablement is solely  
caused by her fractured  heel. The evidence  doesnt show  this as the reason she has 
developed CRPS is because she sensitised  to do so from previously suffering Gullian Barre 
syndrome.
Therefore, I dont think AXA has done anything  wrong in refusing to pay her claim.
my final decision
So for these reasons its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 March  2019.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN89702753
Ref: DRN8970275