K820x#14complaint
Ms M complains about the sale of a mortgage payment insurance (MPI) policy  by Legal and 
General Assurance  Society Limited (L&G).
background
In 2000, Ms M met with an L&G adviser  as she was taking out a mortgage. The adviser  
recommended she take out an MPI policy so she could protect her mortgage  repayments if 
she became ill and was unable  to work.  
The policy was arranged with a variable benefit  amount (depending on interest rates),  and 
was payable after a waiting period of 13 weeks. Benefit was payable for a maximum of two 
years, and would  only remain  payable after that time if Ms M was unable  to carry out three  or 
more tasks, such as walking, communicating and bending.
In 2018, Ms M spoke  to L&G and was told the benefit was variable. At that time, it was 
around £200 a month. Ms M complained  about the sale. She said the variable nature of the 
benefit hadnt been explained to her when  shed agreed to take out the policy. She said 
shed understood  the monthly  benefit  to be around  £300. And in subsequent conversations 
with L&G,  she said it had confirmed the monthly benefit was around that amount.
L&G accepted that during a phone call in 2011,  it had told Ms M the benefit  amount was 
£322.15 and hadnt told her the benefit was variable. However, it said it told Ms M in 2014 
that the benefit was dependent on interest rates. It also said it had told her financial adviser 
in 2017 how the benefit was calculated under the policy. It thought that meant  shed 
understood how the policy worked.  Unhappy with this, Ms M brought a complaint to this 
service.
I issued a provisional decision on 14 May 2019. My provisional findings were:
When the adviser  met with Ms M, a fact-find was completed. This said the sum assured  for 
the MPI was £300  per month. Presumably this was based on the interest  rate at the time. 
The fact-find said that the plan recommended was described in more detail in the key 
features document, illustration and/or brochures.
There appears to be a two page  addendum to the fact-find (signed by Ms M), specifically 
relating to the MPI. This said Ms M wanted to cover her ISA, MPI cost and also other 
mortgage related  costs.  I note Ms Ms mortgage  payment (fixed for the initial  three years) 
was £221.12,  therefore the sum assured of £300 would cover this as well as her other costs. 
The addendum then went on to say the adviser  had recommended this particular MPI 
because Ms M wanted the cover to repay  her mortgage amount regardless of interest 
fluctuations (up to the Halifax standard variable rate). It then gave some risk warnings. 
These said:
Please note the benefit will be payable  only in relation to the lower of:
i) the Halifax standard  variable rate and therefore the amount of benefit  may not 
match the amount  of your mortgage  repayments.
ii) the amount  you are actually paying to your lender.
Ref: DRN87679552iii) the amount  of your mortgage outstanding at the time of any claim so that 
partial payments  of the mortgage at any time or total repayment of the 
mortgage will reduce the amount of any benefit.
I find the risk warnings to be confusing. The policy says the benefit is payable based  on the 
stabilised interest rate. According to the key features document, this isnt the same as the 
Halifax standard variable  rate (although there wouldnt be more  than 1% difference). Also its 
not clear why the risk warnings say the benefit payable  would be no more than the amount 
she was actually paying to her lender,  when  the policy allowed her to choose a sum assured 
that was 140% of her mortgage payment. 
The addendum said Ms M wanted the MPI to repay her mortgage amount regardless of 
interest fluctuations.  However, since her mortgage payment was fixed for the first three 
years, if a claim were  made in that time and the interest rates  had gone down, her mortgage  
payment may not have been covered.
The adviser then gave Ms M an illustration,  so she could see how much the cover would 
cost. This was a six page document and under the heading of What protection  benefits does 
the plan provide? there are a number  of bulleted points. The two relevant ones say:
Mortgage Payment  Insurance  benefit of £300.00 for [Ms M]. The benefit  will become 
payable after a deferred period of 13 weeks if you are unable to follow  your own 
occupation as a result of illness  or an accident.
and
The Mortgage Payment Insurance benefit varies in line with the Halifax Standard 
Variable rate and aims  to cover your mortgage up to an interest rate of 15%.
Further down the document,  theres  a heading  of Benefits for you (which is in bold). This 
said the benefit for the Mortgage  Payment Insurance was £300.  
I think this document  was confusing. It hasnt  explained that the benefit  was variable based 
on the stabilised interest rate. It also didnt make it clear  that the £300 benefit  referred  to was 
based on the current interest  rate and the actual benefit payable would depend on interest  
rates at the time. 
When the application form was completed, this asked what  monthly  benefit  was required. 
Ms M (or the adviser on her behalf) wrote £300.  The application form was signed  by Ms M.
The key features document didnt make  it clear that the benefit  was variable. This document 
simply says if the mortgage  payments to the lender dont move  in line with its stabilised 
interest rate, the benefit may not be enough  to cover  the whole mortgage payment. 
The policy terms and conditions is the only document that properly explained how the benefit 
worked.  
Ms M wanted the MPI to cover her mortgage, plus some additional costs. After the fixed rate 
period ended, assuming  she didnt  move onto a further fixed rate, Ms Ms mortgage payment  
would have moved onto the variable rate. The policy would have  therefore  covered her 
mortgage payment  plus some extra. On that basis, the policy was suitable for her. 
Ref: DRN87679553However, Ms M was under the impression she had a fixed  benefit of around  £300 and says 
she didnt understand the benefit  was variable.  I think the information from the time of sale 
was confusing so I can understand  why she thought that. I dont think L&G gave Ms M 
sufficient information  about how the policy worked for her to make an informed decision as to 
whether or not to take it out. 
I now have to consider  what  Ms M would have done, had she known how the policy  actually 
worked. 
L&G accepts  that in 2011, Ms M asked L&G what her benefit was and its adviser told her it 
was £322.15 and didnt explain the benefit was variable.  This was broadly in line with Ms Ms 
recollections about the policy.
In 2014, Ms M asked  L&G for information about  her policy and it sent her a policy  schedule. 
However, this simply had a blank  section next to benefit. Ms M therefore called L&G to find 
out what the benefit was. 
Ive asked L&G for a recording  of this call, but unfortunately it no longer has a recording. Its 
only been able to provide  a copy of a note made  by L&G when the call was initially  listened 
to when looking into Ms Ms complaint. This says that during the call, the L&G staff member 
told Ms M the policy  paid a monthly  amount if she was out of work  for illness,  accident  etc. 
The crucial  part of the note is he says based  around £300 each month  depending  in [sic] 
interest etc pays out after 13 weeks.
In 2017, Ms M asked  a financial adviser  to review her insurance  policies.  Her financial 
adviser called  L&G to find out about the mortgage payment insurance. L&G also listened  to 
the call when it was looking into Ms Ms complaint and its notes confirm  that it fully explained  
at this time how the monthly benefit was calculated. 
Ms M says her adviser told her to keep the policy and supplement it with another, and didnt  
tell her that the benefit was variable. She says that on the understanding she would receive 
£322.15 a month from L&G, she took out another policy  that would pay a set amount after 13 
weeks with another  insurer. 
Weve asked Ms M to provide the time of sale information from her adviser  in 2017 to 
support what shes said, but she hasnt done so. I think it likely that her adviser did explain to 
her at this time how the policy worked,  and she accepted this. If that isnt the case, then 
Ms M should provide the information from 2017 in response to this provisional decision. 
Based on the above, I dont think Ms M would have done anything differently if she had 
understood at the time of sale that the benefit amount was variable. Given that her mortgage 
was also variable (after  the initial three year fixed period), the benefit would have covered 
her mortgage cost in the event of a claim which is what  she required. 
I therefore dont  uphold the complaint.
I asked both parties to provide me with any further  comments they wished to make. 
L&G didnt have  any further comments.  
Ref: DRN87679554Ms M responded with the following:
she doesnt think I can possibly  determine what she would have done if she had the 
correct information  about how the policy worked.  
she maintains that the first time she learnt  the policy was variable was in 2018 when 
L&G told her this.
she says she wouldnt have taken  out a policy that provided variable benefit as she is 
risk averse. 
shes provided further information from her review with her financial adviser in 2017,  
as well as later email correspondence with her adviser in 2018.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ms M has helpfully  provided further information  from her review with her financial adviser in 
2017. As I explained  in my provisional  decision, Ms Ms financial adviser  contacted L&G at 
this time to find out what benefit was available  under  the policy, and it appears L&G 
explained to him that the benefit was variable. 
Ms M said she took out a new income  protection policy on the advice of her financial adviser  
in 2017, and the benefit under that policy was arranged  based on the expectation that the 
L&G policy would pay a fixed  monthly benefit  of over £300.
Ive therefore  considered  the information Ms M has provided from her review with her 
adviser in 2017.
Ms Ms financial  adviser wrote  to her in June  2017 to set out the recommendations he was 
making at that time. He noted that she had existing cover under the L&G policy,  and said the 
benefit would be calculated at the time of the claim. The letter also confirmed the policy  was 
due to end in 2025. The adviser said theyd discussed this policy and although Ms Ms 
mortgage term exceeded that of the policy, she was going to keep the cover in force 
because she may clear her mortgage early. 
Ms M says she didnt realise at this time that the benefit under the L&G policy was variable. 
But it seems  the advice from her financial adviser  in 2017 to take out a new income 
protection policy wasnt based on her receiving a fixed level of benefit under  the L&G policy.  
It was confirmed to Ms M that her benefit  under the L&G policy  would be calculated at the 
claim stage.  
The aim of the L&G policy was to cover Ms Ms monthly mortgage  amount if she wasnt  able 
to work. As Ive said in my provisional decision,  as Ms Ms mortgage  was variable after the 
initial three year fixed period, the policy would have  covered her mortgage in the event of a 
claim. This is what she wanted  it to do.
Ms M has only provided part of the June 2017  recommendations  letter  from her financial 
adviser, so Id assume his recommendation to take out further income protection cover  
related to her other outgoings. 
Given that Ms Ms financial adviser  was aware  how the policy worked in 2017 and he told 
Ms M the benefit would be calculated when a claim was made, it does seem that she 
Ref: DRN87679555accepted this at the time. However, even if she didnt know  or accept this and did indeed first 
learn about the variable nature of the policy  in 2018 - given that she is risk averse  and 
wanted her mortgage  covered in the event of a claim, I think it likely  that she would have still 
taken out the policy  if shed  known  how it worked. Whilst I recognise there was the potential 
for her mortgage payment  not to be covered in full if interest rates dropped  and a claim were  
made in the first three year fixed period, after that time her mortgage payment would have 
been covered.  
Therefore, whilst I remain of the opinion the information from the time of sale was confusing, 
Im not persuaded Ms M would have done anything differently if shed understood when  the 
policy was sold that it paid a variable benefit  rather than fixed. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 July 2019.
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8767955