K821x#15Complaint
Mr C complains that Positive Solutions (Financial Services) Limited advised him to transfer 
his pension to a similar one and this provided  no benefit to him (known as churning).
In making his complaint, Mr C is represented by a claims management  company.
Background
Mr C met with an adviser from Positive Solutions  in 2011 to discuss  his pension  
arrangements. At that time, he had a paid-up  stakeholder pension  and a paid-up personal 
pension plan. The adviser recommended that he should transfer  these two arrangements  
into a new personal  pension, combining  them into one.
This transfer  went ahead. But the plan was moved  into a Self-Invested Personal Pension 
(SIPP) the following year. This had been a recommendation made to Mr C by the same 
adviser but after theyd left Positive Solutions.
In 2017, Mr Cs representative complained on his behalf and said the transfer was a churn 
to generate a commission payment for the advisor.  Mr C recalled simply being told that hed
be better off. His representative  said the pension arrangements shouldnt have been moved,
or Mr C shouldve  been recommended a stakeholder pension instead.  They  said Mr C
should receive a full refund of all the charges hed incurred over those that wouldve applied
to a stakeholder  pension  with interest.
Positive Solutions initially said that Mr Cs complaint had been  made  out of time.  However,
one of our ombudsmen reached the decision that this wasnt  the case.
In response to the complaint, Positive  Solutions  said the recommended  plan had come  out
ahead of stakeholder pensions  in the research the adviser had carried out at the time,  and
had established  that the new plan would be cheaper in terms of charges going forward.  It 
said Mr C had signed a letter  saying that he was unhappy  with the performance of his 
existing plans and wanted to consolidate them, but his employer had confirmed  that it 
wouldnt accept transfers in. Positive  Solutions said the recommended  plan was suitable for
Mr Cs circumstances and requirements;  and hed confirmed in his letter that he was aware 
of the associated risks.
Our adjudicators opinion
One of our adjudicators looked  at the complaint and thought it should be upheld. He didnt  
think Mr C was a high risk investor,  as hed been recorded as at the time of the advice. He 
said Mr C had limited savings and his pensions were the only means  he had for his 
retirement income. The adjudicator said that at least one of the plans wouldve provided 
greater benefits  at retirement than the recommended  plan and the adviser hadnt considered 
the guaranteed benefits Mr C already had.
The adjudicator said that one of the reasons given for the recommendation was to give Mr C 
access to a wider range  of investment funds, but his new plan was invested in just two 
funds. The adjudicator didnt think the advice had been suitable  for Mr C. He thought  that, if 
the guaranteed benefits had been  properly explained to Mr C and hed been told to remain in 
his plan, then Mr C wouldve followed that advice. The adjudicator said that Positive 
Solutions should compensate Mr C if the value of his combined pension  plans at the date the 
Ref: DRN87702822recommended plan was transferred into a SIPP wouldve  been  higher than the guaranteed  
minimum fund of his plan with the guarantees. The adjudicator also said Positive  Solutions  
should pay Mr C £350 for the inconvenience he was caused as a result of the advice.
Positive Solutions didnt  accept the adjudicators findings. It said Mr C had been  categorised  
as moderately  adventurous  which it considers a medium attitude to risk, so his risk profile 
hadnt changed compared with the holdings he already  had. The new plan offered a period 
for growth  before Mr C intended  on retiring, and one plan included a spouse pension  which  
Mr C didnt need. It said that the stakeholder  plan Mr C already had was more  expensive 
than the one being recommended.  It asked  for the complaint to be reviewed.
My provisional decision
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in August  2019.  In summary, I also 
thought that it should be upheld, but I thought it should be put right in a different  way than 
that suggested by the adjudicator. 
I said the documentation recorded at the time of the advice noted that Mr C was unhappy 
with the performance  and level of customer service he was receiving on his two paid-up 
pension arrangements.
From the information provided, I noted  that Mr C invested in his personal pension (which  I 
called Pension  1) between 1992 and 2003, at which point it was made paid-up. This pension  
had a guaranteed annuity rate (GAR)  and a guaranteed cash  sum at retirement. These  were  
lost when the plan was transferred.
Mr C also had a stakeholder pension from a former employers scheme which  he started  in
2001 and made paid-up in 2004  (which I called Pension 2). This was invested in a balanced 
fund.
I said that at the time, Mr C was single with no dependents. He held £2,000 in a deposit  
account for emergencies but didnt appear  to have any other form of savings  or investments 
apart from his pensions. He hadnt joined his employers pension  scheme at that time and 
had been with his company for five years.
The plan recommended to Mr C invested  equally in a FTSE tracker pension  fund and a 
smaller companies pension fund,  both of which were noted as having  a high risk profile.
However, the adviser had rated  Mr Cs risk profile as moderately  adventurous amongst 
options of moderately cautious, balanced, adventurous and very adventurous.
Positive Solutions said that this risk rating would be considered to be medium. And it was 
number three out of the five options. However, I said it wasnt  clear how this matched the 
recommendation if the chosen funds were  said to have a high risk profile. Mr Cs existing 
arrangements were in a balanced and with-profits fund which  would generally be considered 
suitable for someone with a medium attitude to investment risk.
I said Mr C appeared to have had no previous investment experience, having only deposit  
based savings.  He wasnt paying  into any pension at that time and had two unsecured hire 
purchase loans. According  to the fact find, after his monthly expenditure, he was left with 
£22 a month from his income. These circumstances didnt  suggest to me that Mr C was in a 
Ref: DRN87702823position to accept a high level of risk with his pension  arrangements,  particularly if these 
paid-up plans  were his main source of retirement savings.
I also said it wasnt clear what  specifically caused  Mr C to feel unhappy with his existing  
arrangements and to seek advice from Positive Solutions,  although no bonuses had been 
paid on Pension  1s with-profits fund between 2004 and 2010.
However, having considered his existing arrangements  alongside what  he was 
recommended, I wasnt persuaded that this recommendation was a benefit to Mr C, as he 
was led to believe.
The reasons  given for the recommendation were to benefit from lower  charges and a wider 
range of investment funds. However, the recommended funds appeared to represent a 
higher level of risk than Mr C had the capacity to take.
The policy charges for Pension 2 were a 1% annual management charge. The information of 
the charges applying to Pension 1 was less clear but no policy  fees were payable  as the 
policy was made paid-up. For the new plan there was a 0.5% fund management charge for 
the FTSE tracker fund and a 1.3%  charge for the UK smaller companies fund as well as 
0.9% additional expenses.
I said that by transferring  his plans Mr C lost the guarantees  he had with Pension  1. And the 
projected growth rates for the new plan when  compared with Pension  2 were lower.  The 
illustration for the new plan showed  that 5% of the transfer value would be paid in initial  
commission along with a percentage of the fund each month as renewal commission.  These 
were additional  costs for transferring Mr Cs arrangements into a plan that didnt seem  to 
have offered him a better arrangement than he already had.
So I wasnt  persuaded that the advice for Mr C to transfer his pension arrangements  was 
right for him. I said that my aim was to put Mr C in as close a position he would otherwise 
have been in, had he not received unsuitable  advice from Positive Solutions. To achieve 
this, my provisional decision was that it should:
1 Establish the notional current fund value of Pension 1, had it remained in force, as at
the date of my decision.
2 Divide  the guaranteed annuity  rate which would  have applied  to that policy  at age 65
by a competitive  compulsory annuity rate which can currently be obtained  on the
same terms.  If this produces a number greater than one, this factor should be applied
to the fund value established in (1) (by multiplication) to give value (A).
3 Establish the notional current transfer value of Pension 2, had it remained in force, as
at the date of my decision. This is value (B).
4 Establish the current value of Mr Cs currently held replacement SIPP. Alternatively,
Positive Solutions can use the notional current transfer value based  on the value of the 
personal pension  in 2012, assuming he hadnt subsequently transferred to the
SIPP  this is value  (C).
5 Any loss to Mr C will be determined by A+B-C.
Ref: DRN87702824If this demonstrated  a loss, I said the compensation amount should if possible be paid into 
Mr Cs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any available  
tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension  plan if it would  conflict  with 
any existing protection  or allowance.
If a payment  into the pension isnt possible or has protection  or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr C as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have  been paid. 25% of the loss would be tax-free and 75% 
would have been taxed according to his likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to 
be 20%. So making a notional  deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects 
this.
I also said Positive Solutions should pay Mr C £350  to represent the inconvenience he was 
caused through the advice he received and through making his complaint.
The responses
Mr Cs representative responded to say that he accepted my provisional decision and had no 
further comment to make.
Positive Solutions responded to say that it had received my provisional decision.  But it didnt 
make any comments  in response.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Mr C and his representative, nor Positive Solutions has added anything  for me to 
consider further  in response to my provisional decision, I see no reason to depart from the 
conclusions that I reached.
My final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. 
My aim is to put Mr C in as close a position  he would otherwise have been in, had he not 
received unsuitable advice from Positive  Solutions. To achieve this, my decision is that it 
should undertake  the following:
1 Establish the notional current fund value of Pension 1, had it remained in force, as at
the date of my decision.
2 Divide  the guaranteed annuity  rate which would  have applied  to that policy  at age 65
by a competitive  compulsory annuity rate which can currently be obtained  on the
same terms.  If this produces a number greater than one, this factor should be applied  to the 
fund value established in (1) (by multiplication) to give value (A).
3 Establish the notional current transfer value of Pension 2, had it remained in force, as at 
the date of my decision. This is value (B).
Ref: DRN877028254 Establish the current value of Mr C's currently held replacement  SIPP.  Alternatively,
Positive Solutions can use the notional current transfer value based  on the value of the 
personal pension  in 2012, assuming he hadn't subsequently transferred  to the
SIPP-this is value  (C).
5 Any loss to Mr C will be determined by A+B-C.
If this demonstrates a loss, the compensation amount should  if possible be paid into Mr C's 
pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief.
The compensation shouldn't be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict  with any existing 
protection or allowance.
If a payment  into the pension isn't possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr C as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have  been paid. 25% of the loss would be tax-free and 75% 
would have been taxed according to his likely income tax rate in retirement - presumed to be 
20%. So making a notional  deduction  of 15% overall  from the loss adequately  reflects  this.
Payment should  be made within 28 days of receipt of Mr C's confirmation that he wishes  to 
accept this decision. If this doesn't happen, interest at the rate of 8% a year simple should 
be added  to the loss amount from the date of the decision to the date of payment.
If Positive Solutions considers any business which advised Mr C to transfer  out of the plan it 
advised upon to bear responsibility for any proportion of the loss, it may choose to pursue 
this with that business separately.
Positive Solutions should also pay Mr C £350 to represent the inconvenience  he's been 
caused through the advice he received and through making his complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 November  2019.
Cathy Bovan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8770282