K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2002. Mr E says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold  him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Es case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why. 
Ive seen a copy  of Mr Es signed  credit application. On it is a section related to PPI and I 
can see the box opting for the policy has been ticked.  Mr E has signed the form so I think  
its likely  to reflect what he wanted.  I think Barclays made it clear that Mr E didnt have to 
take out the PPI and that he chose to take it out  although I can understand why he 
cant remember this.
Barclays didnt recommend the PPI to Mr E so it didnt have to check if it was right for Mr 
E. But it did have to make sure Mr E got the information he needed to decide  if it was 
right for him.  
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mr E about  the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But he chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. Based  on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he 
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have 
been useful for him if something  went  wrong. Mr E says he wouldnt have received any 
sick pay from his employer. The PPI wouldve paid out for up to 12 months if Mr E was 
unable to work because of accident, sickness or unemployment.  It also looks like the 
PPI was affordable.  So I dont  think  better  information about the PPI would  have put him 
off taking out the cover.  
Which means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr E. 
But Barclays  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr E because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr E about that. Because  Barclays  didnt tell Mr E, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays  has basically paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank Plc does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr E. 
Ref: DRN80672422But Barclays  Bank Plc does have  to pay back to Mr E any commission and profit share  it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this. It has 
also offered Mr E £50 distress and inconvenience payment. I wont ask Barclays Bank Plc to 
do anymore. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 September  2019.  
Gemma Farrell  
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8067242