K821x#15complaint
Mrs K complains about the quality of the repairs by U K Insurance Limited following a claim 
against her motor insurance policy. Mr S, a named driver on the policy,  is helping Mrs K to 
bring her complaint.  
background
In June 2018, Mrs Ks car was involved in an accident. I understand that the other driver 
collided with the drivers  side, wheel arch and bumper of Mrs Ks parked car. The other 
driver accepted liability for the accident.  Mrs K made a claim against  her policy  with UKI.
UKIs engineers report shows that there  was damage to the drivers side rear door, the rear 
bumper and boot and the drivers side rear wheel arch. The finishing included  new decal on 
the drivers side. 
UKI instructed its authorised repairers.  In July 2018,  the authorised repairers collected the 
car and explained that it would carry out the decal work later. UKIs authorised  repairers 
returned the car and Mr S says that he noticed an uneven gap around the tailgate. The 
authorised repairers  said that it would look at the matter when it did the decal  work.  
In August  2018,  UKIs  authorised repairer collected  the car again  and returned it a week  
later. It told Mr S that it wasnt authorised to fix the gap around the tailgate. Mr S wasnt  
happy about the quality  of the decal work.  He said that it wasnt  the same  as the original 
design. Mr S was also unhappy that UKI had only authorised replacement of the decal on 
the drivers side, as the new decal didnt match the weathered decal on the passengers  
side. 
In the letter  of complaint to UKI, Mrs K and Mr S said that they had the following concerns 
about the repairs:
Theres an uneven gap around  the tailgate.  
The decal on the drivers side hasnt been  fitted  properly.
The new decal doesnt match  the decal on the other side.  
Our investigator said that Mrs Ks complaint should be upheld  in part. He said were not 
engineers and without an independent  engineers report provide by Mrs K and Mr S, we 
wouldnt be able to dispute UKIs  position  that the gap isnt related to the accident  or caused 
by its repairs. But the investigator said that whilst  he wouldnt ask UKI to replace the 
passengers side decal, as it wasnt damaged in the accident, he thought that it should pay 
for the rectification work to the drivers side decal and compensation of £100 for 
inconvenience.  
Mr S said he was happy to accept  £100 for his inconvenience and a cash  payment for the 
rectification work to the drivers side decal but he didnt accept the investigators view in 
relation to the alignment of the tailgate. He said that the photos show  that the gap was 
minimal before the repairs and totally out of line after the repairs. Mr S said he was trying to 
find an engineer  who could provide a report. 
UKI didnt  agree with the investigator.  It said the decal on the drivers side had been 
replaced to a commercially  acceptable standard. UKI said it had compared photographs  
before and after the repair.      
Ref: DRN81697142Mr S wasnt  able to provide an engineers  report.  As there was no agreement  between the 
parties, the complaint was passed to me for a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting point  is Mrs Ks policy, which provides that if the car is damaged,  UKI will pay to 
repair the damage or repair  the damage itself. 
Were not engineers. We dont assess damage or repairs, as thats a matter  for the experts  
in these situations, the insurance companies  and engineers. Our role in this complaint  is to 
determine whether  UKI has considered all the available evidence and whether it can justify 
its decision not to pay for additional repairs.
In relation to the gap around  the tailgate,  UKIs  position is that it isnt accident or repair  
related. Im afraid that the photos  provided  by Mr S arent sufficient to lead me to a different  
conclusion. Without  an independent experts report about the likely cause of the gap, Im 
afraid theres  insufficient evidence to enable me to conclude that the tailgate  gap is accident  
or repair related.  So, Im not going to direct UKI to repair that. 
In relation to the decals, its not clear from the photos provided  by Mr S that the new decal 
on the drivers side is so different from the decal on the passengers side  due to general 
wear and weather  damage - that UKI should  repair the passengers  side too, which  wasnt  
damaged in the accident. Again, in the absence of an independent experts opinion from 
someone who has inspected the car after the repair, theres insufficient evidence  to lead me 
to conclude that UKI should replace the passengers side decal. 
I agree  with our investigator that the position  is different in relation to the quality of the 
drivers side decal repair. Ive looked  closely  at the photos of the drivers side decal before 
the repair  contained in UKIs engineers report - and compared them with the photos of the 
drivers side decal after the repair that Mr S has provided. 
Its clear that following the repair, the decal wasnt placed on the car in the same  position as 
before the accident. The pattern of the decal  means  that its easy  to see the differences.  For 
example, the black section next to the brake  light is much smaller after the repair.  The 
opening of the rear door on both photos  is a good  place to see where the decals differ 
before and after repair. 
Based on what Ive seen,  the decals on both sides were symmetrical before the accident and 
repairs. But after the repair, the pattern of the decal  on the drivers side was different than it 
was before and didnt  match the decal on the passengers side. I dont agree with UKI that 
the drivers side decal  repair was to a commercially  acceptable standard. 
UKIs engineer report says that the cost of repair to the drivers  side decal is £324.50. UKI 
should pay Mrs K that amount in lieu of rectification work to the drivers side decal. It should 
also pay Mrs K compensation of £100  in relation to her inconvenience. 
Ref: DRN81697143my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  I uphold this complaint  in part. I now require U K 
Insurance Limited to pay Mrs K £324.50  for rectification work and compensation of £100.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 April 2019.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8169714