K820x#14complaint
Mr K says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold  him a payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy.
background
Mr K was sold the policy when he took out a loan in 1996. The cost of the PPI got added 
onto the loan as an upfront cost. This is called a single premium policy.  It covered Mr Ks 
repayments in case he was off sick or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr K disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ks case.
Having done that, I have  not found that Mr Ks PPI policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
This sale was well over two decades ago and the account involved has long since closed. 
So its understandable that neither side have  the original documents  from the time.  Indeed,  
under data protection rules,  Lloyds were required to dispose of Mr Ks data rather  than hold 
onto it for too long.  Mr K doesnt  remember  buying  PPI, and I think thats understandable as 
well, given that memories  can and do fade over time, this sale was particularly long ago, and 
buying insurance is not often memorable. Ive listened carefully to what both sides  have said,  
including all of Mr Ks testimony, and thought about whats  most likely to have happened  
based on the evidence I have.
From what  Ive seen of Lloyds sales process at the time for this type of PPI, they wouldve 
offered Mr K the choice to take the cover  or turn it down. Ive looked at a sample  copy of the 
credit agreement that Mr K wouldve used.  It described the policy as optional and set out its 
costs separately to the cost of the loan itself  the PPI wasnt part and parcel of the loan. It 
looks like in order to get the policy, Mr K wouldve  had to actively choose it and then signed 
the agreement  to confirm his choices.  So I think its most likely  that Lloyds made Mr K aware  
he had a choice  about buying the PPI, and that he chose to take it at the time  though I can 
certainly understand if he no longer  recalls  doing  so after so many years.
Its not clear whether  Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr K, or not. The requirements  were 
stricter on Lloyds if they did recommend it, so to be fair to Mr K, Ive assumed they did. That 
means Lloyds have to check  the policy was right for him  and based on what  Ive seen of 
Mr Ks circumstances at the time, I think it was. For example, it looks  like Mr K was eligible 
for the cover and wouldnt have been  affected  by any of its main exclusions or limitations.
Ref: DRN84866222Mr K said he had savings, as well as benefits through  work. But the PPI wouldve paid out on 
top of those and covered him for longer. I also understand he felt secure  in his role and 
industry, but people can and do get made redundant even in jobs that seem very secure. So 
it was not unreasonable for him to protect himself against that possibility. The policy  also 
covered him in case of a long-term  absence due to an accident or illness.  Overall, it looks  
like the PPI couldve been useful for Mr K in case something went wrong.
Mr K wouldve  got back only a limited refund of the PPI premium if he cancelled the policy  
early. But I havent  seen anything to suggest he thought hed repay the loan early.  So it still 
looks like the policy was suitable for him.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr K about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. The question, then,  is whether I think better information was likely to have changed  his 
mind. But as I explained above,  it doesnt  look like Mr K was affected  by any of the main 
things the policy didnt cover, and it couldve been useful for him in his circumstances. And 
given how long the policy could have paid out for, if Mr K made a successful claim he 
couldve got back quite  a bit more than he paid for it. So I dont think  that better information 
was likely to have put him off taking out the cover. 
Mr Ks representative pointed out that PPI policies  have  been mis-sold in other cases. They  
feel this means that this case should  be upheld too. And while  I understand the point theyre 
trying to make, I will clarify our approach. Some PPI policies were mis-sold, and some  were 
not. This is why we look at each case on its own individual merits, instead  of simply telling 
businesses to refund all policies that they ever sold. And different PPI policies worked in 
different ways, were  suitable for different  people,  were sold using  different  methods at 
different times, and so on. So just because one given policy may have been mis-sold, it 
doesnt necessarily  mean  that another one was, too. Ive explained above why I have not 
found that this particular  policy was mis-sold.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint in this case.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 January 2020. 
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8486622