K820x#14complaint
Mr B has complained that Yorkshire Building  Society  (Yorkshire) mis-sold a mortgage
payment protection insurance (MPPI)  policy to him in 2001.
Mr B says that it wasnt made clear to him that the policy was optional.  He says he was sold 
a policy  he didnt need as his employment  gave him full and adequate sickness  cover.  Hes 
also told us that Yorkshire  didnt  make the benefits clear.
background
In January 2015 I issued my provisional  decision. In it I explained why I wasnt intending to 
uphold Mr Bs complaint.  A copy of my provisional  decision is attached and forms part of my 
final decision.
I asked both parties to come back to me with any further information they wanted me to 
consider before I made  my final decision.
But there was some  delay  in providing  a final decision because  Yorkshire got a high level of 
commission and profit share (more  than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should  have  told 
Mr B about  that. Because Yorkshire didnt tell Mr B, that was unfair. Yorkshire then offered to 
compensate Mr B for that. So we looked  again. And we told Mr B that although we didnt 
think his policy was mis-sold we thought that the offer made by Yorkshire for the high level of 
commission was fair.
Our adjudicator told him that he could accept the offer in which case Yorkshire had eight 
weeks to calculate  the sums due. Mr B said he couldnt accept without knowing what  he was 
agreeing to and whether the amounts  offered  were  correct.  Our adjudicator  explained to him 
that we had checked the way in which  Yorkshire were calculating  the sums  due and we were 
satisfied these calculations were fair. So the complaint has been referred to me to make  a 
final decision.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Bs case.
As neither party provided any further  information  for me to consider about  the mis-sale  of the 
PPI, I see no reason to depart from the findings set out in my provisional decision and Ive 
decided not to uphold this complaint.
Which means Yorkshire doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
But Yorkshire will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr B because : 
Yorkshire got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr B about that. Because  Yorkshire didnt tell Mr B, 
that was unfair. 
Ref: DRN88309092To put that right, Yorkshire has basically offered to pay back  the amount of commission  
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in 
this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr B has said. But these points dont change  my decision.
what the business needs  to do
Yorkshire has to pay back to Mr B any commission and profit  share it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. Yorkshire should  also pay back to Mr B any extra  interest he paid 
because of that.
Yorkshire should pay back to Mr B the extra he paid each month  because  the commission  
and profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. Yorkshire should also pay Mr B 
8%* simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr B can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Yorkshire  Building Society does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
But Yorkshire Building Society does have to pay back  to Mr B any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium if it hasnt done so already. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 April 2019.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN88309093COPY OF MY PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr B has complained that Yorkshire  Building  Society (Yorkshire) mis-sold a mortgage
payment protection  insurance (MPPI) policy  to him in 2001.
Mr B says that it wasnt made clear  to him that the policy was optional  and he was sold a
policy he didnt need as his employment  gave him full and adequate sickness cover. He says
that Yorkshire didnt make  the benefits clear.
background
At first our adjudicator didnt think Mr Bs complaint should be upheld. Mr B didnt agree with
this and asked for a review.  After considering the matter again he thought  that it should  be
upheld.
Yorkshire disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion and so the case has been passed to me
to make a final decision.
my provisional  findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide  what  is fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think  the relevant  issues to take into account are the same  as those set out in the note on
our website about our approach to PPI complaints.
Yorkshire says that it did not make a recommendation to buy the policy. Mr B says that the
paperwork from the time of the sale contained  the words We strongly  recommend that you
consider taking out this type of insurance. Mr B believes that this wording represented  a
recommendation to buy the policy. But I think this wording only suggested to Mr B that he
should think  about his situation and whether or not he should buy the MPPI, rather than he
had to have it.
Section K of the mortgage enquiry form headed  Mortgage Payment  Insurance, has been
completed. It seems  as though a representative has filled in the form next to the question on
the form How will you repay your mortgage if you are ill or lose your job? to show that Mr B
wanted insurance  for accident and sickness but not for unemployment.
The form has also been completed  to show that the MPPI product was recommended and
that the representative had checked whether MPPI was suitable for the customer. This
makes me think the MPPI was recommended.  This means that Yorkshire  had to make sure
that the MPPI was suitable as well as giving clear enough  information  so Mr B could decide
whether or not he wanted  to buy the policy.
Mr B says that the wording  of the mortgage offer letter convinced him that he was required
to take out a policy as part of getting his mortgage  and was therefore  not optional.  I have
considered this point carefully.
As I have said the mortgage enquiry form has been completed to show that MPPI  was
recommended and that the product was accepted. It is unclear what date the form was
completed but I note that after the interview more information about  Mr Bs sick pay was
collected by telephone. The representative has also written some notes on the form and
dated the notes as November 2000.
Ref: DRN88309094Next I have looked at the mortgage application form. Under the heading Your mortgage
requirements and insurance needs, it includes a section  of important insurance information
and says you must  consider how you would pay your mortgage if you became unemployed,
sick or had an accident and therefore could not work. It goes on to refer Mr B to an
insurance services booklet. I can see that it was a condition of the mortgage that the
property was insured with buildings insurance, but I cant see anywhere where it says that it
was necessary to take out MPPI in order to get the mortgage. This form has been completed
and signed in October 2000.  I can also see that the direct debit was signed both in 2000 and
in May 2001.
The mortgage  offer is dated June 2001 some months after the enquiry form had been
completed and after making the application. The mortgage offer says,  you have  chosen to
take out mortgage  payment  insurance to cover a monthly amount of £700.  We will not
charge you the premium for the first six months following completion of your loan. After this
period the monthly  premium of £15.21. will be added.. Before we release funds to
your legal adviser, you must provide us with a completed MPPI application  form. It doesnt
seem to me that this indicated  that the MPPI was compulsory. In my view it looks likely that
there was a discussion  and application process which took place  between October 2000 to
the date of the offer in June 2001, and Mr B had accepted the need for MPPI.  I think  the
mortgage offer was requesting Mr B to return the forms to complete  the process.
I think  that the MPPI was discussed while Mr B was applying for his mortgage and Mr B had
chosen to take out the insurance knowing  he had a choice. I think it is likely that Mr B chose
to accept MPPI to cover  him for accident and sickness only.  This also makes me think  that
Mr B thought about the type of MPPI cover he wanted to buy. For me to think  that the MPPI
was presented as compulsory I would  have  to think that the representative wrote something
on the enquiry form which had not been discussed. And from all I have seen about the sale,  I
dont think its likely  that this happened. And this sale happened a long time ago so it is quite
understandable if Mr B has forgotten exactly what was discussed on a given day so long
ago. So I am not minded to uphold  for the reason  that the MPPI was presented as
compulsory.
Next I have looked at Mr Bs circumstances at the time of the sale to see if the MPPI was
suitable:
From what I have seen, it seems Mr B was eligible for the policy. Also,  I dont see that he was 
affected by any of the limitations  or exclusions  of the policy, as he appears to have been in 
good health and in full time employment.
If Mr B couldnt  work because of accident or sickness, this policy  was free for the first six 
months and then cost £15.21 per month and would  have paid out a monthly benefit  of £700. 
As Mr B was taking on a new financial commitment I think that at the time of the sale he 
thought it would be useful if he couldnt work  because he was ill. So the MPPI could help Mr B 
to avoid  the pressure of having  to pay his mortgage if he was off work  sick. This would have 
been particularly helpful to him as I can see he was entitled to sick pay from his employer of 
one months full pay and two months half pay at the time of the sale.  And he tells us that he 
didnt have  any other  means with which he could  make his mortgage payments if he couldnt  
work because  he was ill.
This cost of the policy appears to be competitive when compared with similar products 
available at the time.
In summary, and having looked at all the information that Ive been given, I think Yorkshire
recommended Mr B a suitable policy. While  I cannot be sure that it gave Mr B all the
information it should have,  for the same reasons as I think the policy was likely to be suitable
for his circumstances, I dont think he would have made a different decision about buying the
MPPI, even if he had been given  more,  or better,  information  about  it.
Ref: DRN88309095Having looked at all the information that I have in this case, I do not currently think that the
policy was mis-sold to Mr B and do not presently intend to uphold this complaint.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  I have  explained above, I do not currently intend to uphold  Mr Bs complaint.
I now invite  both Mr B and Yorkshire  Building Society to give me any further information  that
they would want me to consider before  I make my final  and binding  - decision.
This must be provided  to us within one month of the date of this provisional  decision.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8830909