K820x#14complaint
Mrs P complains that The Co-operative Bank Plc (Co-Op) delayed  making her chargeback 
request. 
background
Mrs P purchased a Sat-Nav  in October  2018  using her Co-Op debit card. It arrived in 
November 2018  but was faulty. Mrs P attempted  to get a refund or exchange directly from 
the supplier but this was refused. In February 2019  Mrs P contacted Co-Op to ask it to raise  
a chargeback.
Initially Mrs P was given incorrect information  from Co-Op and was told it was too late to 
raise a chargeback.  When she complained, Co-Op explained that its adviser  had given her 
incorrect information. The chargeback request was raised in March  2019 and the money  was 
refunded to Mrs Ps account.
Co-Op acknowledged  that it had given  Mrs P incorrect information,  and that it should  have 
raised the chargeback in February rather than in March. It paid Mrs P £75 compensation for 
the trouble and upset it caused.
Our investigator felt this was fair and reasonable. She listened  to the calls Mrs P (and her 
representative) made from before the Sat-Nav arrived in November  to February  2019  and 
couldnt see that the fault had been mentioned before. She said Co-Op had acknowledged  it 
couldve raised the chargeback a few days earlier than it did, but that it has since raised  it 
and Mrs P has now received her money back.  She felt £75 compensation was fair and 
reasonable for the delay  and incorrect information.
Mrs P disagreed and felt that the issue was raised  even  earlier  than February. So the 
complaint has been passed to me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
Co-Op has acknowledged  that it should have raised the chargeback in February when Mrs P 
first made them aware that she was unhappy with her faulty Sat-Nav.  But it didnt, it raised  
the chargeback  in March  a few days later.  However I cant see that Mrs P has lost out 
financially due to this. The money was refunded to her account so Co-Ops  actions  havent  
meant that Mrs P wasnt able to make a chargeback. Its also worth mentioning that the 
chargeback scheme  is offered by the card issuer.  There is no guaranteed  success when a 
chargeback is raised. 
Mrs P said she raised the issue much  earlier but Co-Op didnt deal with it. Ive listened  to the 
telephone calls and reviewed the call notes between  Mrs P (or sometimes her 
representative) and Co-Op from before the Sat-Nav arrived and the faulty product wasnt 
mentioned until in February  when Co-Op said it should have  raised the chargeback. So 
Ive not seen any evidence to suggest  it should have  been raised earlier  than this. 
Ref: DRN81856982Co-Op has also acknowledged that it gave Mrs P incorrect information in February. It has 
paid her £75 compensation for the trouble and upset this has caused. I think  this is fair. I 
understand that the Sat-Nav was bought as a gift for someone, so it caused Mrs P upset that 
it didnt work. But this isnt Co-Ops  fault.  And whilst  it didnt raise  the chargeback when it 
should have, it raised  it soon after and Mrs P now has her money back. So I dont think it 
needs to do anything more to put things right.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 August 2019.
Charlotte Wilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8185698