K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs M have  complained about  the way a claim under their home  insurance  policy for 
accidental damage  was handled by U K Insurance Limited (UKI)  and the fact that it declined 
to pay any more in settlement  of their claim.
background
In October  2018 Mr and Mrs M made a claim to UKI. Mr M said hed knocked over furniture 
units when moving  them  and damaged various items. 
UKI appointed a loss adjuster to manage the claim. In February 2019 UKI made interim 
settlements of over £21,000 in total to Mr and Mrs M. Mr M said he took this as authority to 
get rid of the damaged  items.
The claim included a large number of vinyl records some of which  were  very valuable. 
Various lists of damaged  items were sent back and forth but not agreed. 
Mr M said in the course of tidying up after the first incident two more  units  crashed to the 
floor and caused further damage.  More damage  was also caused to various electrical items 
when the music system was reconnected and suffered an electrical fault.
UKI said the claim was originally reported as damage to 7 items worth  about £2,035 but 
eventually rose to 622 items worth about £128,500. The limit of cover for contents was 
£100,000. UKI told Mr and Mrs M it had a number of concerns about  the claim:
there were different accounts of how the damage  had happened;
the increase in the number of items  claimed  for and the increase in value of the claim;
photos submitted by Mr M on devices which were being claimed for and photos which 
predated the incident;
Mr M explained that he has short and medium term memory loss due to a brain injury. He 
said that was why hed made mistakes remembering things. He also said he might have got 
the date of the original incident wrong  and he had other devices  in addition to the ones he 
was claiming for.
UKI said it wouldnt pay any more  in respect of the claim  due to discrepancies in what Mr M 
had told it. It said it wouldnt try to recover the £21,000 it had already paid to Mr and Mrs M.
Mr and Mrs M brought their complaint  to this service. Our investigator thought Mr and Mrs M 
had in fact three separate claims   the first accident to the units, the second  accident to units 
and then damage to electrical items  caused  by the power surge. He thought Mr and Mrs M 
had done enough to prove their loss for the first claim. He thought the claim should  be paid 
based on a list prepared by UKIs loss adjuster. The list included  some vinyl records  for 
which values hadnt been agreed. He said if Mr M provided evidence of the cost of the 
records, and the total amount of the first claim was found to exceed the amount already paid, 
UKI should pay the additional amount and £300  compensation  for poor service.  
Our investigator didnt  think Mr and Mrs M had followed the correct  claims process  in 
notifying UKI about the second  accident to the units. He also didnt think  Mr M had been  able 
to prove  his loss for the electrical items damaged in the power surge. So he didnt think  UKI 
needed to do any more in respect  of either of those two claims.
Ref: DRN88396432As the parties didnt agree, the matter  has been  referred to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why UKI had concerns about this claim, particularly when it started  out as a 
relatively small loss of about  £2,500  and ended up substantially  more at £128,500. Having 
concerns about  a claim though doesnt  necessarily mean that its fair and reasonable for an 
insurer to say that it wont make any further payments in respect  of it.
Its appropriate to remind ourselves at this point that Mr M who dealt with the claim on behalf 
of himself and Mrs M had made UKI aware  that hes suffered a serious brain injury. Hes 
provided evidence  of his disability to us. He suffers amongst other things from confusion and 
memory loss. I cant see that UKI made adequate  allowance for this when handling the 
claim. 
Ive listened to the call in which Mr M first notified  UKI of the loss. He refers  to the accident 
having happened when he was moving units on Thursday. UKI assumed that to mean the 
previous Thursday and worked on the basis that he was referring to 25 October  2018. But he 
might well have been referring to 18 October since it seems  by the time hed rung UKI hed 
tried to get various  items  repaired  and then realised it was worthwhile making an insurance  
claim. The photos he sent UKI were produced on 18 October. I think  the perceived 
discrepancy about the photos might arise  from a misunderstanding about dates. Mr M also 
says he has a number  of devices and the ones he used to take the photos were different 
from the ones he was claiming for.
Part of the problem  regarding  differing accounts of the claim seem  to me to have arisen from 
the fact that there were  two separate but similar  accidents which caused damage to the units  
 the first one and then another one when Mr M was clearing  up after the original one. A 
combination of the second and then third claims together with some forgetfulness on Mr Ms 
part also explains  why it appeared to UKI that the original claim was growing at an alarming 
rate.
From what  UKI has told us, its of the opinion that the claim has been  grossly exaggerated. 
Thats a very serious allegation. Its saying in effect  that the claim is fraudulent. UKI knows 
that its not enough to say this to us. If it thinks a claim is fraudulent,  it should  tell the 
consumer that and provide evidence of it. I dont  think  UKI has satisfactorily done that. We 
usually say an insurer should pay a claim unless its been established there are strong 
grounds that its fair and reasonable not to do so. Overall  in this complaint Im not persuaded 
that there  are strong grounds  for UKI not to have paid Mr and Mrs Ms original claim in full.
In January 2019, after a visit to Mr and Mrs Ms home the previous month, UKIs loss 
adjuster recommended  that the claim be settled. With the benefit of hindsight I think  he 
meant the claim for damage caused in the original accident. He said Mr M had proved he 
owned the various items he was claiming  for. A list of items which couldnt be repaired was 
agreed by Mr M and the loss adjuster. The claim at that time was worth  about £14,000 but 
the value of some vinyl records wasnt known at that stage. 
Ref: DRN88396433If Mr and Mrs M can evidence the value of the records on the list that the loss adjuster 
checked on his first visit to Mr and Mrs Ms home, I think UKI should cover these costs as 
part of the first claim. Alternatively UKI may choose  to settle based on its own valuation. But 
it will only be liable to pay anything further in respect of the claim if the total amount due 
exceeds what it has already paid.
Mr M says he pointed  out to UKIs loss adjuster the damage that occurred in the second 
accident. Unfortunately for Mr M theres no reference to this in the loss adjusters report. 
Although the damage caused in this accident wouldnt have happened if Mr M hadnt  been 
tidying up after the original accident, it was a separate incident. So Mr and Mrs M should 
have made  a separate claim in respect  of it rather than just adding more damaged items 
onto their original claim. I dont think its UKIs  fault if Mr and Mrs M are no longer in a 
position to prove this second claim.
It appears from the electricians invoice  that the power surge causing damage to various 
electrical items happened around January 2019. As this was after the loss adjuster had 
visited the property,  he had to make  another visit. By the time of the next visit Mr M had got 
rid of the damaged items.  That meant  Mr M wasnt  able to prove  his loss. I dont think UKI 
treated Mr and Mrs M unfairly  in refusing to pay to replace these items.  Its a condition of 
their policy that damaged  items should  be kept for inspection and these items werent 
damaged when the loss adjuster carried out an inspection in December 2018.
Overall I think  UKI should have done  more to make the claim process easier for Mr M. He 
was clearly having difficulty with it, it was a complex  claim, the various loss lists were  
confusing and UKI was aware of his disability.  It paid him £21,000 but it wasnt  clear  what 
this was in respect  of. That gave the false impression that UKI had no concerns about the 
claim, so it was even  more of a disappointment later when UKI started raising concerns. I 
think this poor service caused Mr and Mrs M unnecessary stress and the sum of £300 is 
appropriate to compensate them  for that. Again  UKI will only be liable to pay anything in 
respect of this to the extent that the amount its already paid in respect of the claim doesnt 
exceed the amount due in respect of the original claim as amended to include the vinyl 
records mentioned  above  and this compensation of £300.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part and require  U K Insurance Limited to pay Mr and Mrs M the 
value of the vinyl records on the list that the loss adjuster checked on his first visit to their 
home for which a value  wasnt  previously agreed  and £300  compensation but only to the 
extent that the total amount due in respect  of the claim and the £300  compensation 
exceeds what UKI has already paid to Mr and Mrs M in respect of the claim.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 September 2020.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8839643