K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that in a call with Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited the member  of staff was 
unprofessional and it was dealt with in an unsatisfactory manner.
Mr H also complains in relation to this that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited sent him 
misleading information about the removal of the servicing agent. And that there  was a delay 
in sending this information.
Mr H is seeking compensation for the above. 
background
Mr H called Aviva on 19 December to ask for the servicing agent to be removed. The call-
handler confirmed  that she could do this for Mr H in this call.
Mr H asked about other policies that he had with Aviva but he didnt have the policy numbers  
to hand. The call-handler  initially couldnt  find these policies. Once  she had, she said she 
couldnt confirm  the policy numbers as she only had access to the last few digits.  She 
offered to transfer  Mr H to the correct department.  And Mr H was transferred.
Mr H says that the call-handler was highly  unprofessional, had insufficient knowledge of 
procedures and that the call was handled in an unsatisfactory  manner. 
Mr H then received a letter dated 20 December which was titled Change of Intermediary 
the letter went on to say that the IFA had been  removed  from Mr Hs policy. Mr H says that 
this should have been titled  removal of intermediary.
Mr H also complains that whilst the letter is dated  20 December he didnt receive it until 18 
January. Mr H says that this is outside  of the ten working days he was led to believe it would 
be received within.
Our investigator looked into the points raised  but didnt uphold  the complaint. She explained 
that she didnt  agree that the call-handler had been  unprofessional.  The call-handler  had 
explained that she didnt deal with Mr Hs other policies and thats why she couldnt give him 
information about these. Our investigator didnt  think this was unreasonable.  With regards to 
the letter, she didnt  think this was misleading. And if it was received late this may have been  
down to postal  issues around the Christmas  period.
Mr H didnt agree and asked for the case to be passed to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I find no merit in Mr Hs complaint for much the same reasons as our 
investigator. I appreciate he will be disappointed  with this but Ill explain why Ive reached  
this conclusion.
Ive listened to the call in question and I dont agree with Mr H that the call-handler  was un-
professional or that the call was handled  in an unsatisfactory manner. The call-handler did 
Ref: DRN80977142as Mr H had asked and removed the servicing agent. Its my view that she remained polite, 
calm and helpful  throughout.
She explained that she wasnt  best placed  to help Mr H with his queries about his other  
policies as they werent dealt with by her. And she organised for him to be transferred to the 
correct department.
With regards to the letter, Mr H has argued that it shouldve been titled  removal  rather than 
change of intermediary.  This is an argument over semantics and I think the content of the 
letter was clear about what had happened. So I dont think  this was misleading.
In terms of the letter being received late, it was dated the 20 December and Mr H says it was 
received 18 January. Ultimately its difficult to say exactly what happened  here,  potentially  
postal issues were  to blame. But at this service our remit  is to resolve disputes where a 
customer has lost out financially  or has been caused  undue  distress and inconvenience due 
to an error  by the business.
Mr H hasnt suffered a financial loss here, theres been no financial impact.  And the letter  
was just confirming  what had already been  discussed. So whether or not it had been 
received within  ten working days, I wouldnt be awarding anything to Mr H. Its not our role to 
punish businesses  if theres no impact  on the customer.
In conclusion, I find no merit in Mr Hs complaint and therefore I will not be making any 
award.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint and make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 December 2019. 
Simon Hollingshead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8097714