K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M say Yorkshire Building  Society (Yorkshire), trading as Chelsea Building  
Society, mis-sold  them  a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs M bought the policy in 2001,  a little time after taking out a mortgage. They 
applied for the mortgage in branch and were sold the PPI policy  over the phone. 
The policy provided  cover  for Mr M for accident,  sickness, and unemployment  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  £332 a month towards Mr and Mrs Ms 
mortgage balance  in the event of a successful claim. At the time,  it was free for the first two 
years, after which the monthly cost was £20.10. 
At the time,  Mr M has said he was employed  as a shop worker.  But according to 
Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage application Mr M was working then as a process operator for an 
industrial company. Mr M has also said he wasnt entitled to any sick pay from his employer 
and didnt have  any other means  of paying for their mortgage. But for the purposes  of this 
decision, I have  assumed  that he would have received  some  sick pay entitlement. Mr M has 
said he had a medical condition at the time of the sale. 
Yorkshire has provided evidence to show  that the mortgage account  closed in 2005. 
Mr and Mrs Ms representative  has made  lengthy and substantial  representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Ms representative says:
Yorkshire failed to meet the sales standards  which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs M 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  
Mr and Mrs Ms representatives  believe  there to be no evidence to rebut  that 
presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Yorkshire should 
have told Mr and Mrs M about  the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Yorkshire should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr and Mrs M 
and the impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
Ref: DRN88117352The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long-term transaction   cover would stop just at 
the time it would  be most needed;  and
The information Mr and Mrs M received was misleading. These policies were 
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs M disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ms. I dont intend  to set that 
out in much detail  here, but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ms 
complaint.
This sale took place  in 2001 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So the FSAs and the FCAs overarching principles 
for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) arent applicable to this 
complaint; nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2005. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
Ref: DRN88117353The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Yorkshire, selling  insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Yorkshire at the time.  So Im satisfied  I should take these codes  into 
account when  deciding, what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
Mr and Mrs Ms case.
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Building  Societies 
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Building  Societies  Ombudsmans terms of reference  the Ombudsman  
was required to decide complaints by reference to what  was, in his opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances.
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Yorkshire was required  to take into account the provisions  in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.  
Ref: DRN88117354key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Yorkshire gave advice, whether it advised Mr and Mrs M with reasonable care and 
skill  in particular,  whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for them,  given 
their needs and circumstances. 
-Whether Yorkshire gave Mr and Mrs M sufficient, appropriate and timely information 
to enable them to make an informed choice about whether  to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of 
[Consumer], I must then go on to consider whether  and to what extent Mr and Mrs M 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs M 
and Yorkshire, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. Ive set out my 
reasoning below. 
did Mr and Mrs M know they had a choice?
Yorkshire had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional.  
Yorkshire have provided a copy of Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage application, which shows  that 
they chose not to take the PPI policy offered to them at that time. So I think this 
demonstrates that they would have been aware that the policy was optional.
Yorkshire says that Mr and Mrs M were  sold the policy in a telephone conversation  after their 
mortgage had already  been agreed. It has provided  a copy  of the PPI application form which  
its telephone sales representative completed  during  this call. It has also provided a copy  of 
the telephone sales script  used by its representatives at the time. And having considered  
these, I think its most likely that Mr and Mrs M actively decided to take the policy during this 
call, knowing that they could choose not to do so. And I dont think  Ive seen anything  which  
makes me think that they were unduly pressurised into doing this by Yorkshire.
did Yorkshire provide  advice?
Yorkshire says it didnt provide advice during this sale. Mr and Mrs M disagree.   Looking at 
what happened when  Yorkshire sold Mr and Mrs M the PPI, Im not persuaded  that it 
provided advice.  I say this having read the sales script which I have no real reason to think 
wasnt followed during  this sale and the other  documentation from the time. None of these 
suggest to me that Mr and Mrs M were given  bespoke advice about taking out the policy  by 
Yorkshire.
This means  Yorkshire didnt have to check  if the PPI was suitable for Mr and Mrs M. Instead, 
it had to give them sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable them to make an 
Ref: DRN88117355informed choice about whether to take out the policy, including  drawing to their attention and 
highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main provisions of the policy and 
significant limitations and exclusions. 
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr and Mrs M were given a broad description  of what 
the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy would protect  their payments if Mr M 
was unable to work  through accident, sickness or unemployment) and of the approximate  
costs. Ive reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mr and Mrs M would have 
taken out the policy  without any sense  of what the policy  was for and of how much the 
premium might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Yorkshire  gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr and Mrs M agreed to take out the policy.  
So I dont  think Yorkshire gave Mr and Mrs M sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  including 
drawing to their attention  and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Ms representative has raised  a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like 
Mr and Mrs Ms. Ive considered these carefully  and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Ms representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs M about the limitations and exclusions, it should  have  gone  further  
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Ms representatives views on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs M have suggested. And taking into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that Yorkshire ought to have done  either.  
Ref: DRN88117356what effect did Yorkshires shortcomings have on Mr and Mrs M? To what extent did 
Mr and Mrs M suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that Yorkshire didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  to 
Mr and Mrs M. So Ive gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to 
conclude they suffered  loss and damage  as a result. To answer this, I must decide  whether 
or not Mr and Mrs M would  have  still taken out the policy,  had Yorkshire done things 
properly. 
Mr and Mrs M say they would not have taken it out and believe I should presume this to be 
the case given  the significant failings identified above. Ive considered the representations  of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr and Mrs M had to weigh up in their own minds the cost of 
the policy against the benefits offered and the potential  consequences if they didnt insure  
against the risk of Mr M being unable to work.  
As Ive found above, Mr and Mrs M chose to take this policy out. So I consider that its 
reasonable to conclude  they had some  interest  in the benefits offered by this type of 
insurance. But they made this decision based on incomplete information. So what 
Mr and Mrs M thought they were  getting is not exactly what they got. The extent to which  this 
differed is a relevant consideration when determining if Mr and Mrs M have suffered any loss 
or detriment.  
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs M knew  they would have to pay 
something for the policy, it doesnt appear Yorkshire told them the exact  premium  theyd 
have to pay - after the free period ended - at the point they applied  for the policy. Having 
said that, it seems likely Mr and Mrs M would have been told the cost before the policy 
started and they paid for the policy for a number of years, so if the costs were  significantly at 
odds with their expectations  at the point of sale, its possible they might have raised that with 
Yorkshire at the time, or reconsidered their decision.
Overall, I am not persuaded Mr and Mrs M would have found the cost unacceptable  if they 
had been given the exact figure during  the meeting in which  they agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Yorkshire made clear exactly  what  Mr and Mrs M would get 
back in return in the event Mr M made a successful claim. But I think  its unlikely 
Mr and Mrs Ms expectations  about what the policy  would pay in the event of a claim (an 
amount sufficient to meet their mortgage  payment) were significantly different to what  the 
policy actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs M thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims for sickness, disease, condition  or injury, whether 
diagnosed or not, that the policyholder was aware  of, or received advice, treatment or 
counselling from a doctor during the period  of 12 months  before the start date of the 
policy; 
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
Ref: DRN88117357The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr M 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr M be unable  to 
do his own job, a similar job or any paid work  which his experience, education or 
training reasonably qualified him to do.
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mr and Mrs M pause for thought   and may well have caused them to conclude that 
the policy wasnt as good as they thought and they might have decided not to proceed. The 
limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have 
dissuaded some  consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs M from 
taking out the policy.  
But the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them.  Mr M was eligible for its benefits  
and it provided cover  that, despite  its limitations and exclusions, could have proved valuable  
to them  should  the insured risks have  become  a reality. Although Mr M says he had a 
medical condition  when the PPI was taken out and the policy  wouldnt have provided cover  
had he needed  time off work because of this condition, I dont think  better information about 
this exclusion would  have  put them off agreeing to it.
I say this because  Mr M has told us he had a bicycle  accident  in 1999. He says he saw his 
GP and had physiotherapy for back pain, and it resulted  in him having 15 weeks off work. 
But this doesnt  appear to have caused him to seek medical advice or treatment in the 12 
months before he took out the policy. I say this because the application the business  
completed with the information Mr M provided  during  the sale, asked if he had seen a doctor 
in the last 12 months and it has been  ticked with a no. And there isnt any evidence to 
suggest that Mr M would  have thought  that this past injury would have been a cause for him 
taking significant  amounts  of time off work  by the time he took out the policy. It also appears  
that the advisor made the pre-existing medical  condition clear to Mr M during the call. So, 
from what Ive seen,  I dont think Mr and Mrs M would have been put off by this medical 
exclusion.
And I havent seen  any evidence  to suggest  Mr M would have been caught by any of the 
other significant exclusions. So I still think they had some good  reasons to take the policy 
out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than 
Mr and Mrs M might reasonably have expected. But its unlikely they would  have expected to 
be able to make a disability claim without  having  to provide some evidence  to support that 
claim. And while this limitation might have  dissuaded  some consumers in slightly  different 
circumstances to Mr and Mrs M from taking out the policy, Mr and Mrs M, in their 
circumstances, still had some good  reasons to take it out.
If Mr and Mrs M had known Mr M could only claim for disability if he was unable  to do both 
his job and any other job suitable for his experience and qualifications, it might have played 
into their thinking about  what they would have done.  And I accept it may have given them 
pause for thought  although its possible  they may not have been overly concerned given 
Ref: DRN88117358that if Mr M was unable (through disability) to carry on his own occupation  the chances that 
he would  be able to take up a similar  occupation  would also,  in all probability,  be limited.
Yorkshire may not have told Mr and Mrs M that any claim Mr M made  would be limited to a 
12-month. This may have differed from what they expected  and might  have hoped for  but 
12 months was likely to have been  a longer period  than Mr M would have received full sick 
pay for and his statutory  redundancy entitlement was also significantly less than 12 months 
income.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr and Mrs M would still have thought a policy 
that paid up to 12 monthly mortgage payments would have been of benefit  to them and 
would help them manage the consequences  should Mr M be unable to work in the 
circumstances covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made, it 
could help reduce their outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time and ensure their home was 
not placed at risk and might potentially help preserve  Mr Ms sick pay or redundancy money  
for other use.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs M would still have taken  out the policy. The policy  was sufficiently close  
to what its likely they thought they were getting  and provided benefits that would help them  
manage the consequences  if Mr M was made  redundant, or unable to work through accident  
or disability.  In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs M would 
have taken out the policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations  on cover.
Mr and Mrs Ms representatives  say the rules about how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs M would not have bought  the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted  
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account 
Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances as detailed above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the 
position Mr and Mrs M found themselves in as a result of the sale was the same position 
they would  have been in had the breach  or significant failings not occurred.  
Mr and Mrs M believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales 
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Ref: DRN88117359Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs M in the position they would  have been  in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept its possible they wouldnt have taken out the policy, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that they would still have taken  
out the PPI had they been given clear, fair and not misleading information about  the policy 
they were buying.  So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude Yorkshire  should  pay Mr and Mrs M compensation, as that 
would put them in a better position than they would have been  in if everything had happened 
as it should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs M think Yorkshire misrepresented the terms of the policy in 
how it described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court might conclude some  of 
Yorkshires statements  misrepresented  the contract, in my opinion  the reason why Yorkshire 
failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in the 
information it provided  but because the overall  information Yorkshire  gave Mr and Mrs M, 
in the way it did, was insufficient to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to 
expect it to have  met in 2001 when providing information about  an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Ms representative says a court  might take 
if it were to find Yorkshire negligently  misrepresented the contract to Mr and Mrs M and 
about the remedy a court might award  if it were to find that Yorkshire had been in breach of 
its duty of utmost  good faith.  But this doesnt persuade  me to alter my conclusions  about 
what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the complaint  including  what  I think 
is fair compensation in the circumstances  of this case. For the reasons Ive already set out I 
dont think it would be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs M in a better  position  than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 April 2021.
Simon Furse
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8811735