K820x#14complaint
Mr M says Canada  Square Operations Limited  mis-sold him a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.  
background
Mr M bought  the policy in 2002 at the same time as taking out a credit card.
I issued a provisional decision saying I was not planning to uphold the complaint. This gave 
Mr M and Canada Square a chance  to respond before I issued this decision. Neither has 
provided anything  further. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ms case.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ms complaint  because:
I think Canada Square made  Mr M aware  that he had a choice about buying the PPI, and 
that he chose  to take it. The online application presented  a clear choice about PPI, and 
Mr M ticked a box to indicate he wanted  it.
Canada  Square didnt recommend the PPI to Mr M so it didnt have to check if it was right 
for him.
Its possible the information Canada Square gave Mr M about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as 
it shouldve been.  But Mr M doesnt  appear  to have been affected by any of the main 
things the policy  didnt cover  and based  on what  I know about  his circumstances it looks  
like the policy  couldve been useful to him. So I dont think  better information wouldve 
stopped him buying it.
Ive taken into account Mr Ms comments, including what hes said about having  savings. But 
these points dont  change my conclusion. In Mr Ms initial complaint he said he had no 
savings, and later he said he had between six and 12 months of his salary in savings. 
Although weve asked for more information and evidence of the savings he had, nothing has 
been provided. So I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to take into account  any 
savings when making my decision.
Ref: DRN88776462my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 May 2019.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8877646