K820x#14complaint
Mr Ls complaint is about an increase in the premium for a plumbing and drainage policy  
provided by Homeserve Membership Limited.
background
Mr L took out the policy in February 2015 at a cost of £1 per month. The policy  renewed 
automatically in 2016, at a cost of £8 per month  and then again in February 2017. Mr L says 
he wasnt aware until December 2017  that the premium charged since  February 2017 had 
been £12.35 per month. Mr L says he wasnt told about this further increase in advance.     
Mr L has asked for the difference in premium (i.e. between £12.35 and £8 per month) 
charged since the 2017 renewal to be refunded to him.
Homeserve says that it sent out renewal documents setting out the new premium in advance  
of the renewal date.  It also says it offers introductory  rates for new customers  for the first 
year. It then increases the premium in phases until it reaches a standard price  in year four.  
All its prices are assessed annually, and are amended to reflect  any changes to business 
costs and increased investments in its service. Claims history  is also considered as part of 
this review. 
One of our adjudicators looked  into the matter. He did not recommend that the complaint be 
upheld. He was satisfied that renewal  documents had been sent to Mr L setting out the new 
price in January  2017 and it was not Homeserves fault if these documents  were not 
received. The adjudicator  also concluded  that there was nothing  unfair  about  Homeserve 
increasing its prices in the way it had. It was entitled  to increase its price provided  Mr L had 
been treated fairly and been  given notice of the increase and he was satisfied he had been. 
Mr L doesnt accept  the adjudicators assessment, so the matter has been referred to me. 
He has made a number  of points which Ive summarised below; 
He realised that the £1 per month policy  was an introductory discount and then 
believed the £8 per month  was the standard price.
Hes received mailshots regularly from Homeserve offering the same deal. They  all 
state that the premium is £1 per month for the first year and then £8 per month  for 
the second year. Nowhere does it say it will be £12.35 per month for the third year.  
Hes also recently  received one stating  it is 25p per month  for the first year and then 
the standard price  of £7.50 per month for the second year. 
He did not receive  a renewal notice in 2017 and so logically assumed that he would 
continue on the standard price of £8 per month.  
If he had received the 2017 renewal documents he would have queried the 
extortionate hike in premiums and cancelled the cover.  
In response to the complaint, Homeserve  referred to his Enhanced Plumbing and 
Drainage cover. This is the first time it has been  referred  to as enhanced cover.  
Has it been upgraded?  He has never  asked  for an upgrade. 
He has never claimed under the policy, so there is no justification  for a more than 
50% increase  in cost.
And this means  he is paying significantly more than other customers  such as him.
Ref: DRN85053822my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is generally up to insurers to decide  what  cover  they wish to provide and the premium that 
they want to charge for that cover, based  on the risk that it thinks a customer  presents. It is 
also not unusual  or unfair for insurers  to offer a discounted price  to entice new customers
Similarly, individual customers have a choice about  which policy  and which insurer  they
wish to take insurance with, or not take insurance  at all. 
The mailshot setting  out the introductory offer to which  Mr L responded, says:  
Cover  costs just £1 a month in the first year. Given that the 2nd year price for this policy is 
£8 a month  (provided  no claims are made), we're sure you'll agree that it's a small price to 
pay to experience the benefits of this comprehensive plumbing and drainage cover for a 
year
The price  will increase  at renewal.  Next year, if you have  not made any
claims, your premium  will increase to £96 for the year.
The policy documents all also set out that the policy price might change at renewal. While 
the documentation says that year two will be charged at £8 per month,  it doesnt  say 
anything about  the cost beyond the end of year two. Mr L thought  that the policy  would 
continue at that price. I can see that it would have been preferable for Homeserve to set out 
the anticipated costs in year three  and four. However, it is not obliged  to do so and I am not 
persuaded that by not mentioning the year three premium,  that it is therefore obliged  to 
continue to charge  each  subsequent year at £8 per month, provided sufficient notice is given 
for the subsequent change.
I am satisfied that sufficient notice of the change of premium in year three was given.  
Homeserve has provided evidence that renewal  documents  which set out the new 
premium clearly  were sent to Mr L in January 2017. Mr L says he didnt receive these 
documents but there is evidence they were sent and Homeserve is not responsible  for any 
failure by the postal  service to deliver them. Homeserve  did what  it was required to do in 
notifying Mr L of the new premium, so he had the opportunity to decide if he wanted  to carry 
on with the policy.
Mr L also says that he has never  claimed under the policy, so there  is no justification in such  
a proportionally  significant increase in premium. Claims history  is one factor that Homeserve 
takes into account in deciding its premiums  but in this case, it has said that there  were  set 
phased increases from a discounted introductory premium. The evidence is that Mr L has 
been charged the same as other customers in the same  situation as him, i.e. in year three of 
their policies and with no claims history. I do not therefore consider that he has been treated 
unfairly or unreasonably. 
Theres also no evidence that the cover Mr L has received  in year three is any different and 
this is not therefore  the reason for the increase in premium. 
Ref: DRN85053823my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint against Homeserve Membership Limited.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 December  2019.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8505382