K820x#14complaint
Mr O complains that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC ran a credit search despite him requiring it to 
contact him first. Mr O wants the search  and the decline of credit  to be removed from his 
credit file.
background
Mr O says that as hes been the victim of fraud, he set up a notice requiring credit providers 
to contact him before carrying out a credit search.
Mr O then raised a complaint after he found that Barclays had carried  out a credit check 
when he applied for a current account with it. This application was declined and the search 
and decline  was recorded on his credit file. Mr O is unhappy that he wasnt  contacted first as 
he believed  the notice he set up required.
Barclays didnt uphold  Mr Os complaint, it said when he applied  for the account online, he 
agreed to its terms and conditions which state it will carry out a credit check.
Our investigator looked into the complaint. As part of her investigation she contacted  a credit 
reporting business to find out how the notice Mr O setup works. And she was told that the 
way the fraud alert works  is that a business  carries  out a credit check  and then discovers  the 
alert. And then before any credit is setup it should contact the customer. However,  she 
explained that because Barclays declined Mr Os application for credit, it had no reason  to 
contact him.
Mr O in response made a request for all his data from our systems to be removed, under the 
right to be forgotten.  However,  after checking with our information rights team a manager  
explained that we couldnt do that but Mr O could  withdraw his complaint. Mr O decided  that 
he wished to continue  his complaint. And in response to the investigators view he said that 
she hadnt answered all of his complaint points. He says that Barclays  hasnt responded to 
his subject access request (SAR). And that they shouldve done  so.
Mr O as part of his complaint to Barclays did ask for a SAR to be carried  out. His complaint 
was made  using a third-party complaint handling tool, Resolver.  In its final response letter 
Barclays set out how Mr O could make the SAR request. Either  using its online form or he 
could write  to them and an address was given.
There was some confusion initially at this service  and then at Barclays as to whether this 
was being dealt with as part of this complaint. Barclays hadnt addressed it under this 
reference and so neither did the investigator. 
Mr O made  a service complaint and a manager  got in contact with Barclays to ask for its 
response about the SAR. It told us it required customers to contact them directly so that they 
can be sure the SAR has come from the correct person.  And Mr O had made  the request via 
a third party. Mr O disagreed that this was the case and that Resolver was a third party  
request.
The manager went back to Barclays to ask whether they would accept the request in any 
event. Then  it seems some  confusion occurred at Barclays  as it thought  that this had already 
been dealt with under a separate complaint reference and thats  what it told us. So the 
manager responded in kind to Mr O. Mr O responded to say that this was a separate incident 
Ref: DRN84890402which was being  dealt with under a separate case reference where hed also requested a 
SAR.
Mr O said that Barclays  still hadnt  responded to the SAR and wed got it wrong. After 
reviewing the file I asked  our investigator  to get in contact with Barclays  to point out that the 
SAR in question  wasnt the same  instance that had been considered  in the separate  
complaint.
Barclays responded to say that it didnt accept  SARs from Resolver due to complexities in 
its system and it wouldnt send the SAR through Resolver. Barclays said it has an electronic 
system that Mr O could access to make  the request. Or alternatively it offered  to make the 
request for him but it said it would need him to tell them  what  the SAR was in relation to and 
what dates etc. It said the SAR would need  to be dispatched through  one of its approved  
methods. The investigator said that she didnt think Barclays had treated Mr O unfairly. As it 
would provide the SAR if Mr O still wished them to do so.
Mr O was unhappy with this response  and made  a service complaint and also requested  a 
SAR from this service. In relation to the merits of his Barclays  case  he said that it should 
have taken more  steps to provide the data to which he is entitled  to. He said a request can 
be made by any means and a business  must ensure there  is a policy  in place  to deal with a 
request no matter how it is made.
A manager responded to the service complaint and reminded Mr O, as she and the 
investigator had done  previously, that if he felt Barclays hadnt met the requirements around 
his data he should raise this with the Information Commissioners Office (ICO).
Mr O said the ICO make  it clear that businesses cant demand that a certain form be used 
and that his request had been specific as hed asked for everything including call notes.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Os complaint point that he originally  brought to this service was about Barclays  failure to 
notify him before running a credit check when he applied for current account with it. But as 
the investigator explained, Barclays declined  Mr Os request  for the current  account so it had 
no reason to contact  Mr O to notify  him that credit would be applied  for. So I dont think 
Barclays did anything wrong in recording a search  and decline on Mr Os credit file. Its terms 
and conditions state that a credit check will be carried out prior to a decision on whether to 
give credit.
Mr O didnt challenge the investigators  view on this, so I dont think its necessary to go into 
any more detail on this issue. Mr O then asked for his information to be wiped from our 
records but after being told we wouldnt be doing this he moved  the focus of his complaint to 
the fact that hed requested a SAR from Barclays which hadnt been  responded to. This 
wasnt recorded as a complaint point on his complaint  to Barclays or his complaint form with 
us. So the investigator didnt  look into this. However, the SAR request was made when he 
complained to Barclays. The investigator  and a manager who dealt with the service  
complaints Mr O made, attempted to sort this issue  out and to get some information  from 
Barclays about the SAR.
Ref: DRN84890403Whilst Mr O didnt initially complaint to Barclays about this, it has responded about this since  
and agreed to us looking  into it. And so I will consider the SAR issue  as part of this 
complaint. 
Both the manager  dealing  with the service complaint(s) and the investigator correctly  
directed Mr O to the ICO as the relevant body to deal with complaints  about data protection  
and SARs. It is not within the remit of this service to decide on data protection issues  and so 
I wont be making a decision on whether data protection law has been breached by Barclays. 
Mr O should get in contact with the ICO if he wishes for this to be considered.
Our rules say we can only consider a complaint  about an act or omission by a firm when it is 
carrying on certain specified financial services. We also consider complaints about ancillary 
activities which  are carried  on in connection  with these services. The rules set out (DISP 
2.3.1R) the list of financial services  in relation to which we can consider  complaints. Dealing 
with a SAR is not a financial  service.  However,  DISP  2.3.1R also adds that we have 
jurisdiction to consider  a complaint if it relates  to an act or omission by a firm in carrying  on 
one or more of the activities we cover. Carrying on an activity involves a wide range of 
things, not just the activities that are specifically  listed.
And DISP  2.1.4G explains that carrying on an activity includes:
1.offering, providing  or failing to provide a service in relation to an activity;
2.administering or failing to administer a service in relation to that activity; and 
3.the manner  in which a respondent has administered its business, provided that 
the business is an activity subject to the Financial Ombudsman  Services 
jurisdiction.
And Mr O has requested the SAR in relation to the credit request that he made,  so in my 
view this meets the definition of an ancillary activity.  And so I can consider the SAR request 
as part of whether  more  generally Barclays has acted fairly and reasonably when  dealing  
with Mr Os request and the customer service it gave.
Our services remit is to put things right when  something has gone  wrong.  So if a customer  
has suffered a financial loss, change of position  or undue distress and inconvenience,  we 
will look to put the customer  back into the position  they wouldve been  had the error  not 
occurred. It is not within  our remit to punish a business for an error  or failure alone.
So Ive considered what impact the SAR request remaining outstanding has had on Mr O. Mr 
O has not given  any reasoning as to why he requires the data that hes requested.  It doesnt 
appear that he wishes to use this data for any specific  purpose  or in relation to the credit  
request he made with Barclays. So directly or indirectly I dont think  the fact the SAR 
remains outstanding  has caused Mr O a financial loss or changed his position. It doesnt  
appear to have had any knock-on effects  as no mention of this has been made by Mr O.
Rather it seems its a matter of principle for Mr O. I say this because  Barclays and this 
service offered help in facilitating this process so that Mr O could get the data he required.  
But Mr O declined to engage  with this. Instead  he pointed  out that the way hed made his 
request was sufficient  under data rules.  As I said before  this is something the ICO is better  
placed to consider and not something  Im specifically looking into.
Ref: DRN84890404In terms of the customer service that Barclays has given, I think Barclays could have 
communicated more  clearly with Mr O initially about his SAR request. But that said in its final 
response letter it did tell him how to make the request. So had Mr O needed the data and it 
was important to him, he couldve  used their form or written a letter as it had explained. 
However, Mr O instead seems more concerned with Barclays  meeting the requirements for 
how a SAR is processed and what constitutes a request.
All of this leads me to the conclusion that this hasnt had any impact on Mr Os position  or his 
financial affairs. Instead it is a matter of principle for him. Whether or not Barclays  has 
correctly interpreted and acted within data legislation isnt something Im going to decide  but 
from a customer service  perspective I think Barclays has acted fairly and reasonably. And I 
dont think its actions  have caused  Mr O a financial loss or distress and inconvenience.  
So it is for these reasons  and I do not uphold  Mr Os complaint and make no award.
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 July 2020.
Simon Hollingshead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8489040