K821x#15complaint
Mrs G says that JP Morgan Europe Limited failed  to protect her when she was the victim  of a 
scam. 
background
Mrs G held a Post Office  account, administered by JP Morgan. Her pension credits  were 
paid into the account and she could  make cash withdrawals on the account, using her card 
and PIN, either in a Post Office branch or by using an ATM. Between  16 January 2017  and 
22 March 2017,  the following withdrawals were  made via two cards on the account. These 
withdrawals were made as a result of Mrs G being groomed and manipulated into handing 
over cash  to scammers. Two branches were  involved so I have  identified  them  by naming 
them Branch A and B. 
Date Type/location Amount Balance 
16/01/17 Branch A £600 £3,487.15
17/01/17 Branch A £600 £2,887.15
18/01/17 Branch A £600 £2287.15
19/01/17 Branch A £550 £1,737.15
20/01/17 Branch B £500 £1,237.15
20/01/17 Branch A £100 £1,137.15
21/01/17 Branch B £600 £537.15
22/01/17 ATM withdrawal £100 £437.15
22/01/17 ATM withdrawal £150 £287.15
23/01/17 ATM withdrawal £250 £92.29
24/01/17 ATM withdrawal £90 £2.29
07/02/17 ATM withdrawal £110 £2.57
20/02/17 ATM withdrawal £110 £2.85
27/02/17 ATM withdrawal £50 £7.99
07/03/17 ATM withdrawal £60 £3.13
13/03/17 ATM withdrawal £50 £8.27
22/03/17 ATM withdrawal £60 £3.41
Total loss £4,580
Mrs G was scammed by two individuals who coerced her to withdraw cash and hand it over 
to them.  It appears as though Mrs G withdrew  some of the money herself,  potentially  with 
these individuals  accompanying  her to branch, and on other occasions, may have given her 
card and PIN to these  individuals to allow them to make withdrawals.
Mrs Gs social worker  originally helped her to bring the complaint, explaining Mrs G had 
been the victim of financial abuse.  She says following these  events Mrs G has now been 
diagnosed with a mental  health condition. The condition increases the likelihood  of Mrs G 
being vulnerable to financial  exploitation and abuse.
The Police have  been involved in the matter and have provided statements to confirm  what 
happened. In total they estimate that these  individuals obtained £25,000 from Mrs G from 
various accounts over the course  of two months.
The Police officer involved has told us:
Ref: DRN81531892-Mrs G was taken  to the Post Office branches by these individuals and asked to 
withdraw cash to hand over to them, they also manipulated her into buying things for 
them; 
-they are satisfied Mrs G was groomed and manipulated; and
-one individual  has been charged  with fraud  and was sentenced  in 2017.
Mrs Gs local healthcare  provider has also provided a detailed  summary of events. A 
psychiatric assessment  was carried out with Mrs G in June 2017. In summary, this said:
-the initial contact  from the individuals was to help her with household tasks such as 
gardening;
-during this time the individuals told Mrs G stories that required them needing  money 
to help their families and others;
-Mrs G gave them money, feeling under pressure to do so;
-during this time, Mrs G thought  the individuals were genuine, but her description of 
events was consistent with them grooming her into becoming attached  to them;
-Mrs G says she didnt give them permission to take large amounts of money  from her 
account; 
-Mrs G was recently widowed,  prior to the scam, but it was noted  that Mrs G and her 
late husband had been a socially isolated  couple; and
-the doctor believed  Mrs G was suffering from a personality disorder  which affected 
her ability  to understand interpersonal relationships. The doctor didnt think she had 
capacity regarding the actions she took in giving these individuals her bank details. 
And she was not able to weigh up and appreciate the consequences  of her actions.
Ultimately, Mrs G was coached and coerced by scammers to hand over cash from her Post 
Office account, over the course of two months totalling £4,580.
One of our investigators  looked into things. He said he couldnt be certain  if Mrs G made 
some or all of the transactions herself or whether she gave her card and PIN to the 
fraudsters and they carried them out. But he thought it was likely  that both of these things 
had happened  over the course of the two months. 
Whilst he considered  the evidence  provided  by the healthcare providers, ultimately he 
concluded that Mrs G had authorised the payments. But he didnt think that was the end of 
the matter. He felt that JP Morgan had a duty to detect and protect  its customers against 
fraud and scams. In these particular circumstances, he thought JP Morgan ought reasonably 
to have been on notice that Mrs G was at risk of financial harm,  given  the unusual  nature 
and pattern of withdrawals that occurred between  January and March  2017. 
He thought the third consecutive cash withdrawal in branch was the point at which  JP 
Morgan ought  to have been  concerned  and intervened. He concluded that if it had 
intervened, the scam would have been  exposed and Mrs Gs losses  limited to £1,200.  
JP Morgan  disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. In summary  its 
reasons for the not refunding Mrs G are:
-Mrs G didnt indicate she was being coerced or was under duress  to make the 
withdrawals;
-She breached  the terms and conditions of her account by handing  over her card and 
PIN to the scammers;
Ref: DRN81531893-the withdrawal pattern  does not suggest  fraud  at all  its common  for customers  to 
maximise withdrawals for a period of time, three  maximum withdrawals in three days  
merely indicates a need for funds;
-there was a similar pattern of withdrawals in April which isnt disputed by Mrs G;
-it had no knowledge  of Mrs Gs medical conditions or that she was a vulnerable 
customer;
-Post Office accounts were created specifically for customers  to receive  pension  and 
benefit payments  and is designed for those who do not have access to mainstream  
banking facilities. It says,  all customers  holding  Post Office card accounts  are 
considered vulnerable , but Mrs G didnt discuss any specific  vulnerability in detail;
-elderly customers can make withdrawals for various reasons such as home 
improvements, care-home fees, etc; and it doesnt consider  Mrs Gs withdrawals as 
suspicious;
-Post Office staff do not see any details about  the accountholder,  only the balance. 
They do not see any account history or activity, so they would not know when 
withdrawals had taken  place  on the account;
-cards  are not personalised and the Post Office staff will not know the name of the 
accountholder;
-Post Office staff will challenge or question customers if they display off behaviour  or 
give any other cause for alarm;
-the Banking Protocol  can only be invoked  if Mrs G showed  signs of stress  that she 
was making the withdrawals under  duress.  JP Morgan  cant see any evidence  of that 
here, so it presumes Mrs G made  withdrawals  on her own or with a third party  
present but showed no suspicion;
-JP Morgan placed a freeze on Mrs Gs account in December 2017 as there  was a 
sudden change in her account activity.  JP Morgan received a letter  from her local 
council advising it to freeze her account  while it applied  to the Court of Protection;  
and
-it doesnt agree with paying 8% interest on any refund payment as the account  Mrs G 
held was not an interest-bearing account.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules,  guidance  and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  what I consider to be good industry practice  at the
time.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank  is expected  to process  payments
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make, in accordance  with the Payment
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions  of the customers  account. And I have
taken that into account  when deciding  what is fair and reasonable in this case. And Ive also 
considered that:
-The law recognises that a bank may be liable to its customer if it makes  a payment in
circumstances where  it has reasonable grounds  (although not necessarily proof)  for
believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate  the funds  of
its customer (known as the Quincecare  duty).
Ref: DRN81531894-Regulated firms like JP Morgan are also required  to conduct their business  with due
skill, care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to
the interests of its customers  (Principle 6).
And as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have  taken 
proactive steps  to: 
-identify and assist  vulnerable consumers  and consumers in vulnerable  
circumstances, including  those at risk of financial  exploitation (something  recognised  
by the FCA in recent years by the British Bankers Associations February 2016 report 
improving outcomes  for customers in vulnerable circumstances ); and
-look to identify and help prevent transactions - particularly unusual or out of character 
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam (something also 
recognised by the British Standards Institutes October 2017  Protecting Customers 
from Financial  harm  as a result of fraud  or financial abuse  Code of Practice, which 
a number of banks and trade associations were involved in the development of).
-in relation to branch transactions like Mrs Gs  follow the Banking Protocol when 
available.    
In this case, I need to decide  whether JP Morgan acted fairly  and reasonably in its dealings
with Mrs G when she authorised withdrawals from her account or whether it could and 
should have done more  before processing them. That is a question of fact and degree 
depending on the circumstances of each  individual case. 
Taking these things into account, I consider  that, at the time of Mrs Gs withdrawals, 
JP Morgan  ought  reasonably to have  had systems  in place to trigger  an alert for unusual  
and/or uncharacteristic transactions that might indicate a customer  is at risk of fraud  or 
scams. If triggered, the bank could and should have taken additional steps  or checks  before 
processing a seemingly authorised payment that might in fact be a scam. 
On the individual facts and evidence  before  me, I am satisfied that there were triggers  which  
JP Morgan  could and should have detected as indicators that the withdrawals  were  unusual 
and uncharacteristic  for Mrs G. Had it done so, Im persuaded this would have prevented 
most of Mrs Gs losses by exposing the scam.  
authorisation
Its not disputed  that the withdrawals were authorised  by Mrs G. From the different accounts 
provided, it would appear that she made  some  or all of the branch withdrawals and then at 
some point gave her card and PIN to the scammers (who then continued to make  ATM cash  
withdrawals on her account). So far as the relevant rules and regulations are concerned,  it 
makes no material difference  for the purpose of deciding whether a payment is authorised 
 as to whether  the accountholder  makes the withdrawals  herself  or voluntarily hands  over 
the card and PIN to a third party. And the starting position is that the accountholder is 
responsible for authorised payments, not the bank. 
Ref: DRN81531895I accept the medical  evidence that Mrs G has mental-health issues and may therefore have 
lacked capacity to appreciate the consequences of her actions. But that does not negate 
authorisation for the purpose of the PSRs. Under  Regulation 55, a payment transaction  is to 
be regarded as having been authorised by the payeronly if the payer has given its consent 
tothe execution of the payment transaction. In other words, the payer only needs  to 
consent to the execution  of the payment transaction, not the implications or consequences. 
So, as long as Mrs G had sufficient capacity to consent to the payment transaction,  it must 
be considered  as authorised. And here there isnt really any dispute  that Mrs G had capacity 
to give her consent to payment transactions insofar as she was able to present her card and 
enter her PIN and/or disclose those secure credentials to the scammers. 
JP Morgans  actions
Good industry practice has been codified  in, amongst other  things, the Banking Protocol, 
which came  into force  in March 2018 but was trialled in areas since  2016.  Its in the public 
domain, so I dont need to rehearse its provisions here. The subject-matter of this complaint 
occurred before its general implementation. However, the protocol  merely formalises  
principles of common sense, fairness  and equity that have long existed, whether in FCA 
regulations and/or voluntary predecessor  codes, or at common law or in similar guidance  
issued to the banking industry.
It seems  to me that, as a matter of common sense, the bank ought to step in to protect a 
customer  especially a vulnerable one (Mrs G was 75 and held a certain type of account) 
 if it had it had or ought to have had concerns about  unusual or uncharacteristic  
transactions on an account.  Whether  a bank  should have been triggered and intervened  
and whether this would in fact have prevented the loss  is a question of fact and degree 
depending on the circumstances of each  individual case.
On the facts and evidence  before me, Im satisfied  the requests  Mrs G made to withdraw the 
cash, on a daily basis, was clearly out of character and unusual  for her and should probably  
have triggered  JP Morgan  to halt further payments pending reasonable enquiries of Mrs G to 
reassure itself that they were legitimate.  
Between April 2016 and January 2017, Mrs G made  one cash withdrawal in branch for £600.  
No other  withdrawals were made on the account  during that period. Yet, when the scam 
started, Mrs G made seven cash withdrawals over six consecutive days  across two separate  
branches. All but one of those withdrawals was for the maximum withdrawal amount (see the 
table above).  
Im satisfied this pattern  of withdrawals was unusual and uncharacteristic for Mrs G and, 
significantly, for most customers of this type of non-mainstream  account.  There  was a clear 
trigger had JP Morgans fraud detection  systems been reasonably calibrated and 
operational. In an age of electronic banking and swift payments,  such systems should  not 
and do not rely on fallible human intervention in the first instance,  so the absence of a 
protocol in branch is immaterial. Deciding when a bank ought reasonably to be triggered is 
not an exact science. Customers  should  not have their freedom to conduct business 
unreasonably fettered  and the law recognises that, despite consumer protections, they must 
still take responsibility for their own decisions.  However, in my view,  JP Morgan ought 
reasonably to have  realised that the third maximum withdrawal on the third consecutive day 
was unusual and uncharacteristic, particularly given this was an account of relatively  limited  
funds. I think this represented a significant change in her behaviour and account activity and 
was a clear trigger for potential financial harm. 
Ref: DRN81531896Indeed, in December 2017, when JP Morgan froze Mrs Gs account  because of unusual  
behaviour, she had then made five withdrawals over five consecutive days, none of which 
maximised her withdrawal  limit. The withdrawals in December also left her account  in a 
healthier position than the above-listed scam  transactions.  This indicates to me that its 
failure to act earlier that year in more concerning circumstances represents  a failure in its 
alert systems and good industry practice. 
JP Morgan  submitted that undisputed transactions in April 2017 appear  similar to the scams  
and therefore  would  have allayed concerns. But the account statements show there were 
only two withdrawals for just over £100 in April  and they were not on consecutive days. 
Im not persuaded these are similar to the scam  withdrawals, either  in size or frequency,  
compared with the withdrawals that Mrs G was duped into authorising between  January and 
March 2017.
JP Morgan  says Post Office staff have limited information when a consumer makes  a 
withdrawal  staff dont have access to the account history  when  processing  a withdrawal 
and cards are not personalised.  I accept that. I also accept that modern banking and 
employment patterns  mean that there wont necessarily be a personal relationship between 
staff and customers such that odd visits or stress would be detected.  But the computerised 
systems and algorithms should recognise  unusual or uncharacteristic account  activity  
such as a small account seemingly being  emptied through maximum consecutive  
withdrawals  and trigger alerts  so that staff in branch can intervene, e.g. by asking  
sensitive questions about the transaction or, in extreme cases, by calling the police  (i.e. the 
sort of counter-measures now codified in the Banking Protocol). 
There is no evidence or suggestion  by JP Morgan (or Mrs G) that any questions were asked 
on any of Mrs Gs visits to the branches. And I think it is accepted  that the unusual activity  
did not trigger any alerts on the systems as then calibrated  or if it did, they clearly werent 
acted upon by staff.  The type of scam that Mrs G fell for is well-known  (and the Banking 
Protocol provides for this exact  scenario as one to be alert to), where consumers are 
approached either by rogue traders or become close to new individuals  seeking to gain cash 
from elderly and isolated  individuals.  Overall,  based on the actual and constructive 
information JP Morgan  had about  Mrs Gs vulnerability, financial circumstances and the 
unusual pattern of withdrawals, I consider  they should reasonably  have spotted  the triggers 
about the risk of fraud  and financial harm.
The key question, therefore, is whether JP Morgans failure to intervene caused  Mrs Gs 
losses. But for its failure to act on the triggers, I think JP Morgan would probably have asked 
Mrs G reasonable questions about  the withdrawals she was making  as a precaution. If it 
had, because Mrs G didnt have  concerns  about the genuine nature of the individuals she 
was handing the cash over to, its likely  that she would have been  open and honest about 
what she was doing, how she had met these  individuals, and why she was handing over 
cash to them. That would  or should  have  rung alarm bells for the bank   both before the 
Banking Protocol and certainly  afterwards. This type of scam is very common  and Mrs G 
fitted the typical demographic targeted  by such criminals. So, Im persuaded that, if JP 
Morgan had considered the transactions properly or at all, it would have exposed  the scam  
on the third withdrawal and prevented further  losses. 
Ref: DRN81531897Accordingly, Im satisfied that JP Morgan should reimburse Mrs G from the third cash  
withdrawal onwards totalling £3,380  together with interest. I am afraid  she must bear the first 
two losses herself  for the payments were authorised and it would be unreasonable  for a 
bank to intervene so early  in this type of scenario. 
JP Morgan  says that interest wasnt payable on Mrs Gs account and that this is punitive. But 
the payment of interest  on our awards  doesnt  usually  compensate  for interest that would 
otherwise have been earned.  Its not punitive  but it designed to reflect  the cost of being 
deprived of funds  that is, the cost of borrowing. 8% simple  per year is our standard rate 
and is a fair compromise that takes  account of the fluctuating borrowing rates  over time. 
Even in these times of very low interest  rates on savings, its worth  bearing in mind  that the 
cost of borrowing  can be much higher, e.g. on personal loans or credit cards. I am satisfied 
that its fair and reasonable to award interest  and see no reason  to depart from our standard  
rate. 
final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I am satisfied  that it is fair and reasonable to uphold  Mrs Gs 
complaint against  JP Morgan Europe  Limited.  I therefore require JP Morgan to:
-refund  Mrs Gs account with £3,380; and
-pay interest on those scam  transactions  (save the first two) from the date of each 
until the date of the refund  at 8% a year simple (less any tax properly deductible). 
Mrs G should note that, if she accepts my decision within the deadline, it will be legally 
binding on her and the bank, which means she would probably  be unable  to take legal action  
for any outstanding  losses that I havent  awarded.  On the other  hand,  if she does not accept 
my decision  on time or at all, although  her legal rights would remain intact, the bank would 
not have to comply  with it or make  any offer.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 September  2020.
Sophia Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8153189