K820x#14complaint
Mr M has complained about Gefion  Insurance A/S. He isnt happy  that it wouldnt deal with a 
theft claim under his commercial motor policy and voided his policy.
background
Mr M took out insurance for his van through a broker. A few days  later his van was stolen, 
and he made a claim under his policy. But Gefion turned down his claim and avoided his 
policy (treated it as if it didnt exist).  This was because he had several motoring 
convictions/fixed penalty points or pending convictions/fixed penalty offences and it wouldnt 
have provided  cover  had it have  known about  this. 
As Mr M wasnt  happy, he complained through his representative to Gefion and this service. 
Our investigator looked into things for him but didnt uphold his complaint. He thought Gefion 
had acted reasonably. This was because it was clear Gefion wouldnt have provided cover 
had it have known  about his true driving  history. 
As Mr M didnt agree the matter has been  passed  to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I dont think that the 
complaint should  be upheld.  Ill explain why.
I know Mr M and his representative believe Gefion should pay his claim, as his van was 
stolen as opposed to Mr M being involved in an accident. So, they believe the claim should  
be met as Mr Ms driving history had no bearing on the theft of his van.
But Gefion  has shown  that it wouldnt have insured Mr M at all, had it have known  he had 
more driving convictions or licence endorsements than it was told about. Indeed, it isnt 
disputed that Mr M had four motoring convictions/fixed penalty offences on his driving 
licence and only two were disclosed.  Furthermore, he had another two pending. And as 
Gefion wouldnt have  provided cover, had it have been provided with Mr Ms true driving 
history, then I dont  think it has acted  unreasonably  in deciding not to settle the claim and 
avoiding the policy.  
As this is a commercial policy Mr M had a duty to volunteer the information Gefion required 
so that it could consider the risk and whether it would provide  cover.  Mr M says he provided  
this information  to his broker and this is being  looked at separately in a complaint against his 
broker. 
But, if Mr M did provide full details to his broker, this information wasnt given to Gefion.  And 
it has provided its underwriting criteria  which clearly  shows it would never  have provided 
cover to anyone in Mr Ms position. That is to say it wouldnt have provided  insurance to 
anyone with three minor motoring convictions and Mr M had four, plus two pending.
So, as Gefion wouldnt have provided cover for Mr M had it have known his true driving 
history. I cant say it has done anything wrong  in cancelling the policy  back  to the beginning 
and treating it as if it never existed, which unfortunately means that the theft of Mr Ms van 
wasnt covered.
Ref: DRN84503062my final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above,  that I dont  uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 April 2020.
Colin Keegan
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN8450306