K820x#14complaint
Ms N is unhappy with how Ageas Insurance Limited  have  handled  a claim for damage to her 
sofa under  her furniture extended warranty scheme. 
background
In 2016 Ms N bought a sofa set from a furniture store.  She also bought  an extended  
warranty to protect against accidental damage  and structural defects.
In 2017, Ms N made a claim as some  stitching needed repairing. Ageas did the work for this. 
But late last year, Ms N spotted further problems   firstly some leather was rubbing away  or 
peeling off and secondly there were scuffs in another place. So Ms N again  made  a claim. 
A technician  visited Ms Ns house to have a look at the sofas. His report mentioned  the 
scuffs were due to local conditions  perhaps  due to the sofa rubbing against  a radiator  
and that the peeling was consistent with use. So Ageas said they wouldnt be covering the 
damage as the cause  of both problems was due to wear and tear. 
Ms N wasnt  happy about this  she noted  that her policy covered her for rips, tears,  burns, 
scratches, punctures and scuffs. So she wasnt sure why her claim wasnt being  met. Ageas 
confirmed that while  accidental damage and scuffs are covered, the opinion  was that the 
damage had occurred over a period  of time meaning  the cause wasnt  that of accidental 
damage or structural defect.
Ms N then noticed further damage with some  stitching  coming  apart, so she submitted 
another claim too. That claim  isnt a consideration in this case. 
Ms N asked for our help  she feels Ageas wrongly  applied limitations  and exclusions.  One 
of our investigators looked into what had happened, but he didnt agree Ageas had done 
anything wrong. He explained  that Ms Ns policy did cover the things she pointed  out, but 
only on an accidental damage basis  and because the technicians  report had said the 
causes were wear and tear, he didnt think Ageas were wrong to say they wouldnt  cover the 
claim.
Ms N remained unhappy  and confused as to why Ageas  wouldnt help. She said the 
technician had told her something different, and that her sofas would be repaired. She also 
said that the scuffs  couldnt solely be due to the radiator  as one side isnt near it. She 
welcomed a second technicians view. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms Ns policy  confirmed  her sofas  were  covered for accidental damage   this was defined as 
being sudden  and unforeseen damage not otherwise excluded under the policy.  The 
handbook explained this sort of damage included rips, tears,  burns, scratches, punctures 
and scuffs. The policy also covered structural defects occurring outside of the 
manufacturers warranty and due to faulty  or defective components. The relevant parts of the 
booklet said the policy covers common household accidents resulting in scuffs and 
structural defects listed below peeling of leather.
Ref: DRN88096072However, section 5.2 of the terms of the policy explained that any claim following wear and 
tear wouldnt  be valid  wear and tear was defined as the gradual deterioration associated 
with normal age and use of the product. 
The technician who visited Ms Ns home wrote a report about what  hed seen:
regarding the two seater, he said these scuffs are caused by the settee rubbing 
against the radiator and wall this is due to local conditions 
regarding the three  seater, he said this is where  customer  would put back of knee 
when sitting on here to watch tv as tv is off centre to right therefore this is due to 
wear and tear consistent with use.  
It was the technicians job to inspect Ms Ns sofas, consider the damage claimed for and 
give his view on the cause of damage. From what Ive seen, this is what he did. The report 
says the scuffs are due to abrasion  against  the radiator and therefore not consistent with a 
sudden incident.  And it said the peeling wasnt consistent with any manufacturing  defect  
something that was confirmed by a test. Instead,  the technician  considered  both problems to 
be due to wear and tear. 
I appreciate Ms N says the technician said something different to her when he visited, and 
that he suggested the sofas would be repaired. But I hope Ms N will understand that it was 
fair for Ageas to rely on his report  her policy terms say that an expert may be appointed 
and that their advice  will be taken in consideration of whether a claim is valid.  Theres 
nothing to say Ageas had to get a second opinion and in any case, I see no reason for the 
experts report to not reasonably be relied upon.  
So while Ms Ns policy does generally  cover the sorts of damage she claims for, the 
technicians view was that the damage  wasnt due to sudden  incidents or defects and was 
instead attributable  to wear and tear. Because of this, Ageas dont have to meet this claim as 
this is something her policy expressly excludes.  
my final decision
For the reasons  explained, I dont uphold Ms Ns complaint against Ageas Insurance 
Limited. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 December  2019.
Aimee Stanton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8809607