K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him a Gold  packaged bank account.
background
Mr M opened a fee free bank  account with Lloyds on 30 November 1998. Mr Ms account 
was sometime later upgraded to a Gold Service Account. 
Its not clear  exactly  when that happened  but it must have happened sometime before 
September 2001 because this is the date of the earliest statement  available showing that Mr M 
had a Gold account. 
When Mr M complained to Lloyds about the Gold account it agreed it had mis-sold this to 
him. Lloyds  has already  upheld Mr Ms complaint about the sale of the Gold  account and 
made a payment to him to settle that complaint. 
Mr M wasnt happy with the way Lloyds worked  out the payment it sent him in respect of the 
Gold account and he complained to us about it. 
Our adjudicator looked into Mr Ms complaint and thought the settlement payment Lloyds 
had made  to Mr M was fair.
Mr M disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at the complaint and make a final 
decision.
Mr M has also told us hes unhappy  about the way Lloyds handled the investigation into his 
complaint. 
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
what I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
In coming  to my decision, Ive taken into account  everything that Mr M has said in response 
to our adjudicators assessment  including the fact that he doesnt think that Lloyds 
correctly worked out the payment it made  to settle  his complaint about the Gold account.
Its unfortunate that Lloyds cant say exactly when Mr Ms account  was upgraded. But this 
happened so long ago that we wouldnt expect either Lloyds or Mr M still to hold records 
from this time.
So I dont  know when  the upgrade happened. This means that I cant fairly say that it took 
place in November  1998 based  on the information I've seen. 
Lloyds repaid Mr M the Gold  account fees he paid (plus interest) from 1 March  1999. Our 
adjudicator has explained  that this date was picked  as its the mid-point between  the date 
the account was introduced and the first date that appears on Lloyds records  showing that 
Mr M had a Gold account. I think the approach  Lloyds took was reasonable and in line with 
what this service would expect to see in these particular circumstances. 
Ref: DRN84063252Mr M also complained to us that after he complained to Lloyds, he repeatedly received 
unwelcome phone calls from the bank at inconvenient times. 
Ive looked at the banks  records to help me understand what happened when Lloyds 
investigated Mr Ms complaint. I can see that attempts were made to contact him by phone  
but this is a normal part of Lloyds complaint handling process.  And I can see that Mr M had 
spoken to Lloyds to arrange things over the phone before this. So I dont think Lloyds was 
wrong to think that ringing  Mr M to talk about  his complaint might be a helpful  way to 
progress his complaint  and try to reach an agreed resolution.  
I can see that this wasnt  convenient  for Mr M when he was working night  shifts  and its 
completely understandable that he preferred  not to be disturbed during the day. But, based 
on all the information  I've seen, I dont feel I can fairly say that it was unreasonable that 
Lloyds tried to speak to Mr M direct  to resolve  his complaint when it hadnt appreciated his 
circumstances. And it looks like the phone calls stopped after Mr M spoke to the bank and 
explained the situation.  
I appreciate that Mr M is unhappy with the service he has received from Lloyds in the course 
of it responding  to his complaint. Although  its clear this has caused him some  frustration, 
overall I dont consider  theres sufficient reason to award Mr M compensation for this.
Looking at what hes told us, Im not sure if Mr M feels there are any wider issues  about how 
Lloyds treated his financial  difficulties. But if so, then he will first need to complain to Lloyds 
about this so it has a chance to comment. If Mr M does  that and he feels  that complaint isn't 
resolved satisfactorily  then he will be able to complain  to us about  it. But I cant  comment  
further on this in my decision here as it isn't something Lloyds has yet had any opportunity  to 
respond to. 
So, as things stand,  I dont think theres anything  further that Lloyds needs to do to put things 
right and Im not planning to tell it to take any further  action. I appreciate that Mr M will be 
disappointed in my decision, but I hope that setting out the reasons as I've done will help to 
explain how Ive come to the conclusions I've reached.
Based on the information Id seen, my provisional decision was not to uphold  this complaint.
what the parties said in response to my provisional  decision 
Mr M hasnt  sent me any further comments.
Lloyds has told us it has no further comments to add.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this complaint.
No new information  or further comments have been received in response to my provisional 
decision that change  my view. So I still think its fair not to uphold this complaint  for the 
reasons I explained  in my provisional  decision.  
Ref: DRN84063253my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 May 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman  
Ref: DRN8406325