K820x#14complaint
Mr F has complained about Haven  Insurance Company Limiteds decision to reject  a claim
he made under his car insurance policy.
background
Mr F bought  a car insurance policy with the insurer, Haven. In December 2018 he reported
an incident. He said hed swerved  to avoid an oncoming car that was overtaking a car
travelling in the opposite direction. Mr F said he came off road and came  to a stop in a ditch.
He told us he heard a pop and his car wouldnt start.
Mr F said it was a dark unlit country road near his girlfriends fathers  home. Hed called his
girlfriends father who had a vehicle that was able to tow Mr Fs car.
Mr F provided a quote from a garage to replace  the engine. Haven instructed an
independent assessor (IA) to inspect Mr Fs car. And it instructed a claims investigator to
interview Mr F.
In January 2019 Haven said it wouldnt meet Mr Fs claim as it excluded  cover for
mechanical and electrical  issues.  It said the information Mr F had provided was
fundamentally dishonest as the IA could find no evidence of impact  damage to support
Mr Fs account  of the incident. Haven said it would pursue  Mr F for the costs of its
investigation which came  to £2,188.
Mr F complained to Haven. But it said its decision was correct. Mr F brought his complaint to
us. He provided a report from a specialist garage  that had stripped his car and repaired  it.
We forwarded this report to Haven. Haven provided  a forensic engineer  report  which  took
into account all of the previous reports. Haven  maintained that its decision to reject  the claim
was correct.
Our investigator thought that there wasnt enough evidence for Haven to say that Mr F had
made a fraudulent claim.  On balance, he thought  the report provided by the garage  that had
stripped and repaired Mr Fs car carried more weight. So he recommended  Haven deal with
Mr Fs claim under the remaining terms and conditions   and that it couldnt reject his claim
for the reasons it had already given.
Haven didnt agree. In summary it says Mr F provided additional information  to the specialist
garage as to what happened that evening. Haven said Mr F didnt tell it hed attempted  to
reverse the car out of the ditch as he told the specialist garage. Mr F had told Haven his car
had cut out. Haven said the information  is inconsistent with Mr Fs signed statement of truth.
Haven says the specialist garage provided  multiple images of the engine, but none show
impact damage.  The specialist report  also says that damage was caused by low engine oil
levels which  affects around 90% of vehicles of the same make  as Mr Fs. The specialist said
that Mr Fs car is designed to protect the underside from impact: its a world  renowned  four
wheel drive vehicle  for use off road.  So Haven maintains  its decision to reject Mr Fs claim
was correct.
Mr F told us he paid £6,200 for repairs to his car. But he said hes been unable  to obtain
insurance because  his broker said Haven has added a fraud marker against his record.
Ref: DRN84636772Haven has provided  a screenshot of the open claim under the Claims Underwriting
Exchange database and there is no record of fraud. Haven said it hasnt recorded  any fraud
markers against Mr Fs name. It says its file remains open.
In January 2020 Mr F said he would provide a letter from his broker confirming the recording
of a fraud  marker against  him. But we havent  received this.
I issued a provisional decision on 8 June 2020.  I thought there wasnt enough evidence  to 
show the engine  failure was caused by impact  damage. So I thought  Havens decision to 
reject the claim was reasonable in relying  on an exclusion for damage caused by mechanical 
breakdown. However,  I didnt think it was fair to say the claim was fraudulent. So I intended 
to ask Haven  to write to Mr F to confirm  it hasnt added a fraud marker against  Mr Fs record 
in relation to this claim.
Haven accepted my provisional decision.
Mr F didnt  agree. He was unhappy that he hadnt  seen the report  from the forensic engineer 
which disputed the report hed provided.  In summary Mr F says the accident  did take place 
and his car was damaged as a result. He said if weve decided  it wasnt a fraudulent claim, 
then this means his car was damaged in the accident as he described at the time.
We sent a copy of the forensic engineers report to Mr F in August 2020 and asked him to 
provide any further  comments. This time was extended to September  2020  as Mr F was 
unwell. 
As the time has passed  and we havent  heard further from Mr F, the case  has been  passed 
back to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Mr Fs comments following my provisional decision. However, I havent seen 
anything which changes  my earlier view. So my final decision is along the same lines as my 
provisional decision.
Its not for us to determine  how or if an accident  happened, instead we look closely  at expert
evidence to determine what is most likely  to have  occurred. The key pieces of evidence  that
Ive focused on are the reports  provided by expert engineers, Mr F and the claims
investigator.
I think its easier for me to refer first to the information that I dont think is relevant. The IA
commented that Mr Fs car showed no signs of debris when inspected. But Mr F told Haven
when he reported  the incident  that he intended  to jet wash  his car to be able to see the
damage caused to it.
The claims investigator visited  the scene six weeks after the incident happened. He
commented that there were no tyre track  marks. But I dont think  this can be relied on due to
the time that had lapsed since  the incident.
Ill now deal with the information I think is relevant.
Ref: DRN84636773Mr F said he was travelling at between 50  55 mph when he was forced to swerve off road.
The IA visited the garage where Mr Fs car was being held. It wasnt able to inspect the car
on a ramp, but where it was parked in the storage yard. The IA spoke  to the mechanics at
the garage and viewed  images of the car provided by them. So Mr Fs car hadnt been
stripped and access to the underside of the car wasnt possible. The key points from the IA
report is:
We could see no impact damage  to the front bumper, sump,  grille,  bonnet  or lower
spoiler or underneath the vehicle consistent with the alleged  circumstances..We
did not see any physical  damage to the engine or its associated  components  other
than a slight oil leak which is likely to have been  existing  considering  the age of the
vehicle.There was coolant at the right levels with no signs  at all of damage  to any
of the radiators.
In reply to my provisional decision,  Mr F said the front bumper / spoiler came  off in the 
accident and were placed in the back of the car when  Havens  garage  had the car. But from 
the report, I think the engineer viewed  the bumper and lower spoiler as he commented on 
their condition. So I dont  think  it makes a difference that they were  in the back of the car at 
the time of inspection.
The report  provided  by the garage  that specialises in repairs for the make  of Mr Fs car said
the following:
I can confirm that the reason  for this (the damage)  was due to the vehicles sump
damaging on impact the crankshaft breaking  into two pieces when the engine has
been underload, low oil pressure also was caused  when  the oil pump stopped
pumping pressure  around  the engine which caused  further damage to both the
turbos on the vehicle.
However, the remainder  of the specialist garage  report explains in detail the impact of low oil
levels and how a lack of lubrication  led to overheating and the damage caused to the engine
as a result. In particular, the engineer said;
When the oil pump dropped pressure at no time did any warning  lamps  appear or
the vehicle did not inform  the driver that the car had lost oil pressure advising them to
turn the engine  off and stop immediately to prevent more damage. From our
experience this is a common failure  and 90% of (make of car inserted  here)  that we
rebuild all suffer from the same problem  low oil pressure
Although the engineer said the damage  was impact  related, I can understand why Haven
didnt change its decision. I dont think the engineers explanation supported the statement
he made. And although he provided  several photos  of the engine  once stripped to show  the
damage, none were of the part he said was impact damaged.
From his explanation, it seems the engine in Mr Fs car failed because of low oil levels  which
Mr F apparently wasnt aware  of as his car failed to alert him to the issue. Havens
policy excludes damage caused  by the failure of mechanical or electrical parts.
Haven instructed a forensic engineer to review all of the reports,  Mr Fs statement and
photographs from the specialist garage. Key comments from his report  are:
Ref: DRN84636774From the images and information provided  by (specialist garage name) the vehicle
has sustained a serious internal engine failure due to lack of lubrication. The
crankshaft bearings  had been severely overheated and damaged, a piston
connecting rod has snapped  damaging the engine  block and the crankshaft has
broken into two pieces.
The crankshaft is a substantial solid piece of forged steel. It would take incredible
force to break this component. This is not consistent with impacting an embankment
as described. The damage to the engine crankshaft is consistent with the vehicle
being driven and one of the main  bearings  seizing due to lack of lubrication.  The
momentum of the engine  and driveline components has then caused the crankshaft
to shear.
If the engine sump had been damaged when the vehicle  had left the road and
collided with the embankment engine oil could have been leaking. This could cause
internal engine damage as observed  over a period of time.  However,  when the
vehicle was inspected  by (the IA) they did not note any damage to the underside of
the vehicle or the engine sump. They advised  the vehicle did have  a minor engine oil
leak but this was considered pre-existing due to the vehicle  age.
None of the images from (specialist garage  name) show the engine  sump or
damage to this consistent with an impact to an embankment.
He concluded:
The cause of the engine  failure involving vehicle (registration details)  is the result of
a lack of lubrication  due to either  low engine oil level,  a failed engine oil pump or
other internal lubrication system failure. (specialist  garage) report 90% of the (car
make) engines they repair suffers from the same  problem.  This along with the
internet search  completed would appear to show there is a common issue  with this
engine.
Based on everything  Ive seen, I think Havens decision  to reject the claim was fair and
reasonable. I think its likely that an impact  at over 50mph would result in damage to the
bodywork of a car, but theres no evidence of this. I dont think  the report  provided by the
specialist garage  is persuasive enough  in addition to the IA and forensic engineers reports
 to conclude  that the damage was impact related.
In Havens letter to Mr F dated 28 January 2019  it said it rejected Mr Fs claim as the
mechanical and electrical  issues  could not have been caused by impact damage in the
incident as Mr F described.  It therefore  applied an exclusion  under the policy for damage
caused by Mechanical,  Electrical electronic  computer or software breakdowns, failures,
faults or breakages." 
Based on what Ive seen,  I think Haven decision  to reject the claim for this reason was fair 
and reasonable.
However, Haven went  on to say:
Ref: DRN84636775We can only conclude  that the intention was to derive a more favourable settlement
than the one you may have otherwise been  entitled.  We consider this claim to be
fundamentally dishonest, will be making  no payments in respect  of your claim.
We will be referring the claim  to the Underwriters  to review your policy.
Lastly in completing  our enquiries  we have incurred costs amounting to £2188.00.
We request your reimbursement of these  costs via cheque payable to Haven
Insurance within the next 14 days.
Haven has since told us that it no longer intends  to pursue Mr F for recovery  of its costs.  Its
reiterated that the file remains open and no adverse marker has been recorded  against
Mr Fs name.
So I think Haven should write to Mr F to correct the information previously given in its letter
dated 28 January  2019: to say that it no longer considers his claim to be fraudulent.
However the reason for rejecting the claim remains the same under the General Exclusion
for damage  caused  by mechanical,  electrical electronic computer or software breakdowns,
failures, faults or breakages.
I understand Mr F will be very disappointed  with my decision. But I think on balance  the 
opinion of the IA and the forensic engineer carries  more weight than the specialist report.  I 
think they are more persuasive as to the cause of the damage to Mr Fs car. There  isnt 
enough evidence  to safely conclude that the engine failure was impact  related - and not 
caused by low oil levels - which isnt covered  under Mr Fs policy.  So I think  Havens 
decision to reject his claim was reasonable. I see no reason  for Mr Fs claim to remain  open 
following my decision.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I think  Haven Insurance  Company 
Limiteds decision to reject Mr Fs claim because the policy excluded damage for mechanical  
and electrical issues  was reasonable.
I require Haven Insurance Company  Limited to write to Mr F to correct the information 
previously given: to confirm it no longer considers his claim to be fraudulent and that it no 
longer intends  to pursue  him for the recovery of the costs of his claim. Haven accepts this.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 November  2020.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8463677