K820x#14complaint
Mrs C doesnt think its fair for The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS)  to use her payment 
protection insurance (PPI) compensation to reduce a debt from which  she was discharged 
when her protected trust deed came to an end.
background
Mrs C complained to RBS in 2017  that she had been mis-sold PPI on two loans.
RBS investigated  and upheld Mrs Cs complaint. In September 2017, RBS wrote to Mrs C 
offering compensation.
Mrs C accepted RBS  offer on 4 October 2017. 
However, in 2007,  Mrs C had granted a trust deed  which became a protected trust deed  
for her creditors. 
A protected  trust deed is an alternative to bankruptcy (which is called sequestration in 
Scotland). It is a legally binding agreement between a consumer and his/her creditors, which 
is administered by a trustee. 
Mrs C was subsequently discharged from her trust deed in 2010.
RBS used the compensation to reduce outstanding monies that it says Mrs C still owed and 
hadnt fully repaid - despite being discharged from her protected trust deed. 
Mrs C, unhappy she hadnt received  the compensation, brought  her complaint to our service.
Mrs C says it is unfair for RBS to use the PPI compensation to reduce a debt from which  she 
has been discharged. Mrs Cs explained that there had been a court  case which  focused  on 
whom PPI compensation should be paid to when a consumer has been  discharged  from a 
protected trust deed.  Because of this, Mrs C says the compensation should be paid directly  
to her.
Mrs C also says that one of the loans was taken out and closed before she granted a trust 
deed in 2007. As the loan was closed prior to her trust deed, and didnt form part of her trust 
deed, Mrs C says she should receive the compensation from that loan.
Our adjudicator considered the complaint. She thought RBS had acted fairly in using the 
compensation to reduce the amount left unpaid that Mrs C wont  now ever have to repay to 
RBS  despite Mrs C being discharged from her trust deed.  
Mrs C disagreed with our adjudicators view. As the matter hasnt been resolved, its been  
passed to me for a final decision.
While the complaint was waiting  for an ombudsmans  decision,  Mrs C asked our service  to 
put her complaint on hold until the Scottish  Courts Inner House  of the Court of Session had 
made its decision in Donnelly v Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc [2017]  SAC (Civ) 1. I wrote to 
Mrs C explaining why I didnt think I needed to wait for the outcome of the case in 
considering and providing my decision on her complaint. Mrs C didnt respond. I will explain 
my reasoning on this point again,  within my findings below.
Ref: DRN87609772my findings
Before I explain my findings, I would like to explain where our services  powers come from.
The Financial Services and Markets  Act 2000  (FSMA) is an act of Parliament of the 
United Kingdom  that created the Financial Services Authority (now called the Financial 
Conduct Authority) as a regulator for insurance,  investment  business  and banking, and 
created our service.
FSMA under  Part XVI  The Ombudsman Scheme sets out:
225. The scheme and the scheme  operator.
(1)This Part provides  for a scheme under which certain disputes may be resolved 
quickly and with minimum formality  by an independent person.
228. Determination under  the compulsory jurisdiction.
(2)A complaint is to be determined by reference to what is, in the opinion  of the 
ombudsman, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case.
Alongside FSMA, the Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA) sets out, in its handbook, the rules 
under which we operate. They can be found  online.  These are known  as the DISP rules 
(Dispute Resolution:  Complaints).
DISP 3.6.1 states:
The Ombudsman  will determine  a complaint by reference to what is, in 
[the ombudsmans] opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case.
And when  considering what  is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
the case, Im required by DISP 3.6.4 R to take into account:
(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators rules,  guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; and
(2) (where appropriate) what [the ombudsman] considers to have been good  
industry practice at the relevant time.
It has already been agreed that the PPI policies were mis-sold. So I wont  be looking at how 
the PPI came to be sold as that is no longer in dispute. And from looking at what  RBS have 
offered it includes everything  I would  expect to see. 
All that is left for me to decide  is whether its fair and reasonable for RBS to use the PPI 
compensation to reduce the outstanding  amount that Mrs C says was written  off after she 
was discharged from her protected trust deed. 
Ref: DRN87609773Mrs C says as she was discharged from her protected  trust deed and in light of relevant law 
(Scots law) the compensation should  be paid directly to her. 
RBS says it has the right to offset  the compensation against monies Mrs C hasnt fully 
repaid.
Is it fair for RBS to use the PPI compensation to reduce an outstanding amount owed  
despite Mrs C being discharged from her protected trust deed?
There have been  some court cases about  to whom PPI compensation should  be paid when 
a consumer has been discharged from a protected trust deed. And this is the law that 
Mrs C says I should rely on in determining what should happen  to the compensation. 
Ill summarise  the relevant  court cases.
In July 2018, the Supreme Court  issued a judgment  looking at what should happen to PPI 
compensation after a protected trust deed completed.  The court  case  was Dooneen Ltd (t/a 
McGinness Associates) v Mond  [2018]  UKSC 54.
In that case, the Supreme  Court said the PPI compensation  should not be paid to the trustee 
for the benefit  of the creditors and should be paid to the consumer.
Another case that is also relevant is Donnelly v Royal Bank  of Scotland  Plc [2017]  SAC 
(Civ) 1. And this is the case  that Mrs C says is relevant to her situation.
In Donnelly , the court said RBS couldnt use the consumers PPI compensation to reduce a 
debt from which they were discharged when the trust deed came to an end. However, this 
has been appealed by RBS  so the outcome may change.
Above, Ive explained  I must take into account the relevant law when deciding what  I think  is 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the case. But, importantly,  Im not bound to 
follow it. And if I decide to depart from it, I must say so and explain why.
In this case, I am aware  of, and have taken into account, the relevant law. But, and 
importantly, within my role I must apply an over-arching test of whats  fair and reasonable in 
the particular circumstances  of Mrs Cs complaint  as required of me through 
FSMA Section.228 and the FCAs DISP rules.
Having done so, I think its fair for RBS to use the compensation  to reduce the monies  Mrs C 
borrowed and didnt  fully repay. Ill explain why.
At the time Mrs C granted a trust deed, RBS were  owed  an outstanding amount. While 
Mrs C was discharged from her protected trust deed  and in doing  so reduced that amount 
through any final distribution  RBS received  there was still an amount that Mrs C wont now 
ever have to repay. RBS arent seeking  to recover that amount  it is simply reducing the 
amount owed.
So the fact that Mrs C entered into a protected trust deed and was discharged from her debt 
when her trust deed came to an end doesnt, in my opinion,  make a difference  to what  is fair.
I think it would be unfair  to tell RBS to pay back the PPI compensation to Mrs C, when Mrs C 
doesnt now have  to pay back the many  thousands of pounds  she borrowed. 
Ref: DRN87609774Mrs C argues that one of the loans was taken out and closed prior to her trust deed, and 
didnt form part of her trust deed.  So Mrs C says she should receive the compensation on 
that loan.
It is important  to note that when a consumer grants a trust deed, the creditor simply pools 
together any debts  the consumer owes it  so it effectively  becomes one amount that is 
owed. And a business will look to see if it owes the consumer  anything,  and then adjusts the 
amount that is owed.  This would then be the final amount that it puts forward as what  is 
owed to it as a creditor in the trust deed.
Had Mrs C  or her trustee   realised shed been mis-sold the PPI while the trust deed was 
active, then RBS would clearly  have been  entitled  to use the compensation to reduce what 
she owed it, or, alternatively, it could  have been paid to the trustee for the benefit  of all her 
creditors. Importantly she wouldnt have got this money directly. 
I recognise that Mrs C didnt complain about  the mis-sold  PPI until after she had been  
discharged from her trust deed.  But again I dont think  this makes a difference  to what  is fair. 
I say this because  thanks to trust deed there was an amount that Mrs C wont now ever have 
to repay.  And as explained above I think it would be unfair to tell RBS to pay back the PPI 
compensation to Mrs C, when Mrs C doesnt  now have to pay back the money she 
borrowed. 
Overall I think  its fair for RBS to use the PPI compensation amounts  to reduce the borrowing 
left unpaid that Mrs C wont  now ever have to repay.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I think its fair for The Royal  Bank of Scotland Plc to 
use Mrs Cs PPI compensation to reduce the monies owed and left unpaid when Mrs Cs 
trust deed came to an end.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 November  2019.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8760977