K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that a car he had on finance through BMW  Financial Services  (GB)  Limited 
(BMWFS) was misrepresented to him. He is also unhappy about  the service  he received 
from the dealership.
background
Mr S has, on occasion, been represented  by his partner in this complaint. But for ease  I will 
refer to Mr S throughout.
Mr S took receipt of a used car in January 2018. The car was just under a year old and had 
completed 12,797  miles. Mr S financed the deal through  a hire purchase agreement  with 
BMWFS.
He says that when he agreed to finance  the vehicle he was told the car had new tyres fitted 
so he was upset,  only seven months later,  to be told by a garage that the car needed four 
new tyres. Hed only completed 2,700 miles since the inception  of the deal and hed 
therefore like BMWFS to pay for the tyres hes had to fit: the ones they should have provided 
in the first place.
Mr S is also disappointed with the service he received from the dealership. He says,  among 
other things,  that they encouraged him to cheat on his insurance  policy; didnt call him back  
and got the costs wrong.
BMWFS didnt accept that Mr S had been told the tyres  were  new and they explained that all 
tyres were recorded as above the legal limit on the tyre report. So they didnt think theyd 
done anything  wrong.
But Mr S disagreed and he referred his complaint to this service  where  our adjudicator  took 
a look at the evidence. She was persuaded that it was most likely Mr S had been told the 
tyres were new but she didnt think this would have impacted on his decision to buy the car. 
She was however, persuaded that the tyres  hadnt been as durable as a reasonable 
consumer would have  expected and so she thought it was fair to suggest BMWFS  refund  the 
£1,700 Mr S had spent  on replacing them. She went on to explain that the complaints Mr S 
had about the dealership should be directed to them  and she couldnt consider it against 
BMWFS as this portion of Mr Ss complaint had nothing to do with the finance arrangement.
But BMWFS  disagreed with the adjudicator. They said there  was no evidence  that the 
dealership had told Mr S the tyres were new: the evidence was all hearsay. And they went  
on to say that all of the tyres were  measured to be within  the legal limits and as such  there  
was no requirement  on the dealership to replace them. So BMWFS  asked for a final decision 
by an ombudsman.
Ref: DRN85891582my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think Mr S hasnt  been treated fairly here.  Please let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
the tyres
Theres some dispute as to what was said by the dealership about the new tyres.  I dont 
have enough evidence to suggest  that Mr S was most likely told the car he was taking 
receipt of had new tyres. It appears to be Mr Ss word against the dealerships  and I think if 
new tyres were provided it would  be likely  that this information was included in the 
paperwork and it isnt. So I dont  think I can find that the vehicle was misrepresented and 
even if I did, I would agree with the adjudicator that in my mind its unlikely Mr S would have 
discontinued his deal on that ground alone.
The relevant  legislation  says that a car must  be suitably durable  and if it isnt it would be 
reasonable to ask BMWFS to take some further  action.
I do think Mr S couldve expected to have  significantly more wear  out of the tyres  than he 
got. This was a luxury vehicle with expensive  tyres  and whilst I accept that they are wear 
items I think  its unreasonable to provide a relatively  new, low mileage vehicle with such 
limited tread left on all of the tyres.  The tyre treads  were 3.4mm, 3.7mm,  3.7mm and 3.9mm 
and BMW would have  changed them if they were  lower than 3mm when it seems likely they 
would have been noted on any MOT as an advisory.  Mr S had to replace all of the tyres 
before the car had completed 3,000  miles and I think  a reasonable person would see that as 
unfair as it was a significant expenditure and theyd not proved durable.
So I agree with the adjudicators view here that BMWFS should refund the cost of the tyres 
that have been replaced.  
the complaint  against the dealership
The dealership is the finance companies  representative here. But BMWFS arent responsible  
for actions  the dealership have taken  that arent related to the finance deal so Mr S will need 
to refer this portion of his complaint directly to the dealership.
Ref: DRN85891583my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell BMW Financial 
Services(GB) Limited to refund the £1,700  Mr S has spent on new tyres and add 8% simple  
interest per annum from the date Mr S made the purchase (9 August 2018)  to the date of 
settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 February  2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8589158