K820x#14Complaint
Ms B says that Legal & General Insurance Limited unfairly  rejected  her claim for damaged 
garden plants on her home insurance policy. 
All references to L&G include  their agents.
Background
Ms B submitted a claim for damage to her garden  in October 2017. Ms B claimed for 
damage to her garden wall, shed  roof, and outdoor plants that had been damaged  by the 
falling wall. L&G arranged for a surveyor to visit Ms Bs property, and it accepted some of 
Ms Bs claim under the storm section  of her policy.
The surveyor negotiated  a cash settlement with Ms B to repair  the damage to the wall and 
shed roof based on L&Gs contractor  rates. The surveyor referred Ms Bs claim for the plants 
to L&G.  Ms B accepted the cash  settlement and provided details of the damaged plants  to 
L&G. 
L&G declined Ms Bs part of the claim for the damaged plants. It said that the terms of       
Ms Bs policy didnt cover loss or damage  of plants due to a storm. Ms B disagreed and 
complained to L&G. She said the plants were  damaged because  of a falling wall due to high 
winds.
L&G reviewed Ms Bs complaint and maintained its position to decline the claim.  It said 
Ms Bs claim for damage  to her garden  had been  accepted because it was caused by a 
storm, so it couldnt consider the damage  to her plants as a separate event. It did say that by 
asking for details of the damaged plants it had given the indication the loss might be 
covered, so it offered £100 for the inconvenience caused.
Ms B was unhappy  with L&Gs response  so she referred the complaint to our service.  Our 
investigator looked at everything and didnt recommend the complaint be upheld.  She found  
that L&G had declined Ms Bs claim fairly. She said this was because the garden plants 
section of the policy didnt cover  damage caused by a storm. She also found that L&G had 
settled the remainder of the claim fairly, in line with the excess  on Ms Bs policy. And she 
concluded L&Gs offer of £100 for the inconvenience caused was fair.
Ms B disagreed with our investigators findings. She said the claim for the garden plants was 
not because of a storm, but because of the collapsing wall due to high winds.  She provided 
her latest  policy  schedule, which showed cover  for plants in the garden. And she said she 
was led to believe that the plants  would be covered otherwise she would not have bought it.
Ms B asked for an ombudsmans decision,  so the complaint  has been passed to me to 
decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to be 
upholding Ms Bs complaint, and for broadly the same reasons as our investigator. Ill explain  
why.
Ref: DRN80399812L&G has already  accepted Ms B had a valid claim under the storm section of her policy.  Its 
provided evidence  of negotiating a cash settlement with Ms B, which she then accepted. Ive 
seen the surveyor  report, which discusses the scope of works with Ms B, and how much  
would be paid as a cash settlement. I appreciate Ms B now says she would  have rejected 
this settlement if she knew her plants  would not be covered. But I havent  seen any 
suggestions from Ms B about what a fair settlement would look like. Based on everything Ive 
seen Im satisfied L&G handled this part of the claim fairly. So Im not going to require it to do 
anything further  here.
Ive checked the terms and conditions of Ms Bs policy in regard to cover  for garden plants. 
The terms state plants  in the garden  will be covered if damaged  by certain causes.  But storm 
does not form part of this list. I dont think this is an unusual  term for policies of this type, and 
I think it is clear  from this term that plants in the garden are only covered under a limited set 
of circumstances.  So based on the policy wording  alone I dont think L&G did anything  wrong 
in declining Ms Bs claim for the damaged  plants.
Ms B says she wouldnt  have taken  out the policy if shed  known  that her plants  wouldnt be 
covered. Shes provided a copy of her renewal documents which  show  plant cover as part of 
the policy benefits. But as Ive said above,  I think the term covering plants makes it clear 
they are only covered  in limited circumstances. I havent seen  evidence  of other policies 
which would offer this level of cover she wanted.  So I dont think Ms B would have been able 
to take out insurance for this event.
Ive also considered that Ms B feels the damage  wasnt caused by a storm. But L&G have 
accepted the damage to Ms Bs garden wall and shed roof was caused by storm. The 
garden wall falling damaged the plants, and this was part of the same event. So I think  it is 
reasonable for L&G to consider this part of the claim under the storm peril too. I cant see 
any other section of the policy  that would apply to this event and provide cover.
From what  Ive seen, I agree that L&Gs actions could have led Ms B to believe  the plants 
would be covered. I do think that as the expert, L&G shouldve known at an earlier  stage that 
it was unlikely the damaged plants would be covered, and could have managed  Ms Bs 
expectations better here. But based on the evidence I have, I can see no guarantee from 
L&G that it would cover the cost of replacing the plants. So I think  L&Gs  offer of £100  
compensation for the inconvenience caused  is fair and I dont  think it needs to pay anything 
further.
Ref: DRN80399813My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 October  2019.
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8039981