K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that Lloyds Bank  PLC, when it was trading as Cheltenham  & 
Gloucester (LLOYDS) mis-sold  them a mortgage payment protection  insurance  (PPI)  
policy in 2001.  
Lloyds Bank  PLC is responsible for dealing with this complaint. So from now on Ill just refer 
to Lloyds.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Ds case.
The borrowing  was taken  jointly by Mr and Mrs D. But the PPI just covered Mr D. 
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Mr and Mrs D say the optional nature of the policy  wasnt  made clear to them. But I think  
Lloyds most likely made it clear that Mr and Mrs D didnt have to take out the PPI and 
they chose to take it out. I say that because Mr D had signed  for the PPI on a separate  
form headed Payment  Protection Plus Proposal. He also signed  a separate  direct debit 
form for the PPI. 
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs D so it had to check  that the PPI was right 
for them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think that it 
was. For example Mr D wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover and they seem to have  had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs D about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as 
it shouldve been  including information about its cost. But they chose to take it out - so 
it looks like they wanted this type of cover. And it seems  like it would have been useful 
for them if something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable.  So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put them  off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs D have said - including  what theyve said about 
their sick pay and savings. But PPI wouldve paid out in addition to this meaning they 
couldve used these  funds  for other living costs.  And the mortgage was a big and long term 
commitment, secured  on Mr and Mrs Ds home. So these points dont change  my decision.
Ref: DRN86135432my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 April 2019.
Ketan Nagla
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8613543