K820x#14complaint
Mr M and Miss F say Bank of Scotland (BoS) mis-sold them a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr M and Miss F bought the policy in 2010  at the same time as taking out a mortgage.  they 
applied for the mortgage and PPI policy in branch.  
The policy provided  cover  for both Mr M and Miss F for accident, sickness, and 
unemployment  subject to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay £389.71 a month 
towards Mr M and Miss Fs mortgage balance in the event of a successful claim. At the time, 
it cost £27.08 a month. The whole plan also provided life and critical illness cover,  but Mr M 
and Miss F havent complained about  those elements so I havent considered them  here.
At the time,  Mr S was employed as a college  lecturer. He has told us he was entitled  to good 
sick pay and redundancy pay and no savings.  Mr S has said he had sciatica before the sale. 
Miss F was employed as a claims handler. She hasnt told us what  her sick pay or 
redundancy pay was but I think its reasonable to think she would have received at least a 
statutory entitlement.  Miss F has said she was in good health at the time of the sale.  
 
BoS has sent us evidence  to show that the mortgage account  opened  in May 2010 and it 
was still running when Mr M and Miss F brought their complaint. 
Mr M and Miss Fs representative  has made  lengthy and substantial  representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr M and Miss Fs representative says:
BoS failed  to meet the sales standards which  applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr M and Miss F 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr M and 
Miss Fs representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means BoS should have told 
Mr M and Miss F about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means BoS should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr M and Miss F and the 
impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
Ref: DRN82442582The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mr M and Miss F received was misleading. These policies were 
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr M and Miss F disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr M and Miss Fs. I dont intend  to set 
that out in much detail here,  but Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr M and Miss Fs 
complaint.
The mortgage was arranged after mortgage  lending became regulated in October 2004  as 
such this was an FCA regulated mortgage.  That means the unfair  relationship provisions set 
out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme  Court  judgment in Plevin about 
s.140A of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable.
This sale took place  in 2010 after the sale of general  insurance  products like this became 
regulated by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) in January 2005 and after the FSA 
renewed its insurance conduct  rules in January 2008. So, the FSAs and the FCAs 
overarching principles for businesses and insurance conduct rules  (ICOBS) are applicable to 
this complaint.
Its also relevant to note that there  have for some  time been codes governing the sale of 
insurance products  such as PPI. There is much in common between  the present statutory 
regulatory regime and the non-statutory provisions that preceded  it (and, indeed, the position 
at law). 
Although the non-statutory provisions no longer apply as specific requirements on those 
selling insurance,  I consider they still represent a helpful guide to good  industry  practice. As 
Ref: DRN82442583a result,  its appropriate  for me to take them into account along  with the relevant ICOBS 
rules and the other relevant  considerations.
In the period immediately before statutory regulation in 2005, there was a period of industry 
self-regulation by the General Insurance  Standards  Council (GISC). It published  The 
General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance Code for private customers   the 
GISC Code. This set out minimum  standards of good practice for its members  to follow 
when selling  insurance, including PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
BoS, selling  insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
The sale took place  after the sale of mortgage products became regulated by the FSA. So 
the mortgage conduct of business rules  (MCOB)  are applicable to this complaint. Prior to 
regulation subscribing  lenders and mortgage intermediaries followed a voluntary mortgage 
code. While predominantly about mortgage  related matters, it also included  some insurance-
related commitments.  As with the sale of general insurance, there is much in common  
between the pre and post-regulatory position.
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. The sale took place after insurance mediation became  a regulated  activity  in January 
2005, so BoS was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 when 
considering Mr M and Miss Fs complaint.
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If BoS gave advice, whether it advised Mr M and Miss F with reasonable care and 
skill  in particular,  whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for them,  given 
their needs and circumstances. 
Ref: DRN82442584-Whether BoS gave  Mr M and Miss F sufficient,  appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr M 
and Miss F, I must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr M and Miss 
F suffered loss or damage and what I consider would amount to fair compensation 
for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr M and Miss 
F and BoS,  Ive decided  not to uphold  Mr M and Miss Fs complaint. Ive set out my 
reasoning below. 
did Mr M and Miss  F know they had a choice?
BoS had to make it clear  that the PPI policy was optional. BoS has provided a copy  of the 
mortgage offer which doesnt include any requirement to take PPI. It has also provided the 
key facts document provided to Mr M and Miss F. It clearly states that there is no 
requirement to buy any insurance from BoS and that the only compulsory insurance  (which 
can be bought  anywhere) is buildings insurance.  Although the PPI application form is no 
longer available Mr M and Miss F would have had to complete  a separate direct  debit form 
for the premiums to be taken and a cover  confirmation letter  would have been sent to Mr M 
and Miss F. If they hadnt agreed  to take it I think theyd have queried it at this point. 
Mr M and Miss F have  said they felt pressure and rushed, but they havent explained what 
happened to make them feel that way. Several weeks  elapsed between the sale and when  
the policy started.  If theyd felt pressured  or rushed I think  they had time to reconsider their 
decision before  the sale completed. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely Mr M and Miss F knew  the policy  was 
optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did BoS provide advice?
BoS provided advice  to Mr M and Miss F during  this sale. This means BoS had to advise 
Mr M and Miss F with reasonable  care and skill, in particular whether the policy  was 
appropriate or suitable given their needs  and circumstances.
the advice
While I dont know what was discussed  in the meeting, the documentary evidence suggests  
that BoS took some steps to establish whether the policy was a suitable recommendation for 
Mr M and Miss F. The adviser had information  about  some of Mr M and Miss Fs financial 
circumstances as part of the mortgage application. But although  a demands and needs 
assessment was completed  to try and establish whether Mr M and Miss F had a need  for the 
policy I dont think it did enough to ensure the PPI was suitable. I say this because  it didnt 
specifically explore Mr M and Miss Fs contractual benefits and existing  savings, or whether 
they had any pre-existing medical conditions which may have been excluded  from cover.  
There is an indication that Mr M and Miss F would have had to confirm  various  answers to 
Ref: DRN82442585questions about  their health  on the PPI application  form, but even if Mr M and Miss F had 
been able to answer all these in the negative there were still some conditions  that wouldnt 
have been covered. 
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded BoS did all it should have done to 
determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr M and Miss F given their circumstances.  
So Im not persuaded BoS advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded BoS did all it should  have  done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr M and Miss F, I do think its more likely than not that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for them. In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr M and Miss F both met the eligibility  criteria for the policy.
-Mr M and Miss F had a need  for the policy  it seems likely that Mr M and Miss Fs 
ability to continue to meet  their mortgage repayments would have been put under 
strain if either of them was not working for an extended period of time  even 
allowing for the redundancy and sick pay benefits they say they were  entitled to.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr M and Miss F. 
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr M and Miss F. 
There was nothing  about Mr M and Miss Fs employment or occupation which  would 
have made it difficult for them  to claim.  Although Mr M had a medical  condition  in the 
lead up to the sale I dont think this would  have prevented him taking the policy for 
reasons which  I will explain later on. Miss F didnt have an existing medical condition 
that could affect her ability  to claim.  And both Mr M and Miss F were  in permanent 
employment.
-While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 months for each claim 
it still provided useful  cover given Mr M and Miss Fs circumstances given the fact the 
policy protected mortgage repayments  relating to their home and the potential 
consequences should Mr M and Miss F have been  unable to make  the repayments 
on a mortgage  secured  against  their house.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  BoS gave Mr M and Miss F sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable them to understand what BoS 
was recommending to them and make  an informed decision about whether to follow that 
advice and take out the policy.
the information
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr M and Miss F Im not persuaded 
BoS did enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a way that 
was fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded BoS gave  Mr M and Miss F all of the 
information they needed about the policy to make an informed  decision about  whether to 
follow the recommendation  and take it out.
Ref: DRN82442586Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr M and Miss Fs representative has raised  
a number of general  points  in regard to the requirements on a business  when providing  
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr M and 
Miss Fs. Ive considered these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr M and Miss Fs representative considers to 
be poor value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather 
than the insurer.  
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr M and Miss F about  the limitations and exclusions, it should  have  gone  
further and explained  the significance of them to them.  
Im not persuaded by Mr M and Miss Fs representatives views on this. The duty of utmost  
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mr M and Miss F have suggested. And taking into account the 
law, industry codes and standards  of good industry  practice applicable to this complaint, I 
dont think its fair and reasonable to conclude  that BoS ought to have done either. 
what effect did BoSs shortcomings have on Mr M and Miss F? To what extent did Mr 
M and Miss  F suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that BoS didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  to Mr M and Miss 
F. So I have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude  Mr M 
and Miss F suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether or 
not Mr M and Miss F would have still taken out the policy, had BoS done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded BoS took the steps  it should have done to establish  whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr M and Miss F, I have found that the policy was 
ultimately suitable for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr M and Miss F suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if BoS had explained things properly, 
Mr M and Miss F would  have acted differently, or whether they would have  taken out the 
policy in any event.
Mr M and Miss F say they wouldnt have taken it out and believe  I should presume this to be 
the case given  the significant failings identified above. Ive considered the representations  of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
Ref: DRN82442587return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr M and Miss F had some interest in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when BoS advised them  that there was a 
suitable product  they could buy that would protect their mortgage payments in the event  they 
were unable to work because of accident,  sickness and unemployment, they concluded they 
wanted that product. But they made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning 
what they thought they were getting is not exactly what they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr M and Miss Fs 
circumstances at the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or 
unsuitable for them.
As Ive also already explained, the information Mr M and Miss F were given about the cost 
and benefit was clear. But the information  about  other aspects of the policy, such as the 
exclusions wasnt as clear  as it should have been.  
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr M and Miss F thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions and symptoms that Mr M 
and Miss F knew about or ought  to have known about before the start date of the 
policy; 
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr M and 
Miss F werent  permanent  employees;
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr M and Miss F pause for thought  and may well have caused  them  to conclude the policy  
wasnt as good  as they thought, and they might have decided not to proceed. The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr M and Miss F from taking out 
the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr M and Miss Fs circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them.  Mr M and Miss F were  eligible for 
its benefits and it provided  cover  that, despite  its limitations and exclusions,  couldve proved 
valuable to them should the insured risks have become a reality. Although Mr F says he had 
a medical condition when the PPI was taken out and the policy wouldnt have immediately  
provided cover had he needed to take time off work for this condition,  I dont  think  better 
information about this exclusion would have  put him off agreeing to it. I say this because 
Mr F reports that it didnt cause him to take any time off work and that it resolved itself 
without referral to hospital with the aid of physiotherapy, so I dont think  hed have thought it 
was the most likely reason for him to need  to take extended time off work sick. Miss F had 
no health conditions  at the time of sale.
Ref: DRN82442588I also havent seen  any evidence to suggest they wouldve been caught  by any of the other 
significant exclusions. So, I still think they had some good reasons to take the policy  out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mr M and 
Miss F might reasonably have expected (in the case of back  pain there were no additional 
steps to make for the first three months  of any claim). But its unlikely they would have  
expected to be able to make a disability claim without having  to provide some evidence  to 
support that claim. And while  this limitation  might  have  dissuaded  some  consumers in 
slightly different circumstances to Mr M and Miss F from taking out the policy, Mr M and Miss 
F, in their circumstances, still had some  good reasons to take it out.
BoS may not have told Mr M and Miss F that any claim they made would be limited to a 12-
month period.  This may have differed from what they expected and might have hoped for, 
but they had limited other means to fall back on. 
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr M and Miss F would still have thought a policy 
that paid up to 12 monthly mortgage payments would have been of benefit  to them and 
would help them manage the consequences  should Mr M and Miss F be unable  to work in 
the circumstances covered  by the policy. The policy allowed  for multiple  claims to be made, 
it could help reduce  their outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time,  ensuring their home was 
not placed at risk.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr M and Miss F would still have taken  out the policy.  The policy  was suitable for 
them, was sufficiently close  to what its likely  they thought they were  getting and provided 
benefits that would help them manage  the consequences if they were  made  redundant, or 
unable to work through accident  or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely 
than not Mr M and Miss F would have taken  out the policy in any event notwithstanding the 
limitations on cover.
Mr M and Miss Fs representatives  say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr M and Miss F would not have  bought  the PPI they bought unless, in the 
particular circumstances  of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr M and 
Miss Fs circumstances as detailed above,  I consider it reasonable to conclude the position 
Mr M and Miss F found themselves in as a result  of the sale was the same  position they 
would have been in had the breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Ref: DRN82442589Mr M and Miss F believe the presumption may only be rebutted  when the flaws  in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr M and Miss F in the position they would  have been  in 
if they had not bought the policy. 
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that they would still have 
taken out the PPI had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy they were buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude BoS should  pay Mr M and Miss F compensation, as that would 
put them in a better position than they would have been in if everything had happened as it 
should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr M and Miss F think BoS misrepresented the terms of the policy in 
how it described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court might conclude some  
of BoSs statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion  the reason why BoS failed to 
act fairly and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  BoS gave Mr M and Miss F, in the way it did, 
was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect it to have 
met in 2010  when providing information about  an insurance policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr M and Miss Fs representative says a court  might 
take if it were to find BoS negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr M and Miss F and 
about the remedy a court might award  if it were to find that BoS had been in breach of its 
duty of utmost  good faith. But this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what 
is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the complaint  including what  I think  is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr M and Miss F in a better  position  than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M and Miss F 
to accept or reject my decision before 16 November 2020.
S.Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8244258