K820x#14complaint
Mrs D complains that Santander UK Plc didnt switch her interest only mortgage to part 
capital repayment.  She asks that it pays compensation or extends the term of her mortgage.
background
Mrs D took out an interest only mortgage in 2007.  The term is due to expire  in December 
2020. Mrs D says she asked Santander  to switch  the mortgage to part capital repayment in 
2013. She says Santander didnt make the change, and as a result  she wont be able to 
repay her mortgage when  the term expires.  Mrs D said she didnt realise Santander hadnt 
made the switch  because  the monthly  payments would  have been about the same,  and 
family members had health  problems which meant  she didnt check  her statements.
Mrs D asks that Santander extends her mortgage  term for 3 to 5 years.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint be upheld.  She said Mrs D hadnt 
signed and returned the form authorising  the switch to part capital repayment. And her 
statements and discussions with Santander would have shown the mortgage was on interest  
only terms. The investigator  said Mrs D should  contact  Santander  about  applying for an 
extension. 
Mrs D didnt agree, and so the complaint has been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs D has a flexible offset mortgage  with Santander,  with payments on an interest only 
basis.
Mrs D contacted Santander in late 2013 about  switching part of her interest  only mortgage to 
capital repayment.  Santander sent an offer and asked  her to sign and return the acceptance 
form if she wanted to go ahead. As it didnt receive the acceptance form, it didnt  make  the 
change.
In December 2013 Mrs Ds contractual monthly  payment  (CMP) was about  £185. However, 
shed been making monthly payments of £1,000. If Mrs D had made the change to part 
capital redemption her CMP  would have increased  to £1,060. So I understand what  she says 
about her payments not changing significantly.  Mrs D says she didnt check  statements 
carefully, as she was dealing with family issues.
I dont think Santander  made an error when it didnt switch the mortgage  to part redemption. 
It didnt receive the form authorising this. Santander sent statements to Mrs D. It didnt know 
that her circumstances meant she didnt check them. 
Although Mrs D didnt authorise  the switch to part repayment in 2013, she did continue  to 
make overpayments which were  credited to the linked account and so reduced her offset  
balance. 
Ref: DRN82653072However, Mrs D also withdrew money  from the linked account in mid 2015. I think Mrs D 
must reasonably have  known when she made the withdrawals that she was making 
overpayments (which  went  into the savings account) rather than contractual  monthly 
payments. She could  have raised  concerns about  this at that time. 
Santander says it sent letters to Mrs D from 2017  saying  her interest only mortgage would 
expire in December 2020, and asking her to contact it about her plans to repay the balance. 
It provided copies of the letters, which  also included  information about  possible options to 
reduce the balance, and an information form to complete and return.
I dont think Santander  made an error when it didnt convert the mortgage account to capital 
repayment, and I dont think it misled Mrs D about this. I dont think it would be fair and 
reasonable for me to require Santander  to pay compensation.  
However, the term of Mrs Ds mortgage  is due to expire later this year and I appreciate  shes 
worried about this. I dont think its reasonable for me to require Santander to agree a term 
extension when it hasnt  had an opportunity to explore how it can help Mrs D, or whether this 
would be in her best interests. Id encourage Mrs D to contact Santander as soon as 
possible to discuss her circumstances and see what options are available to her. Its in both 
Mrs Ds and Santanders best interests  to find an affordable way for Mrs D to repay the 
borrowing.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 June  2020..
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8265307