K820x#14complaint
Mrs C has complained about the cancellation  of an annual boiler service appointment 
arranged under her home emergency policy provided by British Gas Insurance  Limited.
Mrs Cs complaint has been brought by her son Mr C, who has the legal  authority  to act on 
Mrs Cs behalf.
background
I have previously issued  a provisional  decision  regarding this complaint. The following 
represents excerpts from my provisional decision,  outlining the background to this complaint 
and my provisional findings, and forms part of this final decision:
Mrs C has a British  Gas home  emergency policy covering her property, but she no longer 
lives in that property.  In dealing with his mothers affairs, Mr C travelled to the property  to 
attend a British Gas annual  service  of the boiler.
The property is some distance from where  Mr C lives. Having waited for the engineer to 
arrive, he was informed  by British Gas ten minutes  before the allotted time for the 
appointment to expire that it had been cancelled. Mr C has said that he had to take time off 
work to attend the property and suffered loss of earnings, plus additional travel costs. He 
asked that British Gas reimburse him £232.34 for the cancelled appointment.
In response, British  Gas offered Mr C £50 as a goodwill gesture for the cancellation. It also 
acknowledged that it had failed to carry out annual services in four previous years,  and paid 
Mrs C £255 in respect of this. British Gas noted  that it had already paid Mr C a sum of £35 
into his account  on the day of the missed appointment, but it could not provide further  details 
about why this had occurred.
Disappointed with British  Gass response, Mr C brought  a complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered that Mr C should  be paid a further £50 to reflect the 
inconvenience he had been caused  due to the cancelled  appointment.
Mr C disagreed with these findings. He stated that he was principally seeking  the costs he 
had incurred travelling  to his mothers home, together with his lost holiday, totalling  £232.34.
British Gas also disagreed with the investigators assessment. It stated that the reason the 
annual service had been cancelled was due to a large number of emergency  call outs that it 
needed to attend. It also commented that it was Mr Cs choice to attend the appointment, 
and that it was therefore not responsible for his costs.  British  Gas confirmed that to prevent 
further difficulties,  it arranged for the replacement service to take place on a weekend.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
British Gas accepts that it caused Mr C inconvenience  when  it cancelled  the annual service 
appointment at Mrs Cs property at very late notice. I appreciate  that Mr C had already 
Ref: DRN83323762incurred the cost of travelling to the property  by the time he was informed about  the 
cancellation, and he had also taken the day off work.
Whilst it is clear  that Mr C was caused  unnecessary inconvenience and incurred costs, I 
must consider my powers with regard to any compensation I can award in a situation such  
as this. The British  Gas policy is in Mrs Cs name,  and relates to Mrs Cs home. Mr C has the 
legal authority to deal with Mrs Cs affairs.  However,  Mr C brings the complaint on behalf of 
Mrs C, who is the customer  of British Gas. I must consider the extent to which,  if at all, Mrs C 
has suffered a financial loss, or distress and inconvenience, due to British  Gass actions.
Although Mr C has detailed the costs  he incurred  as a result  of the appointment cancellation, 
it is not clear that Mrs C has suffered any financial loss herself, as the customer  of British 
Gas. Further to that, although it is unfortunate  that Mrs Cs personal circumstances mean 
that she was not able to attend the appointment, it appears that Mr C made the decision to 
travel the significant  distance that he did to personally attend the property. Overall, my 
current view is that it would not be reasonable to require British Gas to cover Mr Cs cost for 
this journey, or for his day off work.
The cancelled appointment clearly caused  Mr C frustration. However, this service will not 
generally award compensation for inconvenience  to a representative of a consumer. We 
would normally only award  such compensation if the representatives inconvenience in turn 
led to distress or inconvenience  for the business customer. There  is not sufficient evidence 
at present for me to conclude that Mrs C was inconvenienced or distressed by British Gas 
cancelling the appointment.
British Gas has paid Mrs C £255 in relation to annual services  that have not taken place in 
previous years. It has also paid Mr C £35 (although it has not been able to explain the 
reason for this), and offered Mr C a further £50 for the cancelled appointment. For the 
reasons explained above, I do not currently consider that British Gas should  be required to 
pay further redress in relation  to the cancelled appointment.
responses to my provisional  decision
Neither Mr C nor British Gas has responded to my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In the absence of any substantive comments being made by the parties  in response to my 
provisional decision, I do not consider I have  reason  to depart from the findings I reached in 
that decision.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint, and I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C, on behalf  of 
Mrs C, to accept  or reject  my decision before  2 August 2019.
Ref: DRN83323763John Swain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8332376