K822xcomplaint
Ms C has complained about the way Advantage Insurance Company Limited dealt  with her 
claim under her motor  policy after her car caught  fire.
background 
In March 2018, Ms C said her car caught fire overnight. She made a claim to Advantage. It 
said it would  send out the relevant paperwork and forms for her to complete. There were  
problems with both Ms C completing the paperwork and Advantage dealing with her claim. 
At one stage, Advantage wrongly  closed her claim and had to re-open it again.
Ms C said Advantage  didnt keep her updated and one stage she had to phone it every week  
in order to progress  her claim for the total loss of her car. She said settlement of her claim 
was excessively delayed.  
Ms C also thought the excess she had to pay was more than she thought  it would be. And 
she was unhappy  that her premium then increased when she put her new car on the policy  
and added a named  driver.
Advantage agreed it should have dealt  with her claim better and it offered  her £80 
compensation. But it didnt think it had done anything wrong as regards  her excess or the 
premium increase. 
Ms C remained dissatisfied and brought her complaint to us. The investigator upheld  Ms Cs 
complaint in part. She thought part of the premium increase,  which increased it by just one 
penny, didnt need an admin  charge by Advantage of £20. So she thought Advantage should 
refund that plus the interest it had charged Ms C. 
Advantage didnt  agree  so Ms Cs complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding this 
complaint on similar  basis to that of the investigator. Ill now explain why.
Dealing first with the delay of dealing with Ms Cs claim, its clear to me that there  were  some 
delays in the relevant forms Advantage required being completed  properly  by Ms C. This 
caused delays.  Its also clear Advantage wrongly  closed  her claim and had to reopen it. So 
its also clear consequently, that the processing  of Ms Cs claim for the total loss of her car 
was a somewhat  protracted process. 
Advantage agreed its service to Ms C could have been better, it decided to offer Ms C £80 
compensation. Ms C didnt think this was enough,  but I think  its adequate, primarily because 
some of the delays (as more fully identified  in the investigators view) were down to Ms C. 
As regards  the excess, Ms C thought her excess should have only been  £500. However, as 
the investigator pointed out she had a voluntary excess  additionally of £195. This was clearly  
set out in her welcome pack and theres  no indication  Ms C didnt receive this. So theres 
nothing to show me that Advantage did anything wrong here.
Ref: DRN87146822Obviously since Ms Cs car was damaged beyond repair,  she needed to put a new car on 
her policy.  Ms C complained about  the extent  of her premium increase Advantage then 
charged her. As the investigator explained  insurers are entitled to consider what  risks they 
wish to accept and which they dont. Our role is merely to ensure  Advantage  here applied  its 
underwriting guide  to Ms Cs situation and didnt single her out or treat her unfairly.
We cant share all this information with Ms C as its commercially sensitive and we also 
publish our decisions.  But as regards the premium increase for adding her partner,  I 
consider Advantage did apply its guide  properly to the risk and the increase it asked Ms C to 
pay was appropriately  calculated. Because of this change of £223.02 in premium  amount for 
Ms C to pay, Advantage  added  its amendment  fee of £20. I dont consider theres  anything  
wrong with that.
For putting her new car on the policy, the premium  increased by only one penny which in 
itself I find unusual. However, Advantage classed this as a change to Ms Cs policy  for which 
it also charged her another £20 amendment fee plus interest of £1.89. The terms explaining 
how such admin fees are charged say the following:
Amending your policy      Up to £20
This wording doesnt say as Advantage has stated that every amendment  needs to be 
charged at £20. It says up to £20, so that means  Advantage  obviously has a discretion to 
apply a charge  up to £20, not that the charge is nothing less than £20. So given Ms Cs 
premium amount changed by just one penny, I think its fair and reasonable in the particular 
circumstances of this complaint that it waives this. It had already received one amendment  
fee in any event which I consider is enough in the circumstances here.
So I consider Advantage should now refund this to Ms C with interest. 
my final decision
So for these reasons its my final decision that I uphold this complaint in part.
I now require Advantage Insurance Company Limited to do the following: 
Refund Ms C the sum of £21.89. Adding interest of 8% simple per year from the time, 
she paid it to the date of its refund.  
If income tax is to be deducted  from the interest, appropriate documentation should  
be provided to Ms C for HMRC purposes.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 April 2020
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8714682