K820x#14complaint
Mr D has complained about the way in which Just Retirement Limited (JRL) has 
administered a partial repayment towards  his equity  release mortgage. Mr D is unhappy  that 
the partial repayment has been made against  the whole outstanding debt rather than the 
amount initially borrowed.  Mr D believes that the way the repayment has been applied  
means hes being charged  interest  on interest,  rather than on the original capital advance. 
To put matters right, Mr D wants JRL to re-work the account from the date of repayment as if 
the repayment had been deducted from the capital.
background
In 2011 Mr D and his wife (who  I am sorry to note has passed away)  took out an equity 
release mortgage  with JRL. The initial advance was £47,250 at an interest  rate of 6.59%. On 
13 August 2012  they took a further  advance of £20,750 at an interest rate of 6.4%.
In common with this type of mortgage, no repayments are due to be made; interest  rolls up 
over the term of the loan. It is repayable on the death of the surviving borrower, or when the 
last surviving borrower goes into full-time  nursing care.
If the mortgage is repaid early, an early  repayment  charge (ERC)  applies.  But the terms of 
the mortgage provide that it can be transferred onto another property and if that property is 
of a lower value, part of the equity release mortgage will need to be repaid. In that situation, 
no ERC will apply.
In 2014 Mr and Mrs D decided to move and transfer  their mortgage onto another property. 
JRL needed a partial repayment of £24,174.16, which was made on 14 February 2014. No 
ERC applied.
The partial repayment was applied to the outstanding balance of the loan (at the time 
£80,053.33). Since then, interest  has continued to accrue against the remaining outstanding 
balance. But Mr D complained to JRL. He said the partial repayment  should have been 
deducted from the initial advance of £47,250,  so that he would now be paying less interest  
over the remaining term of the loan.
JRL didnt uphold  Mr Ds complaint, so he brought  it to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
An investigator looked at the complaint but didnt think JRL had done anything wrong.
Mr D didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. In summary,  Mr D 
says that he understands how compound interest  works, but believes hes been 
disadvantaged by JRL not taking the partial  repayment off the initial  capital advance.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I confirm Ive read everything provided  by 
Mr D and JRL. Ive looked at the mortgage and further advance documents and the terms 
and conditions which apply. 
Paragraph 8 of the terms and conditions says (and I summarise) that JRL will consent  to the 
mortgage being transferred onto another property if it meets  JRLs  criteria. If the property  
Ref: DRN80805182doesnt provide  sufficient  security paragraph  8.2.2.2  states that the mortgage will only be 
transferred if the borrowers have:
repaid to us such part of the amount owed as we shall require
In other  words, if the property is of a lower value than the one against  which  the advance 
was originally secured,  then JRL will require a partial repayment  to be made. In Mr and 
Mrs Ds case this was £24,174.16. This was applied to the amount owed.
The terms and conditions  define the amount  owed  as:
the advance (or if there is more than one, the aggregate of all the advances) 
together with all/any  interest accrued thereon in accordance with Paragraph 4 
together with, if applicable, any early repayment  charge(s) determined  in accordance 
with paragraph  7
(There was no ERC applicable  in this case,  so paragraph 7 doesnt apply.)
Im satisfied that the payment  Mr and Mrs D had to make when they moved  house  in 2014 
was applied to the amount owed , as defined above. The amount owed does not 
compartmentalise the initial advance and the further  advance. In fact, it is explicitly stated  
that the amount  owed is the total amount of all advances  and interest.
In the circumstances, Im satisfied there  was no obligation on the part of JRL to deduct the 
payment from the initial capital advance and re-work the interest on the account accordingly.  
JRL has applied the payment in line with the account terms and conditions  against the 
amount  owed. Consequently Im unable to find JRL has done anything wrong and so I will 
not be ordering JRL to re-work the account in accordance with Mr Ds wishes. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 October  2020.
Jan OLeary
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8080518