K821x#15complaint
Mr R complains that Provident Personal Credit  Limited (trading as Satsuma) lent to him in an 
irresponsible manner.
background
Mr R was given five loans  by Satsuma between August 2015 and August 2017. The first 
three loans  were repayable in 52 weekly instalments. Loan 4 was repayable in eight monthly 
instalments. And the final loan was repayable in 12 monthly instalments.  Mr Rs first four 
loans have been successfully repaid but a balance remained  outstanding on the final loan 
when he made his complaint. A summary of Mr Rs borrowing from Satsuma is as follows;
Loan 
NumberBorrowing 
DateRepayment 
DateLoan 
Amount  
1 17/08/2015 17/03/2016 £      700
2 30/03/2016 31/03/2017 £      900
3 14/09/2016 15/08/2017 £   1,000
4 08/06/2017 15/11/2017 £      600
5 16/08/2017 - £   1,100
Mr Rs complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. He didnt think Satsuma 
had been wrong  to give the first two loans to Mr R. But he didnt  think  Satsuma should have 
agreed to lend the remaining loans.  So he asked Satsuma to pay Mr R some  compensation.
Satsuma didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.  This is the last stage of our 
process. If Mr R accepts  my decision it is legally binding on both parties.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Satsuma needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr R could repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Satsuma should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These  factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
Ref: DRN83134512the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Satsuma was required to establish 
whether Mr R could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether  the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the FCAs Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines 
sustainable as being without undue  difficulties and in particular the customer should be able 
to make repayments on time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments; as well as 
without having  to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  
or it ought fairly  and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make  their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Rs complaint.
Before lending to Mr R, Satsuma asked him for details of his income and normal  
expenditure. And it then added a buffer to what Mr R had declared  to take account of other 
expenditure it could  see from its credit  check and estimates of spending from other internal 
models. It used that information to estimate  how much money Mr R had left over each month 
that he could use to repay his loan. It also gathered some other information about  Mr R from 
his credit file in relation to his financial circumstances  such as his relationships with other 
lenders and whether he was facing any debt management problems.
I think that the checks Satsuma did before agreeing the first loan were proportionate. The 
amounts that Mr R needed to repay  each  week were small compared with the disposable 
income hed declared.  Given  these  repayment  amounts, what  was apparent about Mr Rs 
circumstances at the time, and his borrowing history with the lender, I dont think it wouldve 
been proportionate for Satsuma to ask him for the amount  of information that would be 
needed to show  the lending was unsustainable  before agreeing  this loan.  
Mr R repaid his first loan earlier than scheduled. But within  less than two weeks he asked to 
borrow again. And the amount he asked  to borrow was far higher than before. I think  that 
given the size of this loan,  and that Mr R was scheduled to repay it over the next 52 weeks, 
Satsuma should  have done  better checks.  I think that Satsuma should have realised that it 
couldnt safely rely on the information Mr R was providing about his finances.  I think it should 
have taken steps at that time to independently verify Mr Rs true financial position.  
Ref: DRN83134513Ive looked at copies of Mr Rs bank statements to see what better checks  would have 
shown to Satsuma.  And although those bank statements  show  some signs that Mr R was 
under financial  pressure I dont think that, at this stage of its relationship with Mr R, these 
would have been enough for Satsuma to decide  not to give the second loan to him. So Im 
not able to say that better checks  would  have meant  Satsuma should have declined this 
application.
Mr R was around halfway  through repaying his second loan when he asked to take some 
additional borrowing. The loan he asked  for was even larger than before. And he would need 
to make repayments on both loans  2 and 3 at the same time. So like before I dont think the 
checks Satsuma did were  enough. As before  I think it should have taken steps to 
independently verify the true state of Mr Rs finances.
By now Mr Rs bank  statements showed  that he was facing real problems managing his 
money. He was additionally borrowing from a number  of other short  term lenders  loans 
that he would need to repay at the same time as his loans from Satsuma. I think  if it had 
done better checks Satsuma would have realised that it was unlikely that Mr R would be able 
to repay  any additional borrowing in a sustainable manner. So I dont think  Satsuma should 
have agreed to give loan 3 to Mr R.
And looking at the overall pattern of Satsumas lending history with Mr R I think by the time 
he asked for loan 4 the lender should reasonably have seen that any further  lending  was 
unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Satsuma should have realised that it shouldnt 
provide further  loans.  
I say this because:
By the time Mr R asked for his fourth  loan hed been borrowing from Satsuma, 
without any break,  for almost two years. And he wasnt making any inroads  to the 
amount he owed the lender. Loan  4 was taken  whilst loan 3 was still outstanding. 
Mr R repaid loan 3 around a month  earlier than scheduled. But on the following day 
he asked to borrow again  this new loan (loan  5) was the largest  of any of the loans 
hed taken from Satsuma.  I think Satsuma ought  to have realised  it was more likely 
than not Mr R was having to borrow  further  to cover the hole repaying his previous  
loans was leaving in his finances  and that Mr Rs indebtedness was increasing  
unsustainably
I think that Mr R lost out when Satsuma  provided him with loans  4 and 5 because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Rs indebtedness by allowing  him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the number  of loans was likely to have  had negative implications on Mr Rs ability to 
access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market for these high-cost loans.
So overall I dont  think Satsuma should have  agreed to give loans 3 to 5 to Mr R. Satsuma 
needs to pay him some  compensation.
Ref: DRN83134514putting things right
I dont think Satsuma should have agreed  to lend to Mr R after,  and including,  the loan that 
he took on 14 September 2016 (loan  3). So for each of those loans Satsuma should;
Refund any interest and charges paid by Mr R on the loans.  
Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*.
Remove any adverse  information recorded on Mr Rs credit file in relation to loans  3 and 
loan 5.
The number of loans  taken from loans 4 onwards means any information recorded  about 
them is adverse.  So all entries about  loan 4, and loan 5 once it has been fully repaid, 
should be removed  from Mr Rs credit  file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Satsuma  to take off tax from this interest. Satsuma  must  
give Mr R a certificate showing  how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
If Mr R still owes  Satsuma any of the principal balance he borrowed on his final loan, 
Satsuma may deduct this from the compensation that is due to him. But, to be clear, that 
outstanding balance should be recalculated to remove any interest and charges, but taking 
account of any repayments Mr R has made on that loan as though  they were applied  against 
the principal sum borrowed.
my final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold Mr Rs complaint and direct  Provident Personal Credit  
Limited to put things  right as detailed above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 November 2019.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8313451