K820x#14complaint
Mrs O says that Nationwide Building  Society (NBS) mis-sold her a regular premium 
mortgage payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
In 1992 Mrs O took out a mortgage  with NBS. A PPI policy  to cover  her mortgage 
repayments in the event  of accident or sickness and unemployment was included free for the 
first 12 months as part of the mortgage  package, after which a premium  became payable 
and the policy could be cancelled.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mrs Os complaint should be upheld. He thought there wasnt  
enough information to show the policy was not presented as optional  and that it wouldve 
provided a useful benefit.
Mrs O disagrees.  She says she didnt know she had PPI and was never given  any 
information about it. 
So the complaint has come  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of thus complaint. Weve  set out our general approach to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Os complaint.
NBS have told us the PPI came free for 12 months  as part of its Home to Home mortgage  
package. NBS had to make it clear the PPI was part of the mortgage package  and that Mrs 
O agreed to take it. Neither NBS, or Mrs O has been able to confirm  how the PPI was sold 
which is understandable considering the amount of time that has passed. So Ive had to rely 
on what information I have and what I think is more likely to have happened. 
The PPI was included  with the mortgage free for the first 12 months. I think that this is a 
good benefit and selling  point of the mortgage  package on offer so I think it was likely 
discussed with Mrs O at the time she took out the mortgage  though I can understand given 
the amount of time that has past why she might not remember this.
Ive seen a copy  of a mortgage statement that NBS sent annually to Mrs O. On it I can see 
that Mrs Os monthly mortgage  payment is broken down into three components   mortgage, 
property insurance  and PPI. I think its likely Mrs O wouldve have seen  at least  one of her 
mortgage statements  and understood she was paying for PPI as part of her mortgage  
package. And I think if she hadnt  agreed to take the PPI she wouldve questioned why it 
was on her statement.  
From what  we know of NBS PPI sales they were generally on a non-advised basis.  And I 
havent seen anything from this sale to make  me think it was any different here.  What  this 
means is that NBS didnt  recommend PPI to Mrs O, it just gave her information about PPI. 
Ref: DRN80877792This information needed to be given in a way that was clear,  fair and not misleading  so she 
could make an informed  choice about buying PPI. 
Given the length of time that has passed  since the sale, I dont know if NBS did give all the 
information as it shouldve. But I dont think this wouldve  made a difference  because I think  
Mrs O wouldve still taken the policy if she was given all the proper information.  I say this 
because at the time of the sale:
 
She was eligible for the PPI.
It doesnt look like Mrs O wouldve been caught by any of the main exclusions in the 
terms and conditions  of the policy which couldve made it difficult to make a 
successful claim.
Mrs O says she was entitled to a good level of sick pay and had savings she could 
use to help her make  her repayments if she couldnt work. But the PPI wouldve paid 
out on top of any work benefits  or savings and covered  her for potentially longer if 
she was unable to work due to accident  or sickness or if she lost her job. 
So I think the policy wouldve provided  a useful benefit to Mrs O in her circumstances 
especially considering  she was taking on a significant and long term financial 
commitment. Given the implications if she was unable to meet her repayments I think  
she wouldve been interested  in protecting them. 
There is nothing to suggest the policy wasnt affordable to Mrs O and if she no longer 
wanted the policy she was able to cancel it. 
This means  Mrs O isnt worse off as a result  of any wrong doing by NBS.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I do not uphold Mrs Os complaint against  Nationwide  
Building Society.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 March  2019.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8087779