K820x#14complaint
Miss N complains about the charges  Volkswagen Financial Services  (UK) Limited  (VWFS),  
trading as Skoda Finance, have asked her to pay to refurbish a car at the end of a lease.
background
Miss N took receipt of a new car in August 2015.  She financed the deal through  a hire 
purchase agreement  with VWFS. Miss N returned the car in July 2018 and it was inspected  
by a third party.  The following  damage  was identified that VWFS said was beyond 
reasonable wear  and tear and that Miss N would therefore need  to pay to have refurbished:
£138 to refurbish a quarter panel that had an unsatisfactory  repair; 
£27 to clean  a seat base cover that was excessively soiled;
£36 to refurbish  a scratched wheel.
Ms N was disappointed with the charges. She told VWFS that the quarter panel had been 
repaired at an approved dealership and they therefore agreed to remove the charge. She 
disputed whether the wheel was damaged beyond reasonable wear  and tear too and VWFS 
also agreed to remove  that charge. But they didnt agree to remove the charge for the soiled 
seat base. So Miss N referred  her complaint to this service. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think VWFS had been unreasonable.  She explained that the British 
Vehicle Rental and Leasing  Association  (BVRLA) provided the industry guidance  on what 
was considered reasonable wear and tear on a car being returned at the end of its lease. So 
she considered  the outstanding damage against  that standard but she thought it was clearly 
in excess of it and therefore chargeable.
Miss N didnt agree with the adjudicators view so its been referred for an ombudsman to 
make a final decision on it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view.  I know that will disappoint Miss N so please let me 
explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Miss N acquired her car under a hire purchase  agreement. The hire purchase agreement  is 
a regulated consumer  credit agreement and as a result  our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.  
The finance  agreement said:
Ref: DRN829544523.2 You will be responsible for any damage to or deterioration of the vehicle  which is excess 
of fair wear  and tear commensurate with the age and mileage of the vehicle
The inspection was conducted, as is usual in these  circumstances,  by an independent third 
party and as our adjudicator has explained we would expect them to use the BVRLA 
guidance on fair wear  and tear when  conducting that inspection.
The BVRLA guidance says that 
interior upholstery and trim must  be clean  and odourless with no burns,  scratches, tears, 
dents or staining.
Ive reviewed the photographs taken  by the inspector  and can see that the seat base cover  
is soiled. Miss N says that VWFS  should have taken  into account that the car had a light 
interior and that this type of soiling would not be noticeable on a darker interior.  But the 
BVRLA makes no distinction about the colour  of the interior so I dont think  it would be fair to 
suggest VWFS have been unreasonable when making the charge that they have.
As the inspection of the car was done  independently they would not have been aware that 
the paint repair had been completed at an approved dealership. So whilst I understand that 
Miss N thinks  it was wrong of them to initially levy a charge I dont think  it was unreasonable  
as they subsequently  removed that charge when they were advised where the repair  had 
been completed.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 June  2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8295445