K820x#14complaint
Ms T complains about a credit card she took out with Vanquis Bank Limited in 2013. She 
believes she should never have been  allowed  to take out the card as she could  not afford to 
make the repayments.  Ms T also says that Vanquis didnt activate the repayment  option plan 
(ROP) on her account or freeze  the account when  she asked. 
background
Ms T took out a credit card in 2013 with a credit limit of £1,000. Ms T believes that because 
of her financial position at the time she should never  have been allowed to take the card out, 
as it was unaffordable. Vanquis  says it carried out checks  when Ms T applied for the account  
and it was satisfied  the credit  limit of £1,000 was affordable. 
Ms T also says that when  she couldnt make  the required repayments Vanquis  didnt  
implement the ROP  plan or freeze her account. Vanquis says however it wasnt asked to 
freeze the account  or implement  the ROP plan so the account remained active. Vanquis also 
refers to the card being used in June  2014  and it therefore believes Ms T was aware  the 
account wasnt frozen or on a payment holiday. 
Ms Ts complaint was considered by one of our investigators and he explained why he didnt 
think the complaint  should be upheld. In summary, he was satisfied Vanquis acted 
reasonably in granting the card at the outset.  He also thought Vanquis wasnt unreasonable  
in not implementing the freeze on the account  as it wasnt asked to at the time.  
Ms T didnt accept the investigators  conclusions, so the case  has been referred to me for 
consideration. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have not upheld Ms Ts 
complaint.
Ms T believes  that she should never  have been allowed to take out the credit card with 
Vanquis as her financial circumstances meant she couldnt afford to pay back  what she 
spent on the card. She says at the time of taking out the card she was self-employed  and a 
student and her income included her student loans payments. She says she had existing 
debts and several payday loans that were  rolled  over. 
This is what  Ms T has told us now about  her circumstances, but this doesnt appear to be 
information that was made available to Vanquis at the time she took out the card. When  
agreeing to provide credit  Vanquis, like other lenders, is required to ensure that credit is 
affordable and can be repaid by the consumer. The rules around  this changed in 2014 but 
they were broadly the same  in 2013 when Ms T took out the credit card.  Vanquis  was 
required to carry out a proportional  assessment into Ms Ts circumstances  to ensure she 
could repay  the credit  she was taking out. The credit assessment was proportionate  on the 
amount of credit being provided  so someone borrowing large sums over long periods would 
be expected to have more  detailed  checks to ensure they could afford  to repay it. 
In this case Ms T was taking out a credit card with £1,000 of available credit and I would not 
expect Vanquis to therefore  carry out exhaustive checks into Ms Ts circumstances.  While  I 
Ref: DRN83761132have noted what  Ms T has recently  told us about  her circumstances at the time she took out 
the card, I must consider whether Vanquis carried out a proportionate  check  at the time it 
agreed to provide the credit. Vanquis has told us it understood  Ms T was self-employed and 
earned £20,000 per year.  It says this information was confirmed in a follow  up call to Ms T 
after the application was completed. Vanquis also carried out a credit  check and said that it 
was only aware of existing borrowing of around  £1,600. There was nothing to indicate Ms T 
was more heavily  in debt or had been  repeatedly  borrowing from payday lenders. 
Having considered the specific circumstances  of this case  Im satisfied that Vanquis  did 
carry out sufficient and proportionate  checks at the time when agreeing to provide the credit 
to Ms T. I havent seen anything within those checks that would have alerted Vanquis to any 
potential problems Ms T had at the time that would  mean should  couldnt afford to repay the 
credit card. 
Ms T also complains that Vanquis didnt treat the account as frozen  or activate the 
repayment option plan when she asked.  While  I note that Ms T believes she had a specific  
call with Vanquis about this in 2014, Vanquis disputes  this and says it has no record of any 
such request. I havent seen anything to support Ms Ts recollection of a call in 2014 and I 
also note that Ms T did use the card when  she says she believed  it was frozen. 
On balance, Im not persuaded  Ms Ts recollection is accurate or that she did therefore ask 
that the account be frozen or for the ROP to be activated. Had Ms T understood the account 
was frozen  I think she wouldnt have continued to use the card. 
I appreciate Ms T will remain unhappy  with the decision I have come  to here, but Im not 
persuaded Vanquis has acted unfairly  or unreasonably in this instance.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Ms Ts complaint  against  Vanquis Bank Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 December 2019.
Mark Hollands
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8376113