K821x#15complaint
Ms M has complained Assurant General Insurance Limited (Assurant) refused her claim for 
theft under a mobile phone insurance  policy. 
background 
Ms M has said she was going to do some shopping in Tesco on 31 July 2018. She was on 
the phone  to her sister when she entered the store. She finished her phone  call and placed 
her phone in her handbag and closed it. Her handbag was placed on the back  of her babys 
stroller. 
Ms M has said she needed some bread and so turned to get some bread off a shelf. She 
later went  to check her shopping list, which was on her phone,  but realised her phone  was 
not in her handbag. 
Ms M has said she reported this to the security  guard and asked to check the security 
cameras but there was nothing to be seen as the cameras dont cover all the angles  in the 
store. 
Ms M reported her stolen phone to the police and also contacted Assurant  to make a claim.  
Assurant rejected her claim  and said that Ms M had not taken care of her device  by leaving 
her handbag unattended in a public  place where  other people have access  to. Therefore, 
she had not taken reasonable care of her mobile  phone to prevent the theft from occurring. 
Our investigator didnt  agree that Ms M had not taken reasonable care. He had said the 
phone was out of sight and would  have not left her baby unattended  for long. He said 
Assurant should  replace  Ms Ms mobile  phone and also pay £100 for the delay and 
inconvenience. 
Assurant didnt agree with this and so this case has now been passed to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I will be upholding the 
complaint. Ill explain  why. 
Ive been provided  a copy of the terms and conditions of the mobile phone insurance  policy.  
The policy will provide cover for theft but only if reasonable  care is taken; and if the phone  is
left anywhere it needs to be out of sight and locked away. This is in line with all other mobile
phone insurance  policies.
In the terms and conditions it says 
We know how important your mobile phone is to you and we expect  that you will take care of 
your mobile phone.  If you dont take care of your mobile phone then we may not pay your 
claim.
Taking care of your mobile phone means  
 Not knowingly  leaving  your mobile phone somewhere  it is likely  to be lost, stolen or 
damaged, just think would you leave your wallet or purse there ?
 If you need to leave your mobile  phone somewhere then we expect you to lock it away out 
of sight if at all possible. If you cannot  lock it away then you must leave it with someone you 
trust or concealed  out of sight in a safe place.
Ref: DRN84144752Its not unreasonable for Assurant to say that reasonable care of the mobile phone must be 
taken. Assurant has said Ms M didnt do enough  to keep her phone  safe and didnt take 
reasonable care and so it has said the above  exclusion applies. However, I dont agree  and 
Ill explain  why. 
Ms M has said she went to Tesco to do some shopping. When  in the store and in an aisle, 
she turned  to get some bread off a shelf.  She did not leave the stroller unattended to do this.  
I find it highly unlikely  that a mother would leave  her child unattended in a public place or 
walk far away  from the child. So I think Ms M would  have  been stood close to her baby. 
So taking everything in to account,  I dont think she has been reckless  or not taken  
reasonable care. I say this because  the phone was zipped away in her bag and out of sight.  
While it was on the back of her baby stroller,  I dont think  she left the bag or stroller 
unattended.  
I therefore consider  that it is not fair or reasonable to decline  this claim on the basis  of the 
exclusion.
It seems  likely that Ms M has already purchased a replacement mobile phone.  Therefore it 
would seem appropriate  subject to any remaining terms and conditions   that a cash  
settlement should  be made for the equivalent  cost of replacing the phone. 
I note the investigator  has recommended an award of £100 for inconvenience caused  to     
Ms M, and I consider this not unreasonable as the matter might have been concluded 
sooner.
my final decision
It follows, for the reasons set out above that I uphold this complaint and order  Assurant 
General Insurance Limited proceed  with the claim,  subject to the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy. If the cover states that a replacement phone  should be provided, but 
the complainant  has already replaced the phone, then a cash  settlement should  be made for 
the equivalent cost of replacing the phone.  
I also require Assurant  General Insurance Limited  to pay Ms M £100 for the inconvenience  
she has experienced in the course of this matter
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 January 2020.
Sonia Hussain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8414475