complaint
Ms D and Mr H  on behalf of the estate  of their mother, Mrs H, the trustees of the variable 
trust, the trustees of the will trust and the trustees  of the loan trust  complain about 
investment advice provided by St. Jamess Place Wealth  Management Plc (SJP).
background 
I set out the background  to the complaint in my provisional decision of January 2019, a copy  
of which  is attached and forms part of this final decision. 
In my provisional decision I explained  why I thought the offer SJP had made  to put things  
right was fair and reasonable. So, subject  to further  submissions,  I didnt intend  to ask it to 
do anything more. 
SJP confirmed that it had nothing  further it wished to add. 
Ms D responded with three main  points relating to the complaint:
Mrs H had incurred additional accountancy costs as a result of needing to complete 
tax returns in 2014/15 and 2015/16   a need  that came  about only because of the 
bonds being incorrectly encashed. 
Further information relating to her concerns about the authenticity  of the suitability 
letter.
SJP failing to appoint trustees  to the variable  trust after arranging  the bonds that 
replaced those that had been incorrectly encashed.
Ms D also provided some  information regarding the adviser. While I understand her reasons  
for doing this, I dont  feel its relevant  to the complaint  and I dont intend to comment  on it. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments, including  the further submissions, 
to decide whats  fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, 
while I recognise Ms D will be disappointed, Im not persuaded to depart from my provisional 
view. I still think that SJPs offer as it stands is fair. 
Looking at each  of Ms Ds additional  points in turn:
I understand her concern  about the tax returns.  In my provisional decision I noted that SJP 
had agreed to meet accountancy costs  associated with the ongoing  need  to complete tax 
returns that had been prompted  by the chargeable gains.  SJP has also said that, in any 
event, it understands  Mrs H should  always  have  been completing  tax returns in order to 
declare interest  earned from her bank  accounts  and share dividends.  
Im conscious of the fact that SJPs  offer already  makes quite  generous provision for 
accountancy fees and also provides a total of £1,750 compensation for the trouble and upset 
caused. This being so, in all the circumstances  of the complaint, I dont feel I have sufficient 
clarity on this matter to justify increasing  the offer in order to take account of these potential  
further costs.   
Ref: DRN82605292In respect of the suitability letter, I still think its more likely  than not a contemporaneous  
document, despite the anomalies  highlighted by Ms D. And in any event, if it is incorrect in 
parts, or even if it was generated later, this doesnt necessarily mean the advice to set up the 
loan trust was unsuitable. I remain of the view that the recommendation to start the loan trust 
arrangement was broadly suitable.
Lastly, Im not sure the trustee issue has been  fully bottomed out. As far as I can see, and 
SJP has confirmed, Mr H was a trustee  along  with Mrs H and her husband   both at the 
outset and at the time of the incorrect encashment. So Im not clear  as to why there  wouldve  
been any issue. 
But nevertheless,  I think  this specific matter, while ancillary to the main  complaint, would be 
best dealt with separately. I say this as Im mindful of the time it has taken the other matters  
to reach  this stage and feel that if its kept distinct this issue  may be more  straightforward to 
address. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint, as I consider the 
offers already made  by St. Jamess  Place  Wealth Management Plc to be fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms D and Mr H  
on behalf of the estate  of their mother, Mrs H, the trustees of the variable trust, the trustees 
of the will trust and the trustees of the loan trust to accept or reject my decision before 
8 April 2019.
James Harris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN82605293COPY PROVISIONAL  DECISION
complaint
Ms D and Mr H  on behalf of the estate of their mother, Mrs H, the trustees  of the variable trust, the 
trustees of the will trust and the trustees of the loan trust  complain about  investment advice 
provided by St. Jamess Place Wealth Management Plc (SJP).
 
background
A succession of SJP advisers provided  investment advice to Mrs H and her late husband over a 
number of years. Most  relevant to this complaint are:
Two investment bonds  recommended in 2003 and placed in the variable  trust.
The loan trust recommended in 2011.
The 2012  encashment of investment bonds held in the will trust.
In 2011 SJP recommended that Mrs H start the loan trust for the purposes of mitigating her 
inheritance tax liability.  This involved the encashment of a number of her existing  investments  a 
selection of bonds and ISAs.  Unfortunately,  SJPs encashment request inadvertently also included the 
two bonds held in the 2003  variable trust. 
When this error  came  to light several years later a complaint was made. SJP acknowledged its 
mistake and sought to put matters right by setting  up a new loan trust with the correct amount in it and 
returning the excess generated  by the incorrect encashments to the variable trust,  in the form of two 
new bonds. 
SJP also offered to meet accountants fees associated with correcting the mistake and also to pay 
£500 compensation to the trustees of the variable trust. It didnt think that any future inheritance tax 
(IHT) issues wouldve  been created by the mistake, but explained that it would look to indemnify these 
in the unlikely  event there were any.
Following further discussion  SJP appended  its offer to also take account of an income  tax liability 
created by the incorrect encashment of the two bonds,  and also additional associated accountant  
fees. SJP also identified that the encashments of two of the other investments that had funded the 
loan trust had been subject to early withdrawal charges (EWCs) which shouldve been waived. So it 
also made a payment to compensate for these. As I understand it, these offers were accepted by Mrs 
H in 2014.
In 2015 Ms D raised the above issues directly with this service. She primarily highlighted the issue of 
the incorrect  encashments. But she also raised concerns about the suitability of encashing the two 
bonds that had generated the EWCs (as they had only commenced a few years earlier) and also a 
new, unrelated issue concerning the suitability  of advice to surrender,  in 2012,  investments held in the 
will trust.     
In September 2015, having seen the complaint Ms D had made to this service, SJP responded in 
length. It noted that by that point it had made a further offer in respect of the income tax liability, 
interest, penalties and accountancy fees of £5,850 which hadnt  yet been accepted.  It also increased 
its previous £500 offer for distress and inconvenience, to £750 to Mrs H and £1,000 to the trustees of 
the variable trust.
SJP went  on to explain  that, despite the administrative errors, it felt the advice to start the loan trust 
arrangement had been  a suitable recommendation  given the identified IHT liability for Mrs H, which it 
felt had been  mitigated. But it acknowledged that shed  experienced a loss of age allowance as a 
result of gains  made by some (correctly) encashed investments and offered  to refund this, rounded up 
to £750. It also offered to discount by 35% any future EWCs  that might be incurred.  
Ref: DRN82605294In respect of the advice relating to the will trust investments,  it didnt consider that it was responsible 
for this as it hadnt been advised of the existence of the trust and there was no evidence of any advice 
being given. 
Ms D wasnt satisfied with SJPs response and asked that we continue  to look into the matter.  Sadly 
Mrs H passed away in March 2016 and in order to continue  we required a grant of probate, which 
wasnt provided until April 2018. Having  then reviewed  the file, our adjudicator  felt that SJPs offer of 
September 2015 was broadly fair. SJP confirmed that its position hadnt changed, although it noted 
that it was now prepared to make payment  of the £750 it had offered  to Mrs H for distress and 
inconvenience to Ms D instead. 
Ms D didnt accept the offer. She remains  deeply unhappy  with the matter. She doesnt consider that 
the suitability of letter  of September 2011 that set out the loan trust recommendation  and upon 
which SJP has based much of its response  in respect of the loan trust suitability  is genuine. Her 
ongoing concerns also relate to the costs she and the trustees have incurred as a result of the 
ongoing need  to complete  tax returns that hadnt been necessary prior to SJPs error.  Shes  also 
highlighted extensive  costs  incurred over the years relating to handling  the complaint.  
As the matter  remains  unresolved, its been referred to me to review.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
This has undoubtedly been  a very difficult and stressful experience for Ms D. Not only has she had to 
deal with the responsibilities  of being  a trustee and executor over the period in question, but shes 
also lost her mother, for which she has my sympathies. 
Its clear that she has very strong feelings about SJPs actions, which  is understandable in the 
circumstances, and shes provided detailed submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and 
considered in their entirety. However,  I trust that she wont take the fact that my findings  focus on 
what I consider  to be the central issues, and that theyre expressed in less detail, as a discourtesy. 
The purpose  of my decision is not to address every point raised in detail, but to set out my overall 
conclusion and reasons  for reaching it. 
I think  its also important to highlight that our rules are such that the nature  of the complaint Im 
looking at here  involving trusts and an estate   means that Ms D, and Mr H, are bringing the 
complaint in their capacities of trustees and executors   not in their personal capacities. So Im limited 
in what  consideration I can give to their personal  experiences. 
Turning to the complaint  itself, while I recognise Ms D will be very disappointed,  Im currently of the 
view that the actions  taken by SJP to put things right in respect of the incorrect  encashments 
represent a fair and reasonable response to the issues. I also share the view that the 
recommendation of the loan trust was broadly suitable and also that theres insufficient evidence,  on 
balance, to support a finding  that it did anything wrong in respect of the will trust and investments held 
in it.      
Looking at the three  issues  in turn:
the incorrect  encashments 
As soon as the error came to light and SJP was informed of the problem  it took action to put things 
right. It re-established  the loan trust with the correct amount of money  and recreated the holdings  that 
had been wrongly taken from the variable  trust. It agreed to pay costs  relating to accountancy fees,  
income tax that was generated, fees and penalties. Further it agreed to meet accountancy costs 
Ref: DRN82605295associated with the ongoing  need to complete  tax returns, which  had been  prompted by the 
chargeable gains that were  inadvertently created. 
In light of these actions  I cant see that theres much more that SJP can reasonably have been 
expected to do. There  are elements of the offer as whole   for instance,  the proposal  relating to any 
IHT liability that may arise   which indicate a willingness to keep the matter under review and address 
any further directly  related  issues that arise. 
I think  this pro-active stance has been demonstrated by, for example, the additional offers around Mrs 
Hs age allowance and the EWCs. Where additional issues have come to light,  SJP has been happy 
to address them and I see no reason why this approach  should  not continue, although given the years 
that have  now passed  since the error occurred, I think it seems unlikely that there will be much more 
thats found.   
Ms D has highlighted  her concerns about the mistake  potentially creating an otherwise avoidable  IHT 
liability. But aside from SJPs commitment  to address  one if it arose, this doesnt appear to have  
happened in any event.
The other  major issue for Ms D is the costs  that she and the estate have occurred in relation to the 
matter. I dont doubt that shes put in a lot of time and work into dealing with the situation. But our 
service is free and SJP have made a number  of payments  for accountancy fees generated directly   
and to an extent indirectly  as a result of the error. 
SJP has also offered  a reasonably significant sum  £1,750  in total  for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.  Overall, I think this fair and I say this particularly in light of my earlier  
comments around the limitations  on what I can direct in terms  of compensation for representatives  of 
parties bringing a complaint.    
the suitability of the loan trust
I understand why the problems created by the incorrect encashments might have led Ms D to 
question other  aspects  of SJPs advice. And there were issues relating to it that came to light as part 
of the investigation of the encashments, such as the failure to waive  EWCs as previously agreed with 
the adviser. 
But overall,  I think the advice to start the loan trust arrangement was broadly suitable. There  was an 
identified IHT liability and although administering the trust involved encashing some investments that 
had only been in place  for a few years, SJP has demonstrated that there was nevertheless net 
benefits to the arrangement.    
I note Ms Ds concerns  about the suitability  letter issued  in respect of the loan trust advice.  She says 
that this was never received and feels that it was actually  only generated  at a later date, when SJP 
had obtained information relating to Mrs Hs tax affairs.  I understand  her concerns   there are a 
number of errors in it and there was the unfortunate  issuing  of it with a 2014 date, which was put 
down to it defaulting  to the date when the copy was made. 
But, in general, theres nothing that I think impacts  on the overall suitability of the advice and Im 
satisfied that it was more likely than not written at the same time of the advice.  Its not uncommon for 
saved documents to display the date on which theyre reprinted instead of original date. 
the will trust 
Theres some uncertainty  around the situation with this aspect of the complaint.  Its clear  that some 
investments held in this trust were encashed in 2012. But theres  no documentation relating to any 
recommendation in that regard. And in any event  SJP has explained  that its records show that the 
investments in question were transferred into a unit trust in September  2009, following Mrs Hs 
husbands death. The unit trust was owned by the executors of his estate.
Ref: DRN82605296Its been  suggested  that the unit trust formed an asset of the will trust, created after his death. But 
SJP says it was never told this by the trustees so it doesnt feel responsible for any liability incurred  by 
the trustees. Its highlighted that the encashment  documentation of 2012 indicated  that the assets 
were owned  by the representatives of Mrs Hs husband.
Further, given the time between encashment and a cheque being provided to SJP in November 2013 
 around 18 months  its unclear as to how they would  be connected.
On balance, I dont think theres currently  sufficient  evidence to support a finding that SJP is 
responsible for the encashments of these investments and in turn the chargeable  gains generated 
and the associated accountants fees.
So, in summary of the complaint as a whole, as noted, I do understand Ms Ds concerns. But I 
nevertheless think that what SJP offered  in 2015 represented a fair and reasonable response to the 
matter so I dont at present  think  any further  action  needs to be taken.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  given,  but subject to any further submissions I may receive, Im currently minded not 
to uphold the complaint as I consider the offers  already made  by St. Jamess Place  Wealth 
Management Plc to be fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances. 
Ref: DRN8260529