K820x#14complaint
Mr M is unhappy  that Santander  UK Plc has added legal fees to his mortgage  account. He 
would like these to be removed.
Mr M has been assisted in bringing  the complaint by a friend, Ms P, but for ease of reference 
I will refer to Mr P throughout.
background
Briefly, whats happened is this:  In 2007 Mr M took out a mortgage  with Santander, secured 
on a flat in a Victorian house. The property had been converted  into flats by the freeholder,  
who occupied a flat in the building. There were issues  with the freeholder relating to the 
water supply in the property, as well as problems with the legal title to the property, which 
didnt appear to have been properly split.
There was protracted  legal action between Mr M and the freeholder,  which  was resolved in 
Mr Ms favour in court in 2014.  During  this period, Santander froze  the mortgage account. 
But in 2018 Mr M discovered that Santander  had put his account  into arrears. He queried 
this and learned that Santander had added its own solicitors costs  to the mortgage account, 
an amount of just over £10,000.
Mr M is unhappy  about this and wants the costs removed. Mr M says that he never 
instructed those solicitors  and that Santander  has never sought his authority to incur those 
legal costs.
Santander didnt  uphold the complaint. The bank said that the costs  were incurred by its 
solicitors in assisting Mr Ms solicitors during the litigation against  the freeholder.  Santander  
paid Mr M £50 for the delay in responding to him, but didnt think it had done anything  wrong  
by adding the costs to his account.
Mr M brought his complaint to us, where it was considered by an investigator.  He was 
satisfied that the costs  had been fairly added to the account. Mr M disagreed and asked for 
an ombudsman to review  the complaint.
As the matter remains unresolved, it now falls to me to make  a final decision on this matter.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I am very sorry  for everything Mr M has gone through with the freeholder. I have no doubt  
that this has been a very distressing and stressful time for him. I am glad to see that the 
court found  in his favour. I also see that Mr M was awarded costs against  the freeholder  in 
relation to his own legal fees, over £36,000.
As far as Santanders legal costs are concerned, Im satisfied Santander was justified  in 
deciding to instruct solicitors in this matter. This was a complex  situation  which  affected the 
banks security for the loan (the leasehold  property). Santander didnt need authority from 
Mr M to instruct its solicitors. 
Ref: DRN89693432Ive looked at the breakdown of the costs incurred,  and these  appear  to me to be reasonable 
for the amount of work done over the periods of time covered  by each invoice. There  was 
considerable contact  between  Mr Ms solicitors and Santanders, and the hourly rates and 
time spent  do not seem  to me to be excessive.
The account  terms and conditions allow Santander  to add these costs to the account, and so 
Im satisfied that, by doing so, Santander has done nothing wrong. Santander is entitled to 
recover these expenses  from Mr M. 
I fully appreciate Mr M thinks its unfair that hes being asked to pay legal costs which were 
incurred as a result of the actions of the freeholder. I acknowledge that the costs have only 
been incurred  as a result of the legal  action Mr M was forced to take against the freeholder. 
But if Mr M considers the costs are the responsibility  of a third party   whether  thats  the 
freeholder or his own solicitors  then he will need  to claim an indemnity  from whoever he 
thinks is responsible.  Mr M might want to take legal advice about  this.
But in all the circumstances,  although  I know this is not the outcome Mr M was hoping for, 
Im satisfied Santander hasnt done  anything wrong.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 May 2020.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8969343