complaint
Mr and Mrs Hs complaint against OneSavings Bank Plc is that charges and interest  have  
been added to their mortgage account  against the terms of a court order  and it hasnt 
explained how their loan reached the level it did.
background
In around May 2005 Mr and Mrs H took out a secured loan of £45,000 over 25 years to fund 
works to their property. The loan was one of many transferred to OneSavings Bank  Plc 
(OSB) on 6 November 2015. It was secured as a second charge on Mr and Mrs Hs house.  
At first interest was charged  at around 9% but the rate increased  to around 12% at one point. 
Mr and Mrs H were able to keep up their contractual  monthly  payments until around 2008 
when they fell into arrears. And they found  it difficult to pay from then on.
The original  provider took Mr and Mrs H to court in July 2009 and got a suspended 
possession order against them. The court ordered Mr and Mrs H to pay their current monthly  
mortgage payment  and an additional  sum towards  the arrears  which were around  £4,175  at 
the time.  But Mr and Mrs H werent  able to keep up with those payments. And although 
numerous payment  arrangements were agreed  with them  over the following  years,  they 
werent able to keep  up the payments agreed under  those arrangements  either.  Contractual  
charges and additional interest were added  to the account as a result of Mr and Mrs H being 
unable to pay on time.
When the loan was transferred to OSB  there  was an account balance of over £74,000 and 
arrears of almost  £16,000. Mr and Mrs H think interest has been  wrongly  charged  to their 
account against the terms of a court order. They complained to OSB  but were  unhappy  with 
its response so they brought their complaint to this service. They want the interest thats  been  
added to the arrears  removed from the account.  
I recently issued a provisional decision  an extract of which follows:
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
K800x#10
Ref: DRN8957529Before I set out my provisional findings I need  to explain  what  I can and cant  look in respect 
of Mr and Mrs Ts complaint.
limits to what were  able to consider
We can only consider complaints about  businesses and activities that are covered by our 
rules.
When Mr and Mrs H took out the loan in 2005,  the original provider wasnt  under  our 
jurisdiction. From 6 April 2007 we became able to look at complaints about credit 
agreements regulated by the Consumer Credit Act 1974. So from then on we could look at 
complaints about  the provider, but only where the complaint related to a credit  agreement 
that was regulated  by the Act.
Until 1 April 2014 the original provider was in our consumer credit  jurisdiction only. It then 
became subject to our compulsory jurisdiction.  From this date onwards, we could consider 
complaints about  any of its activities covered by our rules.
Since Mr and Mrs Hs loan was more than £25,000 it wasnt  regulated  by the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974. So we cant look at any part of their complaint thats  about  things that 
happened while the original provider was under  our consumer credit jurisdiction  that is, up 
to 31 March 2014.
We can look at Mr and Mrs Hs complaint about  what happened from the date when the 
original provider came under our compulsory jurisdiction, so from 1 April 2014 onwards  until 
the loan was transferred to OSB on 6 November 2015.
OSB has been  under our compulsory jurisdiction throughout  the time its owned
Mr and Mrs Hs loan. So we can consider the complaint against OSB  from 6 November 2015  
onwards  and its agreed  to accept responsibility for things that happened after 1 April 2014 
but before  that date as well.
So, in summary,  were  able to look at the actions of either the original  provider or OSB from
1 April 2014 onwards.  And Ill deal with both in this decision as OSB is responsible for both.
action pre 1 April 2014
Although I cant make any findings  about how the original provider treated Mr and Mrs H 
before 1 April 2014, I think its helpful to understand how the account  was conducted before 
that date. This is because  it puts Mr and Mrs Hs complaint in context.
Ive mentioned that Mr and Mrs H were able to keep  up their monthly  payments until 2008. 
Unfortunately, from that point onwards Mr H seems to have been in and out of work. This 
meant making payments on time became  difficult for them.
Although, following the court order in 2009, the original provider agreed not to charge interest  
and fees, this was not something  the court ordered. The original provider agreed to this on 
the basis Mr and Mrs H made the payments as ordered. But they werent able to, so charges 
and interest were added  to the account.
Ref: DRN8957529The original  provider asked the court for permission to evict Mr and Mrs H on two further 
occasions in 2012 and March 2014.  Each time the court allowed them  to stay in the property 
on condition they made certain payments. And each  time Mr and Mrs H failed to keep up
with those payments.  The original provider agreed many payment arrangements  in between  
and again Mr and Mrs H were unable to pay what theyd agreed to. So, whilst interest and 
charges were suspended for limited periods of time, they were  charged when Mr and Mrs H 
failed to pay what theyd agreed.
The balance of their account  was over £69,500 and arrears were  over £16,500 by the end of
March 2014.
action post 1 April 2014
Following the March 2014 court  order, the original provider agreed to put in place a payment 
arrangement for the sums the court had ordered  they make and to suspend  interest and 
charges if the payments were  made.  Unfortunately, Mr and Mrs H were again unable  to make 
the payments  as the court had ordered.
As I would  expect it to, the original provider  assessed Mr and Mrs Hs income  and expenditure 
a number of times to work out what they could afford to pay towards the loan and the arrears. 
And although further payment arrangements were  regularly agreed until the original  provider 
transferred the loan to OSB in November 2015, Mr and Mrs H werent able to keep up with the 
payments they agreed to make under those arrangements.
Annual statements  sent by the original provider to Mr and Mrs H between  April 2014 and 
November 2015  set out clearly the amount borrowed, the monthly  instalment due, the 
balance of their account and the amount of the arrears. A leaflet setting  out the original 
providers fees and charges and when theyd be charged was sent with the statements. And 
the statements  explained that if fees and charges werent paid theyd be added to the balance 
of Mr and Mrs Hs account and charged  interest  at the contractual  rate. I think
Mr and Mrs H wouldve  received the statements and charges information. So I think they 
wouldve know what they owed and understood what charges and interest the original 
provider could add to their account  if they didnt pay on time.
The original  provider added three  administration fees of £40 in July 2014,  August and 
September 2014 when Mr and Mrs H couldnt keep up the payments theyd been ordered  to 
make by the court in March 2014. I think it was reasonable  for the original provider to add 
those charges and interest on those charges to Mr and Mrs Hs account.  The original provider 
was actively taking steps to work  with Mr and Mrs H to manage their account.
By the time the loan was transferred to OSB the balance was over £74,000 and the arrears 
were almost  £16,000.
OSB contacted Mr and Mrs H soon after they acquired the loan to see if they could increase 
their monthly payments to reduce the arrears. Based  on assessments of their income  and 
expenditure in around November 2015 and January 2016 they agreed a monthly payment 
amount with OSB.  But Mr and Mrs H still werent  able to keep up the agreed payments.
OSB sent annual statements to Mr and Mrs H which set out clearly the balance of their 
account, the amount of their arrears and the fees they owed. They  also explained the 
payments made and interest charged  each year. So I think Mr and Mrs H wouldve known 
the amount they owed and how it was increasing  after OSB had taken over the loan. OSB
Ref: DRN8957529K820x#14sent their tariff of charges with the statements which  clearly explained a monthly fee may be 
charged if their account was in arrears unless they stuck to an agreed arrangement  to pay. 
So I think they wouldve  known what charges would be payable  and when.
OSB added seven  monthly arrears  charges  of £35 between February 2017 and August
2017. I think it was reasonable for OSB  to add these  charges to Mr and Mrs Hs account.
Mr and Mrs H had failed to make agreed  payments on time. OSB  was actively trying to work 
with Mr and Mrs H to manage their account  and reduce  the arrears.  And the charges it 
added are in line with OSBs terms and conditions.
Legal fees of £166 were  added to the account  in July 2016 and £566  in 2017 for work 
carried out by lawyers to repossess  the property. I think  it was reasonable for OSB  to take 
steps to try and repossess the property to recover  what Mr and Mrs H owed it. Mr and Mrs H 
were given many chances to get back on track  with their mortgage payments but had never  
managed to keep  up with agreed payments. And OSB was allowed to charge legal fees to 
Mr and Mrs Hs account under its terms and conditions.
Mr and Mrs H successfully opposed OSBs  attempts to repossess the property. And I 
understand they are still living there  subject  to a court order  to pay the current  monthly  
instalment plus £120. Interest  rates have increased twice  since their first payment was due 
but their payments havent so they arent paying  what theyve been ordered to by the court.  
And the amount Mr and Mrs H are paying is less than they need  to pay to cover  the 
monthly interest. So the amount they owe is increasing each month.
Overall I think the original  provider  and OSB have behaved fairly and reasonably  towards 
Mr and Mrs H. I think Mr and Mrs H would understand the balance of their mortgage, the 
arrears and the interest theyve been charged from the statements theyve been sent. 
Theyve been in regular  contact with Mr and Mrs H throughout,  theyve  agreed  a number of 
payment plans and theyve  signposted  Mr and Mrs H to agencies that would  be able to help 
them in addressing their financial issues. But unfortunately the mortgage doesnt seem  to be 
affordable for Mr and Mrs H and Id urge them to get advice  from an agency or charity  that 
might be able to help them explore their options.
Bearing all of the circumstances in mind I dont  intend to uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.
my provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I dont  uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.
developments
OSB hasnt commented on my provisional decision.  Mr and Mrs H have raised a number 
of points, which Ive considered.  
Mr and Mrs H accept they were  in arrears and sometimes unable  to make their monthly  
payments. But they remain unhappy  about the amount of charges theyve had to pay and 
say they dont understand why the overall balance  of the loan has increased. 
Mr and Mrs H have questioned why charges, in addition to monthly  arrears  fees, have  been  
added to their account. In particular theyve mentioned fees of £1,000 and £8,000  were  
applied to their account. And theyre concerned about how theyll ever be able to repay  the 
loan.
Ref: DRN89575295my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I explained in my provisional decision  the rules under  which this service  operates  only allow  
me to look at what happened from 1 April 2014 onwards. By 1 April 2014 the balance of Mr 
and Mrs Hs account was already  over £69,500  and arrears  were over £16,500. But I cant 
look at anything that happened  or whether interest  and charges were  fairly applied to Mr and 
Mrs Hs account before that date.
I also explained in my provisional  decision  why I thought Mr and Mrs H wouldve understood 
from the regular  statements  and other  information  the lender sent them what they owed, 
what they needed to pay, their arrears and the charges the lender could apply to their 
account. I still think the information the lender provided was sufficiently clear. 
I set out in my provisional decision why I thought the interest and charges applied to Mr and 
Mrs Hs account from 1 April 2014  were fair and reasonable, including  legal fees applied  in 
2016 and 2017. I havent seen anything which persuades me to change my mind on this.
I havent seen  any evidence of fees of £1,000 or £8,000 being charged to Mr and Mrs H after 
1 April 2014. 
Around £8,000 was credited to Mr and Mrs Hs account in April 2012. Although  Im unable  to 
consider this as it happened before 1 April 2014, it may help Mr and Mrs H to know OSBs 
explained this was an adjustment made by the original lender. For a period Mr and Mrs Hs 
contractual monthly instalments  (CMI)  werent increased by the original lender as they 
shouldve been  when interest  rates changed.  So theyd paid less than they should and 
incurred additional  interest as a result. OSB says the adjustment made  by the original lender 
put them back into the position  they wouldve been  in if theyd paid the right CMI in earlier  
months. 
Overall, whilst I understand the very difficult situation Mr and Mrs H are in, I havent seen 
anything which changes  my provisional  decision.  And for the reasons Ive explained, I dont  
uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. As Ive said, unfortunately the mortgage  doesnt seem to 
be affordable for Mr and Mrs H and Id urge them again to get advice from an agency or 
charity that might  be able to help them. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 June 2019.
Julia Wilkinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8957529