K820x#14complaint
Mr F says Canada  Square Operations Limited  mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) policy.  
background
The policy was added  to Mr Fs account in 1999  when he applied for an Egg branded credit 
card online.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr F disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Fs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Fs complaint  because:
 Egg has provided the internet  screens it says Mr F wouldve seen when applying for 
his credit card. I can see a Yes  option and a No option for PPI. Egg says Mr F 
wouldnt have been able to continue his application without choosing one of the boxes 
and that the Yes box wasnt pre-ticked. And I havent seen enough  to say that Eggs 
usual sales process wasnt followed here either. So considering everything I think its 
more likely than not that Mr F chose  PPI during  his application after being  made  aware 
it was optional. 
 Egg didnt recommend the PPI to Mr F so it didnt have to check  if it was suitable for 
him. It was up to Mr F to decide  whether the policy was right for him taking into account  
whatever he had to make his credit card payments  if he had to stop working  
unexpectedly.
 Its possible the information Egg gave Mr F about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But its unlikely he wouldve been affected by any of the main  things  
the policy didnt  cover. Ive seen what Mr F has said about being entitled  to sick pay. 
But the policy wouldve paid out in addition to this and as the PPI was competitively 
priced and had a reasonable benefit, I dont think better  information wouldve stopped 
him buying the policy in the first place. 
Ive taken into account Mr Fs comments. But these points  dont change  my conclusion.
Ref: DRN83881202my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding Mr Fs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 April 2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8388120