K820x#14complaint
Mr S complained about Talbot and Muir SIPP LLPs (Talbot and Muir) charges. He didnt 
think it was made clear that the normal property charge would apply to his plan where a 
proportion of a single  property was held by several  self-invested personal pensions (SIPPs).
background
In 2013 Mr S was looking for a new provider for his pension at the same time as two family 
members. The research  was done  without using  a financial  adviser  and Talbot and Muir was 
chosen as the new SIPP provider.
Talbot and Muir provided a schedule of fees and services. The start of that document  said: 
This document helps  you understand the fees for establishing and administering a SIPP.
The annual property  administration  fee was shown as £280 plus VAT.  This fee has been 
increased each  year by Talbot and Muir.
Three SIPPs were set up on an execution  only basis, including one for Mr S. A charges tariff 
was provided and further information was made available on line or by contacting  Talbot and 
Muir directly.
Each of the SIPPs owned a proportion of a single commercial property. However, when Mr S 
received the first fee invoices  he noticed that his SIPP was charged the full property fee. 
This was queried with Talbot and Muir on his behalf. He said he understood as there  was 
one property involved only one normal  property  fee would be charged but apportioned 
between the three SIPPs.
An adjudicator investigated the complaint  and didnt uphold it, giving his reasons as follows:
Because Mr S did his own research and didnt use a financial adviser, it was his 
responsibility to ensure  he understood the charges involved prior to making  an 
application to his newly chosen  provider.
The documentation  provided clearly set out what the charges were, including 
property charges. And the information  provided set out that a property charge would 
apply to a SIPP  which held property.
Mr S could  reasonably  have  contacted  Talbot Muir to establish the actual charges 
that applied to his SIPP if hed been  unsure.
The charges  were a matter for Talbot Muir to determine, whether or not different 
providers had different  charges, and the correct charges were applied  for 
administering the SIPP and the property.
Mr S didnt agree with the adjudicator and made the following points:
The adjudicator  focused on whether Talbot and Muir provided sufficient information 
about the fees to be paid by each trustee.  But there is also the issue  about whether 
they provided the service that they charged  for.
The property had been held in different SIPPs before where  the administrators did 
not charge each  member. Talbot and Muirs schedule of fees should have been  clear 
on this point.
Mr S had asked Talbot  and Muir to explain why it charged for one piece of work  three  
times. He could not see that there was additional  work  involved  for the one property.
Ref: DRN83987872my findings
Ive considered all the evidence  and arguments  in order to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The first point I have considered is what the terms of the SIPP said about the fees. The 
schedule of fees and services  referred  to the fees for establishing and administering  a 
SIPP. A SIPP is an individual pension plan. Although a number of SIPPs  may be used to 
buy one property, they are still individual plans.  So, the fees applied to each individual  SIPP.  
The schedule went on to set out the annual administration fee for a property as £280 plus 
VAT. In my view, reading the document as a whole it is clear enough that each  SIPP would 
be charged a fee.
I have also considered whether anything within the information provided by Talbot  and Muir 
either in their documentation or anything said could have misled Mr S about the charges. I 
have not seen anything which leads me to that conclusion. However, I can understand why 
Mr S would infer that a charge  was per property as other providers charged in that way. But, 
as I said earlier, I think the charges were clear enough that the charge was for each SIPP.
Mr S also made the point  that Talbot and Muir hasnt provided the service for which the 
charges have been made. I can see why Mr S thinks that a service is only being provided 
once, but charged  three times. However,  Talbot and Muir has explained  that there is more 
administrative work when  a commercial property is co-owned by more  than one SIPP. The 
activity must be recorded within the property account and each individual  SIPP.  
In my view, it is clear that Talbot  and Muir is providing a service for each SIPP. Although,  for 
example, only one rental payment is received each  month it is still necessary to apportion 
that between each SIPP; and similarly for any other payments or work required. I am 
satisfied that a service  is being provided for each SIPP.
There is a question about whether it is fair to charge the same amount for each  SIPP when 
compared to one SIPP which holds one commercial  property.  In my view, the starting 
position has to be the terms that were set out. In this case, I have said that the fee for 
property administration  was clear enough. Mr S should have realised that the fee was for 
each SIPP.  There are a large  number  of fees charged. None of these fees appear to me to 
be unfair or excessive. It may be that the costs are lower for some SIPPs than others, but 
that does not mean it is unfair.
I am satisfied that the property administration fee was intended to be for each SIPP.  Talbot 
and Muir has provided a service and I am not persuaded that the fee charged  was unfair.
Ref: DRN83987873my final decision
I do not uphold  Mr Ss complaint and make no award. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 January 2020. 
Roy Milne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8398787