K821x#15complaint
L (a limited  company) has complained about an interest rate hedging product sold to it by
National Westminster Bank Plc in 2007. It has also complained about an earlier interest rate
hedging product  sold to it in 2005,  which I am considering under a separate case reference 
17513453.
background
L arranged a variable rate loan of £1,150,000 over 13 years  in October 2007. L bought an 
interest rate hedging product, a structured collar,  in November 2007. The aim was to protect  
L from increases in interest rates on its borrowing. The structured collar was for a notional  
sum of £1,250,000, had a term of five years, a cap at 6.5%, a floor at 4.5%  and a second 
floor at 4%. L would pay the base  rate if it was between 6.5% and 4.5%,  4.5% if the base 
rate was at or below 4.5%  and above 4%. If the base rate fell below 4% then L would pay a 
rate of 6.5%.  The structured collar had a premium of £3,400. 
When interest rates fell sharply in late 2008, L started to make  substantial payments under 
the swap agreement.
L complained to NatWest.  It said it should  not have been sold the structured  collar  and if it 
had been made aware of the risks associated with it, in particular the possible scale of the 
break costs,  it would not have entered into any interest rate hedging arrangements.  Interest 
rate hedging  was not a condition of the loan and L required  flexibility in 2007,  as there was a 
possibility it might have  sold some of its properties  and reduced  the size of its loans. 
L says it was not desperate to enter into hedging arrangements and only did so because 
NatWest suggested  it was a good idea. L says it had not had to make any significant  
payments under the structured collar  it had taken out in 2005. 
NatWest reviewed the sale in accordance with the terms of the FCA review of interest rate 
hedging products.  The review found that the explanation L had been given about the 
features, benefits and risks of alternative  products might not have complied  with the 
standards agreed with the FCA for the purposes of the review. It offered to put L in the 
position it would have been  in if it had instead taken  out a vanilla collar. It considered the 
vanilla collar would have been  the most appropriate product for Ls circumstances. 
L did not accept NatWests offer and brought a complaint to us. 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in 2018 and came to the conclusion  it was 
likely L would not have entered into any hedging  arrangements in 2007  if it had been  given 
enough information about the scale of the potential break costs. 
In summary,  I said:
Hedging did not appear to have  been  a condition  of lending in 2007;  
I did not think the evidence suggested  L had a strong desire to enter into a hedging  
arrangement; 
The cost of a vanilla  collar appeared to have been £11,380 in 2007, based on 
NatWests redress calculation, which showed quarterly payments of £569  for five 
years;
Ref: DRN83196622I had listened  to a series of phone calls between Ls owner and NatWest from the 
time of sale in 2007. Various options had been discussed. Cost was clearly an 
important factor for L; 
A vanilla collar with a cap of 6.55% and a floor of 4.5% had been discussed and 
discounted from Ls consideration due to the cost  around £18,000 at the time; 
Ls owner suggested, during the calls, that if the price was too high, he might  as well 
not hedge  at all and pay any increase in interest  rates on his variable loan, since he 
did not expect  rates to increase by very much or for very long and he calculated a 
0.25% interest  rate rise would cost him £3,125 extra per year; 
Against that background, I thought it was unlikely,  in the counterfactual scenario 
where L had been fully aware  of the features, risks and potential  break  costs,  L 
would have opted for a product it had in reality dismissed as too expensive; 
I noted that in 2005 L had decided against  a cap, which it said was its preferred 
option at that time, because it cost £9,294 on a notional amount of £900,000. Even  
allowing for movements in the market and other factors,  it seemed unlikely to me 
that L would have taken out a vanilla collar  for £11,380 in 2007,  when it hadnt been 
prepared to pay £9,294 for a cap two years  earlier, albeit on a slightly  lower notional 
amount; 
Ls owner had also mentioned, during the calls, that he might be selling one of his 
properties and whilst  his inclination  was not to sell, if he did, he would be able to 
reduce his borrowing substantially. That being  the case,  I thought this would have 
been another factor making taking out any type of hedging product unattractive, as L 
might want  to exit the arrangements and could  face significant break  costs;
I recommended that NatWest compensate  L as if it had not taken out any hedging 
product in 2007;
I noted that L hadnt provided any details  of its consequential loss claim and had 
suggested it would wait until I had issued a final decision before doing  so. I 
explained that I would not be revisiting  the complaint once I had made a final 
decisions and suggested L provide details of its claim.
NatWest did not agree  with my provisional decision.  In summary, it said:
Ls owner had an accountancy  background  and his brother  had a relevant financial 
services background.  Ls owner  also had a good  grasp of the mechanics of the 
products being  discussed;
He had a clear view on interest  rates. He outlined  in his call on 10 September 2007 
that rates might rise by 1-1.5% in the short term before decreasing.  He confirmed in 
the call that he was happy with the rates proposed for the value collar. He indicated 
that he didnt expect rates to fall below  4% because he said he would only be in 
danger if they reached that level. Given that he wanted a cap of 6.5%  and didnt 
expect rates to go below 4% it feels the vanilla  collar proposed in the review (with a 
cap at 6.5% and a collar at 4%) was the most appropriate alternative product;
He approached NatWest to hedge,  seeking low premium or premium-free solutions. 
It said that while I had said I did not think this was important, it felt this was of key 
importance. Hedging  wasnt a condition of the loan, so the fact the consumer wanted 
to hedge was crucial to the outcome. It referred  to various pieces of evidence that it 
said showed L wanted to hedge. I had said L might have  initiated  the discussion but 
that did not matter  because  NatWest  had already offered redress in respect of the 
2005 product.  Since L hadnt  had to make  any payments under the 2005 collar by the 
time it came to take out another  product in 2007  and wouldnt have done  in the event 
it had taken out a vanilla  collar;  it thought it was likely he would have opted for the 
Ref: DRN83196623vanilla collar. It didnt  think I should discount the fact L approached the bank to 
hedge;
My provisional decision was effectively that such a customer  would have taken no 
hedging at all. That did not fit with the factual narrative. NatWest  accepted  L was not 
keen to pursue  products with high premiums but said Ls owner  understood that he 
could introduce  optionality into products to reduce their premium. The counterfactual 
scenario the review  had to consider was one in which L was fully apprised of the 
risks associated  with a value collar  and had decided  to refuse  value collars  as an 
option. In such  a counterfactual scenario NatWest considered L would have been 
minded to pay a higher premium for a vanilla  collar  that matched his view of the likely 
short to mid-term movement in interest rates. It remained  of the view that the vanilla 
collar proposed as redress in the review was the product the customer would have 
traded in the counterfactual scenario;
NatWest said it thinks  L would  have been minded to pay a higher premium  for a 
vanilla collar if it matched  its view of likely interest rates;
NatWest said if, on considering its submissions I still did not agree, then it suggested 
L would have  sought to achieve a lower premium vanilla collar that would have fitted 
its view of interest rates;
It was likely, given his desire to manage interest rate risk he would have  been  
prepared to pay higher premiums;
While  it does not agree with my provisional  conclusions in relation to the mis-sale of 
the swap, it had assessed the consequential  loss claim taking into account the effect 
of my provisional decision on this and a related case. It said it had assessed the 
consequential loss complaint as it would a standalone complaint about consequential 
loss. It calculated that recoverable consequential losses  amounted  to £304,320.13. It 
accepted that L would have  suffered some consequential losses  if NatWest accepted 
the conclusions  I set out in my provisional  decision (although it did not agree with my 
conclusions). However, it did not accept the consequential loss claim in full;
I issued a further provisional decision  in 2019, in which I said:
While  I had considered Ls owners  accountancy  background, his grasp of the 
products being  sold and his brothers background, there was nothing to suggest he 
appreciated the scale of the potential  break  costs he might  face if he wanted to exit 
the structured collar;
Ls owner expressed the view that he thought interest rates  might  go up by 1-1.5% 
for a short time and then head  downwards.  This view was expressed in telephone 
calls on 10 September  2007 and 2 November 2007.  Several options were  discussed 
and Ls owner balanced the premium costs  of the various products against how much 
he might  have to pay in additional interest  on his variable  rates loan if interest  rates 
rose in general. He said he was not prepared to pay a premium of £24,886 for a five 
year cap at 6.5%, despite that being what he really wanted. He had calculated that 
for every 0.25% rise in interest rates it would cost him £3,125  extra per year. His view 
appears to have been if rates went up by a little and not for long, as he anticipated, if 
the premium for a hedging  product was too high, he might be better off running the 
risk and paying any additional  interest he might be charged;
I agreed the evidence  suggested he did not expect interest  rates to fall as low as 4%;
I did not think it was likely,  in the counterfactual scenario,  that he would have  opted  
for a vanilla collar.  This was because he had actually been offered one and said he 
was not attracted to it at the price quoted. While NatWest has suggested  the price for 
a vanilla collar  with a 6.5% cap and a 4% floor would have been  £11,380,  rather  than 
the £18,000 quoted  for a vanilla  collar with a 6.5%  cap and a 4.5% floor at the time, I 
Ref: DRN83196624still did not think L would  have taken the vanilla collar at that price. In the 8 October  
2007 phone  call Ls owner said So, I think if you said to me right [owners name] I 
want your money what would you do, I would do, what would I do, I would do, I would  
pay for 3.5 and 5 and 6.5 but not for the ten grand its going to cost. While this was a 
different collar product, he was comfortable  with the rates but simply was not 
prepared to pay the £10,000 premium.  On balance, I thought it unlikely  he would 
have been prepared to pay even more  - £11,380  - for a different type of collar where 
he was still comfortable  with the rates;
It was not an established  fact that L had approached NatWest to hedge.  I had 
considered NatWests evidence that it was L who approached it to hedge but it was 
not clear.  The evidence largely consisted of brief internal  notes produced  by 
NatWest. L said it only approached NatWest  because  the NatWest  relationship  
manager suggested it might want to hedge.  In any event, it was not clear L had fully 
understood the risks, features and scale of the break costs and it might have been  
less keen to hedge if it had;
I did not agree with NatWest that my conclusions did not fit with the factual narrative. 
I thought NatWest submissions failed  to mention a number  of factors  I thought were 
relevant. For example,  Ls owner mentioned  to NatWest  the possibility he might sell a 
property valued  at £4m that would mean he was able to repay all his debts  early  and 
he might  therefore want to exit the hedging arrangements  early.  He was also 
reasonably clear in his view that he thought interest rates,  if they rose at all, would 
not stay high for very long before  heading down and that he was interested in value 
for money;
NatWest suggested,  as an alternative, that L would have sought  to achieve a lower 
premium vanilla collar that would  have fit its view of interest rates. While I thought 
that was possible, I doubted it would have achieved  this. By increasing the cap, 
which was 0.75% above the base rate at the time, it would have  reduced  the cost but 
this wouldnt have  matched Ls view of interest rates. Ls owners view was that rates  
probably wouldnt increase by more than 1 or 1.5%, so increasing the cap by more  
than 0.75% above the then base  rate would  have offered little protection  from rate 
increases. Likewise, if he had raised the floor, it would have reduced the cost, but 
locked him into a narrow range of rates. In the call on 8 October  2007,  he mentioned 
he did not see the point in paying  for something that effectively locked  him in to 
current rates. So I thought it was unlikely he would have pursued this possibility;
NatWest said it is likely, given his desire to manage interest  rate risk; Ls owner 
would have been prepared to pay higher premiums. But I did not think  this was borne 
out by the evidence,  such as the quote from Ls owner mentioned earlier. Throughout 
the telephone calls,  it was clear he wasnt prepared to pay high premiums  to manage 
his interest rate risk and that hed considered and balanced the premiums against  
how much  additional interest hed have to pay if rates rose;
Overall, I remained of the view L would not have hedged in 2007 if it had been aware 
of the potential size of the break costs it might face if it wanted to exit the 
arrangement. Ls owner was considering selling property worth  £4m that could have 
transformed Ls finances and allowed for most or all of its loans to be repaid.  While 
he said this was not his preferred option, he was considering it and mentioned  it as a 
factor in his decision-making during the calls in 2007. I also consider the other 
products available werent sufficiently attractive in terms of rates  versus price  that L 
would have, more  likely  than not, taken one of them out if he hadnt taken out the 
structured collar  sold to him. It seemed more  likely, in view of his reluctance to pay 
significant premiums for hedging  and his view that rates  were  unlikely to rise by much  
or for long that he would instead  have decided it was more  cost effective to simply 
pay any additional interest he might be faced with if rates rose,  which was by no 
Ref: DRN83196625means certain. For those  reasons I remained of the view the mis-sale  complaint 
should be upheld;
I thought NatWests assessment of Ls consequential losses  appeared reasonable, 
although I noted NatWest had not accepted my provisional conclusions about the 
mis-sale;
In view of the limit on awards  by an ombudsman, I asked NatWest whether it would 
accept any recommendation from me that it should pay more than the maximum 
amount I could award.
NatWest responded  and said:
It did not have  any further comments to make on my provisional decision;
It would  seek to cap redress and would not pay more than the maximum award I 
could make.
L was broadly  in agreement with my provisional decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has made substantive further comments following my provisional decision  in 
March 2019. Having considered the complaint afresh, I have come to the same conclusions  
and for the same  reasons.  
On balance, I am not persuaded  that L was aware of the potential scale  of the break costs, 
although I accept  Ls owner  had some understanding  of the way the structured collar 
worked. 
I am not persuaded L would have wanted  to hedge if it had understood the potential scale of 
the break costs.  The evidence  that it initiated discussions about the hedge is not clear and 
does not persuade me L was that keen to hedge.  Even  if it did initiate these discussions, L 
might have been less keen  if it was aware of the possible size of the break costs. Ls owner 
also made it clear in the telephone conversations that he might sell one of his properties and 
repay or substantially reduce the amount of his loans. These factors,  in my view,  make it 
less likely he would have  wanted to be tied into a hedging product he might not need and 
which might  be expensive  to break  if he did not need it. 
I remain of the view that the price of the hedging  product was a key factor  and L weighed  
this carefully against the additional interest  he might have to pay if rates rose.  His view on 
interest rates, expressed in the various  telephone conversations referred to above, was 
clearly important too. The possibility of repaying the loans early was also a factor Ls owner 
mentioned specifically. In my view, the possibility  of substantial break costs  would  also have 
been an important  factor if Ls owner  had been  aware of the possible scale of them. 
Ls owner said, in the phone call on 8 October 2007, he was not prepared to pay a premium  
of £10,000 for the interest rates  he was comfortable  with. So I find it highly unlikely he would 
have taken out a vanilla collar, with interest rates  he would have been comfortable  with, if it 
was priced at £11,380.
Ref: DRN83196626I understand NatWests  position that, in the counterfactual  scenario, it considers  L would 
have been minded to pay a higher premium for a vanilla collar  that matched  its view of the 
likely short to mid-term movement in interest rates. But I do not think  that view is supported  
by the evidence, which quite clearly suggests  to me that Ls owner thought he might as well 
risk having  to pay more  interest on his variable rate borrowing  if the premium was too high.
During the calls he said he was not prepared  to pay a premium of £24,886  for a five year cap 
at 6.5%, despite that being  what he actually  wanted.  He calculated that for every  0.25% rise 
in interest rates it would cost him £3,125 extra  per year. But he did not think rates would  go 
up by much or for very long. 
On balance, had L been aware of the potential scale of the break costs, given that he might  
be in a position to repay  the loan early and based  on the evidence that, in my view,  clearly 
shows he was not prepared to pay high premiums  for his hedging arrangements  and the lack 
of options that matched his view of interest rates at costs he was prepared  to pay, I think  it is 
more likely than not he would not have  taken out a hedging product at all. 
According to the redress  calculations NatWest  has provided, redress for the mis-sold 
structured collar, based on my view that L would not have taken  out any hedging product  at 
all, will exceed £150,000. 
In addition, NatWest  assessed Ls consequential losses, at my request, and set out its 
assessment of Ls potential recoverable consequential losses in its letter  dated  19 December 
2018. NatWest stressed that this assessment was based on the conclusions  contained in my 
2018 provisional decision, which it did not accept. 
I have considered those  calculations  and NatWests comments  in its letter  dated  19 
December 2018.  They seem to me to be a reasonable reflection of Ls recoverable 
consequential losses. It follows  that I think NatWest should compensate L for those losses 
too.
But I am mindful NatWest  has told me, in response  to my 2019 provisional decision,  that it 
does not intend to pay more than the maximum  I can award under our rules.  
my final decision
Where I uphold  a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business  to pay 
compensation of up to £150,000, plus any interest and/or costs  I consider  appropriate.  If I 
consider that fair compensation exceeds £150,000,  I may recommend that the business 
pays the balance.
Decision and award
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I consider 
that fair compensation requires National Westminster Bank Plc to carry out the steps I 
specify below. I order the bank to do this - up to a maximum financial effect of £150,000 plus 
interest.
Recommendation
I think that fair compensation is more than £150,000  plus interest, so I recommend that 
National Westminster Bank Plc pays L the balance.
Ref: DRN83196627This recommendation is not part of my determination or award.  National Westminster  Bank  
Plc does  not have  to do what I recommend. Its unlikely L can accept my final decision
and go to court to ask for the balance. L may want to get independent  legal advice before 
deciding whether to accept  this final decision.
The specified steps
National Westminster Bank Plc should  put L in the position it would have been in if
L had not taken out an interest rate hedging product in 2007.
The redress  should  reflect  the following practical  considerations:
-National Westminster Bank Plc should  refund the amounts paid in accordance  with 
the 2007 swap agreement.
-National Westminster Bank Plc should  pay interest on these amounts at the rate of 
8% simple per year from the date they were paid to the date of settlement.
-In respect of Ls consequential losses, National Westminster Bank Plc should pay L 
compensation in accordance with its calculations contained in its letter  dated  19 
December 2018.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 31 August 2019.
Greg Barham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8319662