K820x#14complaint
Mr K, who is represented by his father, complains  that HSBC  UK Bank PLC failed to manage 
his overdraft borrowing.
background
Mr K had a current account with HSBC with an overdraft. Since opening the account, Mr K 
applied for three increases to the overdraft limit.
Mr K says he went to a HSBC branch with his mother in February 2019 to find out why his 
account was so overdrawn  he was over £650 overdrawn and had a £200 overdraft limit. 
HSBC says it explained to Mr K that his account had become heavily overdrawn because 
hed been using his contactless  card a lot. HSBC also says it agreed to refund approximately  
£350 in charges as a gesture of goodwill and to close the account  after his mother  agreed to 
repay the remaining balance. Mr K subsequently complained,  with the help of his father, 
saying that HSBC should have spotted  that he was in financial difficulties and stopped him 
going so overdrawn. Mr K said hes had problems with anxiety and depression  for over three 
years and that his condition leads him to overspend.
HSBC investigated  Mr Ks complaint but didnt  agree  it had done anything wrong. HSBC said 
it had applied charges to the account  in line with its terms and conditions, that it was the 
customers responsibility to manage  their account and that Mr K hadnt  let HSBC know about 
his condition. Mr K was unhappy with HSBCs  response and so complained  to us.
I sent Mr K and HSBC  my provisional findings on 31 March  2020. I felt that HSBC were  
partly responsible for Mr K finding himself in the position that he did. However,  I also felt that 
it was a fair and reasonable outcome for HSBC to refund the charges as they did. 
Ive included a copy of my provisional findings  below.
my provisional findings
In my provisional findings I said;
Mr K had an account for a number of years  with HSBC. He applied to increase  his overdraft 
limit three times. HSBC rejected the final application, saying that there was limited turnover 
going through the account,  signs of financial pressure,  heavy  use of informal  overdrafts and 
returned payments.  HSBC was, in my view,  right to reject the final application. The question  I 
have to ask is whether  it was right to approve the previous two applications, and, even if it 
was right to do so, whether HSBC should  have done more to stop Mr K going over his 
overdraft limit as he did at times.
No-one has questioned HSBCs decision to approve  Mr Ks first application to increase his 
limit. I dont think it was an irresponsible decision in any event. Our investigator,  however, 
thought that HSBC shouldnt have approved his second application. I accept that Mr K had 
asked for his overdraft  limit to be doubled, and that he had already gone over his limit 
several times. But what wed expect HSBC  to do in a case  like this is to undertake  a 
reasonable assessment of the creditworthiness of their customer. I can see that HSBC 
checked Mr Ks income and expenditure and his account history  before  deciding whether or 
not to approve  his second application. That information showed that Mr K had a relatively  
high disposable  income and a history of managing his account  well  bringing it back under 
his overdraft limit quickly if and when he exceeded  it. In the circumstances, I dont agree 
Ref: DRN87036202HSBC acted irresponsibly  when  it approved  his second application. I should  add that even 
though Mr K asked for his overdraft limit to be doubled, his limit was still a small one. 
Im satisfied, based on his income  and expenditure, and his history of managing his account  
well, that Mr K could have applied for a much larger limit and had it agreed.
Having agreed  to increase Mr Ks overdraft limit, HSBC allowed  him to go over his new limit 
on a regular basis and at times to go significantly over his limit. I accept HSBC sent Mr K 
texts to alert him to the fact that he had gone overdrawn and over his limit, as well as writing  
to him about  his account. HSBC also stopped a couple of direct debits going out of his 
account. HSBC  didnt, however, block Mr Ks card at any time. He was, as a result,  able to 
significantly exceed his overdraft and to do so for several weeks.
Very little of Mr Ks expenditure, if any, was essential spending. I dont, therefore, agree 
that he was in financial difficulties as such. I do, however, agree there was evidence that he 
wasnt managing  his account as well as he had been in the past. I also agree that HSBC  
could have done more to help him. However,  in the absence of any evidence that Mr K 
wasnt able to manage his account  properly because of anxiety or depression that was 
making him vulnerable, I agree that he also had a responsibility to manage his account well. 
In short,  given what Ive just said, I agree that HSBC  needed to help put right what had 
happened as it was partly  responsible for Mr K going as overdrawn as he did. I also,  
however, agree that refunding the charges  and interest as it did represents a fair and 
reasonable outcome. I dont think it would be fair to ask HSBC to pay any additional  
compensation as Mr K benefitted from the money  he spent. So, Im not minded to ask HSBC 
to do more than it already  has done.
responses to my provisional  decision
HSBC havent  made  any further comments for my consideration.
Mr Ks father responded to my provisional decision with comments  on Mr Ks behalf. He felt 
that HSBC shouldnt continue to allow cash withdrawals and at the same  time, return  direct  
debits. He felt this was irresponsible lending.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also re-considered  my provisional 
findings.
As I said in my provisional findings,  there was evidence that Mr K wasnt manging his 
account as well as he previously had been.  And so, HSBC could have done more  to help 
him.
One of the things that HSBC could  have done was to consider blocking Mr Ks card and not 
allowing him to make  cash withdrawals. I say this because the returned direct  debit 
payments alone  should have indicated to HSBC  that Mr K wasnt managing  his account as 
well as he had been.
However when Ive considered what should  be done to resolve  HSBC  errors and put Mr K 
back in the position he would have  been  in, Im mindful that Mr K chose to make the cash 
Ref: DRN87036203withdrawals and also benefitted from whatever he used  the cash for. The cash  wasnt  a 
financial loss to Mr K, and so it wouldnt be fair to make HSBC  compensate  him for it. That 
being said, HSBC  should recognise  that Mr K shouldnt  have to pay interest and charges on 
the cash that it could  have  stopped him withdrawing. From the information  Ive seen, HSBC 
did recognise this and refunded charges and interest on the account. 
So overall Im not persuaded to change my original  findings  in this case. Therefore my 
decision remains the same - that the actions HSBC  took in refunding the interest  and 
charges represent  a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint. So, I wont  be asking 
HSBC to do anything  more.       
my final decision
For these reasons, and the reasons Ive explained in my provisional decision.  My final 
decision is that the steps HSBC UK Bank plc has taken to resolve  this complaint, namely 
refunding approximately £350  in charges  and interest, represents  a fair and reasonable 
outcome. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 June  2020.
Tim Wilkes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8703620