K821x#15complaint
Mrs L is unhappy with the way AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) handled a claim made under 
her travel insurance policy.
background
Mrs L holds a travel insurance policy as a benefit  of her bank account. It also provides cover 
for her daughter, Miss K.
In April 2018, Mrs L contacted AXA and explained  Miss K, who was attending a course  
abroad at the time, had a very sore knee  and needed to see a doctor. AXA provided  details  
of a health centre and following a visit, Miss Ks treating doctor made  a referral to a 
neurologist. Mrs L informed AXA of this and the notes suggest  it was assumed the follow-up 
would be for a scan. AXA told Mrs L it required  a medical report  from the doctor before it 
would agree to cover  the referral.  It asked Mrs L and Miss K to obtain this and also offered to 
try and request  it.
In June 2018, AXA received a medical report directly from the centre.  In the report,  the 
reason for the referral  to a neurologist was recorded  as left knee numbness and pain, back  
pain with h/o back injury.  AXAs case notes for the report stated care (the neurology referral) 
was necessary and appropriate and that the next steps were prompt if further assistance in 
needed.
AXA wrote to Miss K on 20 June 2018  and confirmed it had agreed to settle  the medical 
costs shed incurred  so far directly with the centre. Mrs L emailed AXA a few days later on 
25 June to check if the medical  report included a request for a follow-up appointment  with a 
neurologist, or whether  Miss K needed  to ask the centre to send the request again. On 
5 July 2018, ten days after her first email, Mrs L emailed AXA again as she hadnt heard 
back. She also informed  AXA that Miss Ks pain had returned.
On 27 July 2018, Mrs L emailed AXA again, informing it Miss K had returned to the health  
centre as the pain had become worse and was diagnosed  with sciatica.  She didnt need 
further tests from this appointment, but the centre would send an additional claim to AXA. 
Miss K had to return to the centre again on 23 August 2018 as her pain had returned and 
she hadnt had any scans. Mrs L received no response to any of her emails.
Mrs L phoned AXA on 25 August 2018  and complained she hadnt had any response  to her 
emails. She also explained  the doctor  at the latest  consultation had made a referral  for an 
MRI scan  and forwarded the report by email. The report showed  Miss K was diagnosed with 
lower back pain and lumbar radiculopathy and the doctor  made a referral to an orthopaedic 
specialist.
AXA forwarded this to its medical  team for review and phoned Mrs L some days later to 
request a full medical report.  It explained the information contained in the report  was 
incomplete. Mrs L didnt have any further  reports  and so AXA attempted to contact the 
medical centre directly.
On 8 October 2018, Miss K flew back to the UK and subsequently received treatment there, 
as nothing further happened whilst she was abroad. The claim was then closed as no further 
assistance was needed. But Mrs L remained unhappy with how things were handled. She 
felt AXA had delayed  treatment until after Miss K returned home to save on costs.
Ref: DRN81782642AXA accepted the level of communication  wasnt  what it should  have  been  and offered £250 
compensation to recognise this. But it ultimately explained it needed a further medical report 
before it could approve cover  so as it hadnt received one, it couldnt agree the MRI. Mrs L 
referred the matter  to our service.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint at the beginning of March 2020.  I set out 
that it wasnt in dispute  that AXA could have been more  proactive in its communication  with 
Miss K and Mrs L. It had acknowledged it didnt respond to Mrs Ls emails when it should 
have. So, the key issue I needed to decide  was whether the compensation issued was 
enough considering the communication  issues and the impact these had. 
I acknowledged that an insurer is entitled  to validate or verify the claim before confirming 
cover. So I didnt think it was unreasonable for AXA to request  a medical report after 
Miss Ks first visit to the health centre  as it needed documentation to confirm the next steps.  
But it took some time for AXA to obtain this report, which I considered  was in part down to its 
actions as well as the actions of the medical centre.
Mrs L spoke to AXA on 17 April 2018 about  Miss Ks visit to the medical  centre and at this 
time said she didnt have a medical report. But AXAs notes suggested it didnt  correctly  
request a report from the centre until 10 May 2018, meaning it took over three weeks  longer 
for the report to be provided. And when the report did arrive and was reviewed (19 and 20 
June 2018), AXA closed the claim and settled the bill, rather  than generating the referral that 
the report requested.
On the 25 June 2018 Mrs L sent AXA an email enquiring about the follow-up appointment 
with a neurologist  and asked if this would be covered or if further paperwork was needed. By 
this point AXA had received the report directly from the health centre. So, I thought  it would 
have been able to confirm  its position at this time or at least  provide a meaningful update 
considering it had been over two months since Miss K first reported  the pain.
Instead it wasnt until eight weeks later, after Miss K had been to the health centre twice 
more that AXA looked into the matter and asked for further evidence.  I said it was clear  from 
Mrs Ls emails  during this time  which werent  responded  to  that she was initially waiting 
for confirmation about the follow-up before Miss K arranged it. And then Miss K had to return  
to the medical  centre as she was in so much pain,  despite not knowing if she was covered. 
I considered this wouldve made an already  difficult situation more stressful,  factoring in that 
Miss K was a young adult abroad alone,  in a country where medical  costs  are known to be 
high.
I acknowledged the initial and the subsequent  reports from the health centre didnt  explicitly  
mention any scans.  And accepted it cant be said for certain whether AXA would have  
agreed to authorise  the referral based on the initial report  although I noted that in response 
to both medical reports AXAs case notes suggest  follow ups/scans were  necessary and 
appropriate. But even  if it was the case that further  information was needed or AXA wasnt  
able to agree cover,  I thought things could have  moved much swiftly  a whole eight weeks 
earlier. So, I thought  AXAs  poor communication did cause delays in Miss Ks treatment, as 
her options  werent  made clear to her.
Ref: DRN81782643I also noted that AXA had the correct information  in relation to when Miss K was due to 
return home, but contacted Mrs L twice before this date (including  on 3 October) to see if 
Miss K had returned  safely. I thought this would added further upset at a difficult time, 
especially as at this point Miss K had been unwell without the seeing the specialist that was 
advised for over five months.
To put things right I considered AXA needed to increase the amount of compensation 
offered from £250 to £500.
Miss K was a young adult abroad whose pain had returned and she was subsequently on 
crutches. If AXA had been proactive in its communication,  I considered the delays  could 
have been avoided as a decision  on the next steps couldve been made before Miss K 
returned home. While  we cant now know what the next step was, Im satisfied Miss K was 
prevented from getting care as quickly as she could  either abroad by being covered or self-
funding or by returning home early if this was the best option.  AXA didnt explain clearly  why 
there was a delay  or give her any alternative options  during this time. And AXA also made  
an administration error in relation to Miss Ks return date, at a time when its communication 
had already been poor.
Mrs L responded accepting the decision.  She clarified that her daughter  was referred 
urgently to an orthopaedic specialist by the medical  centre, but questioned if the scan  itself 
was mentioned on the paperwork. And she said that AXA had contacted her on 
26 September, not 3 October in relation to her daughter  being  home.  AXA said it didnt  agree 
with the decision  as its view had not changed since the initial assessment our service  carried 
out.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As AXA didnt provide  any further information and Mrs L only confirmed the facts  of her case, 
which we already held, I see no reason to change  my outcome from my provisional  findings. 
For clarity,  AXAs records state that Mrs L was contacted twice about her daughter  being  
home before she in fact was, once on 26 September and then again on 3 October. And the 
paperwork from the medical centre doesnt  specify that an MRI scan is required.
I still consider the compensation offered by AXA (£250) does not go far enough to 
compensate Mrs L for the impact its lack of communication had on her and Miss K. So for 
the reasons set out in my provisional  decision,  summarised above,  Im upholding Mrs Ls 
complaint and awarding her £500 compensation in total.
putting things right
AXA Insurance UK Plc needs to pay Mrs L £500 compensation in total for the delays in 
handling her daughters claim.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Mrs Ls complaint about AXA Insurance UK Plc.
Ref: DRN81782644AXA Insurance UK Plc should arrange for payment of the amount set out above  within  
28 days of receiving notice of Mrs Ls acceptance  of this decision.
Mrs L should note that if she accepts my decision,  it will be legally binding on all parties  and 
she probably then wouldnt be able to take legal action over this matter for additional 
compensation. If, however, she rejects the decision, although her legal rights will remain 
intact, itll be purely a matter between her and AXA Insurance UK Plc as to whether the 
above redress is available.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2020.
Amy Osborne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8178264