K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs K say Nationwide Building  Society mis-sold them payment protection insurance  
(PPI).
background
Mr and Mrs K applied  for the mortgage in 1999  and bought the PPI at the same  time. 
Nationwide says the sale took place  in a meeting and it didnt advise Mr and Mrs K to take 
the PPI. The policy gave them an equal  joint monthly benefit of £175 for up to 12 months if 
either of them  made a successful accident, sickness or unemployment  clam.  Initially it cost 
them around £17.50 a month.
Mr and Mrs K say they were pressured into buying the PPI, which  they say theyd  have 
declined if theyd known  they had a choice about  it. And they say they had good employee 
benefits at the time which meant  they didnt need  it.
The adjudicator who looked at Mr and Mrs Ks complaint didnt uphold it. Mr and Mrs K 
disagree and so their complaint has come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ks complaint. Ill explain why.
Nationwide needed  to make it clear  to Mr and Mrs K they had a choice about PPI and get 
their agreement to it. It has given us copies  of Mr and Mrs Ks mortgage  application  and 
offer, together with mortgage statements and some sample documents  referring to PPI 
renewals. 
The mortgage application is printed, so I think its a record of information Mr and Mrs K gave 
verbally during  the meeting. It includes details of the PPI  including the level of cover  and 
amount of benefit.  Ive seen other Nationwide sales where PPI was not required and where  
this was stated on the form. So I dont think the inclusion of the PPI on Mr and Mrs Ks 
application shows it was automatically added to the mortgage. Also,  given that different 
levels of cover were available, I think there must  have been  some  discussion to arrive at a 
decision about the benefit split between Mr and Mrs K. And I think Mr and Mrs K would 
reasonably have wanted to look over the printed  application before they signed  it, so I think 
they wouldve  had the opportunity to query it if they didnt want the cover at the time.  
Overall I think  its more  likely than not Mr and Mrs K were given a choice about taking the 
PPI, and decided  to do so. And Ive seen nothing  from the time of the sale to make me think 
its likely  they were  pressured into taking it.
Nationwide says it didnt  recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs K and, from what  we know 
about how Nationwide sold PPI with mortgages  at this time,  I think thats probably right. So it 
didnt have to make sure the PPI was suitable  for them. But it shouldve given Mr and Mrs K 
enough clear information  for them to make an informed choice about it.
Ref: DRN82937102I cant know how the salesperson explained  the PPI  especially the things not covered. But 
I cant see Mr and Mrs K wouldve been  affected by any of these. 
Mr and Mrs K say they wouldve got good  sick pay from their employers at the time. But the 
PPI wouldve  paid out in addition to their sick pay and potentially for longer than their full sick 
pay lasted. So I think it gave them potentially useful  cover. I say this especially  bearing in 
mind a mortgage is a significant financial commitment and your home is at risk if you fall 
behind on your mortgage repayments
Mr and Mrs Ks mortgage application  clearly  showed the type of cover as accident, sickness  
and unemployment,  the monthly benefit  as £350, with a 50:50 benefit split and a benefit 
period of 12 months. The cost wasnt stated (but was later included  on the mortgage offer, 
although at a slightly lower amount than they eventually paid each month), but I think          
Mr and Mrs K wouldve had a reasonable idea about the cost during the meeting. 
So, all in all, I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ks complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 July 2019.  
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8293710