K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs P have  complained that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS)  mis-sold them a mortgage 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
Mr and Mrs P took out the PPI in 1994.  The sale happened in a meeting at the same time as 
they were arranging the mortgage. The policy was set up to provide cover  for both Mr and 
Mrs P for accident, sickness and unemployment.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ps complaint and Ill explain why.
BoS doesnt have any documentation for the sale of the PPI, which  isnt surprising  given how 
long ago it took place. But this does  make the complaint  more  difficult  to decide. So in 
reaching my decision I have considered the evidence that we do have, as well as what I 
think is most likely  to have happened.
Mr and Mrs P say it wasnt made  clear  they had a choice about buying  the policy.  From what  
we know of BoSs sales processes at the time, PPI was presented as optional.  I havent 
seen any evidence that the adviser deviated from the usual process on this occasion
The sale was a long time ago and so it wouldnt be surprising  if Mr and Mrs Ps recollection 
of events has faded. Ive thought carefully  about what Mr and Mrs P have said. But overall,  
from the available evidence, Im unable to conclude that they were made to take out the 
policy. On balance, I think its likely that Mr and Mrs P decided to buy the policy, knowing 
that they didnt  have  to, even if they no longer  remember doing  so.
BoS has said that it advised Mr and Mrs P to buy the policy. That means  that in 
recommending it to them, it needed  to ensure that it met their needs. And from what I know 
of Mr and Mrs Ps circumstances,  the policy was suitable for them.
Mr and Mrs P would both have received some sick pay from their jobs.  But the policy would  
have paid out in addition  to this and possibly for longer than they would have received full 
pay for. They had savings, but having the PPI meant  that they could have retained these, or 
used them to cover  other  outgoings, at what would have been  a difficult time.
A mortgage is a significant financial commitment and the consequences of defaulting on a 
mortgage can be very serious. So its not surprising if Mr and Mrs P had an interest in 
protecting their repayments.
BoS also needed to provide Mr and Mrs P with enough information for them to make  an 
informed choice about whether the policy was right for them. I think that Mr and Mrs P would 
have been told something about the policy (that it would cover their mortgage payments if 
Ref: DRN82997642they were unable to work) because I dont think they would have agreed to buy the policy 
without knowing anything  at all about it.
Its possible that BoS could have provided  more information about the PPI, particularly about  
the things it didnt cover. But Mr and Mrs P werent  affected by any of those things. As I think 
that Mr and Mrs P had an interest in the PPI and decided to buy it, I dont think  that further 
information would have caused  them to change their minds.
This means  that BoS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs P. But 
BoS has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs P because:  
When the policy was sold,  BoS expected to get a high level of commission and profit  
share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should  have  told Mr and Mrs P about  
that. Because BoS didnt tell Mr and Mrs P, that was unfair.  
To put that right, BoS has paid back the amount of commission  and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  Bank of Scotland plc does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs P.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Mr and Mrs P any commission  and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  29 September 2019.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8299764