K820x#14complaint
Mr S has complained about Ageas  Insurance  Limiteds service  in connection with a claim 
against his motor insurance policy.
background
In November 2016 Ageas received a claim from another  driver  which  said that Mr S had 
reversed his van into the other drivers  car while turning the van around.  Mr S denied  that 
hed hit the other drivers  car. Ageas instructed solicitors  to defend the claim. But in 2017  the 
solicitors recommend that Ageas settle the claim on a without  prejudice   that is without 
admitting liability   basis. Ageas initially offered to do so but withdrew that offer after Mr S 
complained. After that Ageas solicitors  defended  the claim.
Mr S was unhappy with a number of aspects of Ageas handling of the matter  and 
complained to us. One of our investigator's looked  at his complaint  but thought Ageas had 
dealt with the matter  reasonably. Mr S didn't agree so the complaint's been  passed to me to 
decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I'm not going to uphold it. 
In bringing this complaint Mr S has made a number of detailed points. And I've considered 
everything hes said carefully. But in this decision I will focus on what  I see as being the key 
outstanding points following our investigators  assessments  of the complaint.
Mr S is adamant that his van didn't touch the other  drivers  car. In contrast the other driver 
said that Mr S van hit his car injuring him in the process. And a witness  came forward who 
said that Mr S had reversed into the other  drivers car.
I should say at the outset that its not my role to decide whos  at fault for an accident, as 
ultimately thats a matter  for the court. And, like all motor policies, Mr Ss policy  allows Ageas 
to settle claims as it sees fit. That means it doesnt  require Mr Ss consent to decide how to 
settle a claim and it may make a decision that he doesnt agree with. But where that 
happens well look to see that Ageas has handled  the matter  fairly.
Given that the other driver  made a claim against Mr Ss policy, Ageas  had to deal with that 
claim. And after Mr S denied hitting the other car it passed the matter  to solicitors who 
defended the claim.
However, at one point,  on the advice of its solicitors,  Ageas offered to settle the other  
drivers claim. It did that because it felt that if the matter went  to court then it was likely a 
judge would  be persuaded  by the independent  witness evidence. And I don't think that 
decision was unreasonable at the time. Ageas  solicitors will have had extensive experience 
of dealing with such claims. As such they have  expertise in assessing what  the likely 
outcome would be if the claim went to court. And court proceedings always involve an 
element of risk for both parties.  Further, defending an action in court will inevitably involve 
additional costs.  In those circumstances Ageas would incur  further  solicitors' fees, on top of 
the extra administrative costs defending  an action brings. At the time it offered to settle the 
claim the only independent witness evidence available  said Mr S had reversed his van and 
Ref: DRN85711712struck the other car. So I don't find it unreasonable that, at that time, Ageas followed  its 
solicitors advice and offered  to settle  the claim.
I know that Mr S has raised  a number of issues with witness evidence.  And after considering 
that Ageas withdrew its offer to settle the claim and again put the matter  in the hands of its 
solicitors to defend  it. I think that was reasonable in those circumstances.
Mr S has added that Ageas should have  instructed  engineers  itself to carry out a consistency 
report. That is a report that ensured that the damage to the other car could have been 
caused by an impact from Mr S van. I agree that such reports  can be useful in defending 
claims. But in this case Ageas asked its in house  engineers to look at the evidence  on file, 
which included images taken by Mr S and images  provided by an engineer instructed by the 
other drivers  representatives. And having  considered that, Ageas didn't think  that it needed 
further engineering evidence.  I think that's  a decision Ageas  was  entitled to come  to, given it 
has the right to take over any court proceedings itself. 
But in any event Ageas, at Mr S insistence Ageas did defend the claim. And while  I 
understand that the claim has been a source  of distress and inconvenience for Mr S, I dont 
think thats because  Ageas  has done  anything wrong. It follows that Im not going  to instruct 
Ageas to take any further action.
 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 August 2020.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN8571171