K820x#14complaint
Mrs K has complained that Barclays Bank  UK Plc (Barclays) mis-sold her a fee-paying 
Current Account Plus packaged  bank account.
background
Mrs K opened a fee-paying Current Account Plus with Barclays on 7 April 2012.  Barclays 
withdrew the Current Account Plus and wrote  to all account holders in 2016, including  Mrs K, 
to say that their account was being  changed  to a fee-free free account that included a fee-
paying Tech  pack, which they could  opt out of if they didnt want it. 
As Mrs K has not complained about the change  over to the Tech  Pack, Ive not addressed  it 
within this decision.
One of our adjudicators assessed  the complaint and didnt think  the Current Account Plus 
had been mis-sold. Mrs Ks representative at the time of this assessment disagreed and 
asked for an ombudsmans decision on the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained our approach to 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website and Ive taken that into account  
when considering this complaint.
Ive started by considering whether Mrs K was given  a fair choice. Mrs K says that she was 
unaware fee-free accounts  were  available and says that she felt obliged to take out a 
packaged account. However, Mrs K signed an acknowledgement letter  - on the same  day 
that the account was sold - that explained other accounts were available,  including  ones that 
didnt incur a monthly fee. And I think its likely  that this document reflects  what was 
discussed with Mrs K during the sale. 
Mrs K has said that she didnt understand what she was signing,  however I understand that 
she had her cousin  attend  the sale to translate for her. So I think  she was in a position to 
understand what she was signing  and couldve asked questions, via her translator,  if she 
didnt understand  what  Barclays had said or what was on the form. I therefore think that 
Barclays made it clear that fee-free  options  were available  and therefore that Mrs K didnt 
have to agree to the Current Account Plus if she didnt want to.
As well as giving  Mrs K a fair choice, Ive considered  whether Barclays recommended  the 
account to Mrs K. Barclays says that it sold the account without  giving advice or a 
recommendation. Mrs K has said that she doesnt  understand what  providing advice or a 
recommendation means. However, looking at her wider testimony and recollections from 
the sale, Ive not seen  anything to suggest  that Barclays assessed her individual needs for 
the various benefits provided with the account,  or recommended she take it out because the 
benefits met her needs. So I dont think advice or a recommendation  was given by Barclays 
during the sale.
This means  Barclays didnt have  to check if the account was right for Mrs K. But it still had to 
give her important information about  the account  and the associated benefits.
Ref: DRN82230802Mrs K says that she didnt  understand English too well at the time.  But, as already  outlined 
above, Mrs K did have someone  attend the sale to translate for her. In making  the account 
seem as attractive as possible to Mrs K, I think its likely that Barclays  wouldve mentioned at 
least some  of the benefits during  the sale. And, Mrs K has said that she was aware  from the 
outset that there was a monthly fee on the account, so Im satisfied that Barclays  gave her 
some information about the important features of the account during the sale. 
I accept that Mrs K might not have been  given all of the information about the account. But 
Ive not seen anything,  and Mrs K has not said anything, that makes  me think  she wouldve 
acted any differently had she been given more information about the benefits that the 
account came with. I therefore dont think the Current Account Plus was mis-sold. 
my final decision
Because of the reasons  given above, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 August 2019.
Thomas White
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8223080