K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that NewDay Ltd has refused to refund a payment taken by a car hire 
company. He says he didnt authorise  the payment  on his House of Fraser  Mastercard,  
which is issued and administered by NewDay.
background
Mr H has explained that he booked a holiday through  an intermediary. The price of the 
holiday included flights, hotel and car hire. He made payment to the intermediary using a 
card - not his House  of Fraser card.
Mr H says that he used  the car on his holiday, but didnt drive on any motorways  or toll 
roads. The only additional payment he had to make  was for fuel. He was asked to leave a 
security deposit (by way of payment block) of €1,850 to cover  any damage to the car, which  
he did using his House  of Fraser  card.
Shortly after he returned from holiday, the car hire firm charged a further  €160.76 (or just 
over £143) to Mr Hs card. The invoice indicated it was for motorway  toll charges. He said 
hed never  used the motorway and hadnt therefore incurred any additional  charges.
Mr H contacted NewDay, which initiated  a chargeback - a process  by which  some  card 
payment disputes  can be resolved through the card scheme. That wasnt successful and 
NewDay wouldnt therefore refund the payment.
Mr H referred  the matter to this service where one of our investigators considered it. He was 
satisfied that, by initiating the chargeback process, NewDay had dealt with Mr Hs complaint 
fairly. Mr H didnt  agree and asked that an ombudsman review  the matter.
I considered what Mr H and NewDay had said. Having done  so, I agreed with the 
investigators overall conclusions. However, because my reasoning was a little different from 
the investigators, I issued  a provisional  decision,  so both parties could make further 
submissions if they wanted to do so. 
I said in my provisional decision that I thought  it unlikely that all the charges added by the car 
hire firm were  for toll charges. I noted that there were other charges listed in the hire 
documents that might have accounted for some  of additional payment taken  including  a 
charge for the use of a toll sensor  and for out of hours return of the car. It was possible that 
fuel was included. Whatever the explanation,  however, I was satisfied that Mr H had 
authorised additional payments to be taken  from his NewDay card; the real dispute was, I 
thought, about the explanation  and detail the car hire firm had supplied  to Mr H. 
I indicated that, based  on the information I had at the time I issued my provisional decision, I 
didnt consider that I could require NewDay to make  a refund. I suggested though that Mr H 
might be able to provide  further information  most likely from the car hire firm  about how it 
had calculated the additional charges.
Ref: DRN85351402NewDay didnt respond to my provisional decision,  but Mr H did. He explained  that the car 
hire firm had initially  told NewDay that the charge was for taking  the car across  the border 
from Portugal (where he was staying)  to Spain.  He hadnt, he said,  been  to Spain. It was 
only later that it had referred to tolls. He felt that NewDay should have investigated this more  
thoroughly, for example  by taking evidence from him and his partner. It had reached a 
conclusion about  the matter based on incomplete evidence. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here however isnt to adjudicate  on any dispute that Mr H might have with the car 
hire firm; its to decide how his dispute with NewDay should be resolved.  I would  add that its 
not for NewDay either to arbitrate on the dispute between Mr H and the hire firm. Its limited 
in what it can do in disputes such as this one. 
As I indicated in my provisional decision,  Im satisfied that Mr H gave authority for additional 
payments to be taken  from his NewDay card in line with the car hire agreement.  When Mr H 
raised this issue with NewDay, it initiated a chargeback, but that was unsuccessful.  That was 
because the car hire firm was able to provide sufficient evidence under the chargeback 
scheme to show that the payment was authorised. I emphasise that it provided what was 
required under  the scheme. Chargeback is however  a limited way of resolving certain  
payment disputes;  its purpose is not to resolve  all disputes between cardholders  and 
merchants. 
Having had the chargeback claim declined, I dont believe  it was unreasonable  of NewDay to 
decline a refund. It wasnt under any duty to investigate how Mr H had used the hire car in 
the way he suggests, and its most unlikely that doing so would have changed the outcome 
of the chargeback request. I remain  of the view, therefore, that NewDay  has done enough to 
resolve Mr Hs complaint about  the card payment. 
my final decision
For these reasons, as well as those  set out in my provisional decision,  my final decision is 
that I dont  require NewDay Ltd to take any further steps to resolve Mr Hs complaint. Under  
the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service, Im required  to ask Mr H to accept or reject  
my decision  before 9 July 2020.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8535140