K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  that Bank of Scotland Plc (trading  as Halifax) wouldnt raise a chargeback  
when he received faulty goods.
background
Mr L was unhappy  with some products he had ordered. So he asked Halifax to raise  a 
chargeback on his behalf. But Halifax said it couldnt  raise a chargeback. He shouldve  
shipped the goods back to the company hed bought them  from. Mr L said hed not been  told 
to do that. So he wants Halifax  to process his chargeback request and obtain a full refund.
Halifax said it could see Mr L had asked  it to raise a dispute claim because the goods hed 
received were unsatisfactory. So itd asked  him for a copy  of the merchants terms and 
conditions. And it needed  evidence to show Mr L had tried to return  the goods.
Halifax said it hadnt received the information  it needed. And Mr L had decided to dispose of 
the goods rather than attempt to return them to the merchant. So it had no rights to process 
a chargeback. 
Mr L wasnt satisfied with Halifaxs  response. So he contacted  our service and our 
investigator looked into the matter. He looked at the information available to Halifax. And he 
didnt think there was a reasonable prospect of success. So he didnt think Halifax  had done 
anything wrong  by not requesting a chargeback  for Mr L.
Mr L didnt agree. The seller hadnt told him to return the goods.  So hes asked for an 
ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr Ls frustration. He ordered some meals  but they arrived  without expiry 
dates and in broken trays. When he spoke to the merchant he was offered free meals with 
his next order.  But he wanted a full refund  so he asked  Halifax to raise  a chargeback request 
on his behalf.  
Unfortunately to be able to claim misrepresentation or goods not as described the claimant 
has to provide certain evidence. And part of that is being able to show the goods were  
returned to the merchant.  
I realise Mr L says he wasnt given the opportunity  to return  the goods when he spoke  to the 
merchant. But the terms and conditions say goods should be returned for a full refund if they 
are faulty  or unusable. And Mr L made  the decision to destroy  them rather than store or 
return them.  So Halifax  felt it didnt have the evidence it needed to raise a successful 
chargeback request.
Its important to understand customers dont have an automatic right to a chargeback. I 
would only expect Halifax to raise one if it felt there was a reasonable chance it would be 
successful. 
Ref: DRN82350862But Mr L had disposed  of the goods. This meant he hadnt followed the terms and conditions 
of the agreement. And Halifax felt it didnt  have enough evidence to raise a successful 
chargeback request.
Mr L says he wasnt  told to return the goods. And the seller  might not have accepted them 
anyway. But even if the goods  werent fit for purpose  Mr L still needed to show proof that 
hed tried to return them.  Halifax would then have the evidence that Mr L had acted  within 
the terms of the sale so it could raise a chargeback on his behalf. 
I realise how frustrating this mustve been for Mr L. But I can only look at the actions of 
Halifax  not the merchant.  And because Mr L didnt  try and return the faulty goods Halifax 
simply didnt have the right to process a chargeback.
I know Mr L will be unhappy with this outcome. But I cant  say Halifax has done anything  
wrong. And I cant hold it responsible for the actions  of the merchant. So I wont be asking it 
to do anything more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2019.
Andrew Mason
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8235086