K820x#14complaint
Mr B and Mr J are unhappy with West Bromwich  Building Society (WBBS) as they feel it 
mis-sold them a home insurance policy when they arranged  their mortgage through  it in 
1997.
background
Mr B and Mr J made an application  for a mortgage in 1997. The application explained that 
they had to take out buildings cover  through WBBS  if they wanted to access  a special rate 
for the mortgage.  And they could choose to take contents cover as well. The mortgage offer 
signed by Mr B and Mr J confirmed buildings and contents cover  had been selected. 
The mortgage arrangement then changed several times over the next ten years and in 2009 
the house insurance was cancelled. 
In 2018 Mr B and Mr J became aware  that they may not have needed to take out insurance 
with WBBS in 1997. They asked it to look into this. WBBS explained  what  had happened 
and that the insurance had been  a requirement  of the particular mortgage  arranged. Mr B 
and Mr J complained  to this service.  They said they felt this was unfair and Mr B particularly 
was unhappy  about the premiums that had been  paid; he felt they were too high and a lower 
premium elsewhere could have been  achieved. 
Our investigator noted that buildings insurance arranged by WBBS had been a condition of 
the 1997 mortgage. She explained that this had been allowed at the time. She also noted 
that as the mortgage arrangement had changed  during  the following years, the paperwork 
about what had been included and what  was required was clear. She didnt  think the 
mortgage had been mis-sold. She said that Mr B and Mr J hadnt complained to WBBS 
about the price  of premiums, so this complaint would only deal with the mis-sale element.
Mr B and Mr J were  unhappy. They asked for an ombudsmans consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It seems  that at the time the mortgage  was sold Mr B and Mr J werent  unhappy with the 
arrangement regarding insurance.  They  were  aware that the mortgage  required WBBSs 
insurance cover. It was only later, when Mr B was watching a consumer advice programme, 
that they became aware that something may have been wrong  with the way the policy was 
sold.
However, in 1997  it was possible for those arranging mortgages  to require that buildings  
insurance was taken alongside  the lending. And in this case I can also see that Mr B and 
Mr J did get something in exchange  for agreeing to take the cover WBBS arranged   a 
preferential mortgage  rate. 
So WBBS was doing  nothing  wrong  in requiring Mr B and Mr J to take the insurance 
arranged by it and the paperwork Ive seen  in this respect is clear. It says buildings 
insurance is a requirement of the mortgage but that buildings and contents cover  has been 
Ref: DRN89827032selected. Taking this along with the complaint  Mr B and Mr J have made, Im satisfied that 
they were aware  of the arrangement. Therefore, Im satisfied the insurance wasnt mis-sold. 
The insurance cover continued until 2009  but I can see that renewals were sent each year. 
And, as changes with the mortgage were  made,  clear paperwork was provided about the 
new lending  arrangements, including what insurance was being arranged  and whether this 
was compulsory (which  it was in 2004  as, again,  a preferential rate was arranged based  on 
the fact that insurance was being  taken as well). Therefore, Im not persuaded that WBBS 
did anything wrong  in selling, arranging or continuing the insurance cover  initiated in 1997.
I know an issue has been raised with us about the price of the insurance cover. I also know  
that Mr B did ask WBBS to confirm what premiums  had been charged/paid.   However,  when 
Mr B wrote to WBBS  to complain about the sale he asked it to look into why insurance was a 
requirement of the mortgage, not the price of the cover. Therefore, I cant  look into this 
aspect as part of this complaint.
 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.   I dont make any award against West Bromwich  Building 
Society.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 May 2019.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8982703