K820x#14complaint
Mrs R says Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.  
background
Mrs R bought the policy in 2000 at the same  time as taking out a credit card. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs R disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Rs case.
Ive decided that the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
 I think Bank of Scotland made Mrs R aware that the PPI was optional  and that she 
chose to take it. I say this because  Mrs R applied for her credit card by post,  and the 
application form included a separate section about PPI. Mrs R signed that section to 
confirm she wanted the cover. So I think she wouldve realised she had a choice about 
whether or not to buy it. She didnt have to sign that section of the form if she didnt 
want the PPI.
 Bank of Scotland didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs R so it didnt have to check if it was 
suitable for her. That means  it didnt have to check whether she had sick pay or other 
means to cover  her repayments. It was for Mrs R to decide whether or not the PPI was 
appropriate for her needs.
But even if Bank  of Scotland had recommended the policy to Mrs R, from what Ive 
seen of her circumstances at the time Im not persuaded  it was unsuitable  for her. Mrs 
R says she was entitled to sick pay and that she had access  to other income and 
assets to cover her repayments. But having the policy in place wouldve meant Mrs R 
could use that money  to cover other expenses if she couldnt work.  So I think she 
wouldve had some use for the policy.
 Its possible the information Bank of Scotland gave Mrs R about the PPI wasnt  as 
clear as it should have been. But its unlikely Mrs R would have been affected by any 
of the main things  the policy didnt cover. And the policy was competitively priced and 
had a reasonable benefit. So I dont think better information wouldve stopped her 
buying it. 
But Bank of Scotland will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mrs R because: 
Bank of Scotland got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mrs R about that. Because  Bank of Scotland  didnt 
tell Mrs R, that was unfair.  
Ref: DRN88860792To put that right, Bank of Scotland has basically offered to pay back  the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that 
offer is fair in this case.
what the business needs  to do
Bank of Scotland has to pay back to Mrs R any commission  and profit share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. Bank  of Scotland should  also pay back  to Mrs R any 
extra interest she paid because of that.
Bank of Scotland should re-work the credit card account and pay back  to Mrs R the 
difference between  what  Mrs R owes and what she wouldve  owed if the commission and 
profit share it got hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Bank of Scotland should also 
pay Mrs R 8%* simple interest  if she paid off her credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mrs R can claim back the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs R.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Mrs R any commission  and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 August 2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8886079