K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about an agreement Miss S entered into with Fresh Finance Group Ltd (a 
representative of Personal Touch Financial Services Ltd) in 2013.  She thought it provided 
her with free financial advice for life, and was very unhappy when she went back in 2018 and 
was told she had to pay a new fee.
background
Briefly, Miss S took out a new mortgage with life assurance in 2013,  after taking advice from 
Personal Touchs broker. She paid a broker fee of £1,733, which  was added to the 
mortgage. Miss Ss recollection is that the broker told her that this fee entitled her to free 
advice on all financial matters for life.
The mortgage was on a five-year interest  rate deal so in 2018,  Miss S went  back to 
Personal Touch. She wanted a new rate but also wanted to borrow more money. When  
Personal Touch told her thered be a fee of £495. Miss S thought this was a scam, refused to 
pay it and went elsewhere to make her new arrangements.
When she complained,  Personal Touch sent her a copy of the agreement shed signed in 
2013. This showed that the fee shed paid entitled her to free advice only if she wasnt  
borrowing more money. That being so, Personal  Touch said it hadnt breached the 
agreement by asking  her to pay a new fee in 2018.
Miss S brought her complaint to us, but our investigator didnt think  Personal  Touch  had 
done anything  wrong. Miss S has asked that an ombudsman review  and decide her 
complaint, as is her right under the rules of our scheme.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive some disappointing 
new for Miss S; I dont think Personal  Touch has done anything wrong.
The key piece of evidence is the agreement  Miss S signed in 2013;  heres  what  it says on 
the fee paid and any subsequent fee:
Fresh Finance Group Ltd agree  that we will not charge  any further broker  fee's [sic] on all 
subsequent like for like re-mortgages in the future, i.e. same  loan amount, for the full term of 
this mortgage.  If additional  services  are provided  or additional borrowing is required in the 
future, we will agree  a fee with you at that time. 
That seems  pretty clear  and unambiguous to me. When Miss S went  back in 2018, she was 
looking for additional borrowing, which means  Personal Touch  could reasonably ask her to 
pay a new fee.
Miss S says she specifically  remembers the broker telling her she was being charged a one 
off fee of £1,733 for lifetime advice,  but thats not what Miss S signed up for. Thats not to 
say I completely discount Miss Ss recollection. I dont rule out the possibility that the broker 
said something different  from what the written agreement said. 
Ref: DRN86434252But possibility isnt enough. To find in Miss Ss favour and uphold  the complaint, Id need to 
be satisfied from the available  evidence that its more likely than not (as likely isnt enough  
either) that the broker made a false statement that induced her to enter into the agreement. 
Having carefully considered everything  thats been  said and provided, the evidence isnt 
there for me to reach that conclusion.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint. My final 
decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be 
engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 December 2019.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8643425