K821x#15complaint
Mr W complains that the loans he had from Uncle Buck Finance LLP were unaffordable.
background
Mr W had six loans from Uncle Buck between May 2014 and February 2015 as follows:
Loan Date Amount Term Repayment Due Repaid
1 16 May 2014 £200 15d £269.90 30 May 2014 On time
2 15 Jul 2014 £350 16d £472.33 30 Jul 2014 On time
3 20 Oct 2014 £300 11d £404.85 30 Oct 2014 On time
4 4 Nov 2014 £500 24d £674.75 27 Nov 2014 On time
5 9 Jan 2015 £525 21d £613.20 29 Jan 2015 On time
6 3 Feb 2015 £500 26d £604.00 27 Feb 2015 On time
Mr W says the he could  not afford the repayments on the loans and had to borrow  further to 
cover living costs. He says this trapped him into a debt spiral and caused his debt problems 
to worsen.
Uncle Buck  says there were a further  9 applications that were  cancelled or declined  and all 
the loans were repaid on time.  It says it asked Mr W about his income and expenditure and 
used bespoke credit  score models  to assess his creditworthiness. Uncle Buck  says there  
was nothing to indicate the loans should  be declined.
Our adjudicator recommended  the complaint should  be upheld. She said that by loan 5 
Mr Ws pattern  of borrowing  suggested  hed become reliant on the lending.  She 
recommended that interest and charges (plus 8% statutory  interest) should be refunded  for 
loans 5 and 6 and that the loans should be removed from his credit file.
Uncle Buck  responded to say, in summary,  that Mr Ws credit  file would not be an accurate 
reflection of his lending  history if it removed loans 5 and 6. It added that Mr W had repaid the 
loans and therefore the entries were positive,  but also other lenders would be making 
decisions in the future  based on incomplete information. Uncle Buck  pointed  out there were 
gaps between the loans and Mr Ws credit checks gave no cause for concern. It added  that 
his declared disposable income was sufficient to make the repayments.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Uncle Buck  needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr W 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
Ref: DRN85825972But certain factors might  point to the fact that Uncle Buck should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr W. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Uncle Buck  was required to establish 
whether Mr W could  sustainably repay  his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  
repayments on time, while meeting other  reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ws complaint.
Loans 1 to 3
When Mr W applied  for the first few loans,  there  were gaps between the loans and the loan 
amounts werent  consistently increasing.  His repayment record was good  and hed told 
Uncle Buck  his income was £2,500. Id have expected Uncle Buck  to have also asked Mr W 
about his expenditure and I cant see it did that for all three loans, but Im satisfied there was 
nothing in the available information that indicated the repayments were  unaffordable.
Loan 4
Loan 4 was for significantly more money  and was within a few days  of Mr W repaying the 
previous loan. As a minimum Id have expected Uncle Buck  to ask him whether he had any 
other short-term loans before it approved loan 4. I cant see it did that, but, based on the 
available information,  I cant conclude Mr W was struggling to manage his money. So I cant  
say Uncle  Buck was wrong to approve loan 4.
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Uncle Bucks lending  history with Mr W, with a view 
to seeing if there was a point at which Uncle Buck should reasonably have seen that further 
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Uncle  Buck should have realised 
that it shouldnt  have provided  any further  loans. 
Ref: DRN85825973Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Ws case,  I think  that this point was reached by 
loan 5. I say this because:
Mr W applied  for loan 5 six weeks after hed repaid loan 4 and it was for the highest 
amount to date;
This loan application  was almost  eight months after Mr Ws first and the repayment  
was a large proportion of his income;
Mr W applied  for loans 5 and 6 within days/weeks of settling  a previous one. So 
Uncle Buck ought to have realised it was more  likely  than not Mr W was having to 
borrow further to cover the hole repaying his previous loan was leaving in his 
finances and that Mr Ws indebtedness  was increasing unsustainably;
Mr W wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed Uncle Buck.  Loan 6 
was taken out nine months  after Mr Ws first. And it was for a much larger amount. 
Mr W had paid large amounts of interest to, in effect,  service  a debt to Uncle Buck  
over an extended period.
I think that Mr W lost out because Uncle Buck continued to provide borrowing from loan 5 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ws indebtedness  by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time;
the sheer number  of loans was likely to have had negative  implications on Mr Ws 
ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market for these high-cost 
loans.
So Im upholding  the complaint about  loans 5 and 6 and Uncle  Buck should put things right.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. Uncle Buck Finance LLP should:
Refund all interest  and charges that Mr W paid on loans 5 and 6;
Pay interest of 8% simple a year on all refunds from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement*;
The number of loans  taken from loan 5 onwards means any information recorded  
about them  is adverse. So all entries  about  loans 5 and 6 should be removed from 
Mr Ws credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Uncle Buck to take off tax from this interest. Uncle  Buck 
must give Mr W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 February  2020.
Amanda Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8582597