K822xcomplaint
Mr C says that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited made  an error in the taxation of his 
annuity. And that he incurred additional tax that he wouldnt otherwise have done.
background
I issued my provisional decision on 12 December a copy of which is attached  and forms part of this 
final decision.
In my provisional decision,  I explained  that it was my view that Legal  and General  hadnt  made  an 
error in the way it processed the taxation of the annuity. But it had made  an error in terms of the 
information it gave  Mr C. And had Mr C been given the correct information  he wouldve been able 
to mitigate the tax that he ended up having  to pay.
However, during  the course of the complaint, Mr C was also in touch with HMRC.  And HMRC then 
amended Mr Cs tax for the years in question.  After  looking at the amendments  made,  I thought 
that Mr Cs annuity  had now been  taxed  correctly and so the issue  had been largely resolved. And 
the only outstanding issue was that I thought Legal and General should pay an additional £100 to 
that already paid to Mr C for the undue distress and inconvenience  caused.
I then invited both parties  to comment on my provisional findings. Both Mr C and Legal  and 
General accepted the findings  in my provisional decision and made no further substantive 
comment.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so and with both parties  agreeing with my provisional decision,  the only matter left is 
the additional £100 payment for the distress  and inconvenience caused.
So in line with my provisional decision, I uphold Mr Cs complaint and to settle  this matter Legal 
and General should pay Mr C £100  after receiving his acceptance of this decision.
my final decision
I uphold Mr Cs complaint  against  Legal  and General Assurance Society Limited.  
I direct  it to pay the agreed £100  to Mr C to settle  the case.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or reject 
my decision  before 14 February 2019.
Simon Hollingshead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN87226372provisional decision
complaint
Mr C says that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) has made  an error in regards  to the 
taxation of his annuity.  This resulted in him having to pay nearly £700 in tax that he wouldnt otherwise have 
incurred.
background
Mr C took out two deferred annuity contracts in the late 1970s and early  80s,  with his retirement  date set at 
2 April 2016.
Mr C received his first annuity payment on 16 April 2016 and this put it into the next tax year 2016/2017. Mr 
C says that this resulted  in a tax bill of nearly £700  hed been told by L&G that it would  still be counted in 
the 2015/2016 tax year, even  if it was paid after the change  of tax year  so he didnt think  there would be a 
problem.
The key dates  regarding  the payment are:
21 March  2016
This appears to be the date that L&G sent Mr C forms to take the annuity 
23 March
Mr C returned the forms. In this letter Mr C indicates that hed been talking to L&G for a couple of weeks 
before this letter was received about taking his benefits
29 March
L&G says it received  Mr Cs application
2 April
The date the annuity start date was set for
5 April
Mr C says he called L&G  unfortunately it doesnt have a recording or note of this call. But its not in dispute 
that this call did take place. Mr C says that L&G told him in this call that the payment would  be treated as if it 
was made before the change  of tax years  even if it was paid afterwards
6 April
New tax year begins
11 April
L&G send a letter to Mr C saying the payment had been set up with a retirement date of 2 April and the first 
payment would be received by Mr C in approximately  10 days
7 June
L&G send a letter to Mr C following a telephone conversation. This says that the first payment  should have 
been received before  the change of tax year  but that there was a delay in processing  a p60 will be issued 
confirming this and to keep this letter  to show HMRC if necessary
It wasnt until much later that Mr C complained to L&G  when he received a letter  from HMRC saying that 
hed underpaid tax by approximately £700. HMRC advised that if the information  L&G had given HMRC 
about Mr Cs pension payments was incorrect, it could issue an Earlier Year Update (EYU) to correct the 
mistake.
However, when Mr C contacted L&G about this, L&G said it hadnt made a mistake and that HMRC treats 
the taxable date of a payment when its received and not the date the payment was set for. L&G did 
Ref: DRN87226373apologise for the incorrect  information it had given Mr C and offered  £100 for the misinformation  but stood 
firm that it had not made a mistake with the payment.
Mr C said that he felt hed been misled. Had he known  how the payment  would be taxed, he couldve 
adjusted his income  from elsewhere to stay within  the standard  rate tax band for the later tax year.
Mr C also made  a number of arguments relating  to HMRC legislation that he says supports  his belief that the 
payment should be treated for tax purposes as if it was paid on the date it was set to be paid (2 April)  and not 
the date it was actually paid (16 April).
Our investigator considered the case and in summary said:
She was satisfied that on two occasions  L&G did incorrectly tell Mr C that the payment wouldnt  go into 
the  new tax year
But it wasnt reasonable  to rely on this as they werent tax experts or his advisers
L&G made  the payment within approximately 10 working days of receiving  Mr Cs application  and this 
was not an unreasonable time scale
The policy  commencement date according  to the annuity terms and conditions say it will be the annuity 
commencement date or as soon  as practicable  after that date.
Whilst Mr Cs forms had been received in time for 2 April  L&G still had to its checks and processing to 
do  and the terms  say the date can be later than the set date
If L&G were  to provide  an EYU  it would be saying  they made  a mistake in the payment   and she 
couldnt see that L&G had ever said it would  be paid before the end of 5 April
The annuity was not a direct continuation of the original policies and legislation  had changed since  the 
outset  and Mr C had to make choices before any payment was made
She felt £200 was a fairer award  for the misinformation than the £100 originally  offered by L&G
Since the complaint  has been  awaiting a decision  HMRC has sent a new P800  tax calculation  to Mr C for 
2015-2016  putting Mr Cs additional pension  payment  under  job expenses  .
Mr C has shown us that he paid HMRC the original amount it said he owed of £669.60.
Under the new P800 issued by HMRC the amount owed is now shown as £370.56. Mr C has told us he 
believes he is still out of pocket by £200
provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I think HMRCs amendment has largely  put things right, Ill explain  this in more detail later.  
But for completeness and in case either party fundamentally disagrees with the outcome of my decision   
Ive discussed all the relevant points  of this case. Even though I now believe most  of these fall away because  
of what  HMRC has done.
Mr Cs original position  and the main focus of this complaint revolves around whether  or not L&G had acted 
correctly in the way that it taxed his first annuity payment. And whether  it should amend this following  Mr Cs 
complaint.
Ive considered everything Mr C has sent us regarding pension tax legislation, what  L&G has said and what  
we already know about  how HMRC tax pension  payments  to decide  whether  L&G shouldve amended  the 
tax year the first payment  was received in. 
Having done so Im not persuaded that L&G shouldve  changed the tax status of the first payment. Ill explain 
why.
Ref: DRN87226374Pension payments  are generally taxed in the tax year that they are received in. And this is in-line with the 
general approach taken  by businesses and approved by HMRC.
L&G sent us evidence that shows  that HMRC had previously confirmed  that this is its approach. With the 
exception given  if the money comes from a backdated lump sum that was intended to be paid earlier  
which is not the case  here.
Mr C has found bits of HMRC legislation that appear to support his argument  for allowing the payment to be 
moved into the earlier tax year. And he has discussed this with our investigator.  
But like the investigator, Im not persuaded that this legislation over-rides what  we already know and the 
approach HMRC has taken. And Ive also seen  legislation  that supports what  L&G say  that pension  
payments are taxed in the year theyve been received in.
Ultimately, the tax treatment of annuity payments is HMRCs jurisdiction and we take our lead from HMRC. 
Pension tax law is a very complex area  and I accept that there may be legislation that permits the payment 
to be backdated into the previous tax year as Mr C has argued  but this would be for HMRC  to decide and 
Im not persuaded  that L&G made an error  in saying  it wouldnt amend the tax status of the payment.
In any event, HMRC has now got back  to Mr C after he made enquiries and made  an amendment  to the way 
the pension payment was treated for tax purposes. Although its not made the amendment in the way Mr C 
had expected   it now seems like Mr Cs annuity payment has been taxed at his basic rate. This is what  
wouldve happened if the payment had been paid into the 2015/16 tax year.
Mr C has said he is concerned that there may be problems in future  years and this is a worry with accepting  
HMRCs solution. However, as Ive said HMRC are the tax experts and it would not be for us to tell them 
what to do  and by the same  token we cant tell L&G how to run its business  or how to tax its annuities. But 
it might be useful for Mr C to discuss with L&G whether they can come up with a solution to stop this 
occurring again. Although  it doesnt  appear that it has happened again in the years since  this issue occurred. 
Moving on, its clear from what Mr C has told us that he has an understanding of his personal  tax situation 
and hes told us that he plans to stay within the standard tax rate band each year. So the ideal situation 
wouldve been  for the payment to be made before the end of the tax year on 5 April. 
The first time it appears that the tax status of the payment was discussed seems to be in the call of 5 April, 
and at this point it wouldve been too late for the payment to be processed in time, even if L&G couldve done 
so.
Looking at the timescales regarding  the back and forth of the forms and the payment processing times, it 
does look like Mr C sent his forms back in a timely fashion. But at the same time, the process started quite 
late in the day  and Mr C doesnt  appear to have told L&G the importance  of getting the payment processed 
quickly until it was too late. So I dont think it would  be fair to say that L&G ought to have  got the payment 
processed in time for the then current tax year. 
All this being  said, whilst  this was the ideal situation, Mr C has told us that even with the payment being  paid 
as part of the next tax year, he couldve  mitigated  his position had he known  by adjusting his drawdown 
income.
L&G gave Mr C misleading  information  around how the taxation of the first annuity payment  would be 
treated. And this gave  Mr C a false belief  that there wouldnt be any issues with his tax situation.
The incorrect  and/or misleading information that L&G gave Mr C was in the phone  call of 5 April, letter of 11 
April, a pension forecast of April 12 and the letter  of 11 June. Essentially L&G told Mr C across this 
information that either the payment would be put into the earlier tax year or if it wasnt, this would be 
corrected. 
Ref: DRN87226375Our investigator said Mr C shouldnt  have  relied  upon what L&G said as they are not tax experts but I dont 
agree. I think  Mr C was entitled to believe  what L&G was telling him was correct. I think it was a fair and 
reasonable interpretation of the information Mr C was given to think that there  wasnt going  to be any tax 
issues.
As long as we accept  that Mr C couldve amended his income from his drawdown,  I think that L&Gs  
misinformation has meant that Mr Cs position has been changed. Had he been aware that there would be 
an issue with the payment, Mr C says he couldve reduced  his income from his drawdown, therefore  avoiding 
the additional tax hed been told by HMRC hed have to pay  and which he did pay. 
L&G have referred to another similar case which  wasnt  upheld,  but every case is considered on its individual 
merits. And I believe  in the case in question, the customer wasnt in a position  to mitigate  their position.
Our role is to put people back  into the position they wouldve been had the error not occurred. Its been 
established that L&G made an error  and for the reasons explained I think it changed  Mr Cs position.
However, after looking at HMRCs most recent amendment, all this is largely immaterial as I now dont think 
that Mr C has suffered a loss.
Mr C originally said before  the P800  amendment that his loss is the amount HMRC  has said hes underpaid 
(£669.60) but I dont agree. Mr C wouldve had to pay tax on the annuity payment in question at a minimum  
of 20% whatever happened.  So I think Mr Cs loss was the additional amount hed been charged for tax at 
the 40% rate compared to 20%.
Looking at the original P800  Mr C was sent by HMRC,  £1501.00  was taxed  at 40%, which the additional  
annuity payment would wholly  account  for. This wouldve been taxed at 20% if Mr C had been able to 
mitigate his position if given the correct information by L&G.
So Mr C was told hed underpaid tax by £669.60   with £600.40 of this taxed at 40%.
 
The other  £69.20 was charged at the basic 20% rate - which  Mr C would  have to pay anyway whichever tax 
year it was part of. So this falls away.
So the loss is simply the result of 40% tax (£600.40) against 20% (£300.20)  on the £1501.00  figure which 
was taxed  at 40%  and by my calculations this comes to a difference of £300.20   so I think  this was Mr Cs 
loss.
But now having seen  HMRCs amendment it looks like the whole pension payment has been taxed  at 20%  
and this is the position Mr C wouldve been in if the payment hadnt been put into the later tax year. 
The problem we have  now is that Mr C has already paid the tax at 40%. Mr C paid £669.60 which  is £300 
more than he shouldve  have been  taxed.  HMRC has since written to Mr C following its adjustment  to say his 
underpayment is now £370.56 and not £669.60. A difference  of basically £300  which  is Mr Cs loss (the 
actual figure  is £299.04 - somewhere along the lines a discrepancy of under  a £1 has come into play). So Im 
satisfied that Mr Cs new P800 does have his tax position correct  in terms of what he shouldve paid on the 
annuity payment.
At the bottom  of the new 2016/2017 P800, HMRC explains that it hasnt  taken into account  in its calculations 
the £669.60 that Mr C has already paid. So whilst  it says Mr C owes £370.56, in actual fact hes already paid 
this and more. 
It also says underneath the amount owed, if the amount  you have paid is larger than the amount you now 
owe  this will be refunded. And this refund amount is the £299.04 figure. So, essentially HMRC will be 
refunding the amount  that Mr C had originally lost out on when the annuity was paid in to the 2016/2017 tax 
year. So I dont think there is now any loss.
Ref: DRN87226376In Mr Cs calculations he has deducted the money L&G has already paid him (£100) from what he thought  
his loss was  but this wasnt a payment  for financial loss. The £100 was for the incorrect information  he was 
given by L&G so this is separate  and not relevant to his loss and so shouldnt be deducted.
L&G has also agreed to pay an additional  £100  on top of the £100 it has already paid Mr C for any trouble 
and upset it caused. And I think this seems fair in the circumstances. 
what the business needs to do to put things right
If L&G and Mr C agree  with my methodology and calculations above, L&G should put things  right by paying 
Mr C:
£200  for the trouble  and upset caused  £100 of which it has already been paid.
If either party disagrees with what Ive said or my calculations, it should explain why and provide  its own 
calculations. Otherwise I suggest this complaint  can be resolved by L&G paying the outstanding  £100.
Ref: DRN8722637