K821x#15Complaint
Miss W has complained about advice  she received  from Portal Financial Services LLP 
(Portafina) to transfer a defined  benefit occupational pension  scheme  (OPS) she held with 
her former employer to a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP). 
Miss W is being  represented by a third party but for ease of reading  the decision Ill refer to 
all representations  as being made by Miss W.
Background
Miss W was introduced to Portafina in 2014  after shed been in contact with another 
business, from here on referred to as Firm C. At the time, Firm C was an appointed 
representative (AR) of a regulated business, Firm S. Firm S was authorised  by the 
Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA) to provide investment advice, but neither it, nor Firm C 
were permitted to provide  pension transfer advice.  Miss W was introduced  by Firm C to 
Portafina, who were authorised to provide pension transfer advice. Portafina had an 
established business arrangement with Firm C, whereby Portafina would provide the 
pension transfer  advice before referring the client back  to Firm C for investment advice on 
the transferred  funds,  and this arrangement was followed for Miss W.
Portafina gathered  information about  Miss Ws needs and objectives through telephone  
reviews, the last of which took place on 5 August 2014. At the time Miss W was aged 56 and 
employed. In addition to her employment, she was in the early stages of starting  her own 
business. No details were provided as to what this business was. She had recorded debts of 
£2,000, although she has since confirmed this was actually £20,000, including credit card 
debt. She had no investments or savings. Miss W had a preserved final salary local 
government pension. Prior to transfer it was valued at £56,326.55 and was projected to 
provide an income  of £4,292 per year from age 65. Miss W has confirmed  that this was her 
only pension  provision  and that she wanted to retire at 65.
In September  2014 Portafina  recommended Miss W transfer her OPS  to a SIPP.  It was recorded  
that she had a balanced  attitude to risk (ATR)  and transferring  would meet her objectives of 
accessing the tax-free cash  (TFC)  in order to repay debts and start a new business.  Portafina 
recommended the pension  benefits should  be invested in a portfolio of assets which it believed 
were appropriate  for her balanced ATR, but said that the funds would be held in cash  and Firm C 
would provide advice on how the funds would be invested post-transfer. 
Following the transfer in December 2014, TFC was withdrawn from the pension  and 
approximately £19,000 was invested low risk funds.  The remainder of the SIPP, £26,000,  
was left as cash by Firm C.
In 2018, with the assistance of a CMC, Miss W complained to Portafina about the advice she 
received to transfer. She said the advice was negligent and the comparison figures used  
were misleading. She also said Portafina had failed to provide any investment advice after 
transfer, so the funds  left as cash had earned little to no interest over the intervening period.
Portafina didnt  agree. It said Firm C was responsible for any investment advice and had 
forwarded the complaint to them. It noted that Miss W needed the TFC to pay off debt and 
free up some cash to potentially set up a new business. It said she did not want  to take 
income until age 65 at the earliest.  So, the flexibility  and the fact she could alter the level of 
income and TFC she could take was very appealing to her. 
Ref: DRN84763502Following this, Miss W referred her complaint  to our service.
An adjudicator reviewed the complaint and recommended it should  be upheld.  She said the 
critical yield required to match the benefits  being  given  up was 13.6% and Portafina  should 
have realised this meant that there was a significant  risk that the benefits after transfer would 
be significantly lower than those  being given up. She thought it should have explained and 
made clear that the level of growth required to match Miss Ws OPS  benefits was unlikely to 
have been consistently achievable with a risk profile  that was appropriate  to her situation. 
The adjudicator said that even if Firm C had invested Miss Ws funds according to her risk 
profile, she still considered the advice would be unsuitable based on the critical yield required 
to match  the benefits being given up.
The adjudicator recommended that Miss W should be put back  into the position she
wouldve been in but for the unsuitable advice and that Portafina should pay her £300 for
the distress and inconvenience  caused.
Portafina disagreed,  it said it was Firm Cs responsibility to ensure the SIPP  was invested in line 
with Miss Ws objectives  the fact that funds  were left as cash  was Firm Cs fault and not 
Portafinas. It added that it had carried  out extensive due diligence  on Firm C and it was 
satisfied it could provide  investment advice. Portafina said the FCA allowed for two advisory 
firms to work  together  and provide separate advice on the pension  transfer  and the subsequent 
investments. However, in Miss Ws case,  it said it had set out what it considered would be a 
suitable portfolio  for Miss W and it couldnt be held responsible if Firm C hadnt followed this.
Portafina also believed  that wanting the TFC to pay off debt and set up a new business  were 
valid reasons to access the benefits  early. It said it had considered other  retirement 
provisions available  when  determining her capacity for loss. This included another  final 
salary scheme that she still had in place. It said commutation was available to Miss W at age 
60, but this was still a few years away at the time of the advice. Portafina provided  a copy of 
the call recording from August 2014.  It said that this call demonstrated that death  benefits 
were important, as Miss W was single and so would not benefit from the OPSs  spouses 
pension and she was prepared to accept lower  income to secure these benefits. Portafina 
asked for the case to be referred to an ombudsman.
Before making my final decision I asked a case reviewer to expand on the arguments  made  
by the adjudicator. Specifically, the case reviewer said that the regulator had issued alerts in 
2013 and 2014 which explained that a firm providing  pension transfer advice had to take into 
account the suitability of the intended investments. So, he didnt think  Portafina  could  
reasonably recommend the pension transfer  without understanding  where Miss Ws funds 
were to be invested. The case reviewer also added that Miss W had told us that she only 
used £5,000 of the TFC to repay  debt,  so she still wouldve had debt of around £15,000 
remaining. He said this shed considerable doubt  on her ability to redirect  the money she was 
using to repay her debt to her SIPP. Furthermore, he added that he didnt think  Portafina had 
adequately explored any alternatives Miss W had to meet  her objectives.
 
Portafina was given an opportunity to respond, but no response to these points was provided  
by the deadline set. So, Im now providing  my final decision.
Ref: DRN84763503My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding it.
Portafina advised Miss W to transfer her OPS  benefits to a SIPP  but says it didnt provide 
any recommendation regarding the investments held within  the SIPP  as Firm C was meant  
to provide this. Although the intention was for another regulated  firm to advise on and 
arrange Miss Ws underlying SIPP investments, I dont think that meant Portafinas 
responsibilities ended  once the SIPP was set up, the funds transferred, and the money was 
made available for investment. I believe that as Miss Ws financial adviser, Portafina still had 
a duty to ensure the overall transaction was suitable, even though another regulated firm 
was involved.  
Suitable advice  couldnt,  in my view, be given without thinking  about the intended  
investment. Portafina  appeared  to recognise this in its suitability report when, despite saying 
Firm C would  provide specific investment advice, it set out recommendations for the fund 
asset classes Miss W should invest in and to what extent. The recommendation gave a 
model portfolio  for an balanced  investor, which Portafina satisfied itself Miss W was. And its 
partly on the basis that Miss W invested  in line with a suitable model portfolio and achieved  
the relevant targeted  returns that Portafina concluded transferring could increase her overall 
pension benefits  and was therefore worthwhile. 
The regulators position
Having thought carefully about what happened  here, I dont think Portafinas  advice to
transfer was suitable. And I dont think it was right to try to limit its advice in the way it sought 
to. At the time of the advice the regulator  had made its view clear  that it considered in order 
to suitably advise  on pension transfers, a firm needed to consider the suitability of the 
underlying investments to be held in it. 
The regulators position  was evident  in its 2013 alert where it said:
Financial advisers  (...) are under the mistaken  impression (...) they do not have to consider 
the unregulated  investment as part of their advice to invest  in the SIPP and that they only 
need to consider the suitability of the SIPP in the abstract. This is incorrect.
The [regulators] view is that the provision of suitable advice generally requires consideration 
of the other investments  held by the customer or, when advice is given on a product which is 
a vehicle for investment in other products (such as SIPPs and other  wrappers), 
consideration of the suitability of the overall proposition,  that is, the wrapper and the 
expected underlying investments in unregulated  schemes. It should  be particularly clear  to 
financial advisers that, where a customer seeks advice on a pension  transfer in 
implementing a wider  investment  strategy, the advice on the pension transfer must take 
account of the overall investment strategy the customer is contemplating (...) If you give 
regulated advice and the recommendation will enable investment in unregulated items, you 
cannot separate out the unregulated elements from the regulated elements. 
I acknowledge that the regulators statement makes specific reference  to unregulated 
investments but Miss W doesnt appear  to have invested in unregulated investments. 
Nonetheless, I think its clear that the statement applies to investments as a whole and isnt 
simply limited  to unregulated investments. 
Ref: DRN84763504I also acknowledge that the regulators statement in the alert is not guidance or rules  in the 
sense that such  requirements are specified by the regulator in its handbook. However, I think  
it is a relevant consideration when determining this complaint by reference to what is, in my 
opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case.  
In doing so, I also acknowledge that in the scenario set out in the alert,  the other firm that 
made the investment recommendations for the underlying assets of the SIPP  was an 
unregulated introducer. Whereas in Miss Ws case,  Firm C was authorised to conduct  
investment business  under its AR agreement with Firm S, and in turn Firm C could itself be 
pursued for compensation by a consumer within the financial  services  regulatory regime.
Portafina may believe that this in turn distinguished the circumstances of Miss Ws 
transaction from the scenario that the alert was aimed at, and as a result absolved  it from its 
duty to assess the overall suitability of the proposed investments. It might say that was 
particularly the case as it had said to Miss W that it wasnt providing any advice on the 
underlying investments as Firm C was doing that. Whilst Ive given that possibility careful  
thought, I dont agree that the alert was limited to those very specific circumstances.
As Ive said above,  its clear to me that the alert isnt limited  to just unregulated  investments. 
And I can see it makes it clear that suitable  investment  advice generally  requires  
consideration of the other investments held by the customer, as well as the suitability of the 
overall proposition  when  advice is given on a product that is a vehicle for investment in other  
products (such as the SIPP in Miss Ws case). It further refers to the broadly applicable  rules  
and guidance  that ensure that in all instances of advice, a firm must first take time to 
familiarise itself with the wider investment and financial circumstances. In saying that, I dont 
think the FCA intended that in pension transfer  cases, regard to the overall proposition  was 
only required  where the introducing firm was unregulated, or where the assets  contemplated 
included unregulated investments. 
In my view, the regulator was indicating that these are standards that have broad application 
to pension switch  and transfer advice,  but pointing out that it had particular concern about 
cases in which unregulated firms and unregulated products put the consumer at risk. So, 
I think the alert is relevant  to firms in the position of Portafina in this case. This is further 
demonstrated by an alert from the regulator in 2014  which stated: 
Where a financial adviser recommends a SIPP knowing that the customer  will (...) transfer 
(...) to release funds  to invest through a SIPP, then the suitability of the underlying 
investment must form part of the advice given  to the customer. If the underlying investment 
is not suitable (...), then the overall advice is not suitable. 
If a firm does not fully understand the underlying  investment  proposition intended to be held 
within a SIPP, then it should not offer advice on the pension transfer (...) at all as it will not 
be able to assess suitability of the transaction  as a whole.  
Both alerts specifically referred  to the regulators  overarching Principles for Businesses
(PRIN) and COBS, which Portafina was subject to. And with reference to PRIN and COBS,
the alerts  said a firm would fall short of its obligations under these rules if it didnt familiarise
itself with the intended investment strategy and that it wouldnt be able to recommend  a new
product, like a SIPP, without doing  so.
Ref: DRN84763505Under COBS 2.1.2 Portafina also couldnt seek to exclude or restrict its duty or liability to
Miss W under the regulatory system. So, saying it was operating under a limited retainer 
didnt absolve  it of its duty of care to ensure the advice it was providing  was suitable  again, 
this had to include  consideration  of how Miss Ws funds would be invested .
COBS 9.2 required  Portafina to take reasonable steps to make sure its recommendation was
suitable for Miss W. To achieve  this, COBS 9.2.2R said Portafina  had to obtain enough
information from Miss W to ensure its recommendation met her objectives, that she could 
bear the related investment risks consistent  with these objectives and that she had the 
necessary experience and knowledge  to understand the risks involved in the transaction.
COBS 9.2.2R included  the following wording:
() The information regarding the investment objectives of a client  must include, where
relevant, information  on the length of time for which he wishes  to hold the investment, his
preferences regarding risk taking, his risk profile,  and the purposes of the investment.
So as part of the fact-finding process  Portafina had to understand Miss Ws objectives  two of 
which were ownership and control  and a willingness to accept investment risk  and the related 
risks. It wasnt free to ignore how Miss Ws funds  were going  to be invested, irrespective of Firm 
Cs involvement. I consider the underlying investments in the SIPP  to be inextricably linked to 
the risks relating  to the SIPP, so assessing the risk and suitability of a transfer without knowing 
what Miss W would  invest in within  the wrapper, doesnt in my mind  seem reasonably possible.
So, I think its clear that in order to give suitable advice, Portafina had to have  a good
understanding of the investments Miss W intended to make. This is because it couldnt
provide any assurance  that the transfer out of the OPS would be in Miss Ws best interest if 
it didnt know how her funds would be invested and the likely  estimated return.
Like COBS, PRIN formed part of the regulatory  framework that existed  at the time of 
Portafinas advice  and had to be complied  with. Principles 1 (conducting business with 
integrity); 2 (exercising due skill, care and diligence); 6 (having regard for customers  
interests and treating  them  fairly); 7 (communicating information in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way) and 9 (ensuring the suitability of advice  for a customer  entitled to rely on the 
firms judgement) are of particular relevance to this case. In addition to what  Ive outlined  
above, Ive considered Portafinas advice with these  in mind. 
As Portafina didnt consider itself responsible for any advice regarding the underlying assets 
of the SIPP  it recommended, it says it was unaware of where,  further to Firm Cs 
involvement, Miss Ws transferred  funds would ultimately be invested. As Firm C was 
regulated and able to provide investment advice with a duty to ensure this was suitable,  it 
says it saw no issue with this. 
I recognise that the FCA allows  for two advisers  to work together to provide suitable advice 
to their mutual client. However,  the alerts  make it clear that a firm that is asked to advise on 
a pension transfer needs to be aware  of the intended investments before it advises on the 
transfer, in order  to provide suitable  advice.  So, it shouldve requested this information from 
Firm C before providing advice. And, as confirmed in the 2014 alert, if it didnt  fully 
understand the underlying  investment proposition intended to be held within  the SIPP,  it 
shouldnt have offered advice  on the pension transfer at all. So, in the absence of Portafina 
knowing the investments  Firm C intended for Miss W, it couldnt in my view provide her with 
suitable advice  to transfer her OPS. 
Ref: DRN84763506I accept that as a result  of its AR agreement with Firm S, Firm C was required to give 
suitable advice.  However, I dont agree  that this negated Portafinas duty to do the same. As  
Miss Ws appointed financial adviser,  it had a significant responsibility to provide  suitable 
advice and act in Miss Ws best interests.  And as Ive said, this had to include an awareness 
of where Miss Ws funds would be invested. 
Portafina said that it carried out extensive due diligence on Firm C, which included 
background checks on the company  directors, accounts and information  about previous 
complaints. In other cases it has also told us that as part of its due diligence  it carried out on 
Firm C, it requested details of the investment strategy it was likely to deploy for clients with 
the relevant ATR.  For Miss W it set out in the suitability report  what  spread of investments it 
thought would be suitable for her, as follows:
Cash 10%
Equities 60%
Other Fixed  Interest 12%
Secured Structured Bonds 18%
But I dont think that satisfies the regulators expectations as set out in the alerts. I havent 
seen any evidence to persuade me that Portafina carried out checks with Firm C that were  
specific to the investments envisaged  for Miss W. So, I still think  Portafina needed to do 
more to satisfy itself that its recommendation was based on the expected investment 
proposition that Firm C intended for Miss W. It needed, at the very least, to ask Firm C for an 
outline of that proposition. Portafina couldnt  reasonably assess the suitability of the transfer 
it was recommending without doing so. 
Portafina says that it cant be held responsible if Firm C failed to follow  the model portfolio it 
suggested. But I dont  think  it was sufficient for Portafina simply to recommend a broad 
spread of investments in its suitability report for Miss W in the expectation that that would 
bring about the necessary  alignment with Firm Cs investment recommendations. Further,  
I do not agree that broad  references  to investment  classes, such  as equities and secured 
structured bonds,  would  give consumers in the position of Miss W sufficient information to 
enable them to spot discrepancies. 
I should also add that even if I was satisfied Portafina could adequately assess the suitability 
of the transfer  by merely  recommending potential investments  into broad asset classes,  with 
no further steps taken  to align its advice with Firm Cs recommendations, I dont think the 
asset allocation  set out in the table would  in any event have been suitable for Miss W. I say 
this because the model portfolio suggested that 18% of the pension fund should be invested 
in secure structured bonds. These  are described  in the suitability report  as asset backed 
debt securities that are issued for a fix term. The report goes on to explain that these are not 
covered by the FSCS.  And that there are credit  risks  due to the possibility of the company 
borrowing the money going into default   and liquidity risks. 
In my view, this puts the secure structured bonds at the higher end of the risk spectrum  and 
would generally  mean  that theyre  unsuitable for an inexperienced investor, with a fairly  
modest pension fund. So, Im not satisfied that a portfolio that wouldve invested 18% of 
Miss Ws pension  fund in unregulated and potentially  illiquid  funds  and a further  60% in 
equities  wouldve been suitable for a client in her position in any event. 
Ref: DRN84763507The advice to transfer
Notwithstanding what Ive said above, I dont  think the suitability of Portafinas advice turns 
solely on where Miss Ws funds were ultimately invested. Portafinas  recommendation that 
she transfer to a SIPP in the first place is an important consideration. And were  it not for the 
transfer and Portafinas incomplete and, in my view, flawed advice regarding  this, Im not 
persuaded Miss W wouldve become vulnerable to unsuitable investment advice.
OPSs typically have  significant benefits  and guarantees. Giving  up the benefits and 
guarantees available under an OPS and subjecting future pension  income  to the risks 
associated with unpredictable investment returns should only be done where it can be 
shown that it was clearly  in the best interests of the consumer. The COBS  guidance 
(COBS19.1.6G) at the time of the advice, stated: 
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined benefits  
occupational pension scheme  whether to transfer,  convert or opt-out, a firm should  start by 
assuming that a transfer or opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should  only then consider a  
transfer or opt-out to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence,  
that the transfer or opt-out is in the client's  best interests.  
Given what the regulator says, my starting point is that a transfer wont usually be suitable. 
Therell need to be good reasons why a transfer  will be in the consumers best interests.  And 
generally, a transfer  will only be in the consumers  best interests if theres  a reasonable 
prospect that the new arrangement will provide better retirement benefits. The transfer  will 
also need to be suitable, taking into account  the individuals particular circumstances. 
At the time of Portafinas advice Miss W was 56 years old, employed and in good  health. 
She was a standard retail  investor with nine years until she expected  to retire and until her 
OPS benefits became  payable. Aside  from her state pension entitlement, this OPS 
represented her sole retirement provision. In addition to her employment, she was in the 
early stages of starting her own business.  She had recorded debts of £2,000, although as I 
will go on to explain  later in this decision,  Im satisfied this was actually £20,000. She had no 
investments or savings.  So, it seems to me Miss Ws OPS was her most valuable  asset.  It 
provided a guaranteed income  at retirement  with increases, along with a spouses pension.  
Based on this I think Portafina  should have recognised  the significance  of Miss Ws OPS  and 
proceeded with caution.
Based on a risk profile Miss W completed, Portafina  said it believed  she had a balanced 
ATR and this has not been challenged  by the consumer. Although  Miss W had no 
investment experience, she was aged 56 at the time the advice was given, so she had 
around nine years before she thought she wanted  to retire. So, I think she had probably had 
enough time to expose her funds to a medium or balanced level of risk and recoup any 
losses. As Miss W appears  to accept the classification, I see no reason to disagree with the 
balanced ATR recorded.
Portafina recommended Miss W transfer out of her OPS into a SIPP  mainly  so that she 
could access the TFC from her pension. These funds would then be used to pay down debt 
and fund a new business. Miss W has confirmed that the funds were used for this purpose.  
While Miss W had a desire to access her pension,  this is only one factor  in assessing the 
suitability of the transfer. There is usually a price to pay for transferring from a guaranteed  
pension in the form of a loss of benefits and a customer should only proceed if they are fully 
aware of the value  of what they are giving up.
Ref: DRN84763508When a firm considers recommending a client transfers out of a defined  benefit scheme, the
regulator requires  it to carry out a calculation to establish the investment  performance
required by the new pension in order to match the benefits available  from the transferring
scheme. This is known  as the critical yield.
Portafina commissioned a pension transfer value  analysis  report  which showed that a critical
yield of 13.6% per year was required to match benefits from the OPS if Miss W retired at 65.
This reduced  to 12.6% if Miss W took the maximum TFC at retirement.  While  it appears to take 
account of the initial  and ongoing adviser  charges, it does not make any allowance  for the plan, 
fund or any other ongoing charges. This meant the growth  needed just to match the benefits  
being given up was most likely understated. Like the adjudicator,  I think  the growth required just 
to match  her existing  benefits was too high to make  the transfer viable  for Miss W.
The advice was given  at a time when there were no industry standard  projection rates to
assess the likelihood of the critical yield being  achieved. But at the time, the regulators
assumed future growth rates for personal  pensions illustrations were 2% (lower); 5%
(intermediate); and 8% (higher). So even  if the personal pension had achieved the highest
maximum projected growth at that time, it was unlikely Miss W would receive  a higher 
pension at retirement as a result of transferring. This also seems to meet with Portafinas  
own estimates of the growth Miss W could likely expect. In the suitability report  dated
16 September 2014, it estimated that based  on Miss Ws balanced attitude to risk, her 
personal pension  would  grow at a rate of 6.13%, which didnt take account of advice fees or 
plan charges.
Nevertheless, Portafina based its recommendation on the lifetime hurdle rate, which  it said
was 6.11%, rather than the critical yield. It did this because it assumed Miss W wouldnt
purchase an annuity with her fund and would instead take her benefits via income 
drawdown. This rate would appear to be the average of the hurdle rates listed in the TVAS,  
which were 7.2% to match the OPS full pension and 6.8% to match the income  provided  
after the reduction for TFC.
The guidance under  COBS 19.1.3 states that the comparison undertaken by Portafina should:
1.take into account all of the retail  client's relevant circumstances;
2.have regard to the benefits and options  available  under the ceding scheme and the 
effect of replacing  them with the benefits and options under the proposed scheme;
3.explain the assumptions on which it is based  and the rates  of return  that would have 
to be achieved to replicate  the benefits  being given up; and
4.be illustrated on rates  of return which take into account the likely expected returns of 
the assets in which  the retail client's funds will be invested.
Having considered this carefully,  Im not satisfied that using the hurdle rate was appropriate
in Miss Ws case. Firstly,  the hurdle rate is used to determine the growth required to match  
the starting pension of the OPS, without  increases  and without a spouses  pension being
included. Miss Ws OPS  provided a 50% spouses pension and it escalated in retirement. So
the hurdle rate doesnt replicate  the benefits  Miss W was giving  up, which, as can be seen
from the above guidance, was what the regulator  wanted businesses to do when comparing
schemes. Furthermore, the hurdle rate was also based on the full pension fund being 
invested and was therefore not an accurate reflection of the true level of growth  that would 
be needed just to match the pension  income  in the first year of retirement. So, it seems  
unreasonable to use the hurdle rate when  comparing  the OPS  benefits with the SIPP.
Ref: DRN84763509In addition, Miss W had around  nine years before she thought she wanted  to retire, which 
according to the suitability  report  was age 65. I dont think  Portafina, or Miss W, could say 
with any certainty nine years before she planned to retire that she was definitely going to 
take her benefits  via income drawdown.  Miss W had debts and was embarking on a new 
business venture.  So, I think  in those  circumstances a secure guaranteed income in 
retirement wouldve  been more attractive to her than placing her entire retirement  funds at 
risk. And I dont think Miss Ws point  of view on taking an annuity in retirement was explored  
in any meaningful sense. Im therefore  satisfied that the appropriate growth  rate to use was 
the critical yield figure of 12.6%, as I think its clear Miss W wanted to take tax-free cash  
rather than the full pension.
In the suitability report, Portafina stated Firm C would provide their investment 
recommendations. But without having  an understanding of Firm Cs proposed investment 
strategy, I dont think Portafina were in a position to know whether the transfer  advice was 
suitable. Even without  knowing Firm Cs proposed investments, the critical yield was far 
above the growth Portafina said Miss W could expect if she invested in line with the 
suggested model portfolio in its suitability report.  And as explained  above,  it was also greater  
than the highest of the regulators assumed future  growth rates. For this reason, I think  
Miss W was likely to receive benefits  of a substantially lower  overall value  than the OPS at 
retirement, as a result of transferring her OPS. And I dont  think  that was at all made  clear  to 
Miss W in the suitability report, which gave her the impression  that the expected level of 
growth from her transferred funds would be sufficient to provide the same  level of income  
her employers scheme would pay.
I believe that the level of pension funding  Miss W could  expect  after transferring was 
significantly overstated by Portafina and she was not given an accurate picture of her likely  
position in retirement.  I have, however,  gone  on to consider whether there  were  other  
legitimate reasons for recommending the transfer  of Miss Ws OPS  benefits despite her 
likely being worse off in retirement as a result.
Portafina argues  that Miss W required access to her TFC to repay  debt and help start a business. 
The fact find completed  by Portafina  on 5 August 2014 noted  that Miss W was making loan 
repayments of £500  a month. Her debts were recorded as £2,000, but this was most likely a 
mistake and Miss W has since  confirmed that the actual figure was £20,000. I am inclined to 
accept that this higher figure  is correct  for several reasons; firstly it is in keeping  with repayments 
of £500 a month. Secondly, an individual would be unlikely to want to cash in a pension to pay off 
a £2,000 loan which (based on £500  repayments) only had four months to run. Finally, Portafinas  
own projections of the cost of paying the outstanding debt via monthly repayments totalled 
£21,066 and I cannot see any way that £2,000 could ever cost that much to repay.
Page eight of the suitability report Ways to Generate  Cash,  states if Miss W continued to 
pay her loan monthly, she would have  paid £21,066  in total and have a pension fund of 
£84,661 at retirement.  By comparison,  if she used  her TFC to pay down her debt and 
redirected these  payments  into her pension, these would be grossed up to £25,280 and 
would result in a higher total pension  fund of £90,237. I believe that these figures are 
incorrect and misleading when it is clear that Miss W only intended  to use part of her TFC to 
pay off some of her debt,  not the whole amount. As only a share of her repayments could be 
redirected back to her pension, the total of £25,280  was, in my view, a very large over-
estimation. Given that the level of growth  needed  to match  her benefits in retirement was 
significantly understated and the possible value of her fund at age 65 was over-estimated,  
I dont think Miss W had an accurate  picture of the value of what  she was giving up and how 
much it would realistically cost to replace  it.
Ref: DRN847635010In addition, there doesnt appear to have  been  any discussion about how much of her debt 
Miss W intended  to pay off. So Portafina should  not have been making projections without 
having this information. As it is, Miss W has confirmed she used £5,000 of her pension for 
debt repayment,  so only a quarter of her repayments could be redirected back to her SIPP. 
This means  that her pension fund would be lower at retirement than if she had not made any 
withdrawals and not higher, as the report stated. 
Furthermore, page nine of the same report stated  that Miss W did not have enough 
disposable income to service [her] needs, so it is doubtful that she would be able or willing  
to give up any disposable income which became available from paying  down debt.  This 
would be especially true when she was about to start a new business.  In my view, it was far 
more likely that she would use any spare  cash to support  her business in its early  years,  
rather than lock it away in her pension. 
In my view, Portafina did not try to find out the necessary facts  to demonstrate that transferring 
Miss Ws OPS  benefits to access TFC was suitable for her. It did not ask Miss W how much  of 
the cash would be used to pay down debt and how this would affect her outgoings. It didnt ask 
what share of the funds  would be used for the business, or even what  the business was. It 
didnt ask how the funds would be used.  For instance, I think it ought  to have established 
whether the funds were needed to purchase  equipment or some  other  asset which  may have a 
re-sale value if the business failed. Or whether it was to be used to support Miss W in the early  
stages and was therefore just expenditure unlikely to be recouped.
Having listened  to the phone call of 5 August 2014, there was no attempt by Portafinas 
representative to gather this information and I have no reason to doubt that, had Miss W 
been asked, she would  have answered  whatever  questions he had. During  the call Miss W 
said that she would use part of the money  for her business and part to repay debt to make 
her outgoings more manageable. Although she did not mention any figures  herself, Miss W 
was clearly willing to discuss this topic,  but the adviser made no attempt to gather more 
information. And although the suitability report noted that Miss W did not want  to take on any 
further lending,  I havent seen any evidence  to demonstrate that this was explored in any 
meaningful sense. Miss W owned her home outright  and whilst she may have not wanted to 
take a loan, I still think this shouldve been  explored to see how she might be able to 
restructure her debt and/or take out further lending to support her new business. This option  
ought to have been presented in the context of the lower pension she could expect  to 
receive in retirement  as a result of transferring  and using her TFC to do this instead.  Had it 
been explored and presented in this way, Miss W may have been more amenable to this 
alternative.
I think these were all important  considerations  which  should  have  been  discussed with 
Miss W before making a recommendation. If a customer  has large or unmanageable debts, 
an argument can be made for using retirement  funds to avoid  a situation becoming worse  
which would impact her standard of living post retirement. This would be very different to 
sacrificing stability in retirement  to fund a risky venture which  may fail, taking a substantial  
part of the pension funds with it and providing  no benefit to the customer. 
Ref: DRN847635011During the call Miss W was asked how much  of a reduction in her pension she would be 
willing to take to get control of her pension, take the TFC and increase her death benefits. 
She replied  that she would like it to be none at all, but would accept a reduction  of 10%. 
This indicates that Miss W did not have an overwhelming desire  to transfer and certainly was 
not prepared to do so at any price.  It may be that the decision to start a business was only 
taken because of the availability of the funds and, had the risks been fully explained, this 
may have  been  less appealing  to her if she knew she was going  to lose income in 
retirement. I am not saying that this definitely was the case, simply that Portafina  did not 
know either and should  not have proceeded without being sure that transferring and taking 
the TFC was in Miss Ws best interest.
Finally, Portafina has stated that one of the reasons  Miss W was willing  to accept a lower 
income in retirement  was to secure better  death benefits, as she had no need for the 
spouses pension  her OPS provided.  I do not agree with this argument when Miss W did not 
express any strong desire to provide additional cover for her family during the call recording. 
In fact, she actually said that she did not plan on leaving  any money to her family,  as they 
would inherit her property  after her death. As such, I do not think that increasing  death 
benefits by transferring was a genuine objective  for her.
Overall, Portafina had a significant and overriding responsibility to challenge  Miss Ws 
objectives and not accept  them at face value. Miss W wasnt a financial expert  and was 
heavily reliant on Portafina for its advice and expertise.  So, I think  it needed to do more than 
just note Miss Ws objectives and agree to facilitate  what she thought was the best way of 
achieving them, especially when there might be viable alternatives  to meeting those goals. If 
Miss W was unwilling to accept advice from Portafina on this basis, this should have been 
clearly documented  and, if necessary,  the consumer treated as an insistent client. I have no 
reason to believe that this would have been  the case.
Ive thought about whether, if shed  been  correctly advised by Portafina,  Miss W would have 
gone ahead  with the transfer anyway. Having carefully considered all the circumstances  in 
this case, I dont believe she would. While she did have  a purpose for the TFC, she was 
withdrawing the funds  on the understanding that she would not be any worse off in 
retirement by doing so. It was even implied  that by taking her TFC at that point and 
redirecting her debt repayment funds, she would have a larger pension fund in retirement. 
Had Miss W been appropriately advised  and made  aware of how much  she stood to lose by 
transferring, I think its more likely that she would have chosen to stay with her OPS.
As a professional adviser  which,  unlike Firm C, was authorised to provide transfer advice, 
Portafinas recommendation  wouldve  carried significant weight and could, I believe, have 
dissuaded Miss W from proceeding with the transfer and withdrawing TFC. I accept its 
possible Miss W may still have wanted to go ahead anyway. But I think,  at the very least,  if 
Portafina had advised against  this, that would  have made her think about things.  
Alternatively, had Miss W proceeded against such advice, Portafina couldve  discharged  its 
professional responsibility  to her appropriately.  For example,  it couldve treated  her as an 
insistent client. However,  Im not persuaded Miss W wouldve acted against the advice shed 
been given.
Ref: DRN847635012Ive thought about the fact that Firm C provided  Miss W with investment advice. Although  
she didnt invest in UCIS, I agree with the adjudicators view that it is fair to hold Portafina 
fully responsible for Miss Ws loss. I think its important to emphasise that Firm C and 
Portafina were in a business relationship in which each firm agreed to provide services  that 
were designed  to bring about a single  outcome  for clients  pension-release advice and 
investment. Because Firm C wasnt authorised to provide pension transfer advice, it referred  
Miss W to Portafina. Portafina  advised  Miss W to transfer to a SIPP,  it set up the SIPP  and 
arranged for her existing  pension benefits  to be transferred.  Portafinas  understanding that it 
could reasonably limit its advice to just the transfer  and the SIPP was wrong; it needed  to 
consider the proposed investments too, even if Firm C was advising Miss W on them.  It was 
only as a result of Portafinas involvement  that Miss W transferred the funds held in her OPS 
to the SIPP.  Portafinas role was pivotal, since the eventual investments were  fully reliant on 
the funds being transferred first; if that hadnt  happened, Miss W couldnt have invested as 
she did. So, in my view,  the entirety  of her loss stems from Portafinas unsuitable advice to 
transfer away from her OPS.
Portafina argues  that any redress awarded  to Miss W should take account of the 
compensation Miss W could obtain  from the FSCS by complaining  about  Firm Cs 
investment recommendations. It doesnt  appear  Miss W has approached  the FSCS. But I am 
aware that, as a fund of last resort,  the FSCS wont pay out on claims where it is aware that 
another firm was involved in the transaction, and it considers  that firm might  also be 
responsible for a consumers losses. This means  that apportionment of only part of the loss 
to Portafina could risk leaving  Miss W out of pocket. But I think its important to point out that 
Im not saying Portafina is wholly responsible  for the losses simply because  Firm S and 
Firm C are now in liquidation. My starting point as to causation is that Portafina gave 
unsuitable advice  and it is responsible for the losses Miss W suffered in transferring  her 
existing benefits  to the SIPP and investing as she did. That isnt, to my mind,  wrong  in law or 
irrational but reflects  the facts of the case and my view of the fair and reasonable position. 
So, overall, I think apportioning responsibility to Portafina for the whole of the loss represents 
fair compensation in this case.
Putting things  right
A fair and reasonable outcome would  be for the business to put Miss W, as far as possible,  
into the position she would now be in but for Portafinas unsuitable  advice. I consider Miss W 
would have remained in the occupational scheme. Portafina must therefore  undertake  a 
redress calculation in line with the regulators pension review  guidance as updated by the 
Financial Conduct  Authority in its Finalised  Guidance  17/9: Guidance for firms on how to 
calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
This calculation should  be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance  with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Miss Ws acceptance of the decision. 
Portafina may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain 
Miss Ws contribution history to the State Earnings  Related Pension Scheme (SERPS  or 
S2P). These details  should then be used  to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation,  
which will take into account the impact of leaving  the occupational scheme on Miss Ws 
SERPS/S2P entitlement.
Ref: DRN847635013If the redress calculation  demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Miss Ws pension plan.  The payment should allow for the effect  of charges and any 
available tax relief.  The compensation  shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing  protection or allowance. 
If a payment  into the pension isnt possible or has protection  or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Miss W as a lump sum after making  a notional deduction to allow 
for income  tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could  have 
been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have  been taxed according  to his likely income 
tax rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional  deduction  of 15% overall  
from the loss adequately  reflects this. 
The payment resulting  from all the steps  above  is the compensation amount. The 
compensation amount must where possible be paid to Miss W within 90 days of the date 
Portafina receives notification of her acceptance of my final decision. Further  interest must  
be added  to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my 
final decision  to the date of settlement for any time,  in excess of 90 days,  that it takes  
Portafina to pay Miss W.
Its possible that data gathering  for a SERPS  adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes  beyond  the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  - and so any 
period of time where  the only outstanding  item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
A copy of Portafinas calculations should be provided to Miss Ws representative.
In addition, Portafina should  pay Miss W £300  for disruption to her retirement  planning.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and direct Portal Financial Services  LLP to pay compensation as set 
out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 October  2021.
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8476350