K822xcomplaint
This complaint is about an insurance  policy taken  out with a loan in 2008.  The policy 
provided Mrs B with life cover. And she says Barclays  Bank Plc mis-sold it. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Mrs B says that she wasnt aware  of the policy   and that it mustve  been added to her 
loan without her consent. But the cost of the policy was included on her loan agreement  
and she was sent a letter confirming shed  applied  for the insurance. The letter included 
a statement of demands and needs that talks about Barclays  recommending  the life 
cover to Mrs B and her agreeing with that recommendation. So taking everything into 
account, I think Barclays made  it clear that Mrs B didnt have to take out the policy and 
that she chose  to take it out  although I can understand  why she cant  remember this.
Barclays says that it recommended the policy to Mrs B  which means  it had to check 
that it was right for her. And based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I 
think that it was. She wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the cover 
and she seems to have had a need  for it. The statement of demands and needs records  
that Mrs B told Barclays she didnt have any life insurance that would protect  her new 
loan. From what I understand, she was married and the life cover  she was sold would 
mean any outstanding loan would  be paid off if she died.
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mrs B about  the policy wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. And for the same reasons I think the policy  was suitable, I dont think  better 
information about it wouldve put her off taking out the cover. 
This means I dont  think  the policy was mis-sold. So Barclays doesnt need  to refund 
everything Mrs B paid for the cover. 
But Barclays  has offered  to give Mrs B back some  of the cost of the policy. I understand 
Barclays has already  paid this to Mrs B. And I dont think  it needs to do anything more.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 February  2019.
Claire Allison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8312752