K820x#14Complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2001. Mrs G says Bank of Scotland  plc mis-sold  her the PPI. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Mrs Gs credit card application form had a section for PPI. It briefly explained what  the 
policy was and how it worked. Then there  was a box that could be ticked  and a place  to 
sign if Mrs G wanted  PPI, which could  be left blank if she didnt want it. The box for PPI 
was ticked and Mrs G signed  specifically to take the policy,  separately to signing the 
agreement as a whole. So I think that Bank of Scotland  made it clear Mrs G didnt have to 
take out PPI and that she chose to take it  though I can understand if she no longer  
recalls doing so after so long.
Bank of Scotland recommended the PPI to Mrs G, so it had to check that the policy  was 
right for her  and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think  that it 
was. For example, it looks like Mrs G was eligible for the cover and wasnt affected by 
any of its main  exclusions or limitations. The PPI wouldve paid out on top of her work 
benefits and it offered  her more comprehensive  cover, especially when her benefits 
reduced to just a fraction of her normal pay. And while Mrs G had other  insurances,  these 
covered different things and wouldnt have overlapped with this policy. So it looks like the 
PPI couldve been useful for her in case she was off sick or lost her job.
Its possible the information Bank of Scotland gave Mrs G about the PPI wasnt  as clear  
as it shouldve been. But she chose to take out the policy  - so it looks like she wanted  this 
type of cover. As I said above,  it doesnt look like she was affected  by any of the 
exclusions to or limits  on the PPI, and it could have been  useful for Mrs G if something 
went wrong. And the PPI was paid on a rolling monthly basis,  so Mrs G could cancel it at 
any time without a penalty. Overall, I dont think better information about the PPI would 
have put her off taking  it out. 
This means  Bank of Scotland doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs G.
But Bank of Scotland will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mrs G because: 
Bank of Scotland got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mrs G about that. Because  Bank of Scotland  didnt 
tell her, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Bank of Scotland has basically offered to pay back  the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that 
offer is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN80237052What the business needs  to do
Bank of Scotland has to pay back to Mrs G any commission  and profit share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. Bank  of Scotland should  also pay back  to Mrs G any 
extra interest she paid because of that.
That means Bank of Scotland should re-work the credit card account  and pay back  to Mrs G 
the difference between what she owes and what she wouldve owed if the commission and 
profit share it got hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Bank of Scotland should also 
pay Mrs G 8%* simple interest  if she paid off the credit  card at some  point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mrs G can claim back the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc doesnt have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mrs G.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Mrs G any commission  and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. If it has already done this, then I dont 
award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs G to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 September 2019.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8023705