K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that his Experian Limited  credit report  includes inaccurate  information. He 
says theyve failed  to remove it despite  his requests.
background
Mr H complained to Experian that theyd failed to remove defaults  from his credit file that he 
disagreed with. Experian advised that hed need  to obtain a copy of his credit report (they 
could see he hadnt done so recently) and then tell them which entries  he was disputing  and 
why. Mr H replied  that hed done this several  years ago and wasnt  prepared  to repeat 
himself. He said they should get on with removing the inaccurate  information.
In further correspondence Mr H let Experian  know that he was unhappy with defaults relating 
to accounts hed held with four banks.  He said these banks had forced  him to apply for 
overdrafts and loans  because theyd refused to refund  him when fraudsters  had taken his 
money.
Experian issued  a final response  to Mr Hs complaint.  They explained that they wouldnt be 
able to raise disputes  with the providers of any of the information, as Mr H hadnt viewed his 
credit report  for several years and wasnt providing  enough detail about  what entries he was 
unhappy with. Experian advised  Mr H on how he could obtain a free copy of his credit  report  
and said, once hed told them which  entries  he felt were incorrect  and why, they would raise 
disputes on his behalf.
Unhappy with this response from Experian,  Mr H asked us to get involved.
What Experian  told us
Experian explained that despite them advising Mr H to view his credit  report  multiple times, 
hed not done so. And so, they couldnt  raise  any disputes for him. In January 2021, 
Experian provided evidence that there  is one default  showing  on Mr Hs credit report. This 
relates to an account  with a telecommunications provider and is dated  September  2016. 
They said if Mr H believes this should  be removed from his credit report, hed have to view 
his credit report and provide Experian  with enough  detail  to be able to query  the entry with 
the telecommunications provider.
What Mr H told us
Mr H isnt prepared to obtain and review a copy of his credit report  as, he says, he did this 
some years ago. Hes told us hes unhappy with the default relating to the 
telecommunications provider because of the poor quality of the goods and services  they 
supplied him with.
Our investigators view
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mr Hs complaint. She explained that as the holder of 
information received  from various sources, Experian cant make changes to the information  
without the involvement  of the business that supplied the information. She said for Experian 
to ask a business to review any adverse information, it would need Mr H to access  his credit 
report and be specific about  what data he disputed and why. Because Mr H hadnt  done that, 
Ref: DRN89839282she didnt think Experian had done  anything wrong.  She suggested that Mr H raise  his 
dispute with the telecommunications provider  whod reported the default to Experian.
Mr H didnt agree with that outcome.  He said he felt he was due compensation from 
Experian.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
outcome as the investigator and for the same reasons.
Credit reference agencies, such as Experian, hold data about individuals as a credit  file. This 
information is gathered  from public sources,  such as local authorities or the courts,  and from 
private sources such as banks and credit card companies. If an individual  is unhappy with 
the information recorded in their credit file, the first step is usually to raise  a dispute with the 
party that supplied  the information  to the credit  reference agency.  If that dispute  is resolved 
in the individuals favour, its the supplier of the information who would then let the credit 
reference agency know to amend the individuals credit file.
As its not for Experian to decide whether the telecommunications provider fulfilled its 
contract with Mr H, nor to decide whether a default  was fairly registered against him, I think  
they acted reasonably by not removing  it. I wouldnt  have expected them  to do so without  the 
telecommunication providers involvement. Experians role is to accurately report  the 
information it receives from credit account  providers and other sources, and Ive seen no 
evidence that suggests Experian  have mistakenly  included this default on Mr Hs credit  
report.
If Mr H doesnt  agree  that he defaulted on this account, or agrees that he defaulted  but 
believes he had good reasons for doing so, he should take this up with the 
telecommunications provider who registered  the information on his credit file.
I think Experian acted  fairly and reasonably  in response to Mr Hs concerns about the 
accuracy of the information they hold.  They  offered  to make enquiries of the provider but, 
with the limited information  they were provided by Mr H, I wouldnt have expected them  to do 
more. So, I wont be asking them to pay him the compensation he seeks.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 June  2021.
Beth Wilcox
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8983928