K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain,  through  a representative, that they were  mis-sold a mortgage 
endowment policy in 1991 for which the Prudential Assurance Company Limited is 
responsible. 
In summary  they say they were  not told about any alternatives. Also they were  not informed 
about the risks involved in taking out the policy and they thought  the policy would pay off the 
mortgage and provide  a surplus.  They also say had they known that they would have 
explored other options, including  taking out a repayment type mortgage.
background
The business didnt  uphold the complaint. It said it thought the policy  was suitable when it 
was sold. It said it could  find no evidence  of any guarantee  that the policy would  repay the 
mortgage. Illustrations  were provided at the time of the sale which  demonstrated the 
possibility of a shortfall.  Also the fund invested  in, the with profit fund,  was considered  low 
risk at the time of the sale.
Unhappy with that Mr and Mrs J came to us. One of our adjudicators looked at the 
complaint. She also thought the policy was suitable and didnt recommend that the complaint 
should be upheld.  
Mr and Mrs Js representative didnt agree. It made a number of points. It said that there was 
no record of Mr and Mrs Js attitudes to risk at the time. There was also no record  of costs or 
alternatives being discussed. The representative took the view that because  Mr and Mrs J 
already had an endowment type mortgage, the business made assumptions about them 
(particularly about their knowledge and experience) which were not true. 
The adjudicator made  the point that there  was no requirement for business to record 
attitudes to risk or explain  alternatives and costs  at the time of the sale.  She was still not 
persuaded the complaint  should be upheld. As the representative remained unhappy the 
complaint has been passed to me to consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done that, I dont uphold this 
complaint. I know this isnt what Mr and Mrs J want.
I understand this borrowing of £10,000  was in addition to an existing  endowment type 
mortgage. It was less than one years  income for Mr and Mrs J, well within the limits  set by 
lenders. Of course the representative  is quite  correct when  it says an existing policy does not 
mean an additional policy is automatically suitable or appropriate for a client.  However it 
does suggest  there  may be some appetite for risk and that the consumers are content with 
their existing arrangements.
The representative points  to a number of issues such as a failure to record  any assessment 
of attitudes to risk. While of course it would have been very helpful  to make such  records 
there was no requirement to do so. Also of course  strictly a failure  to record  attitude to risk 
does not automatically  mean it wasnt done.  But it is very difficult for me to penalise  a 
business for not doing something  unless it was required to do that thing.
Ref: DRN86034462I note the length  of the policy against the expected retirement dates of Mr and Mrs J. Of 
course the representative has a point that if Mr and Mrs J didnt know  there was a risk, they 
may have  been  happy for the policy go on for longer. It would still however require payments 
to be made  post retirement. That in and of itself was a risk which Mr and Mrs J presumably 
were prepared to take.
I must also test  the sale against what was known and expected  at the time of the sale, not 
now. Of course it is possible that Mr and Mrs J were unsuited to this policy  and were misled  
as to what it was. What I dont find however is that the evidence allows me to say that on 
balance, the policy was mis-sold. 
Mr and Mrs Js representative makes a number of assumptions itself. It assumes that, from 
(now) over 25 years ago, Mr and Mrs Js recollections demonstrate  that on balance  the 
policy was sold in a misleading way. I do not doubt  for one moment the policy  was sold in 
very positive  ad upbeat ways. The difficult is being  satisfied that expectations for the policy  
(not thought  unreasonable at the time) were  put in a misleading way so as to cause Mr and 
Mrs J to buy something they wouldnt otherwise have done.  
In summary  this is a sale in 1991  of a low risk policy for a modest sum (when tested against 
income). There is nothing in the circumstances of Mr and Mrs J which  suggest  that, in 
principle, such a sale was bad. I dont for one moment  doubt their recollections but 
documentary evidence  from the time is something I cant ignore.  
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im 
required to ask Mr and Mrs J to accept  or reject  my decision before 28 February 2019.
Mike Boyall
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8603446