K821x#15complaint
Ms B is unhappy with her former broker, Perry  Prowse (Insurance Consultants) Ltd because  
she is unsure whether  insurance policies she asked  it to arrange for her were  actually 
arranged. Whilst she has made alternative  arrangements for most of her insurance needs, 
she hadnt done so for her home insurance at the time of complaint,  as she had the need to 
make a claim under the most recent  policy.
background
Perry Prowse appears to have had a longstanding relationship with Ms B as her insurance  
broker. It arranged numerous policies of differing types for her business interests. In 
addition, Ms B has properties, which she believes  Perry  Prowse arranged insurance  for; her 
main home and a leasehold flat. In addition,  Ms B has an overseas holiday home. She has 
told us about several  claims she made for damage  or losses at each of the properties,  which  
she believed  Perry Prowse was dealing with on her behalf.
The information received from the parties  was incomplete and contradictory in places. As 
such, we completed  our own investigations into the insurance cover  and claims made.  The 
following is what appears to be the situation,  taking account of some further comments from 
Ms B.
In 2006 Perry Prowse arranged  a buildings and contents policy  for Ms B with Insurer 1 for 
her home. In 2008 a claim was made for loss of personal possessions  (including a laptop). 
The claim was settled  for £2,750. 
In 2010 the contents of the leasehold  flat was added to the policy  with Insurer  1.
In 2011 a claim for an escape of water/flooded  bathroom  at Ms Bs main residence was 
made. This claim  was eventually settled in 2014 for £1,302.60  (having  had the £500 excess  
deducted). I am satisfied  this payment was passed  to Ms B.
In 2011 another claim was made by Ms B. This was for the theft of items from her overseas 
holiday home. This initially appeared to have  happened when Ms B wasnt  in residence, but 
she has since clarified she was staying in the property at the time. It appears  Perry Prowse 
likely made the claim under the personal  possessions part of the home  insurance  policy.
In June 2014, following Ms B chasing the settlement of her claims,  Perry  Prowse emailed a 
chaser to Insurer 1. This was for the 2011  water damage to Ms Bs bathroom claim and that 
for the theft from the overseas holiday home. It attached a further claim form for the theft 
from the overseas  holiday home (as it couldnt find the original). The bathroom claim was 
settled shortly thereafter.
There is no evidence of Insurer  1 accepting the claim for the theft from the overseas holiday 
home. Ms B has also confirmed there  wasnt a separate policy  arranged  to cover the 
contents of that property.  She recollects  Perry  Prowse telling her that her travel insurance 
would provide cover.
It appears that following this Ms B was unhappy  with the service she had received from 
Perry Prowse in relation  to her insurance policies, both commercial and domestic. She 
sought alternative arrangements for her commercial policies, but due to outstanding claims, 
left her domestic policies  with Perry  Prowse for a time. However, from later events, whilst the 
Ref: DRN86618192policy with Insurer 1 renewed in October 2012  because Perry Prowse paid the premium for 
it, it doesnt seem that Ms B reimbursed  Perry  Prowse for the policy.
In October  2013 the policy with Insurer 1 was not renewed. We have been unable  to find any 
evidence of alternative cover for Ms Bs main residence and leasehold flat being arranged  to 
replace it until 2016.
In 2014 there was storm damage to the leasehold flat. The freeholders insurer  dealt with the 
buildings damage  and Ms B thought that Perry Prowse  was making a claim on her behalf for 
the damage to her contents.
In February 2016,  following Ms B complaining about the claim for theft from the overseas 
holiday home having not been settled, Perry Prowse offered to pay her the full amount of the 
claim £5,499  while  it continued to deal with the insurer. However, from that amount it said it 
would deduct  the unpaid  2012/13 premium for the policy with Insurer  1. As such  it would pay 
£4,306.50. A cheque  for £2,000 was sent to Mrs B a few months  later. She has said the 
balance is still outstanding. 
In May 2016  a new policy with Insurer 2 was arranged. This policy only appears  to cover the 
buildings and contents of the main home. It isnt entirely clear, but it seems likely that Perry 
Prowse arranged the policy.
A few months later Ms B contacted Insurer 2 direct to make a claim for water ingress into her 
home. The claim was declined because it believed the problem  had arisen because of 
maintenance issues on the roof and the leak had been happening for some time.  It said the 
policy didnt cover damage that had happened over time, especially when it would have 
been before  the policy was inforce.  It suggested  that she revert to her previous insurer, in 
case it would  cover the claim.
Ms B asked Perry Prowse for her previous policy documents, but didnt receive  them. She 
referred her complaint  to this service.  It was considered by one of our investigators. She said 
the regulations  required  Perry Prowse to provide its consumers with evidence of cover after 
a policy  starts. As such, it should provide  Ms B with the information  she required or refund  
the premiums that had been paid.
Perry Prowse didnt respond to the investigators view and so the complaint was passed to 
me to consider. 
After further investigations were  completed, I issued my provisional  decision on 
15 April 2019. I explained my conclusions and reasons for reaching them. Below is an 
excerpt of that document.
The information relating to this complaint is not complete and so I have had to make some  
assumptions at times. If either of the parties is able to provide  evidence of what  actually 
happened at various points, I would be happy to consider  it.
I would firstly comment on the issue of Ms B being  provided with documentation  regarding 
her policies. It is a requirement that a policyholder is provided with policy documentation 
shortly after they arrange  a policy.  In this case I think  its clear that Ms B was provided with 
documents relating to the policy  with Insurer 2, as she made a claim directly  to it in 2016.  As 
for earlier policies, neither  Perry  Prowse nor Ms B have  full records of their correspondence  
with each other. The information provided by Perry Prowse about the insurance on Ms Bs 
Ref: DRN86618193homes was mixed up with documentation  and correspondence about commercial and other 
insurance policies.  Looking at what we have  and the correspondence  about other policies,  I 
think its likely that Perry  Prowse did provide Ms B with copy  policy  documentation at the 
relevant times. 
Where the issue comes in, I believe,  is that Ms B wants  to know which  insurer  was providing 
cover for her home immediately before Insurer 2, so that she can ask it to consider the 2016 
damage. Based on what we have been able to establish, it doesnt appear that there was an 
insurance policy for any of the residences between  October 2013 and May 2016. 
It is clear that Ms B and Perry Prowse had a long term relationship  and Perry Prowse  had 
been arranging  her insurances  for some time. However, it is also clear that Ms B was 
unhappy with the service  she was receiving and it would appear stopped paying the 
premiums for all policies, including those she wanted to maintain, around 2012.  I say this as 
the settlement  for the 2011 theft claim involved the deduction of the 2012/13 insurance 
premium, which  Ms B hadnt paid. That premium was paid by Perry Prowse to the insurer, as 
it confirmed the policy  was in place for that year,  but it seems Ms B didnt reimburse Perry 
Prowse that payment.  In the situation  where  premiums are not paid by a customer, we 
wouldnt expect a broker to continue to arrange cover  at its own cost for that customer.  
In October  2013 when  Ms Bs insurance  policy was due for renewal it appears that she 
hadnt paid the previous years premium  and so the policy with Insurer 1 wasnt renewed and 
no alternative was put in place until 2016. I dont consider that was unreasonable  behaviour 
on the part of Perry  Prowse in the circumstances. As such, it doesnt appear that there was 
any insurance in place for the storm claim on the leasehold flat to be made under. This 
would be why Ms B didnt  receive any settlement for the damaged  items  she claimed for. 
Perry Prowse should have made that clear  to Ms B when she contacted it and it would 
appear that was not the case.
That leaves the issue of the claim for theft of items from the overseas holiday home. As I 
have said above,  it doesnt appear that the contents of this property  were  separately insured. 
Whether such cover could have been  obtained  given it was an overseas property that was 
unoccupied for long periods is questionable.  The claim for the loss was made on Ms Bs 
policy covering her UK properties  under the personal possessions cover. This provides 
cover for loss outside the home for items that are usually carried  with a policyholder, so its 
not clear whether there  would  have  been a valid claim as it seems the loss may not have 
happened when  Ms B was in residence.
However, its not clear  that the claim was forwarded to Insurer 1 in 2011  when it occurred, as 
Insurer 1 doesnt  have any record of it. It seems  to have been sent again in 2014, after the 
policy ended,  but its not clear what happened at that point. It seems possible that Perry 
Prowse was told the claim  had been  made too late or if the circumstances of the loss meant 
that a claim couldnt  be made. Alternatively, the insurer may not have actioned the claim and 
Perry Prowse didnt pursue it as it said it would.
In the circumstances where  a claim isnt considered by an insurer  because  of an error on the 
part of a broker, we would  make the broker to step into the shoes of the insurer and consider 
the claim under the policy terms and conditions. If that claim would have been accepted, but 
for the brokers error, we would expect the broker to make any settlement the insurer  would  
have. However, we would warn  a consumer that we couldnt consider a further complaint 
about what the broker does from that point because it isnt a regulated  activity  and so 
doesnt fall within our remit. 
Ref: DRN86618194The correspondence from 2016 indicates  that Perry  Prowse has already stepped into the 
shoes of the insurer. It said that it would pay the entire amount of the loss, although it has 
only paid part of it so far. Whilst I can remind Perry Prowse  that it should  fulfil the 
commitment it has made to Ms B, I cant order it to do so as this issue unfortunately falls 
outside my jurisdiction. 
So in summary,  I am unable to order Perry  Prowse to pay the balance of the money it has 
said it would. However, I would recommend that it do so. In relation to the 2014  storm claim,  
I am satisfied that there wasnt a policy in place  for that claim to be made under and that it 
wasnt unreasonable for Perry Prowse to have  not arranged such a policy in the 
circumstances. 
There is clear  evidence  that the service levels provided to Ms B by Perry Prowse  have fallen 
short of what reasonably could be expected. This has clearly caused frustration and 
inconvenience to Ms B at various  points over a considerable period of time. As such, I 
consider that Perry Prowse should pay Ms B £500  for the inconvenience  she has suffered.
Perry Prowse was sent my provisional decision by both letter and email. Given the address it 
was sent to was correct  and no post has been returned, and the email used is that which it 
used when corresponding with this service, I am satisfied the provisional decision was 
received. No response was received from Perry  Prowse. 
Ms B expressed dissatisfaction  that the general  working practices of Perry Prowse hadnt 
been, and isnt being, investigated by this service.  She said that she has heard reports  of 
others being dissatisfied with the service  they have received  and hoped  to spare others  what  
she has had to go through. She went on to explain the background to her relationship  with 
the broker and its behaviour during  that time. 
She said she believed  Perry Prowse had arranged policies for her because she asked it to; 
she had no reason to doubt it had happened. However, she didnt ask it to arrange a policy 
for the overseas holiday home. This was because  Perry Prowse told her that her 
possessions would be covered by her travel insurance. She was assured it would be a 
straightforward claim.
Ms B says Perry Prowse told her to stop paying  premiums at the 2012 renewal. This was 
because she was still waiting for settlement of the 2011 claim. She said all other insurances 
were paid for as per invoices presented and there is evidence  to that effect.
In addition, Ms B says that there are inaccuracies in the provisional decision.  One such 
inaccuracy is regarding the policy  with Insurer 1  it wasnt held on a previous home,  it has 
always been on her current address, in which she has lived for over 40 years.  However, she 
doesnt intend to go over everything again, but she has concerns that not all of the information 
and evidence she has sent in was available to me when I reached my conclusions.
In relation to the 2014 and 2015 policies, Ms B said that evidence  of their existence has 
been provided. She stated there  was correspondence between  her and Perry Prowse 
showing it was responsible for arranging these policies along  with dealing  with a claim for 
the 2014 storm damage. Premiums for insurance policies continued to be paid.  
Ms B provided a copy of three additional documents. A non-letterhead copy  letter from Perry 
Prowse to Insurer 1 stating it was enclosing a claim form for the theft from Ms Bs overseas 
Ref: DRN86618195holiday home. This was to be followed up with a police report once Ms B had obtained  it. 
The letter was dated 10 November 2011.
The second  document  is the text content  of an email from Perry Prowse to Ms B. In this 
document Perry Prowse acknowledges the offer it made Ms B in relation  to the theft claim 
from her overseas holiday home and that it had only paid her £2,000 of the money offered. It 
promises to pay the balance of the funds owing. It mentions  referral  to this service and so it 
would appear  it was sent following Ms B raising her complaint.  It also mentions the 2016 
claim made to Insurer 2.
The third document  is the text content  of an email without any identifiers. It appears  to be 
from Ms B to Perry Prowse in response  to the second document  provided.  It expresses her 
doubt about its promise and her dissatisfaction with the situation. 
When asked for the correspondence relating to policies during the period where I could  find no 
evidence of any existing,  Ms B provided  copies of emails. Several of these emails we already 
had on file but some hadnt previously been provided. Some  of the emails related to the 2011 
escape of water claim (which was settled in 2014); some from Ms B to Perry Prowse  about  the 
2014 storm claim; some from Perry Prowse to Ms B about the 2011 overseas theft claim, one 
of which  (in 2015) referenced the other  claim - presumably the 2014  storm claim. None of the 
emails reference policy  renewal or payment  from October 2013.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments, including  Ms Bs further 
comments, to decide  whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would firstly like to explain  to Ms B that this service is here to resolve individual disputes  
between financial services providers  and their customers. As such, our role is to look into the 
individual events  Ms B has complained about.  If she feels  a wider investigation into Perry 
Prowse should be done, that would  be the role of the industry regulator, the Financial  
Conduct Authority.  Ms B is at liberty to contact that organisation with her concerns  if she 
feels it would  be appropriate.  
Ms B has raised concerns  that I didnt have access to all of the information she had sent to 
us before the complaint  was referred  to me. I can assure Ms B that when correspondence, 
including emails, is received by this service, they are added to our electronic file. I 
considered each and every  document on that file before reaching any conclusions. The error 
regarding the policy with insurer 1 was based  on information that insurer provided us with. I 
would like to apologise  for that error,  however, I dont consider it alters  my conclusions,  as it 
is only the policies  and claims in place from 2011  that are relevant to this complaint.  
Whilst Ms B has said she continued  to pay policy premiums, other than the 2012  renewal, I 
have seen no documentary evidence of this. It is possible there was a policy in place, but if 
there was, I have been unable to find any evidence of it. None of the correspondence from 
Perry Prowse or Ms B refers to a policy renewal or arrangement for this period. In addition,  the 
renewal date of the policy  with Insurer  1 was October of each year.  The fact that the policy  
with Insurer 2 started in May 2016 would  indicate there was a period with no cover  in place; 
otherwise that policy inception  date would have been in October of whatever year it started.
As for the 2012  premium  being paid, I have  considered Ms Bs recollection  about the 
circumstances that led to her not paying the premium. However, it seems unlikely a broker  
Ref: DRN86618196would pay the premium on behalf  of its customer and not ask for it to be paid back by that 
customer, even  if there was an outstanding  claim. 
I have reviewed all of the information  on this case again, but I havent been persuaded to 
change my conclusions.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I order  Perry  Prowse (insurance 
Consultants) Ltd to pay Ms B £500 for the inconvenience it has caused her. In addition, 
I recommend that it pay Ms B the balance of the funds it said it would for the 2011 theft claim. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 July 2019.
Derry Baxter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8661819