K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Bank  of Scotland plc (trading  as Halifax) wont  refund withdrawals from 
his account that he says he didnt  make.
 
background
Mr B opened  an account online with Halifax on 11 November 2017. He transferred £4,500 
into that account from his bank  account with another financial business straight away. And 
on 20 November 2017 he credited a further £5,000 from this other account. Mr B says he 
didnt receive the card or the PIN number  for his Halifax  account. But during 20 November 
2017 there was further activity on his new account. A balance  enquiry was made using his 
bank card and the PIN and then this PIN was changed. A withdrawal was made that day for 
£800 in a branch immediately after the PIN change and then another  withdrawal for £300 
taken from a cash machine. Withdrawals  in the same manner then continued each  
subsequent day until £9,500 - all the money - had been taken out of the account by 10:24am 
on 24 November 2017. 
Mr B said that the money paid into the account came from a loan from the other financial 
business that he took in February  2017  and from his accumulated  wages. He said hed 
withdrawn the loan funds in March  2017  but never  bought  a car hed planned to. He kept the 
cash at his house before he paid it into his other account and then transferred it to Halifax.  
Mr B reported whatd happened  on 24 November  2017 saying that hed then wanted to 
withdraw money - it seems £2,000 - for a holiday.
Halifax said that it wouldnt make  a refund. It had sent the card and PIN on separate days  to 
the correct address. It said it was unusual Mr B had chosen to pay cash  into his other  bank 
account first before  then transferring it to Halifax. And it couldnt see why a fraudster would 
have changed  the PIN. Halifax said it didnt understand  why Mr B had not reported  that he 
hadnt received  the card or PIN any earlier. Although Mr B had said he was too busy with 
work he did have access  to his account  over the internet.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint be upheld.  He thought it unlikely that 
both the card and PIN would have been intercepted. The withdrawals had been made when 
the genuine card was used and the correct PIN entered first time. None of the branch 
withdrawals had required additional identification.  There was no CCTV but even  if there had 
been it wouldnt necessarily have proved whether or not Mr B had given his authority for the 
withdrawals. Mr B had provided evidence  of the loan. But our investigator said that he found 
Mr Bs description of how he kept the cash from that loan for a number  of months unusual 
And Mr B hadnt provided anything to show hed intended to take a holiday.
Mr B didnt agree and wanted his complaint to be reviewed.  He said he was unhappy at the 
amount of time it had taken to investigate his complaint. He thought that the questions our 
investigator asked him were designed  to accuse  him of something.  And he couldnt see the 
relevance of how he kept his cash  or paid for a holiday. The point was his money was taken 
from his bank account. He believed that Halifax ought to have alerted him to what  happened  
as to him it was suspicious  that money had been paid in and taken out on the same day. He 
maintained that the CCTV would have shown it wasnt  him taking out the money and he is 
unhappy that when he went to a branch he was asked for further identification but the 
fraudster wasnt. He referred to guidance  from the Financial Conduct Authority saying that 
its not enough for a business  to rely on the card and PIN being used to demonstrate 
Ref: DRN89256392payments are authorised. Mr B said he was a victim of fraud  and he wanted this money 
refunded to him.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B is correct  to refer to the issue of whether these withdrawals were authorised or not. Im 
going to be taking into account the Payment Services Regulations 2009 when I think about  
this. These  state that a payment service provider  bears the risk of sending a payment 
instrument or any security information relating  to it. And a payment can only be authorised if 
it was consented  to. So its not enough  for it to be authenticated, say with a card and PIN.
I wont be able to say exactly what happened and Ill need to think  about what I think is most 
likely. That does involve thinking about all the circumstances around the account and what  
Mr B has said. So I dont  agree with him that questions around the source and intended  use 
of what were significant amounts of money  hes said hes lost are inappropriate. He has 
been free to give us all his evidence. And I know that he feels  that as time has passed 
before weve  looked  at this hes been  placed  at a disadvantage. But hes not really said what 
it is he would  have  additionally been  able to provide if hed been asked what I know he feels  
are difficult  questions any earlier.  I dont  think CCTV would have  been  definitive here in 
deciding whether Mr B consented to the withdrawals.
Im satisfied from the technical  evidence that these  transactions were  authenticated with the 
use of the genuine card as the chip was read and the correct PIN entered. Halifax  has 
shown this service that there wasnt a requirement for more  identification  in branch for these 
withdrawals. And I expect that Mr B was asked  for identification because  he told Halifax  he 
didnt have his bank card. We dont have a role in saying whether Halifax  ought to have  
made more  checks and this would only become relevant  if I were  to find that the withdrawals 
werent authorised.
I think that our investigator has considered the main issues here. But Im going to be clear 
about what I think about them.
the issue of the card and PIN
Im satisfied from the evidence Halifax has provided to us that the card and PIN were issued 
on separate days. It used disguised mail. And Mr B hasnt  told us about  any problems with 
his post or about anyone hed be concerned might have access  to his letterbox.  It is possible  
that an item can go missing in the post  or can be intercepted. But here Id need  to think  
that an unknown  third party had free access to his post such that both items could be 
intercepted. And to have anticipated  that the items were coming when as Mr B says only he 
knew that. I dont think  that there was any other way that the PIN could have  been  
discovered as Mr B says he never had or used it. There were  no PIN entry errors and I dont 
see someone could  have guessed what it would be or as our investigator says, why a 
fraudster would want to change it
were the withdrawals authorised?
As I said above the withdrawals came both in branch and through  cashpoints.  To find that  
Mr B didnt consent to these and authorise  them Id need to find all the following most likely:
Ref: DRN89256393-An unknown third party was able to intercept Mr Bs card and PIN anticipating that 
these were coming as Ive already  explained.
-That party was bold enough to go into branches on a daily basis to take money  out of 
the account risking  detection especially given the increasing  amount of money at 
stake for Mr B.
-There were  good reasons for Mr B keeping a substantial amount of cash  in his home 
while he says he was paying interest  on a related loan. And then for him choosing to 
first pay it into his account with the other  bank  and then onto his account at Halifax 
before he had his card and PIN. 
-The second credit  was at the time Mr B might reasonably have  expected to receive 
that card and PIN and he didnt think to chase  this up or to check  his account  online.
-It is a coincidence  that Mr B didnt try and use his account until a matter  of hours after 
all the money had gone. He is recorded  as having a conversation  with the fraud team  
at Halifax starting  at 16:42 on 24 November 2017.  And then by chance  an attempt to 
use the card was made  that day at 16:53  just after it had been  cancelled.
Im afraid that these  are not all findings  that I think are most likely  based  on the available 
evidence. So I consider that Mr B consented  to these  payments either  by making  them 
himself or allowing someone else to do so on his behalf.
Given this I find that the payments were authorised  and so I dont have a basis to require 
Halifax to do anything  further. I appreciate Mr B will be very disappointed  by this especially  
as he has waited some time for this outcome and there is a significant  amount of money at 
stake for him.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 November  2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8925639