K821x#15complaint
Mr W complains that Uncle Buck Finance LLP mis-sold him loans without properly checking 
whether he could afford to repay them.
Mr W wants Uncle Buck to refund  the interest  and charges that he paid on the loans and 
remove the loans  from his credit file.
background
Mr W took out six payday and one instalment loan with Uncle Buck  between  March 2014 
and September  2015. A summary of his loans is set out below:
Loan Date of Loan Date repaid Instalments Amount Repayment
1 27/03/2014 24/04/2014 1 £300 £405
2 06/08/2014 22/08/2014 1 £500 £624
3 26/08/2014 24/09/2014 1 £550 £742
4 25/09/2014 24/10/2014 1 £525 £708
5 24/12/2014 23/01/2015 1 £628 £837
6 26/03/2015 24/04/2015 1 £500 £624
7 26/09/2015 24/12/2015 3 £450 £222
The adjudicator recommended that Mr Ws complaint be upheld  in part. The adjudicator 
thought that Uncle Buck shouldnt have  agreed loans four to seven. He recommended  that 
Uncle Buck  refund the interest  and charges that Mr W had paid on the affected loans.
The adjudicator recommended that Uncle Buck remove any negative information about  loan 
four from Mr Ws credit  file. He recommended that Uncle Buck  remove loans five to seven 
entirely from Mr Ws credit file. 
Uncle Buck  disagreed with the adjudicators recommendation  so the complaint has come to 
me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending - including  all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Uncle Buck  needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr W 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks  
might be reasonable  and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that Uncle 
Buck should  fairly and reasonably have done  more to establish  that any lending was 
sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
Ref: DRN84298562the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think its important for me to start by saying that Uncle Buck  was required to establish 
whether Mr W could  sustainably repay  his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the FCAs Consumer  Credit Sourcebook defines sustainable as 
being without  undue  difficulties. In particular  the customer should be able to make 
repayments on time, while meeting other  reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments.  
So it follows  that a lender  should realise, or it ought  fairly and reasonably  to realise,  that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if they will need to borrow  
more money to afford the repayments.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ws complaint.
Mr W didnt disagree with the adjudicators opinion about loans one to three. Because of this, 
I dont think there is any ongoing  dispute  about these loans. So I wont  be making a decision 
about this lending. But as the loans were part of the borrowing relationship  that Mr W had 
with Uncle  Buck, I will take them in to account  when considering his other loans.
loans four to seven
By the time that Mr W applied for loan four, Uncle Buck could see a history of taking on new 
loans shortly after repaying an earlier one. And the amount  that Mr W asked to borrow  had 
increased from £300 for loan one to £525 for loan four. 
The repayment on loan four of more than £700  represented a significant proportion  of        
Mr Ws declared monthly income of £1,900. I consider that Uncle  Buck shouldve been 
concerned that Mr Ws finances were  under  pressure and that he was having difficulties 
managing his finances.
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Uncle Bucks lending  history with Mr W with a view 
to seeing if there was a point at which Uncle Buck should reasonably have seen that further 
lending was unsustainable or otherwise harmful. And so Uncle  Buck should have realised 
that it shouldnt  have given Mr W any more loans.
Ref: DRN84298563Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Ws case,  I think  that this point was reached by 
loan five. I say this because the overall pattern of Mr Ws borrowing suggested  that hed 
become persistently reliant on short term loans.
Loan five was the fifth loan that Mr W had taken  out in eight months.  The amount of each 
loan had been steadily increasing from £300  for loan one to £628 for loan five. 
Uncle Bucks credit  searches showed  that Mr W had a number of payments due on credit  
commitments that exceeded the £100 figure that was recorded against his declared credit 
commitments.  
I consider Uncle  Buck  shouldve realised that it was more likely than not Mr W needed to 
borrow to help with everyday  living  costs  rather than unexpected expenses.  
Although the amount that of the loans fluctuated, Mr W wasnt making any real inroads into 
what he owed Uncle Buck and his indebtedness  was being prolonged. This meant that Mr W 
had been paying large amounts  of interest  to, in effect; service a debt to Uncle  Buck over a 
long period.
I appreciate what Uncle  Buck says about the gaps in lending but I dont think that these were 
significant enough to be taken as an indication that Mr W had moved on from whatever 
situation had required his earlier loans. 
I think that Mr W lost out because Uncle Buck continued to lend money from loan four 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ws indebtedness  by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the extended period of time he owed Uncle Buck money  was likely to have had 
negative implications on Mr Ws ability to access mainstream  credit and so kept him 
in the market for these high-cost loans.
Im upholding Mr Ws complaint about  loans  four to seven. 
putting things right  what Uncle Buck needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges that Mr W paid on loans four to seven;
 
add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum  to each  of these amounts from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*;  
remove any negative information  that it may have  recorded about loan four on Mr Ws 
credit file; and 
the number  of loans taken by the time of loan five means  that any information about 
loans five to seven is negative. So all entries  about loans five to seven should  be 
removed from Mr Ws credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Uncle Buck to take off tax from this interest. Uncle  Buck 
must give Mr W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. 
Ref: DRN84298564My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ws complaint in part and direct Uncle Buck  Finance 
LLP to put things  right as detailed above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 November 2019.
Gemma Bowen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8429856