K820x#14complaint
In 2002, Miss A took out a mortgage  with Bank  of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax  (BoS). 
Alongside the mortgage, BoS also sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  as 
part of a wider  insurance package. Miss A thinks that BoS mis-sold  the PPI policy  to her and 
she wants it to give her back  all the premiums she paid for it, plus interest.
background
One of our adjudicators has already looked into this case. The adjudicator didnt think that 
BoS had mis-sold the policy to Miss A and didnt  recommend that it should give her any 
money back. Miss A disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review  her case, so it has 
come to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
what to do about  Miss As case.  Ive looked into everything that Miss A and BoS have sent 
us or told us about  the complaint and Ive decided  not to uphold  it. Ill explain why. 
Both Miss A and BoS have told us that she applied  for the mortgage and bought  the PPI 
policy during a meeting, but neither side has been able to send us any records  from the 
meeting or copies  of any forms that Miss A may have completed. Given  how much  time has 
passed I dont  find this surprising. But from what we know of how BoS sold PPI cover  like 
Miss As, in meetings like these it normally gave customers a choice to apply for a mortgage  
with or without buying PPI. 
However, Miss A says BoS didnt  give her a choice. Shes told us that BoS didnt discuss  
PPI with her and she wasnt aware  that BoS added it to her account.
After so many years  have  passed and with little original paperwork, I cant  be sure exactly  
what happened during the meeting. But apart from Miss As recollections, I dont have 
anything else to suggest that BoS didnt follow its normal practice and give her a choice. I 
fully accept that Miss A is trying her best to remember what happened, but the meeting took 
place well over a decade  ago and she may no longer remember  all the details. I think  its 
likely that BoS gave Miss A a choice about PPI and she chose to take it. 
BoS has told us that it recommended  PPI to Miss A. This meant that it had to check that the 
policy was right for her and tell her about  it fairly  and clearly so she could decide if she 
wanted it. So Ive looked at Miss As circumstances  when  she applied  for the mortgage  to 
see if it was reasonable  for BoS to recommend the PPI policy to her. 
From what  Miss A has told us, she met the policys eligibility rules  and she seems to have 
been able to afford to pay for it. And I havent seen anything to make me think she would 
have been caught out by any of the policys main limitation or exclusions if she had made a 
claim. 
Ref: DRN82556122Miss A also seems  to have had a potential need for the policy.  Although she has told us that 
her employer would have paid her some sick pay if she was off work  ill and she may also 
have received redundancy pay if she lost her job, the policy  would have paid out over and 
above these other resources. And it could have  lasted for longer than Miss As sick pay. 
With her mortgage, Miss A was taking on a significant financial commitment and not being 
able keep up with her repayments  could  have had serious consequences for her. So I think  
the policy may have  been useful for Miss A and it was reasonable for BoS to recommend it 
to her. 
I accept that BoS may not have explained everything about PPI to Miss A as clearly  as it 
should have done. But, Im satisfied  that she was eligible  for the policy,  that BoS gave her a 
choice, that it was reasonable for BoS to recommend it to her and that she could afford it. So 
I dont think that clearer  information about the policy would have stopped Miss A from buying 
it. I dont  think BoS mis-sold  PPI to Miss A.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  set out above, I am not upholding Miss As complaint about Bank of 
Scotland Plc, trading  as Halifax. Im not going  to tell it to give Miss A any money  back. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 March 2019.
Steve Townsley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8255612