K820x#14complaint
Mrs P complains that she was mis-sold a hire purchase agreement  financed by 
RCI Financial  Services  Limited.
background
In December 2015 Mrs P bought a car on hire purchase. She says the salesman told her 
that the car would be worth at least £12,000 at the end of the agreement, in three years 
time. This turned out not to be the case,  and so she complained to the dealership  and to the 
finance provider,  which was RCI. Both of them said that the documentary evidence available 
did not support  her claim.  So she brought her complaint about RCI to this Service.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. She said there  was no mention of £12,000 in 
the hire purchase  agreement, so she thought it had not been mis-sold. Mrs P asked for an 
ombudsmans decision. That was in January 2019,  since when Mrs P has not paid the final 
instalment  which is more than £8,000   but has still been  using the car.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The only evidence available to potentially  corroborate what  Mrs P says she was told is the 
hire purchase agreement.  I have read it. It doesnt say anything  about the likely value of the 
car at the end of the agreement. It doesnt mention £12,000 anywhere. It does say that at the 
end of the agreement, Mrs P will need  to make  a final payment of £8,110.67  in January 2019 
if she wants to keep  the car. Its not likely that the dealership would agree to sell the car to 
her for about £8,000 if it thought it would actually be worth £12,000.  So it doesnt support her 
case; rather it actually  contradicts  it.
The provisions about returning the car are detailed; they are in paragraph 12. They  dont 
make any promises about  the likely sale value of the car. Indeed, it specifically says in 
clause 12.7 that the value  of the car might be less than the final instalment (in which case  
Mrs P wont  be liable to make up the shortfall). So I think that Mrs P was on notice that the 
car could  be worth less than £8,000.
I therefore do not uphold this complaint.
Mrs P has elected to keep  the car. RCI offered  to modify the agreement  so she could  spread 
out the payment of the final instalment in smaller  instalments over two or three  years. I am 
told that no payments  have been made, and that the final instalment remains entirely unpaid. 
If that is correct, then Mrs P should know that this could  adversely affect  her credit file, and 
that RCI could  bring legal action against  her to repossess the car. I recommend that she 
contacts RCI immediately  and makes an arrangement to pay the outstanding balance, in 
order to avoid  or, if that isnt possible,  to mitigate  any adverse consequences that might 
arise.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Ref: DRN89532832My final decision concludes this Services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 November  2019.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8953283