K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Hyundai Capital UK Limited (Hyundai) are refusing to allow  him to 
reject a vehicle, he has financed through them, that he says is of unsatisfactory quality.
background
Mr S took receipt of a new vehicle in March  2018.  He financed the vehicle through  a 
conditional sale agreement with Hyundai but only a couple of weeks later he returned the car 
to the dealership as he said there  was a fault with the brakes. He said there was a creaking  
noise when they were  applied  and released.
The dealership managed  to reduce the creaking but warned Mr S that it would come  back as 
they were unsure what the fault was. So Mr S said hed like to reject the vehicle and return it 
as his family felt unsafe in it and it wasnt of satisfactory quality.
Hyundai arranged for an independent engineer to inspect the vehicle to see what  was 
wrong. The engineer  also noticed  there  was a creaking noise coming from the brakes  and he 
suggested the car should be returned to the manufacturer  for a software upgrade.  
But Mr S wasnt  happy  to return the car to the dealership to get this work done.  He wanted to 
reject the car and terminate his finance  agreement but Hyundai didnt think this was 
proportionate. They thought they should  be given a chance to rectify the fault.
So Mr S referred his complaint to this service and our investigator took a look at the 
evidence. He thought Mr S should  be allowed to reject the vehicle. He noted that hed raised  
the problem with the dealership only a couple  of weeks after hed taken receipt  of the car 
and that the repair theyd  attempted hadnt  been  successful.  He thought Mr S was right to 
expect a new car not to experience problems and suggested Hyundai should  take the car 
back; end the finance  agreement with nothing further to pay and return  the deposit Mr S had 
paid. He also thought Hyundai should  pay Mr S £150 to compensate  him for the distress  and 
inconvenience hed experienced. 
But Hyundai  didnt agree. They said the dealership hadnt tried to repair  a fault when  Mr S 
sent the car back  to them in the first two weeks. Theyd simply cleaned the brakes  as a 
gesture of goodwill  but they hadnt  identified a fault. They said that whilst the independent  
engineer had noted creaking and the need  for a software upgrade, the dealership had 
subsequently confirmed that no software update was available. The dealership had 
explained that creaking of the brake  pedal  was normal on this model of car. It was, they said, 
caused by friction between the brake  pads  and discs. So Hyundai said they couldnt take the 
car back and they asked  for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators view and for similar reasons.  Please  let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ref: DRN84185622Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr S acquired his car under a conditional sale agreement. The relevant law says that the car 
should have been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Hyundai is 
responsible. I take account of relevant law when deciding  what is fair and reasonable. On 
this basis if I thought the car was faulty  when supplied, Id think  it fair and reasonable to ask 
Hyundai to put this right. 
Mr S returned the car only two weeks after he took receipt of it. He wasnt  happy with the 
creaking noise from the brakes and hes still unhappy. He says his family are concerned 
about being in a car and clearly feels the creaking is a sign the brakes  arent functioning 
correctly. 
The dealership have agreed  that there is creaking  from the brakes  and so has the 
independent engineer. He said:
there was undue  noise  consistent  with the hill start assist brake function holding  onto the 
discs for too long and the vehicle was not fault free.
The dealership have suggested this noise is usual and theres no fault present so they cant  
fix it. 
But Im persuaded  there is a fault. I say that because  all parties  agree  there  is creaking from 
the brakes and the independent engineer  clearly  doesnt think its an acceptable noise or a 
usual one. He has 14 years experience of working on cars and I think  its reasonable to 
suggest hed know if the noise was normal. I dont think its fair for Hyundai to expect Mr S to 
tolerate creaking of the brakes on his new vehicle. 
Hyundai dont accept  that theres  a fault and say they cant  fix the creaking noise as its 
characteristic of the vehicle. Under  those circumstances there isnt a repair  option  and Mr S 
should therefore be allowed to reject his vehicle, get his deposit back and terminate his 
finance agreement  with Hyundai.  Hes been  put to some inconvenience as a result  of this 
issue and I agree with the investigator that Hyundai should compensate  him for this. In these  
circumstances I think £150  is reasonable.
Ref: DRN84185623my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and tell Hyundai Capital UK Limited to:
allow Mr S to reject his car and collect it at no cost to him
return Mr Ss deposit and add 8% simple interest  per annum from the date the 
deposit was paid until settlement is made
cancel the credit agreement and make  sure this shows as settled on Mr Ss credit  
record
pay Mr S £150 for the distress and inconvenience their actions have caused him 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 February  2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8418562