K820x#14complaint
Ms E says she was mis-sold two payment protection insurance  (PPI)  policies (both related 
to the same  store card).
I cant consider this complaint against  the policy seller directly because  the sales took place 
before it, or its predecessor-in-title, was regulated by the then Financial Services Authority 
(FSA) for insurance intermediation activities, or otherwise covered by our jurisdiction.
The party that at the time of the sales was the policy insurer,  has accepted that the seller  
was acting as its agent  at the time  so it accepted responsibility for the sales.  Following a 
transfer of business,  AXA France IARD (AXA) has taken on that responsibility. To keep 
things simple, Ill only refer to AXA in this decision, rather  than any other business.
background and summary to complaint
Ms E bought the first policy  in 1997,  at the same  time as taking out a store card in-store. 
That policy was later cancelled, and a second  policy was sold by phone in 2002.  
At the time of each  sale, Ms E was employed  as a night care assistant. She told us she was 
entitled to at least six months full sick pay from her employer in 1997, and in 2002 it was six 
months full pay followed  by six months  half pay. Ms E also mentioned that she was entitled 
to death-in-service benefit, and a redundancy payment of twelve months salary. Ms E 
further said she was in good health at the time of each  sale. 
The policies both provided life, accident, sickness and unemployment  cover, subject to their 
exclusions and limitations. Each  policy offered a monthly benefit of 15% of Ms Es store  card 
balance in the event of her being  unable to work  due to accident, sickness or unemployment.  
The first policy also provided  purchase protection cover, and the second,  purchase and price 
protection cover. Ms E hasnt complained about these  elements of the insurance policies so I 
will not consider them  further in this decision. 
At the time of the sale, the first policy  cost 75p per £100 of the monthly  outstanding  balance. 
The second  cost no more than £1.00 per £100 of the monthly outstanding balance. The 
premiums wouldve continued to have to be paid during a successful claim and they 
attracted interest. 
According to AXAs records  Ms E paid a total of £35.54 for PPI over the life of both policies.
Ms Es representative has made lengthy  and substantial  representations on her behalf. I will 
not restate  them all here,  but I have read and considered them  all carefully. In summary,  
Ms Es representative says (in relation to each  sale):
AXA failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Ms E wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Ms Es representative  
believes there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
Ref: DRN83268432The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means AXA should have told 
Ms E about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means AXA should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Ms E and the impact 
they would  have had on her chances  of making  a claim; and
The information Ms E received was misleading.  These policies were promoted  as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint and both parties  have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Ms E disagreed with the adjudicators opinion for 
several reasons.  As Ive said, the second policy was not considered in the adjudicators 
opinion, but for the avoidance of doubt  I have taken  the representations made by Ms E and 
her representative as applying to both sales.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it was passed to me for a decision. As the 
sale of the second policy had not been  addressed in the adjudicators opinion, I issued a 
provisional decision in June 2021, and invited all parties  to send in - by 22 July 2021 - any 
further information or evidence they wanted  me to consider. Ms E replied to say that she 
accepted my provisional decision, and her representative made no further submissions. 
AXA did not respond.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Ms Es. I dont intend  to set that 
approach out in much detail here, but Ive taken this into account  in deciding  Ms Es 
complaint.
The first sale took place in 1997, before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000.  So, the GISC Code is not applicable to this 
element of the complaint.  The second sale took place in 2002  after the publication  of the 
GISC Code,  so the GISC  Code is applicable to the second element of the complaint. 
Ref: DRN83268433Both sales took place  before the sale of general insurance products like these became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So, the FSAs (and FCAs) overarching Principles for 
Businesses and insurance  conduct  rules (ICOB and ICOBs) arent applicable to this 
complaint, nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself was with a third-party  and not AXA. That means the unfair  
relationship provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court  
judgment in Plevin  about s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance  made by the FCA 
about the handling of complaints  about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the 
Plevin judgment, arent  applicable.
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at the time of the sales, which  Im 
satisfied are applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for all 
intermediaries (Including Employees of Insurance Companies) other  than Registered 
Insurance Brokers   The ABI Code.  
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
Among other  things, the code said that As a condition of membership of the Association  of 
British Insurers (ABI),  members undertake  to enforce this Code  and to use their best 
endeavours to ensure that all those  involved in selling  their policies observe its provisions. 
The insurer  was a member of the ABI and the seller  its agent  was acting as an 
intermediary. 
The General  Insurance  Standards Councils  General Insurance Code for private customers  
the GISC  Code. 
The second  sale was made during a period of industry self-regulation by the General 
Insurance Standards Council (GISC). It published  the GISC Code, which set out minimum 
standards of good practice for its members to follow when selling insurance, including  PPI. 
The Finance  & Leasing  Association (FLA) Code of Practice
This code  was introduced in 1992  and set out standards of good  practice  for the finance  and 
leasing industry. Section  4 of the code  covered  Credit  Protection Insurance. 
As Ive explained, the insurer was a member  of the ABI, so it was subject to the ABI Code 
and its associated requirements. The seller  but not the insurer  was a member of the FLA 
and subscribed  to the FLA Code, so I consider it reasonable to assume that the seller  (as a 
member of the FLA)  should have complied  with its code when selling PPI, and this extends  
to when it was acting as an agent  of the insurer.  
Ref: DRN83268434So Im satisfied it is right that I should  take these  codes into account when deciding what is, 
in my opinion, fair and reasonable  in the circumstances of Ms Es case. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
In relation to the first sale, under the transitional provisions which  continue  to apply to 
complaints like this about acts or omissions before 1 December  2001,  Im also required to 
take into account what determination the relevant former scheme  in this case the 
Insurance Ombudsman Bureau  might  have been expected  to reach in relation to an 
equivalent complaint. I note that under the Insurance Ombudsmans terms of reference  the 
Ombudsman was required  to decide  complaints by reference to what was, in his opinion, fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances  and that the Ombudsman was required to observe 
any applicable  rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. Both sales took place before insurance mediation became a regulated  activity, so 
AXA was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  guidance  
when considering Ms Es complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are (for each sale):
-If AXA gave advice,  whether it advised  Ms E with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether AXA gave  Ms E sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable  her 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including drawing to 
her attention and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Ms E, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Ms E suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Ms E and AXA, 
Ive decided not to uphold  Ms Es complaint. Ive set out my reasoning  below. 
did Ms E know she had a choice?
AXA had to make  it clear that the PPI was optional. In relation  to the first sale in 1997,  AXA 
sent in a copy of Ms Es application form, and I can see that theres  a tick in a box in the PPI 
section of the form to say that Ms E wanted  the cover. I think  she could simply have left this 
section of the form blank if she didnt want the PPI. 
Ref: DRN83268435In relation to the second sale,  neither AXA nor Ms E has been able to provide much  detail 
about what happened. But the second policy was sold over four years after Ms E had taken 
out her store  card,  and after the first policy had been cancelled. So I think it wouldve been  
clear that she didnt have  to take the PPI to get the card.
So taking everything into account, I think its more likely  that Ms E knew each policy  was 
optional and she agreed to take each one out without  undue pressure. 
did AXA provide advice?
Both AXA and Ms E agree that advice wasnt provided during the first sale.  With regard to 
the second, I have  no evidence to suggest  advice was given. This means  that, in each  case, 
AXA didnt have  to check if the PPI was suitable for Ms E. Instead, it had to give her 
sufficient, appropriate  and timely  information to enable Ms E to make an informed choice 
about whether  to take out each policy, including drawing to her attention  and highlighting  in 
a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant 
limitations and exclusions.  
the information
AXA provided us with a copy of Ms Es application  form from 1997, showing that PPI had 
been selected. It has also referred us to a copy of the paperwork it says she wouldve 
received at each  sale, including  the policy terms and conditions,  which  I accept - on a 
balance of probabilities  applied to policies like Ms Es. 
Looking at the information provided to Ms E each time, I dont think  AXA gave Ms E the 
information she fairly and reasonably needed  to make an informed decision about  whether 
or not to take out the policy. 
These sales took place  in a store and over the phone  respectively. In each case I dont know 
what AXA told Ms E about the PPI, but I think its unlikely she would  have agreed  to take it 
out without at least having a broad understanding of the cover it provided  i.e. life, accident,  
sickness and unemployment cover (and the purchase and price protection cover). And I 
think its unlikely Ms E would have  thought  it was free.
But in each  case it was AXAs  responsibility  to draw  to Ms Es attention  the important 
information  i.e. the key information  about  the nature  of the cover and any significant  
exclusions and limitations which  might be relevant to her decision. 
I dont think its likely  AXA did enough  to do this. For example, I dont think  its likely the true 
cost of the policy was made clear to Ms E on either occasion, including the need  to maintain 
premiums during a claim or that the payments would attract interest. In addition, its unlikely 
AXA adequately drew to her attention  the main provisions of each policy  and the significant 
limitations and exclusions.
So I dont  think AXA gave Ms E sufficient,  appropriate and timely information  either  in 1997 
or 2002 - to enable her to make an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing to her attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
Ref: DRN83268436Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded that there were significant failings in both sales.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Ms Es representative has raised  a number 
of general points about the requirements  on a business when providing information in PPI 
sales. It suggests these  points apply to all PPI complaints,  like Ms Es. I have considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Ms Es representative considers to be poor  
value. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Ms E about the limitations and exclusions,  it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Ms Es representatives  views  on this. The duty of utmost  good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say, I 
think its unlikely that a court would find that this extended to the insurer  having to disclose 
the claims ratio information  or explain the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Ms E has suggested.  And taking  into account the law, industry codes and standards  of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think it would be fair or reasonable 
to impose such requirements on AXA. 
what effect did AXAs shortcomings have on Ms E? To what extent did Ms E suffer  
loss or damage as a result?
I have found that AXA did not do all it should  have done when it sold these policies to Ms E. 
So I have  gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Ms E 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Ms E 
would have still taken  out the policies, had AXA done things properly. 
Ms E says she would not have taken them out and believes that I should presume this to be 
the case given  the significant failings identified above. 
As these  were non-advised sales, Ms E had to weigh up in her own mind the cost of each  
policy against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if she didnt insure  
against the risk of being unable to work.  
As Ive found above, Ms E chose to take these policies out. So I consider that its reasonable 
to conclude she had some interest in the benefits  offered by this type of insurance.  But she 
made these  decisions  based on incomplete  information. So in each case what  Ms E thought  
she was getting  is not exactly what she got. The extent  to which  this differed is a relevant 
consideration when determining if Ms E has suffered any loss or detriment. 
In relation to the costs, Im satisfied Ms E ought reasonably  to have known she would have 
to pay something for the PPI and that it would cover  a portion of her outstanding balance   
this was set out on the application form, and, in relation to the second  sale, I think  at the very 
least this would have  been discussed in the phone  call. But, I accept that in each case AXA 
didnt make clear the on-going cost information.  So while Ms E didnt know  some things, the 
Ref: DRN83268437ultimate position in the event of a successful claim was not dissimilar to what  she would 
reasonably have thought  from the information she based her decisions to take out the 
policies on and found acceptable.  
Possibly the most significant differences between what Ms E thought she had bought and 
what she actually bought in each case were  the following:
Each policy excluded  claims  relating to medical conditions that Ms E knew about  or 
ought to have known about  or had consulted a doctor about during  the 12 months  
before the start date of the policy; 
Each policy contained limitations  on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions, placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds:
Each policy limited, and in some  situations,  excluded unemployment cover if Ms E 
wasnt a permanent employee; and
The requirement in each case that, in order to be eligible for a disability claim, Ms E 
be unable to do her own job, a similar job or any paid work  which  her experience, 
education or training reasonably qualified her to do. 
I do accept that in each sale there is a possibility that the limitations and exclusions above 
might well have given  Ms E pause  for thought   and may well have caused her to conclude 
that the policy was not as good  as she thought, and she might have decided not to proceed.  
The limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in each sale,  might  
have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Ms E from taking 
out the policies. 
But, in both the 1997 and 2002 sales, the evidence about Ms Es circumstances at the time 
shows that, in each case, the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong for her. She was eligible for 
its benefits and it provided  cover  that, despite  its limitations and exclusions,  couldve proved 
valuable to her should  the insured risks have become a reality.  I also havent seen any 
evidence to suggest she wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions  Ms E 
didnt have any pre-existing  medical conditions and was in permanent  employment. So, I still 
think she had some good reasons to take each policy out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Ms E might  
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely she would have expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without  having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  And while this 
limitation might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances to Ms E 
from taking out the policies,  Ms E, in her circumstances, still had some good reasons to take 
them out.
If Ms E had known she could only claim for disability  if she was not only unable to do her job 
or any similar job but also unable to do any work  which in the insurers  view she might 
reasonably be qualified for, it might have played into her thinking about  what she would  do. 
And I accept  it may have  given her pause for thought  although given Ms Es 
circumstances, on balance, I still think she would  have  been interested in taking out the 
cover in each case.
 
Ref: DRN83268438Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not that Ms E would still have taken out the PPI on both occasions. In each case,  the 
policy was sufficiently close  to what she thought  she was getting, and I think  it couldve 
provided a useful benefit in a difficult time, notwithstanding her employment benefits. And in 
those circumstances  I consider it more  likely  than not that she would have taken out each 
policy in any event.  
Ms Es representative says the rules about how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
I have thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, I have found  it would be reasonable to conclude  there  
were substantial flaws  in the sales  processes. In those circumstances, DISP App 3 says it 
should be presumed Ms E would not have bought the PPI she bought  unless, in the 
particular circumstances  of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption. 
I am satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude  the presumption  is rebutted 
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Ms Es 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Ms E 
found herself in as a result of each  sale was the same position she would have been in had 
the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Ms E believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales  processes  
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
out the policies. I am not persuaded  by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Ms E in the position she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policies. 
That is because,  while I accept its possible that she would not have  taken out the policies, I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, it is more  likely than not that she would still have 
taken out the PPI had she been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy she was buying in each case.  So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in 
those circumstances,  to conclude that AXA should pay Ms E compensation, as that would 
put her in a better position than she would have been in if everything had happened as it 
should have done. 
Im also aware that Ms E thinks  AXA misrepresented  the terms of the policies in how it 
described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of AXAs  
statements misrepresented the contracts, in my opinion the reason why AXA failed to act 
fairly and reasonably was not because  of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  AXA gave Ms E, in the way it did, was 
Ref: DRN83268439insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
1997 and 2002 when  providing information about an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Ms Es representative says a court  might  take if it were  
to find AXA negligently  misrepresented the contracts  to Ms E and about  the remedy a court 
might award if it were  to find that AXA had been  in breach of its duty of utmost good faith. 
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Ms E in a better  position  than if everything had happened as it should  
have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 August 2021.
Jan Ferrari
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8326843