K820x#14complaint
Ms N complains about the way Sainsburys Bank  Plc (Sainsburys) have handled her loan 
account. 
background
Ms N is a vulnerable consumer undergoing  treatment for a serious medical condition. She 
had an ongoing  dispute with Sainsburys and in July 2018 she brought  a separate complaint 
to this service. 
Ms N tells us that Sainsburys  wrote  to her in June 2018 advising that her account had been 
passed to a debt/collections team, despite her not being in arrears. She says the letter  asked 
for a huge  amount of personal and medical and financial information. But didnt explain why 
it wanted this information  or why she had been passed to the debt/collections  team.
Ms N complained to Sainsburys asking  for clarification. Sainsburys said it was their 
Customer Priority Team (CPT) who had written to Ms N. And that this was the correct area 
to offer any assistance  Ms N required. It described the letter  theyd sent and the enclosures 
as a welcome pack. It explained the pack was sent centrally and couldnt be personalised 
for Ms Ns circumstances. It added that theyd taken on board her feedback  about  the pack 
and were unsure  why no prepaid envelope had been included.  It enclosed a cheque for £25 
with their best wishes.
Ms N wasnt  satisfied with Sainsburys response and sought further clarification as to why 
the CPT had contacted  her. And why the CPT had asked for the information  it had requested 
from her. She expressed her concern about the impact any adverse credit markers would 
have on her. Sainsburys said that the account was passed to the CPT as Ms N had 
disclosed information about her medical  condition and believed this team  would be the best 
people to handle  her account. And confirmed it had written  to Ms N rather than telephoned 
her as shed previously requested that no calls were made.  
Ms N sought  further clarification from Sainsburys and raised  a Data Subject Access  
Request (DSAR) to see the notes on file. She also reiterated points that were being 
considered as part of her previous complaint. 
As Ms N remained unhappy she brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She felt that it was appropriate  for Ms Ns 
account to be looked after by the CPT as Ms N had approached Sainsburys advising them 
of the sensitive position she was in. She did say that the transfer  to the CPT wasnt 
communicated as clearly  as it shouldve been. But as Ms N had approached Sainsburys to 
make them aware of her position and enquire  about adjustments it wasnt  unreasonable to 
involve the CPT who could monitor the account  more closely  and provide support  if needed.
The investigator felt that the £25 Sainsburys sent to Ms N was to acknowledge its error in 
not enclosing  a reply-paid envelope  was fair. The investigator was satisfied the DSAR had 
been dealt with and provided  contact details for the Information Commissioners  Office.  
Ref: DRN88606022my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I wont  be upholding this 
complaint. And Im unable to consider any points dealt with under the final decision  issued in 
June 2019. 
I have considerable  sympathy for Ms N given the sensitive and serious nature of her 
circumstances in relation  to her medical condition  and I appreciate this is not the answer she 
was looking for.
The letter from the CPT could be clearer.  Its signed by the director  of Collections and 
Recoveries, and I can see mention of impact on credit rating,  getting  finances back  on track 
and options for debt guidance. I can also see that the letter says the arrears are £0.00,  and 
that the CPT is a specialist team  helping  customers who are experiencing challenging 
situations. 
Im mindful that Ms N initially approached Sainsburys to advise them of the vulnerable  
position she was in and I think it was reasonable of them to pass her account  to a specialist 
team. When  Ms N complained to Sainsburys about being passed  to the CPT it acted quickly 
and confirmed to her the account was no longer with the CPT. 
The reasons  for passing the account to the CPT werent communicated  as clearly as they 
shouldve been.  And happened  some time after Ms N contacted  Sainsburys. Sainsburys 
have acknowledged  and taken as feedback that the letter and pack could be clearer and less 
complex.
Ms N was concerned about the potential  impact on her credit  file but passing her account  to 
the CPT hasnt affected her credit rating or financial position.
Sainsburys has acknowledged it didnt enclose a reply-paid  envelope. And has paid Ms N 
£25 to compensate  for this which Im satisfied is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint and wont be asking Sainsburys Bank  Plc to do any more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 January 2020.
Martyn Tomkins
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8860602