K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs Us complaint  concerns a whole of life policy sold to them  by a representative of 
Sesame Limited. In brief, they say they werent told the premiums  would need to increase to 
maintain the level of cover and so the policy wasnt appropriate for them.
background
Mr and Mrs U were sold the policy  in 1998. It provided an initial  level of cover of £10,000 for 
a monthly premium of just over £10. In February  2018 they received  a letter  from the policy 
provider explaining that the sum assured was now only just over £5,300  and, further, it would 
have to be reduced to just under  £3,000 unless the premiums were  increased by £8.57  a 
month.
Unhappy with this, Mr and Mrs U made a complaint to Sesame. In response, it considered 
the suitability of the policy.  It explained that its representative had carried  out a review of 
their financial  circumstances in 1998 and determined that they had a need for life cover 
because Mrs U was retiring and theyd  paid off their mortgage and the insurance associated  
with that had been stopped. 
The representative had recommended the whole of life policy to meet this need and had 
provided documentation that explained in detail how the policy  would work. In particular, that 
after 10 years   in 2008  the policys performance  would be reviewed and there was likely  
to be a significant increase in the premiums. Sesame concluded that the recommendation 
had been suitable.
The complaint was then referred  to this service.  Our investigator didnt think  it should  be 
upheld and for similar reasons to those given by Sesame. Mr and Mrs U said that they hadnt 
received any of the paperwork in 1998,  or much after that, and if they had done they 
wouldve questioned  the suitability of the advice at the time. 
As no agreement could be reached, the matters been referred to me to review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In 1998 Mr and Mrs U were aged  60 and 58 respectively.  Mr U was still working but Mrs U 
was taking early retirement.  Because of this the advice mainly centred  upon her existing 
pension provision and how it might be used to provide income. 
But, as noted,  it was also documented that Mr and Mrs U had no life cover,  having recently 
cancelled their existing  mortgage-related policies.  
In light of this it seems reasonable that a recommendation was made to provide  some 
replacement cover. The documentation isnt particularly clear on why whole of life cover in 
particular was selected. But given Mr and Mrs Us need for cover appears to have been  an 
open-ended, flexible one, it probably  makes sense  that it was a whole of life cover rather 
than term cover. There also appears  to have been affordability considerations with the policy  
chosen for its competitive premiums and because the £10 premium was within budget. 
Ref: DRN85305022I note that Mr and Mrs U have said that they received none of the paperwork associated  with 
the policy  other than some letters a few years  later in the 2000s. While I have no reason to 
doubt their recollections,  the recommendation letter was addressed correctly and I think, on 
balance, that it was more likely than not sent to them.  
The policy provider has also confirmed that Mr and Mrs U registered a change  of address 
with it in 2004 to their current address.  And its also confirmed that review letters were sent 
in 2008 and 2013. The first of these explained that the sum assured would have to reduce to 
the £5,300. The second, in 2013, explained  that the sum assured could remain at £5,300. 
So it seems  that Mr and Mrs U  while I accept they may not recall  the letters  have been 
kept informed  of how the policy has been  working.  And that has been in line with what  I think 
they were most likely told at the outset when Sesame made  its recommendation and sold 
them the policy. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs U to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 June  2019.
James Harris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8530502