K821x#15complaint
Mrs K complains Santander UK Plc registered a default against her in connection  with a joint 
account she had with her ex-husband.  
background
Mrs K opened a joint account  with her ex-husband in 2014. Mrs K says she was pressured 
into become a joint account  holder  and that she hasnt regularly used the account.  
In March 2016 Mrs K and her ex-husband separated. Mrs K continued to receive  monthly 
bank statements and was contacted by Santander about the overdraft on the account. 
Mrs K called Santander on 15 May 2017 to ask how to be removed from the account. 
Santander said shed  need to visit a branch  with her ex-husband to do that. Mrs K called 
Santander again on 18 May 2017.  During the call, Santander said Mrs K was jointly  
responsible for the overdraft balance even  though  she may not have spent the money. The 
call handler said Mrs K could repay  the outstanding balance  and upcoming  charges and they 
would arrange  to remove the overdraft  facility. Santander explained that the issue  could 
impact Mrs Ks credit file. Mrs K wasnt willing to repay the outstanding balance. 
The balance wasnt repaid and the account  was defaulted in September  2017.  Mrs K paid off 
the £540 default balance  in October  2017, after the debt was passed to a third party  to 
collect. After Mrs K paid off the balance there  was a delay in the funds  being  forwarded to 
Santander. 
Mrs K complained and Santander agreed  to pay her £100. It said the decision to default  the 
account and register  that information  with the credit  reference agencies  was correct.  But it 
accepted the third party it had instructed to collect the debt had made  some  mistakes 
because it had only chased Mrs K for repayment.  Santander agreed Mrs Ks payment to 
clear the balance hadnt been forwarded  to it quickly enough. 
Mrs K asked our service  to look at her complaint and it was passed  to an investigator. The 
investigator thought  Santanders decision to register a default against Mrs K was fair as she 
was jointly  responsible for the overdraft balance.  But they thought Santander  should  
increase its offer to £150 because of the way the third party had recovered the outstanding 
balance. Santander  didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be appealed so its been  
passed to me to make a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The focus of Mrs Ks complaint is that shes unhappy with the information Santanders 
registered with the credit reference agencies and shes upset at paying back  money she 
didnt spend. I can understand  why Mrs K is upset.  I dont  doubt what  she says about not 
regularly using the account and can see that she spoke with Santander several times in the 
run up to its decision to default. But I need  to be fair to both parties and whilst I understand 
Mrs Ks frustration,  I havent found that Santanders  made a mistake or treated her unfairly.  
Ref: DRN88780922Mrs K says that she was pressured into being a joint account holder. But the account  was 
opened as part of a switch process.  And I havent  seen anything  that wouldve  shown  
Santander that Mrs K wasnt willing to proceed. If she didnt want  to be a party to the account 
she couldve  asked Santander how to be removed from it at any point. I appreciate thats the 
topic of this complaint  and that to be removed  from the account  she wouldve had to have  
visited a branch with her ex-husband.  But I havent  seen anything  to show she told 
Santander about her misgivings before she contacted it in 2017. 
As all parties are aware, the overdraft  debt was in joint names. That means whilst one 
account holder  may be responsible for the spending,  both account holders  are liable for the 
debt. I appreciate this feels  unfair but its the nature of joint overdrafts and in line with the 
account terms. Im sorry to disappoint Mrs K but Im satisfied Santander was allowed to ask 
her to repay the outstanding balance.  
Ive listened to the calls Mrs K made  to Santander  on 15 May 2017, 18 May 2017 and 
8 June 2017. In all the calls, Mrs K was told that she was liable for the overdraft balance  and 
that the debt could  impact her credit  file. In particular, the call handler on 18 May 2017 
explained very clearly  that Mrs K had the option to repay the outstanding balance and 
upcoming charges  at that point. She could then remove  the overdraft from the account. 
Mrs K said that she wasnt willing to clear the debt at that point because she thought  the 
other account holder should.  Whilst I appreciate why Mrs K wasnt  willing  to pay, Im satisfied 
Santander warned  her that the issue could impact her credit.  
Taking everything Ive seen into account, I think Santanders decision to default the debt in 
September 2017 was reasonable so Im not telling it to amend Mrs Ks credit file. 
Santander instructed  a third party to recover the debt and it made some  mistakes. It only 
appears to have chased Mrs K for repayment and took too long to forward  the payment she 
made on to Santander.  The investigator said Santanders offer of £100  wasnt  enough and 
asked it to increase  the settlement to £150.
Ive thought about the impact of these issues on Mrs K. I can understand, given the situation,  
why shes upset that only she was asked to pay the outstanding debt.  And its clear that 
Mrs K wanted to resolve the situation as quickly as possible  when she made a payment to 
the third party  so its delay in forwarding  that money  to Santander was frustrating. The third 
party was instructed by Santander. So Im satisfied Santanders responsible for errors made 
on its behalf by the third party. I agree  with the investigator that the £150 figure more fairly 
reflects the impact of the errors on Mrs K. As a result,  Im upholding Mrs Ks complaint in 
part and telling  Santander  to pay her £150.  
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and direct  Santander  UK Plc to pay Mrs K £150.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 June  2019.
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8878092