K820x#14complaint
Mrs C complained because Lloyds Bank PLC wrote to tell her that it had sold one of her 
debts to another company.
Mrs C had completed an Individual Voluntary Agreement  (IVA) in respect  of her debts. She 
complained to Lloyds that it had acted fraudulently in selling on her debt which no longer 
existed.
Mrs C wanted confirmation that there is no outstanding debt, and her credit  file changed.
background
Mrs C entered into an IVA in respect  of her debts in February 2016. Mrs C had two accounts  
with Lloyds which were  included in the IVA: a current account and a credit  card.
In May 2018, a third party paid off Mrs Cs debt, so the IVA ended  long before it was due to 
finish. On 25 June  2018, the debt charity supervising the IVA issued a Completion Report for 
Mrs Cs IVA. The debt charity  also sent a copy to a data provider organisation which 
supplies information to some creditors. The data provider organisation produces a daily 
report for organisations including Lloyds. This would have been available  on 29 June.
Its usually the responsibility of the IVA supervisor  to notify  the creditors.  They  would issue a 
completion certificate to the former debtor,  who can also forward this to the creditors.  This 
can speed things  up, as it can take up to six months  for information on the credit  file to be 
updated.
But in the meantime, on 28 June, Lloyds had started the process  of selling Mrs Cs credit  
card debt to another organisation. It took a business  decision to retain  her current account  
debt. The credit card debt sale was finalised on 29 June. 
On 19 July, two letters  were sent to Mrs C about  her Lloyds credit card debt. One was from 
Lloyds, and the other from the company to which Lloyds had sold her credit card debt on 29 
June. These  letters confirmed the sale. 
On 10 August, Mrs C wrote to Lloyds about  its letter. She said she believed Lloyds had 
acted fraudulently in selling  her debt which no longer existed. She said shed sent the 
completion certificate and a covering  letter to the company which had bought the debt. She 
wanted Lloyds  to confirm in writing  that it had corrected its records immediately, and that the 
matter was now closed.
In its final response,  Lloyds noted  that Mrs Cs credit  card and current  account had entered  
its recoveries department in 2014, and had been part of her 2016  IVA. It explained that it 
needed a Completion Certificate whenever  an IVA was completed.  It had sold Mrs Cs credit 
card debt on 29 June  2018,  but it hadnt  received a Completion Certificate by then. 
Lloyds said it still didnt  have one on file, so it said Mrs C should  send a copy of her 
Completion Certificate to its insolvency department, and it would then record on her credit 
file that the current  account had been partially  settled. But shed have to contact the firm to 
which the credit card had been sold, in respect  of that account.
Mrs C wasnt satisfied and complained to this service in October. 
Ref: DRN86940132The investigator didnt  uphold Mrs Cs complaint.  He said that banks can sell accounts that 
had been involved  in an insolvency.  And Lloyds hadnt had a record that Mrs C had been  
discharged from her IVA. 
In regard to Mrs Cs credit file, the investigator forwarded a copy of Mrs Cs certificate to 
Lloyds. He told Mrs C that this meant Lloyds had now asked the credit reference  agencies to 
update her credit file. This would show  Mrs Cs account as partially  settled, backdated to 
May 2018. 
Mrs C replied that Lloyds should  have known  that her IVA had completed, because Lloyds 
had appointed an insolvency management  service  to represent it. And this service  had a 
duty to tell Lloyds.
The investigator also obtained information  from the data provider organisation, which  said 
that Lloyds had had a case  report on the day it sold on Mrs Cs debt. The investigator said 
the timing was unfortunate.
Mrs C wasnt satisfied and asked for an ombudsman decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
First, I need to set out what this decision covers:
-The IVA completion  information has been passed to Lloyds, and I understand it has 
now updated Mrs Cs credit file. 
-I also note that Mrs C asked us to look at the actions of the company to which the 
debt was sold. But I can only consider Lloyds actions, not those of the third party 
company. 
So the issue  for me to consider is whether Lloyds acted fairly  in relation to the sale of Mrs 
Cs credit  card debt.
 
During the course of an IVA, a lender  is perfectly  entitled to sell on debt. And here, Mrs Cs 
IVA had been scheduled to last much longer before being paid off by a third party, so Lloyds 
couldnt have  known that it was about  to end. 
Ive looked carefully  at the dates involved,  and the processes.
The organisation which Mrs C believed represented Lloyds is a data provider, rather  than a 
representative. But its a recognised source of insolvency information,  and updates  to that 
record ought to be picked up promptly by the lender  as a matter of good practice. The 
organisation produces a daily report for lenders. So I find that Lloyds ought to have been 
aware of the completion by 2 July 2018   in other  words, the next working  day after 29 June.
The sale of Mrs Cs credit  card debt went through on 29 June.  So its unfortunate timing. But 
I dont find that Lloyds acted wrongly   or as Mrs C said,  fraudulently  - in selling Mrs Cs 
credit card debt on that date.
Ref: DRN86940133Although Lloyds wasnt wrong  to sell Mrs Cs credit  card debt,  it could have handled things 
better once  it became  apparent  that in fact it had sold the debt after Mrs C had finished her 
IVA in June. The July letters to Mrs C were the result of the sale going through  the various  
computer systems. But I cant see that anyone ever said to her Ah, I see whats happened 
here. We can see youre no longer liable to repay any more money and well sort it out for 
you. The sale wasnt wrong, but Lloyds could still have dealt with the issue  once Mrs C 
notified it in August. At that point, Lloyds should  have  checked the data providers report, not 
just checked whether  it had received an individual notification. 
But Id also point out that its generally better for consumers to tell the creditors  themselves 
direct, rather  than waiting  for things to work their way through  the system,  which  can take a 
long time.
Ive considered whether or not Lloyds should pay Mrs C any compensation for its poor 
handling of her complaint in August 2018.  As Ive set out above, Lloyds didnt act wrongly in 
selling the debt, which was just unfortunate timing, but should have handled her complaint 
better.
. 
I recognise that Mrs C was upset and annoyed  when she received the July letters.  It would 
have been frustrating when she knew the IVA had completed early. But we are all 
inconvenienced at times in our day-to-day lives  and in our dealings  with other people, 
business and organisations. For us to award  compensation,  we need to decide that the 
impact of a businesss actions has been greater  that this type of inconvenience or upset. 
I also note that in the debt charitys letter to Mrs C which confirms the end of her IVA, it 
specifically mentions the possibility of receiving phone calls or letters  from previous 
creditors. So this would  have showed  Mrs C that things arent  necessarily entirely 
straightforward and hassle-free  at the end of an IVA.
Taking all the factors  into account, I dont consider Lloyds need pay Mrs C compensation for 
its poor handling of her August 2018  complaint. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2020.
Belinda Knight
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8694013