K820x#14complaint
Mr and Ms S complain  about the overdraft  fees that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax,  
applied to their accounts  from mid-2014 to mid-2017. Mr and Ms S say that they feel the fees 
were excessive, costing £1 per day, and that they were experiencing financial hardship  for a 
period while  these fees were being applied. 
background
Mr and Ms S are complaining about  two accounts  that they held with Halifax;  their joint 
account and Ms Ss sole account. All parties have  asked  that we treat this matter as one 
complaint.
Mr and Ms S complained to Halifax and said that they would like the fees refunded. Halifax 
responded to say that it didnt agree that Mr and Ms S had been unfairly  charged  and that it 
would not be upholding  the complaint. 
So Mr and Ms S brought their complaint to this service. The investigator thought  that Halifax 
had acted in line with the terms of the account when applying the fees so didnt uphold  the 
complaint. Mr and Ms S didnt agree and asked for the matter  to be looked  at by an 
ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusions as the investigator, for broadly the same reasons. 
Mr and Ms S have said its unfair that they have paid hundreds  of pounds in charges. I know  
this will disappoint Mr and Ms S, but I cant tell Halifax to refund the charges. This is because 
the Supreme Court  has said that these sorts of fees cant  be challenged only because a 
customer thinks they are too high.  But we can look at whether the charges have been 
applied in line with the terms and conditions  of the account. And overall these charges look 
to have been applied correctly.
Businesses are required to treat customers experiencing financial difficulties positively and 
sympathetically. But that doesnt mean they have to refund interest  and charges. Mr and 
Ms S have said that they were experiencing financial hardship for a period whilst these fees 
were being  applied. But I cant see anything to suggest they told Halifax this. I can see that 
they have made use of their overdraft but this, in itself, is not enough to notify the bank  that 
they were struggling.  So I dont think Halifax  has done anything wrong here.
I understand that the bank  has recently  changed  its charging structure  in relation to overdraft 
fees. The charges  complained about here pre-date this change,  so this case  is not affected.
 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against Halifax.
Ref: DRN86545452Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Ms S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 April 2019.
Camilla Finnigan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8654545