K820x#14complaint
Mr C says that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold him payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  with his mortgage.
background
Mr C took out a mortgage in 1996  and was sold PPI at the same time. 
Mr C told us that he didnt  know he had PPI. Mr C says he didnt need  PPI and he wouldnt 
have agreed to take it. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr C didnt agree  with this view.  He has asked  
for a review  so this complaint comes to me to make a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.
Halifax cant tell us how the policy was sold. Normally, Id expect the paperwork to show 
whats likely to have happened at the time and how the PPI was likely  to have been 
presented. But Halifax hasnt been able to provide any documents  from when the PPI was 
taken out. 
I dont think thats  surprising given that the mortgage  account closed almost 20 years ago. 
I wouldnt expect Halifax to keep  records about  a closed account for so long.  And its 
understandable that Mr C told us he doesnt remember much  about the sale after such  a 
long time.   
Mr Cs mortgage was a major financial commitment, due to run for a long period  of time. His 
home wouldve been at risk if the mortgage payments werent kept up to date.  PPI provided 
a dependable means of ensuring  his monthly  mortgage repayments were protected even if 
he couldnt work. So, I can see why Mr C mightve felt PPI was useful. 
On balance, I think its more likely  that Mr C wanted  to have the benefits  and security of 
having PPI and he decided to buy the policy. 
To be as fair as possible  to Mr C, Halifax looked  at this complaint on the basis  that it advised 
Mr C to take out PPI. If a financial business  makes a recommendation about PPI it has to 
take reasonable steps to make sure the cover it recommends is suitable as well as giving 
important policy information  in a clear way. Given the lack of paperwork, I think  thats the 
fairest approach  as it gives Mr Cs complaint  the best chance of success.  
I dont know if or how Halifax assessed Mr Cs needs. But, bearing  in mind everything Mr C 
has told us about  his circumstances at the time, I dont see any reason why the policy 
wouldnt have been suitable. 
Ref: DRN82572902Mr C was eligible for the insurance and the policy terms  wouldnt have made it difficult for 
him to make  a claim. PPI wouldve paid out in the event of accident and sickness, in addition 
to any employment  benefits, for up to 12 months  per claim. And Mr C wouldve  also been 
covered for unemployment under the policy. Mr C couldve made repeated  claims, subject 
only to the exclusion  periods that applied, giving him long term cover for his mortgage.
Mr C mentioned having some savings.  But there was no guarantee when he took out this 
mortgage that he would always have savings  to rely on as everyones circumstances can 
change unexpectedly. 
And as it looks like he decided against investing all his savings to reduce the amount of the 
mortgage this suggests to me that he had other  plans for that money. Having PPI meant 
Mr C could depend on being able to continue to keep savings intact to spend on other  things 
or to provide  financial security for the future. 
Having PPI wouldve  meant he could be sure hed be able to keep up the monthly 
repayments in order to protect his home  in the long term. Looking  at what  Mr C has told us 
about his circumstances at the time,  I think PPI was suitable for him.
Its possible  some information Halifax gave Mr C about the policy wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But Mr C wasnt  affected  by any of the main things the policy  didnt cover 
and it looks like he couldve benefitted from everything the policy  offered. I havent  seen 
anything to suggest that the policy wasnt affordable for him. Given  the serious  
consequences if he was unable to pay his mortgage I think it likely that Mr C considered the 
policy useful at the time  even if hes forgotten this. And Im not persuaded that having 
better information about the policy wouldve put him off buying it.  
Overall, I havent seen enough  information  to suggest that Mr C has lost out as a result of 
anything Halifax mightve done wrong.  So theres nothing it needs  to do to put things  right.
my final decision
For these reasons I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 June  2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8257290