K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Nationwide Building  Society (when it was trading as Derbyshire 
Building Society) mis-sold them a payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy.
Nationwide Building  Society and Derbyshire  Building  Society merged  and Nationwide is 
responsible for dealing  with this complaint. So from now on, to keep things simpler, Ill just 
refer to Nationwide as the seller.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out by Mr and Mrs H when they applied together 
for a mortgage in 1994. It protected their mortgage  monthly repayments if Mr H lost his job 
unexpectedly or if he had an accident  or became  disabled and he wasnt able to work.  
Our adjudicator didnt  feel we should uphold this complaint. Mr and Mrs H disagree. Their 
main complaint is that they were  told they had to have  the PPI to obtain the mortgage. 
Mr and Mrs H also say they didnt  need PPI as they had other insurance already set up that 
protected Mr Hs income. 
Theyve asked for a review so this complaint  comes  to me to make a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
I dont know exactly what was said when  Mr and Mrs H arranged  their mortgage and applied  
for PPI. Ive no reason to doubt that Mr and Mrs H are sure about what  theyve told us. But it 
wouldnt be reasonable to expect them to recall in detail what  was discussed at the time. 
I have to look at all the available information  and decide what I think  is most likely.
Nationwide says that Derbyshire Building  Society  didnt sell mortgages  with compulsory PPI. 
And looking at the PPI part of their mortgage application, I dont think that theres anything 
written on that form which wouldve reasonably  caused Mr and Mrs H to think that their 
mortgage was only available  if they also took out PPI. 
Mr and Mrs H also completed a separate application  form to have PPI. They opted for 
accident, sickness, redundancy and unemployment  cover. Mr and Mrs H filled in Mr Hs 
details. They specified the amount of monthly  benefit required. They both signed the 
completed application to get the insurance theyd chosen added  on to their mortgage. 
Ive also seen a copy of the welcome  letter sent to Mr H confirming that his PPI application 
had been successful and hed been accepted for cover.  This letter  asked him to check that 
the policy provided the cover required. It also mentioned that the policy would be 
automatically renewed unless he cancelled the cover. It invited  Mr H to get in touch  if he had 
any queries about  the policy. 
Ref: DRN86901242Its completely understandable that Mr and Mrs H mightve forgotten  some of these details.  
And I dont  know exactly what was discussed at the time. But looking at the paperwork they 
had to fill in to get their mortgage  and the PPI, I cant fairly say that I've seen enough  to be 
able to say that Nationwide didnt  make it clear that it was open  to Mr and Mrs H not to 
choose PPI if they didnt  want to have it. 
On balance, I find that Nationwide did do enough to make Mr and Mrs H aware that the 
PPI was optional  and it was added to their mortgage at their request.
Looking at the paperwork from the sale and what we know about how Nationwide (when it 
was trading as Derbyshire  Building Society) sold policies in its branches  at the time, I dont 
think its likely it gave advice or a personal recommendation about PPI to Mr and Mrs H. So it 
didnt have to check if it was suitable  for them. But it still had to make sure that Mr and Mrs H 
had enough information to make  a proper decision about whether PPI was right for them.
Nationwide told us that it doesnt  any longer have a policy document  from the exact date that 
Mr and Mrs H took out PPI. But it has provided a policy document which  we know  
Derbyshire Building  Society was already  using  before this date  so I think  its likely that in 
all main respects the policy that Mr and Mrs H took out wouldve had similar terms and 
conditions.
Only Mr H was in paid work at the time so the policy  was taken out just in his name. 
As far as I can see, even  taking into account  Mr Hs sick pay entitlement at work,  it looks  like 
Mr and Mrs H couldve benefitted from having PPI. Mr P was eligible for the policy. The 
policy wouldve paid out on top of his sick pay and for significantly longer than he couldve 
relied on his employer to pay him - up to 24 months  for a successful accident or sickness 
claim. 
And the policy wouldve also paid out for up to 12 months per claim if Mr H became 
unexpectedly unemployed and was out of work. 
Mr and Mrs H told us they had other  insurance  in place at the time that wouldve paid out if 
Mr H couldnt work.  But theres  no paperwork for this and it isnt clear what  this wouldve 
covered - Mr and Mrs H mentioned it would've paid out in the event  of accident and 
sickness, but PPI wouldve covered unexpected  unemployment as well. And it was up to 
Mr and Mrs H to choose how they wanted  to protect  themselves  financially - they knew what 
their situation was when  they took out the PPI. So I think its reasonable to say that when 
they chose to have PPI this reflected their wishes at the time. 
As the mortgage  was based on Mr H being in work  (and Mrs H wasnt working  at the time) 
I think Mr and Mrs H mightve found  it difficult to keep paying  the mortgage  if Mr H wasnt  
able to work. PPI provided dependable  cover they could rely on to pay their mortgage. So, 
I cant reasonably say they couldnt  have benefitted from Mr H having the policy.
When he took out PPI, Mr H wasnt affected by any of the conditions  limiting the policys  
main benefits. As he couldve  benefitted from the full extent of the cover I think  it unlikely that 
having clearer information about  the policys exclusions  and limitations  wouldve put 
Mr and Mrs H off taking out the PPI.
Ref: DRN86901243Its possible  some information Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs H about the PPI wasnt  as clear 
as it shouldve been. I dont know if Mr and Mrs H were told the cost of the PPI when they 
completed the application form. But they didnt opt for a reduced  level of cover that was 
available. So they appear to have wanted  the cover  they chose for Mr H and keeping  costs 
down doesnt  seem to have been a priority for them  at the time.  
Overall its possible there  may have  been  some failings  in the way this policy  was sold.  But 
I think it unlikely Mr and Mrs H wouldve made  a different decision if better information  had 
been provided. On balance I think they still wouldve decided to buy the policy even  if theyd 
been better informed  as it offered Mr and Mrs H valuable protection they didnt otherwise 
have in their particular situation. 
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs H said in response to the adjudicators  view.  For 
the reasons Ive set out, these points dont change my decision.
On balance, I dont  find that the PPI was mis-sold.
But Nationwide has paid back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs H because:  
Nationwide got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs H about that. Because Nationwide 
didnt tell Mr and Mrs H, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Nationwide  has paid back the amount  of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that is fair in this case.
In coming to my decision, Ive taken into account  that Mr and Mrs H are unhappy that the 
policy wasnt cancelled when they say they requested this. But what they say isnt enough  
on its own for me to be able to say theyre  right about this, even  if theyre sure about  what  
theyve told us. I have  to look impartially at all the available information. 
I must take into account that Nationwide has no record  of a request being made to cancel  
the PPI. And I think its fair to say that Mr and Mrs H wouldve seen that PPI was still running  
as it wouldve continued to appear on annual  statements from Nationwide, as well as 
showing as a monthly premium on their bank statements. So they wouldve been able to see 
if thered been  a mistake made and they couldve followed this up with Nationwide. It doesnt 
look like that ever happened  although I can see that other insurance was cancelled  at their 
request. So what  they say about  this doesnt affect my decision overall.  
Ref: DRN86901244my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Nationwide Building Society  does not have to pay back  
all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs H.
But Nationwide Building Society does have  to pay back to Mr and Mrs H any commission  
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has 
already done this, so I dont award  any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 May 2019.  
Susan Webb 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN8690124