K821x#15complaint
Mrs M has complained about the advice she was given by St Pauls  Marketing Limited (an 
Appointed Representative of Alexander  David  Securities Limited) to invest her pension in an 
unsuitable investment.
background
Mrs M has said that she was cold-called  in 2015 and offered a pension  review. She was in 
her mid-forties and she had a personal  pension. Mrs M has said that during a subsequent 
meeting at her home she was told that her existing pension wasnt  performing well. And that 
she should transfer it to a Self- Invested Personal Pension (SIPP)  which  would perform 
better in the investment that they wanted  to put her in. 
She says she therefore followed the advice and transferred  £15,435 to the SIPP. Of this, 
£14,625 was invested through a discretionary  fund manager into the debentures of a single 
company. 
Mrs M has said that she made it clear  she was a low risk taker and wanted  a low risk 
investment. She says she wasnt made  aware  that the investment was in fact high risk - 
which she didnt want. Mrs M says she had no other savings and this was her only pension;  
she had no investment experience, and trusted that the adviser  was providing her with the 
most suitable advice.
Mrs M, through her representative complained to Alexander David in October 2018.  I 
understand Alexander David didnt acknowledge or respond to the complaint. The 
representative subsequently referred  the complaint to us.
One of our investigators  looked into Mrs Ms complaint. He asked Alexander  David  for its 
files and to provide any other evidence it wanted  us to take into account. Despite reminders,  
he received no response. 
The investigator therefore assessed  the complaint on the evidence  that had been  presented,  
and in light of what he understood had happened  given what hed seen on other cases.  He 
had investigated  other complaints against  the same firm that had been referred to us where  
the nature  of the complaints were very similar and which were about the same investment.
.
The investigator said that he understood St Pauls  Marketing had sent Mrs M promotional  
material relating to debentures issued by this single company. He also said that he 
understood St Pauls  Marketing sent,  or arranged to be sent, a summary report to Mrs M 
detailing the historic performance  of her existing plan and discussed it with her.
He noted that Mrs M had said that St Pauls  Marketing had recommended  the investment. He 
thought it was likely a discussion about the merits of making the investments would have 
taken place in the context  that comparisons of the returns from the two investments were  
being made. The investigator therefore considered whether the investment  was suitable.
He noted that the promotional material he had seen about the investment said An 
investment in the Company is only suitable for investors capable of evaluating the risks and 
merits of such investment and who have  sufficient resources to bear any loss which may 
result from the investment. He said Mrs M had little investment experience.
Ref: DRN88796012He noted that Mrs M was in her mid-forties,  it was her only pension,  and shed said she 
wanted a low risk investment. His view was that investing most of the pension  in illiquid 
bonds from a single issuer was clearly unsuitable.  
He also thought that even  if St Pauls Marketing hadnt recommended the investment it 
should have assessed its appropriateness  in accordance with the Conduct of Business  
Rules (COBS) 10, given  the investment was a non-readily realisable security.  The rules  said:
This chapter applies to a firm which arranges  or deals  in relation to a non-readily  realisable
security, derivative  or a warrant  with or for a retail  client and the firm is aware, or ought
reasonably to be aware, that the application  or order is in response to a direct  offer financial
promotion.
COBS 10 required St Pauls  Marketing  to assess Mrs Ms knowledge and experience  in
the investment  field relevant to the specific type of product or service  offered or demanded 
so as to enable the firm to assess  whether  the service or product envisaged is appropriate. 
The investigator said Mrs M had no significant  investment  knowledge and no experience  of 
making investments  of this nature. The investigator  thought the investment wasnt  
appropriate. And he didnt think Mrs M would  have invested but for the actions  of St Pauls 
Marketing. 
The investigator also thought that St Pauls Marketing had arranged  the investment  for 
Mrs M. He said the regulated activity making arrangements with a view to transactions  in 
investments had a very broad scope. He thought St Pauls Marketings activities  fell within 
that scope. 
The investigator noted that one of the Regulators strategic objectives was to protect  
consumers, and its rules reflected that objective. The Principles required St Pauls Marketing  
to conduct its business  with integrity, pay due regard to its customers interests and treat 
them fairly, and manage conflicts  of interest  fairly. He thought St Pauls  Marketings 
interactions with Mrs M had directly resulted in an inexperienced investor investing most  of 
her pension in illiquid, high risk assets.  In the circumstances, he didnt think 
St Pauls Marketing had acted in accordance with the Principles or in Mrs Ms best interests.
The investigator sent his assessment of the complaint to Alexander David. However it didnt 
provide a response. The investigator  subsequently wrote to both parties on 20 March  2020 
explaining that the complaint would be passed to an ombudsman for review and to make a 
final decision.  No  further evidence or arguments were provided.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Alexander David didnt  respond to Mrs Ms original  complaint. Neither did it co-operate with 
our investigation; it didnt provide its business  files or respond to the investigators 
assessment of the complaint. Theres  only very limited evidence available  to establish what  
happened at the time of the investment.  
Ref: DRN88796013Ive carefully considered  the evidence that is available including  Mrs Ms recollections of 
events. St Pauls hasnt  disputed what Mrs M said in her complaint to it, or what  the 
investigator said in his assessment. 
Im also mindful that this is one of a number  of complaints we have received and which I 
have seen against St Pauls Marketing Limited;  all of a similar nature, involving seemingly 
similar circumstances and the same  investments. 
Clearly I need to consider each complaint on its own facts and the evidence provided  in each 
particular case.  But Ive noted that what Mrs M has said about St Pauls role is consistent 
with what other complainants have described.  So I think  what she has said is plausible.  And 
taking everything into account, I have found it credible. 
I accept that a representative from St Pauls  Marketing  visited  Mrs M at her home. Following 
that meeting she transferred her pension to the SIPP and invested in the debenture. Mrs M 
has said she was a low risk investor and has said the firm advised  her to invest  in the 
debenture. In my experience  its unusual for someone of Mrs Ms background and 
experience to invest in this type of investment without prompting.  
I think that was unlikely to have happened without the involvement of St Pauls. Im satisfied 
that it initiated the investment in the debenture. It was aware of where the investment was 
going to be made through the DFM and facilitated it. Mrs M has said St Pauls advised her to 
invest; the investigator said he thought  it likely she had been advised and the firm hasnt 
disputed this. In all the circumstances, I think its more likely than not that advice was given.
The investigator also said he thought St Pauls  was involved in arranging the transaction and 
that it was required, but failed, to assess its appropriateness in accordance  COBS  10.  He 
set out his reasons for understanding this and went onto say he didnt think  the debentures 
were appropriate  for Mrs M. 
Again, St Pauls hasnt  disputed this. I agree with the investigator that its more likely than not 
that St Pauls  arranged the investment. It was the promoter for the debenture,  but Im 
satisfied, on the limited evidence that it went beyond just promoting it and was involved in 
arranging the investment  (and advising on it).  The debenture was high risk and speculative 
and clearly wasnt appropriate for Mrs M given her background, knowledge and 
circumstances
I also agree  with the investigator that St Pauls didnt act in Mrs Ms best interests. For the 
reasons given above, I think  it was clear that the debenture wasnt  suitable  or appropriate for 
Mrs M and this should have been clear to St Pauls. Im satisfied that if St Pauls had acted in 
Mrs Ms best interest,  not advised her to invest in the debenture or if it had told her it wasnt 
appropriate for her she wouldnt have invested in it. 
Accordingly, Im satisfied that St Pauls  failures  caused Mrs M to invest  in a product that she 
would otherwise not have invested into. It follows that Im satisfied its failures  caused  the 
losses that Mrs M has claimed. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ms complaint. I order Alexander David  Securities 
Limited to calculate  and pay compensation to Mrs M on the following basis.
Ref: DRN88796014fair compensation
In assessing what would  be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mrs M as close  as
possible to the position she would probably now be in if she had been given suitable advice.
I think Mrs M would  have  invested differently. The investigator recommended  that the full 
transfer value  of the SIPP should  be used for calculation  purposes  albeit I note some of it 
remained in cash.  I think this is reasonable given that its not possible to know precisely what 
she would  have done with the whole of the amount  in her SIPP had it not been for St Pauls 
actions. Im satisfied that what I have  set out below  is fair and reasonable given Mrs M's 
circumstances and objectives when she invested.  
Its unclear what the status of the debenture is. My understanding is Mrs Ms SIPP  has little 
or no realisable value.  Ive accounted for this in my recommendations below.
what should  Alexander David Securities  Ltd do?
To compensate Mrs M fairly Alexander David Securities Ltd should:
Compare the performance of Mrs M's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the fair value  is greater  than the actual value, there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value , no 
compensation is payable.
Alexander David Securities Ltd should also pay any interest set out below.
If there is a loss, Alexander David Securities Ltd should pay into Mrs Ms pension plan, to 
increase its value by the amount of the compensation and any interest.  The payment should 
allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Alexander  David  Securities Ltd 
shouldnt pay the compensation  into the pension plan if it would conflict  with any existing 
protection or allowance.
If Alexander David Securities Ltd is unable to pay the compensation into Mrs M's pension 
plan, it should  pay that amount direct to her. But had it been possible to pay into the plan,  it 
would have provided a taxable  income.  Therefore the compensation should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise  have been  paid.  The notional 
allowance should  be calculated using Mrs M's actual or expected marginal rate of tax at her 
selected retirement age.
For example if Mrs M is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement
age, the reduction  would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mrs M would have 
been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the 
compensation.
Pay Mrs M £300 for the distress and inconvenience Im satisfied  the matter has 
caused her.
Provide the details of the calculation to Mrs M in a clear, simple format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Alexander David Securities Ltd 
considers that it is required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct  income  tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mrs M how much it has taken off. It should also give Mrs M 
a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue  & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN88796015Actual value
This means  the actual transfer  value of the SIPP  at the end date.
If, at the end date,  the debenture is illiquid (meaning  it cannot  be readily sold on the open 
market), it may be difficult  to find the actual value of the SIPP.  So, the value should be 
assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. Alexander  David  Securities Ltd should take 
ownership of the illiquid investment by paying a commercial value acceptable to the pension  
provider / administrator. This amount should  be deducted from the compensation  and the 
balance paid as above.
If Alexander David Securities Ltd is unable to purchase the investment its value should  be 
assumed to be nil for the purpose of calculation.
Alexander David Securities Ltd may wish to require  that Mrs M provides an undertaking to 
pay it any amount she may receive  from the investment in the future. That undertaking must 
allow for any tax and charges that would  be incurred on drawing the receipt  from the pension  
plan. Alexander David Securities Ltd will need  to meet  any costs in drawing up the 
undertaking. 
Fair value
This is what  the sum transferred from the pension provider plus any charges incurred within  
the plan on transfer, would  have  been worth at the end date had they grown  in line with the
benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark,  Alexander 
David Securities Ltd should use the monthly  average rate for the fixed  rate bonds with 12 to 
17 months maturity as published by the Bank of England. The rate for each month  is that 
shown as at the end of the previous month. Apply  those rates  to the investment on an 
annually compounded basis.
SIPP Fees 
The investigator recommended  that Alexander David pay five years worth  of SIPP fees if it 
couldnt buy the investment. I think this is reasonable  as Mrs M hasnt got the opportunity  to 
transfer to another pension if the illiquid  debenture remains in it. So if Alexander David 
Securities Ltd cant buy the investment and it remains illiquid, it should pay Mrs M an 
amount equal  to five years of SIPP fees based  on the current tariff. This is in addition to the 
compensation calculated using a nil value  for the investment.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mrs M wanted  capital growth  with a small risk to her capital.
The average rate for the fixed  rate bonds  would be a fair measure  for 
someone who wanted to achieve  a reasonable return  without  risk to her 
capital.
Ref: DRN88796016The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 
1 March 2017, the FTSE WMA Stock Market  Income total return index) is 
made up of a range of indices with different asset  classes, mainly UK equities 
and government bonds. Its a fair measure for someone who was prepared  to 
take some risk to get a higher  return.
I consider that Mrs Ms risk profile was in between, in the sense that she was 
prepared to take a small level of risk to attain her investment objectives. So, the 
50/50 combination  would  reasonably put Mrs M into that position. It does not mean  
that Mrs M would have invested 50% of her money in a fixed  rate bond and 50% in 
some kind of index tracker investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable 
compromise that broadly reflects the sort of return Mrs M could have obtained 
from investments suited to her objective and risk attitude.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 August 2020.
David Ashley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8879601