K821x#15Complaint
Mr G complains that Vanquis Bank Limited rejected his claim under Section 75 Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 (CCA 1974) in respect of a faulty  car.
Background
In September  2017 Mr G bought a second hand car. It cost £3,995  and had done some  
40,000 miles. The car broke  down  the following day and it was towed to a nearby garage  
where it was repaired. In November Mr Gs local garage diagnosed a fault with the diesel 
particulate filter (DPF). The dealer said this was due to wear  and tear so Mr G agreed to 
cover the cost of the repair. The local garage  identified that three out of the four injectors  
were over-fuelling resulting in the blockage of the DPF,  and if left unresolved  it considered 
this would be detrimental to the turbo.  Mr G paid for all four injectors to be replaced.
He contacted Vanquis in January 2018 to ask that it cover the cost of repair and it requested  
additional information. Mr G says he sent this to Vanquis,  but it says the material  wasnt 
received. Mr G re-sent it and Vanquis  rejected his claim. It said the dealer paid for the first 
repair and Mr G hadnt established that the later fault was present at the point of sale. It had 
suspended payment of the cost of the car which Mr G had funded by means of his credit  
card. Once his claim was rejected Vanquis  brought the payment  for the car back  into charge 
and added an interest charge of £1,143.41.
Mr G bought his complaint to this service where  it was considered  by one of our 
adjudicators. She said she was satisfied there  was fault with the DPF and it was unlikely this 
had arisen in the period  Mr G had owned  the car. She thought that it was likely the DPF was 
significantly deteriorated when the car was bought by him.
She thought  the discovery that three of the injectors were faulty and suspected of causing 
the premature  blockage  of the DPF supported her view that the fault was present at the point 
of sale. She said that as the faults  appeared in the first six months  of ownership, the burden 
of proof  lay with Vanquis and it hadnt provided  any compelling evidence  to suggest the car 
was of satisfactory quality  at the point of sale.
She recommended Vanquis:
Commission an independent assessment of the car to ascertain whether, having had 
works done it is now fault free and of satisfactory  quality. If the repairs  were  found to 
have been successful, then no further  action would be required  on this point.
Refund (upon receipt of an invoice) the cost of the DPF filter replacement  Mr G paid for.
Refund the £1,915.19 Mr G paid for the repair to the injectors.
Vanquis didnt  agree  and maintained the fault was due to wear and tear. It said he had been  
able to drive car for over a month  and it also noted the mileage at the point of sale may have 
been higher than 40,000  recorded on the invoice. It provided  an extract from a website about 
diesel injectors which  suggested fuel filters were subject to wear  and tear.
Ref: DRN86185922I issued provisional  decision as follows:
I said that because  Mr Gs transaction  with the dealer was financed  by credit supplied  to him 
by Vanquis, section 75 of the CCA1974  is a factor that needed to be taken into account when 
dealing with his complaint. In simple terms, section 75 gives Mr G an equal right to claim 
against Vanquis or the dealer for a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the dealer.
The car broke down  the day after it was bought and after some discussion the dealer 
covered the cost of that repair. However,  responsibility for the latter  and more significant  
fault is disputed. We do not have an independent  report into the cause, but the garage which 
carried out the repairs identified faults  with three  of the injectors. It suggested  that this was 
due to over fuelling  which  can be caused  by wear  which enlarges the nozzle hole.
I said I appreciated that various parts would suffer wear and tear over a period of time, but 
given the fact that the fault appeared so soon after Mr G bought  the car this suggested the 
fault was present at the point of sale. The car was sold as having done  40,000  miles, but 
Vanquis had suggested  this was incorrect. The recorded mileage some four months  later 
was 48,173. Either Mr G did a significant  number  of miles  in a short time or Vanquis is 
correct and the dealer misrepresented the car.
In any event even  if one were to assume the car had done more miles than shown on the 
sales invoice I noted it still had done a relatively low mileage and I didnt believe that it was 
reasonable to presume  that three of the injectors  would have worn  out after only some  
48,000 miles. I believed  one would expect them to last much  longer.
I noted Mr G raised the possibility of rejecting the car with the dealer. The dealer didnt agree 
and Mr G had the car repaired. I suspected if the matter had been brought to this service 
earlier I might have  recommended  rejection. However, Mr G didnt pursue rejection and 
turned to Vanquis  to ask that it cover the cost of the repairs. He didnt  ask that the car be 
rejected. Vanquis  took the decision to suspend payment.
Mr G hadnt asked that this be done  and he didnt suggest that he wasnt prepared to pay for 
the car. All he asked for was that Vanquis cover the cost of the repairs.  I asked Vanquis for 
clarification as to how the large sum of £1,143. 41 of interest  had been calculated.  It told me 
that while the transaction was in dispute  the interest was frozen. It said that Mr G became 
liable for it on 10 July 2018 when the transaction was removed from dispute.
I didnt consider this to be fair or reasonable. Vanquis decided to freeze  the interest and I am 
not aware that it made it clear to Mr G that he could suffer such a large  interest charge. Mr G 
paid off the money due once it was recharged by Vanquis and I suspected  that it had been 
made clear to him the potential of such a large  interest charge he would have cleared the 
debt earlier. Therefore I didnt consider Mr G would have paid interest  if there had been no 
problem with the car or if it had been  made clear to him that he would incur  interest  if his 
claim was rejected.
I explained that our adjudicator had recommended that the business  commission a report  
into the car, but I didnt think that was necessary. Mr G has had the car repaired and I 
thought that addressed the fault which I believe was present  at the point  of sale.  I suggested 
that Vanquis Bank Limited  should:
Refund (upon receipt of an invoice) the cost of the DPF filter replacement  Mr G paid for.
Ref: DRN86185923Refund the £1,915.19 Mr G paid for the repair to the injectors.
Remove the interest charge for the car and refund it if necessary.
Vanquis accepted  the first two bullet  points of my proposal, but wondered  why the interest 
should be removed.  It said that Mr G wasnt disputing the initial transaction  and it would 
expect to pay some compensation for not making  it clear the interest  would be charged as a 
lump sum.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The only remaining point which is not agreed  is the treatment of the interest imposed on Mr G. 
I agree  that removing  the interest charge is a little unusual, but I believe it is fair and 
reasonable when taking  into account  the evidence  in this case. I am satisfied that Mr G had 
the intention and the ability to pay off the debt before the interest was payable. The only 
reason it wasnt paid in time to avoid interest was because the car suffered several  faults. 
Vanquis then froze  the interest without making  it clear that it was continuing in the background.
I am satisfied that if Vanquis had made it clear that interest was running Mr G would  have 
paid the debt and thus avoided the interest charge. This service  seeks to put people  back  in 
the position they would have been had the problem not occurred. In this case  this means  Mr 
G would not have paid the interest which is why it is fair and reasonable that it be removed 
and if necessary repaid. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Vanquis Bank Limited to:
Refund (upon receipt of an invoice) the cost of the DPF filter replacement  Mr G paid for.
Refund the £1,915.19 Mr G paid for the repair to the injectors.
Remove the interest charge for the car and refund it if necessary.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2020.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8618592