K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs R say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them a payment 
protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
Mr and Mrs R took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 1998.  They paid a monthly amount for 
the policy. The policy only covered Mr R. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs R disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Due to the length of time since this sale took place there are no copies of the paperwork 
completed now available.  Given  the amount of time thats passed since  the sale took place  
this isnt surprising.  In situations  like this, Ive to consider all of the evidence before deciding  
what I think is more likely  than not to have happened. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Rs case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Rs complaint because:
As Ive already  said, there no copies of the paperwork completed  now available  and 
unfortunately there arent  any notes available  of the meeting,  and understandably 
Mr and Mrs R cant recall it clearly after so long. There are also no documents  
available to me from the time of the sale, which is not at all surprising considering the 
sale took place  over 20 years ago. So its difficult to know how the policy was 
positioned with Mr and Mrs R. 
Mr and Mrs R have said that they were pressured  into taking PPI, but Ive not seen 
any strong evidence  to support what theyve said. 
Ive also noted  what Mr and Mrs R have  said about  the mortgage offer stating; We 
strongly advise you to consider arranging insurance cover  to protect your ability  to 
keep up your mortgage repayments  if you become ill, have an accident  or lose your 
job. You can obtain details of such  mortgage repayments insurance  schemes  from 
any of our branches or your financial adviser.  In my opinion, this statement doesnt 
amount to pressure and it could be equally be argued that its simply Halifax making  
Mr and Mrs R aware  that the option  for PPI was available and they should consider it 
after theyve already received their mortgage offer - without PPI being attached. 
This statement is listed under a heading SPECIAL NOTE and not the GENERAL 
CONDITIONS or SPECIAL CONDITIONS of the mortgage such as the £897.20 
fee. So I cant fairly say that PPI was presented as a condition  of the mortgage.
Ref: DRN87330242Ive also noted  that Mr and Mrs R told us that they had 3 mortgages before this 
particular borrowing and hadnt had PPI with them.  This suggests  that they would 
already have been reasonably aware  that PPI was optional if theyd been  told that 
they had to have it with this particular mortgage. 
In order for me to uphold this complaint Id have  to think  that Mr and Mrs Rs account  
was more likely than that of Halifax. But as these  events happened so long ago and 
as theres little documentary evidence to support either partys  position, I have to 
conclude that Mr and Mrs Rs account  is only as likely, not more  likely. 
So on balance I cannot safely conclude that the policy wasnt  presented as optional  
or that they werent  given  a choice to take PPI.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs R, and it seems to have been right for 
them based  on what Ive seen of Mr Rs circumstances at the time. 
Mr and Mrs R have said that the policy was 100% for Mr R and Mrs R wasnt  
covered. This is correct. But based  on what theyve told us, it seems  that Mr R was 
the main wage earner  in the house  so I cant fairly say that the policy was mis-sold  
for this reason.
I think Halifax couldve explained the cost of the policy better  than it did. But even if it 
had, I think Mr and Mrs R would still have bought it. 
Ive taken into account Mr and Mrs Rs comments, including what  theyve said about  
their existing means for making their repayments  if Mr R was unwell and unable  to 
work or if he was made unemployed. Although Mr R had a good  sick pay entitlement, 
after 6 months his sick pay would decrease  to half sick pay. This PPI policy  could 
have paid out for up to 12 months per claim.   
Mr and Mrs R also had a sum of money that theyve shown us evidence of. But it 
seems that this money was invested in September 1995 with a maturity date of 
September 1998. This mortgage was taken out in March 1998. Whilst I dont know 
the exact terms of the investment, it seems reasonable to assume that the amount  of 
return on the investment  could be affected  by any withdrawals made, particularly as 
Mr and Mrs R only had a number of months to go until the maturity of their 
investment at the point of taking the mortgage  in March 1998. 
In any case, having the PPI policy would mean that Mr and Mrs R wouldnt need to 
use their other means to make their mortgage  repayments - for up to 12 months if 
Mr R was made unemployed  or unwell and unable to work,  allowing them  to keep 
their other means intact or keep the the option  of using  it for other  living expenses.   
Its possible Halifax didnt point out the main  things the policy  didnt cover. But Mr and 
Mrs R dont appear to have been  affected  by any of those things.  
how Halifax dealt with Mr and Mrs Rs complaint
Ive also considered what Mr and Mrs R have said about how Halifax  handled their 
complaint, but I dont  think that Halifax caused  any unnecessary delays or didnt properly 
investigate their complaint. 
Ref: DRN87330243So these points dont  change my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 June 2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8733024