K822xcomplaint
Mrs W complains that Novitas  (Salisbury) Limited  have incorrectly  calculated a refund of 
interest, which they paid to the loan she has with them.
background 
In October  2014, Mrs W took out a fixed sum loan with Novitas  to help pay for some legal 
fees. Under this type of loan, Mr Ws solicitors could draw down funds  directly,  whenever 
they carried out work for her. The loan was to be repaid from any potential  settlement, 
Mrs W received  from the legal action she was taking at the time. Mrs W took out two further 
similar loans  with Novitas over the next two years, although they combined each loan 
amount into one account balance.
Novitas wrote to Mrs W in November  2016 and said that theyd made a mistake with the 
wording on her previous  years, annual loan statement.  They said they didnt include some  
required regulatory wording on the statement. This was called a period of non-compliance. 
So, they had organised  a refund  of all the interest charged to the loan, from 12 December 
2015 until 21 November  2016. The total refund  was around £10,500.
Quite some  time later, in March 2018, Mrs W complained to Novitas about the interest  
refund shed received. Mrs W asked  Novitas for a copy of all three loan agreements,  a 
detailed breakdown of all the interest and charges and an explanation  of the errors theyd 
made. Novitas replied and provided the information Mrs W had asked for. They also said 
they hadnt made any errors with Mrs Ws loans, and it was a certain  period they needed to 
consider, where  they had to refund interest  charged on each loan. Novitas also suspended 
interest for the time they took to consider Mrs Ws complaint.
Mrs W didnt accept this and referred her complaint to our service. Whilst her case was 
waiting to be looked into, Mrs W told us that shed noticed the interest  rate wasnt on one of 
her loan agreements.  She also said the interest charged during the period of non-
compliance, was more on Novitas breakdown, than she actually received as a refund.
One of our investigators  considered the case and concluded that Novitas  had refunded 
slightly more than they needed  to, for the period when  each  loan was non-compliant. The 
investigator also found that Mrs W had agreed to secure her borrowing.  And that Novitas  
had applied  any repayments shes made,  in line with the terms and conditions  of her loans.
Mrs W disagreed  and said the interest  refund  should have been around £22,000, and that 
she could have settled  the loan much  sooner. She also said Novitas  had charged  interest  on 
some insurance payments and that we hadnt considered her point about the missing 
interest rate from one of the loan agreement forms. 
The investigator didnt  change his conclusions about the refund, but said he couldnt see any 
insurance payments  on the loan statement. He also said that the interest rate was included 
on other parts of the loan agreement, and that it was Mrs Ws decision when to settle the 
loan if she could.
Mrs W didnt accept the investigators conclusions and her case has been referred to me to 
make a final decision.
Ref: DRN80511312my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Section 77a of the Consumer Credit Act 1974,  says that a lender cannot  collect  interest on 
borrowing, until a full statement is sent to a customer, one year and thirty days after the 
borrowing has been provided. Novitas have explained that they didnt provide a full 
statement to Mrs W. So, some of her borrowing  with them,  wasnt compliant from 
12 December 2015 until 21 November 2016.
Mrs W has told us that the breakdown Novitas sent to her, shows that the interest accrued in 
the period of non-compliance, is more than the amount refunded to her. Mrs W has also sent 
us her own breakdown  of what  she thinks the refund should be. We look at the information 
provided by both sides of a complaint.  We dont  audit  accounts for the people who need to 
use us. Rather, we rely on what evidence each side shows  us to support their argument. 
Mrs Ws calculation  of interest
The evidence provided by Mrs W, is her own calculation from a spreadsheet shes  created. I 
can see from the information, that Mrs W has gone into detail about the effect each of her 
repayments, had on the total loan balance, and what interest she says should  be charged on 
each transaction.  Mrs W has also worked  out the number of days, her loan held a particular 
balance.
Mrs W has calculated  the total interest  charged  on her borrowing with Novitas  to be around 
£22,000. This is almost  double the amount refunded by Novitas, to Mrs Ws loan balance.  
Mrs W says there are 273 days in total, where Novitas  should  have refunded  interest. Her 
spreadsheet also suggests a repayment  was made in September 2016.  
So, I have compared  Mrs Ws spreadsheet to the most up to date account statement, 
provided by Novitas, that we have. Ive also considered an explanation by Novitas  of each  
period of interest added  to the total balance.
Novitas calculation of interest
The account  statement  doesnt show a repayment  made by Mrs W in September  2016.  And 
theres no record of her disputing her repayments  on the statements shes  been  given,  since 
that time.  So, there is a difference between what Novitas  says has been  paid towards the 
loan and what Mrs W says she has repaid. I think this difference  is reflected in the total 
account balances,  Mrs W and Novitas have  used, to calculate  the interest that should be 
applied.
I have looked  carefully  at the account statement,  to see each instance where interest has 
been added  to Mrs Ws loan account.  By using Novitas explanation of each  instance,  I can 
see that the interest amount has been  correctly calculated on the balance, after each  
transaction has lowered  or increased it. 
Ive considered the calculations from both Mrs W and Novitas very carefully and I 
acknowledge the time Mrs W has taken, to put her evidence together.  But, taking everything 
into consideration, on balance, Im more persuaded by Novitas  explanation  and account 
Ref: DRN80511313statement. So, I think the account statement provided by Novitas  is more  reliable, when 
looking at what interest  has been  applied to Mrs Ws borrowing.
the number of days each loan was non-compliant
Mrs W also says that according to Novitas calculations, there is more interest that should 
have been refunded during the period of non-compliance. Having considered  this point, I 
think the transactions showing on the statement are from the third loan Mrs W took out. 
Novitas say they didnt have to consider refunds of interest from this loan, because  it was not 
a year and thirty days old, until after they had corrected their regulatory wording error. 
Novitas say that the interest charged  on this borrowing was correct, from when Mrs W first 
started to use funds from it, in November  2015.
I think Novitas were  required  to send  a full statement, which included the third loans 
transactions, in December  2016. The period of non-compliance was before this date. So, I 
dont think Novitas should have to refund any interest from the transactions created from 
third loan. I also think these transactions are clear  on the interest summary provided  by 
Novitas. I think this leaves  the first and second loan to consider, when looking at the interest 
refund. 
The interest calculations  provided by Mrs W say that in total, there  were  273 days  where 
Novitas should refund interest. Ive considered this further and the period of non-compliance 
was between 12 December 2015  and 21 November 2016. There  are 346 days in this period. 
So, I dont think Mrs W could have based her calculations on a timeframe of 273 days.
Novitas say they calculated the interest  refund on the balance of each  loan at the point it 
entered the period of non-compliance.  I can see from the account  statement that the balance  
just before the third loan was drawn  down on 4 November 2015, was £100,895.86. Novitas  
say this was a combination of the first (£31,862.46) and second loan balance  (£69,033.40). 
No repayments  were made by Mrs W after this date, until 12 March 2018.  So, I am 
persuaded by Novitas  calculations  here. And I think it was fair for them  to use these 
balances, when the period of non-compliance began in December 2015.
I can see from the account statement, that the first loan was in the period of non-compliance 
for the full timeframe of 346 days.  The second  loan was in the period of non-compliance for 
136 days. So, I think the calculations for a refund of interest,  for the first and second loans 
are:
First Loan
Balance at the time of non-compliance - £31,862.46 
Daily cost of interest at an annual rate of 18% - £15.71
Multiplied by 346 days - £5,435.66
Second Loan
Balance at the time of non-compliance - £69,033.40 
Daily cost of interest at an annual rate of 18% - £34.04
Multiplied by 136 days - £4,629.44
I think the refund given  to Mrs W, should have been £10,065.10.  Novitas have agreed that 
they have refunded slightly more interest to Mrs Ws loan account,  but have said, they wont 
be making any further adjustment. In all the circumstances, I think this is a fair approach to 
Ref: DRN80511314refunding the interest on Mrs Ws account, from the period of non-compliance and I dont 
think Novitas need to do anything further.
the missing interest  rate from the third loan and interest charged on insurance payments
Mrs W has told us that the interest rate is missing  from the third loans agreement form. I 
have looked at each of the three separate loan agreement forms and I can see that the 
interest rate of each loan, is included. So, I think Novitas made Mrs W aware of the interest 
rate of each loan,  when she agreed  to them.
I have looked  at the statement for the loan account,  the loan agreement forms and the 
information provided by Mrs W. I dont think Mrs W has been  charged interest  on an 
insurance policy as part of the borrowing she has with Novitas.  Mrs W may have a policy 
with another provider. But, for the purposes  of a complaint about her loan account with 
Novitas, I dont think there  is another charge for interest, for me to consider further.
Further suspensions of interest and how the loan is repaid
Whilst Novitas looked at Mrs Ws complaint, they stopped interest from accruing on the 
outstanding balance of her account.  I can see from looking  at Novitas explanation  of the 
interest charged, that no further interest accrued on her account from 15 March  2018 to 
9 September 2018. 
This suspension of interest amounted to £7,348.99 and doesnt show on Mrs Ws account 
statement, since it was never charged to the account. But, I think  Novitas  have treated 
Mrs W fairly,  by stopping  interest from accruing whilst they investigated her complaint. 
Mrs W says shes  unhappy with the way any repayment she makes to her borrowing, is used 
to pay the interest  accrued first, rather than the actual capital. So, I have looked  at the loan 
agreement forms. The terms and conditions  of the first loan agreement says:
Partial early  repayments will be applied firstly against the fees payable  under clause 13, 
secondly in payment of interest and thirdly in payment  of Instalments.
I can see that the second and third loan agreement forms contain  the same  term. I think 
Novitas told Mrs W what would happen  to any repayment she made towards the loans, when 
she agreed to them.  So, I dont think Novitas have treated Mrs W unfairly in how theyve 
administered the loans. 
Novitas have an ongoing responsibility to Mrs W with the repayment of her borrowing. They  
have said that they will work with Mrs W, if she needs to talk about ways  she plans to repay 
the amount outstanding. 
So, although  I dont  think Novitas need  to do any more than theyve already done, I remind 
them, that they should consider Mrs Ws circumstances in any discussion about  the 
repayment of her loan account.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Ref: DRN80511315Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 May 2020. 
Sam Wedderburn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8051131