K821x#15complaint
Mr R says CashEuroNet UK LLC, trading as QuickQuid, (QQ), irresponsibly lent to him. 
The complaint was brought to this service on Mr Rs behalf by a claims management  
company. But for ease,  I shall refer below to all actions being taken by Mr R.
background
This complaint is about two payday loans and four top up loans QQ provided to Mr R 
between June 2015 and March 2016. All the loans were repayable by three monthly 
instalments except Loan 1a which  was repayable  by two monthly instalments. All of the 
loans have been repaid.  A summary  of Mr Rs lending history is as follows:
Loan number 
Date of 
loanRepayment date
Loan amount 
Highest monthly 
instalment amount 
1. 1/6/15 22/1/16 £100 £117.40
      1a.  (Top 
up)7/7/15 22/1/16 £50 £176.10
      2. 29/2/16 23/5/16 £50 £62.40
      2a.  (Top 
up)1/3/16 23/5/16 £50 £124.80 (for Loans 2 
and 2a)
      2b.  (Top 
up)3/3/16 23/5/16 £50 £187.20 (for Loans 2 
to 2b)
      2c. (Top 
up) 6/3/16 23/5/16 £50 £249.60 (for Loans 2 
to 2c)
QQ said that starting from 1 March  2015, it had implemented an affordability assessment 
that was consistent  with the Financial Conduct  Authoritys (FCA)  Handbook. QQ also 
provided this service with a document which is titled CEU Lending Criteria and Proportionate 
Checks to show its entire  lending process. QQ said that it had checked  Mr Rs other monthly 
credit commitments  to ensure that any short term credit was included. 
Mr Rs complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. She didnt think QQ had 
been wrong to give Loan  1 to Mr R. But she recommended that Mr Rs complaint  about 
Loan 2 should be upheld.  She noted that QQ had agreed an extension  to Loan 1 and a 
pre-default payment plan for the balance  remaining  on Loan  1.
QQ disagreed and said that Mr Rs request for additional time to repay and the setting up of 
a repayment plan werent indicators that Mr R didnt have capacity to manage his finances.  
QQ said that Mr R had a model repayment history on Loan 2 and incurred no late fees. QQ 
also said that the mere number of loans was an insufficient basis to conclude that the loans 
were unsustainable.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Ref: DRN89338442When QQ lent to Mr R the regulator was the FCA and relevant regulations and guidance  
included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook  (CONC). The CONC contained  guidance for 
lenders about  responsible lending. 
With regard to QQs assessments  after 1 March 2015, this service  has addressed this 
specific point by QQ in previous  decisions.  I would remind QQ at this point of the FCA 
guidance on how complaints are to be dealt with promptly and fairly (my emphasis) by 
businesses. In particular  DISP 1.3.2A [G] which says that businesses procedures  for 
complaint handling should  
ensure that lessons learned as a result of determinations by the Ombudsman are effectively 
applied in future complaint handling,  for example by:
(1) relaying a determination by the Ombudsman  to the individuals in the respondent who 
handled the complaint and using it in their training and development;
(2) analysing any patterns in determinations by the Ombudsman concerning  complaints 
received by the respondent and using this in training  and development of the individuals  
dealing with complaints in the respondent; and
(3) analysing guidance produced by the FCA, other relevant regulators and the Financial  
Ombudsman Service and communicating it to the individuals dealing with complaints  in 
the respondent.
So my decision will focus on the specifics of Mr Rs complaint and what both parties have 
said about this.
QQ needed to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr R could  
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that QQ should fairly  and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ref: DRN89338443I think that it is important for me to start by saying that QQ was required to establish whether 
Mr R could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether  the loan payments were  affordable  
on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the consumer should be able to make 
repayments on time, while meeting other  reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Rs complaint.
QQ did a number of checks before it lent to Mr R. It asked him for details of his income and 
expenditure. Mr Rs declared income  for all the loans  was £1,420. Mr R declared his 
expenditure as £825. From the information  QQ gathered, Mr R was employed and owned his 
home. 
QQ also checked Mr Rs credit  file before agreeing  to the loans. It hasnt provided us with 
the results of its credit checks. QQ said that it also validated  Mr Rs other credit 
commitments and has provided us with information about these which were higher than the 
credit commitments  information Mr R disclosed to it. Mr R hasnt  provided  his credit report to 
us. So I cant say there were entries  on the report that shouldve concerned QQ.
I think that the checks QQ carried out before  agreeing  Loans  1 and 1a were  proportionate. 
The repayments that Mr R needed to make  on Loans 1 and 1a were  relatively  modest 
compared to the income that he declared  to QQ. I dont think the repayments were  so large 
that its obvious they wouldve caused Mr R financial difficulty.
So given Mr Rs repayment  amounts, what was apparent about his circumstances  at the 
time, and his history  with the lender, I dont think it wouldve  been  proportionate for QQ to 
ask him for the amount of information that would be needed to show  the lending was 
unsustainable.  
And there wasnt anything  in the information  Mr R provided or the information  QQ shouldve 
been aware of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate to start verifying  what  he was 
saying. So I dont think QQ was wrong to give Loans 1 and 1a to Mr R.
But around six weeks after taking  out Loan  1a, Mr R asked QQ to extend  his loan repayment 
date by around a month. It appears  that the loan wasnt repaid by the extended due date. 
And I can see from the email correspondence between  the parties that on 14 October  2015,  
QQ agreed a pre-default payment plan with Mr R whereby he would  pay four monthly  
payments of £42.90 so that the loan would  be repaid  on 22 January 2016.  This was around 
five months later than the original due date for repayment of Loans  1 and 1a.
I note that QQ doesnt think  that the loan extension and the repayment plan meant that Mr R 
lacked the capacity to manage his finances.  I disagree. I think the repayment plan indicated  
that Mr R couldnt  afford to repay  his loans  in line with the terms of the loan agreement.  And 
Ref: DRN89338444I think Mr Rs top up loan (Loan 1a) and loan extension also suggest  that he was struggling  
to manage his finances and should  have caused  QQ some concerns.
  
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of QQs lending history with Mr R, with a view to seeing  
if there was a point  at which  the lender should  reasonably have seen that further lending  was 
unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so QQ should have realised that it shouldnt have 
provided any further loans. 
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Rs case, I think  that this point was reached by 
Loan 2. I say this because:
I think QQ should have been concerned about Mr Rs repayment  history for Loans 1 
and 1a which had been repaid less than six weeks earlier. This should have 
suggested to QQ that Mr R was struggling to manage his finances and doesnt 
suggest that Mr R would have had surplus funds available to him from month to 
month. 
QQ ought to have realised it was more likely  than not Mr R was having to borrow 
further to cover  the hole that repaying his previous loan had left in his finances.  
By Loan  2, Mr R had been borrowing from QQ for around ten months.  
I think that Mr R lost out because QQ continued to provide borrowing from Loan 2 to Loan 2c 
because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Rs indebtedness by allowing  him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the length of time that Mr R had been taking out short term loans was likely  to have 
had negative implications on Mr Rs ability to access mainstream  credit  and so kept 
him in the market  for these high-cost  loans.
The fact that the loans  were  repaid does not mean that they were  repaid sustainably, 
or without causing Mr R undue difficulty. 
I should add Ive considered the other points QQ made in response  to the adjudicators  view.  
QQ provided this service with a document which is titled CEU Lending Criteria and 
Proportionate Checks, which isnt case-specific. This service has responded to QQs 
submission of this document on many previous occasions and so Ill say no more  about it 
here. But I have taken its contents into account, including QQs argument  about consumers 
being able to save to repay the final balloon repayment.
I note that all the loans were  due to be repaid over two or three monthly repayments. QQ 
says that Mr R would have read and checked  a box to advise him that he may need to save  
income from the previous month (or months) in order  to have sufficient money  to pay the 
final repayment. I dont  think this removes QQs responsibility to check that Mr R could  meet 
his repayments  in a sustainable way, although  it might be the case early  on in the lending  
relationship that it might  be reasonable for the lender to think  that Mr R could be in a position 
to meet  his loan repayments when they fell due. But in view of Mr Rs adverse repayment  
history on Loans 1 and 1a, I dont think it was reasonable for QQ to lend to Mr R on the basis 
that he was in a position  to potentially save money  over the term of Loans 2 to 2c.
Ref: DRN89338445QQ said that Mr R had a model repayment history on Loan 2. But I think  QQ will (or ought  to) 
know from previous decisions that this service considers there will be times when the pattern 
of lending alone is enough to indicate  that a consumer is likely  to be in financial difficulty   or 
would otherwise be harmed should  relending  continue. So it follows that successful  
repayment of a loan doesnt automatically  mean it was repaid  sustainably.
QQ also said that the mere number of loans is an insufficient basis  to conclude that the 
loans were unsustainable. But, QQ will know from previous  decisions (as well as whats set 
out on our website)  that there are cases where  this service considers the overall lending 
pattern and not just the affordability of each loan.  I also think that when a consumer borrows  
numerous loans  over a long period of time,  its most likely that the loans arent being used 
for their intended purpose of temporary  cash flow problems. As QQ will know, the FCA made  
it clear in a recent letter to CEOs  of high cost lending firms that a high volume of 
relending..may be symptomatic of unsustainable  lending patterns. And I think that is the 
case here.
So Im intending  to uphold this complaint in part and QQ should put things right as follows.
putting things right  what QQ needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr R paid on Loans 2 to 2c;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
the number  of loans taken from Loan 2 onwards means any information recorded 
about them  is adverse. So all entries  about  Loan 2 onwards should  be removed from 
Mr Rs credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires QQ to take off tax from this interest. QQ must give Mr R 
a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN89338446my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of this 
complaint, I order CashEuroNet UK LLC, trading  as QuickQuid, to:
1.Refund all interest  and charges Mr R paid on Loans 2 to 2c;
2.Pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the 
date they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
3.The number of loans  taken from Loan 2 onwards  means any information 
recorded about them is adverse. So all entries  about Loan 2 onwards  should be 
removed from Mr Rs credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires QQ to take off tax from this interest. QQ must give Mr R 
a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 August 2019.
Roslyn Rawson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8933844