K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain that work  carried out under  the warranty on their new home, provided
by National House-Building Council (NHBC), was not satisfactory.
background
Mr and Mrs J bought  a new house in December  2015 which came with a ten year building
warranty, provided by NHBC.  At the end of 2017  Mr and Mrs J reported a leak from the
guttering to the company  they bought the house from - Ill refer to them  as Company  B.
Company B arranged  for builders to fix the problem  and repair  the damage caused. Damage
included discolouring of the rendering where  the guttering  had leaked  onto it.
A few months later there were still a number of repairs  outstanding, so Mr and Mrs J raised it
with NHBC. In line with the terms of the warranty, NHBC inspected  the property and
produced a resolution report  in early 2018.  The report  contained work NHBC considered  to
still require completion  under  the policy and a deadline  for completion. This included
improving the colour  matching of the patch repair to the rendering.
Following a couple of extensions  to the deadline, Company B completed  all work to NHBCs
satisfaction. However Mr and Mrs J said that as Company B had re-painted the rendering on
one side of the house, it was now a different colour to the other side so the work had not
been completed satisfactorily. They complained  to NHBC.
NHBC didnt uphold the complaint. It said that the render on the left side of the house (that
hadnt been painted) wasnt  part of the original claim so it had been unable  to consider it as
part of the resolution service  provided  under the first two years  of the policy. Further it said it
wouldnt be covered  under  the next part of the policy (covering three to ten years) as there
was no physical damage.
Mr and Mrs J didnt think this was fair as they said they have been left with an inferior house
which may now be harder  to sell. They brought the complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered all the issues but didnt recommend Mr and Mrs Js complaint
was upheld. She said as the problem with the mis-matched colours is not a defect but a new
cosmetic issue,  NHBC arent responsible for repairing  this under the warranty. She said the 
damage done by the original defect has already been repaired so she thought NHBC had
done enough.
Mr S didnt think this was fair as he said he had been left with a house  that is two different
colours through no fault of his own. He said he was concerned about the impact this would
have when he comes  to sell it. He asked for the complaint  to be looked  at by an
ombudsman.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision in February  2020, in which I said:
I will start by explaining  how policies such as this one work. When dealing  with a claim that
falls within  the first two years of a warranty such as this, NHBC have  a limited remit. A claim
will come to NHBC if a defect has been  reported  to the original home  builders and theyve
failed to rectify the damage in a reasonable timescale. NHBC are then required only to offer
a resolution service between the customer and the builder  laying out exactly  what  needs to
Ref: DRN85731032be completed and by when. If the builder fails to complete the required work in that time,
then NHBC are required to step in and do the work itself. At this point, the insurance element
of the warranty kicks in, which we are permitted to consider.
In this case NHBC has agreed that the builder didnt  complete the work within the originally
agreed timescales, as extensions to the deadline  were required. This means we are able to
consider the complaint.
NHBC said in its final response  that because  the render on the left hand side of the house
didnt form part of the claim originally, painting it would be a new claim and would fall into the
three to ten year part of the policy. And as it wasnt due to a defect this wouldnt be covered.
I agree  that, should the painting be considered  as a new claim, it wouldnt be covered as it
isnt a defect in itself.  However I dont agree that this is the correct way to consider the claim.
I think it should be considered as part of the original claim under the first two years of the
policy. I will explain why.
The resolution report, put together  by NHBC,  required  the builder to correct  the patch repair
they had done on the discolouring of the render. It stated  as follows:
An inspection confirmed  that the colour of the repaired render is a poor match  to that of the
existing render. The area in question is in a prominent positon and it is considered that the
colour match needs to be improved. This item is deemed to be non-compliant with NHBC
Technical Requirement R4 in respect of Chapter 1.2-S2. The builder must carry out works to
make sure that this item complies  with our Technical Requirements.
In order to fulfil this item, the builder decided  to paint the whole of the right hand  side of the
house. Presumably  this was done  so there  would be no mis-match  of colour on that side.
However instead, it has created a mis-match of colour between  the left and right sides of the
house.
Based on this, I dont  agree that the requirement  in the resolution report  has been carried
out. I have  looked at the photos of Mr and Mrs Js house currently. The house is clearly  two
different colours.  The purpose of the requirement in the resolution report  was to improve the
colour match. This may have been done in one area, but the problem hasnt been  resolved, 
as there  is still a colour match  problem. The report also points out that the colour match is in
a prominent position. Now the house is divided into two different coloured sections, I think  it
is more prominent;  not less, as intended.
Further, the extract from the report above  says the work is required to comply with NHBCs
technical requirements. The specific requirement it refers to is as follows:
R4. All work shall be carried  out in a proper,  neat and workmanlike manner.
From looking  at the work completed,  I dont agree this has been  adhered  to. The house does
not look neat  and the work looks incomplete.  I therefore dont think  it has been carried  out
in a proper, workmanlike  manner.
I have also considered comments made by a number of different agents  working  on behalf of
NHBC. The builder who visited  the site confirmed  there was a difference  in colour in natural
light. Another of NHBCs  agents  said in an email  to NHBC to  be honest [Company B]
have clearly made a mess where they have attempted  to spray paint the render  to the front
elevation. Finally Mr J reports  that another staff member  referred  to the colour difference as
Ref: DRN85731033hideous during a phone  call with him. It is therefore clear  that NHBC and its agents agree
that the colour mismatch has not been rectified and the work  didnt  meet the requirement
from NHBC guidelines  quoted above.  I therefore cannot agree that the builders completed
the requirement in the resolution  report.
NHBC has said that it didnt ask the builder to paint the whole  right side of the house,  so it
isnt its responsibility. But I dont think this is relevant. The purpose of the first two years of
the warranty is for NHBC to set out what the builder must achieve and by when. The builders
will always  have a certain amount of autonomy in how they choose to carry out those
requirements. I have already said I dont agree that they have met the requirement. The fact
they made the decision to paint half of the house  is the reason for this. NHBC are
responsible for this, as the builder  failed to meet the requirement by the deadline, so it would
have been required  to step in and complete it itself. It didnt do this, so it is at fault.
For these reasons I am minded to uphold Mr and Mrs Js complaint. I will therefore require
NHBC to complete the work on the repair of the damage to the house to ensure it is all the
same colour  as close to the original colour as reasonably possible.
I also note that Mr and Mrs J have had to put up with the distress of having  a house that is in
an inferior condition than it was before  the claim. This would be likely to lead to problems
when selling  the house and may mean they would  lose money  on the purchase which  would
be distressing. Further  the time they have  had to spend corresponding with NHBC  to
persuade them of the need to do additional work  has caused more  inconvenience than it
should. I am therefore  minded to require NHBC to pay Mr and Mrs J £200 compensation to
make up for the distress and inconvenience.
response to my provisional  decision
NHBC accepted my provisional  decision.
Mr and Mrs J said they werent happy  for NHBC to carry out the work  and would prefer a 
cash settlement, to allow them to choose  their own contractors.
NHBC has since offered to cash settle  at a full and final settlement of £8,000  based  on 
quotes obtained by Mr J. Mr and Mrs J have accepted this offer. 
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
As NHBC  has now offered  to cash settle the claim,  I think  this is a fair and reasonable 
conclusion to the matter. I will therefore require NHBC to pay Mr and Mrs J £8,000  in full and 
final settlement of the claim.
Further, I outlined in my provisional decision the distress and inconvenience  NHBC has 
caused Mr and Mrs J throughout the claim.  And I recommended  it pays them £200 
compensation. I have  seen no reason  to depart  from this decision so I will require NHBC to 
pay this Mr and Mrs J £200  compensation to make up for the distress  and inconvenience it 
has caused.
Ref: DRN85731034my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given, I require National House-Building  Council to:
Pay Mr and Mrs J £8,000 in full and final settlement of the claim.
Pay Mr and Mrs J £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience  it has caused. 
This should  be paid within 28 days of us telling it that Mr and Mrs J has accepted my 
final decision. If National House-Building Council  pay later than this it must also pay 
interest on that amount  from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a rate 
of 8% a year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 May 2020
Sophie Goodyear
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8573103