K821x#15Complaint
Mr J complains that Uncle Buck  Finance LLP lent money to him that he couldnt afford to 
repay.
Background
Based on the information provided, Mr J took out six loans with Uncle Buck  between  August 
2015 and March 2017.
Loan Date Repaid Instalments Amount
1 04/06/2015 25/08/2015 3 £250
2 04/09/2015 25/11/2015 3 £400
3 25/11/2015 25/02/2016 3 £585
4 28/06/2016 05/09/2016 3 £600
5 07/10/2016 23/12/2016 3 £250
6 30/12/2016 24/03/2017 3 £600
Mr J says that he was already in debt when he took out the loans  and couldnt  access  credit 
from high street banks.  He says that adequate affordability checks werent  carried out before 
the loans were provided and that at the time he was in a cycle of debt, having  to borrow to 
make his repayments.
Uncle Buck  says that adequate and proportionate  affordability and credit  worthiness checks  
were carried  out before  the loans were  provided. It says that loans were only approved  if 
they were considered affordable. It notes that Mr J repaid the loans on time.
Our adjudicator didnt  think that he had enough evidence  to say that loans one to three 
shouldnt have been provided. But he thought that loans four to six shouldnt have been  lent.
Our adjudicator said if that proportionate checks had been carried out before loan four was 
provided, Uncle Buck would have realised that Mr J was having problems managing  his 
money and was unlikely to be able to sustainably repay this loan and subsequent loans. By 
loan six our adjudicator  thought Mr Js pattern of borrowing showed he had become 
persistently reliant  on short-term loans.
Uncle Buck  didnt accept  our adjudicators  view.  It said there  was a break in Mr Js borrowing 
between loans three and four. It said that Mr Js credit file at the time of loan four didnt show 
he was overly indebted and didnt show any other outstanding short  term loans. It 
acknowledged that three defaults were shown  but these were in revolving  credit  and home  
shopping and no defaults were recorded in other borrowing.
It said that loan five was repaid in the three  agreed instalments and Mr Js credit report  
showed only two defaults in 12 months, with no outstanding short term lending. The sixth 
loan was repaid  in the agreed  instalments  and at that time there were no new defaults 
showing on Mr Js credit file.
It reiterated that adequate  checks were carried out before the loans were provided  and 
raised concerns  about the removal of information form Mr Js credit file.
My provisional conclusions
Ref: DRN84743272I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and, in summary, made the following 
conclusions. 
There wasnt enough evidence to say that loans one to three shouldnt have been 
provided. 
The break between  loans three  and four wasnt substantial  enough  for Uncle  Buck to 
conclude this was any indication  that Mr Js finances  had moved  on from whatever 
situation had required his previous loans.
A credit check before loan four showed that Mr J had three defaults recorded in the 
previous 12 months. While this raised  some concerns, I didnt find that this alone  was 
sufficient to say that the loan shouldnt have been  provided. Loan four was for £600 
repayable over three monthly instalments of just under £300. Mr Js declared 
disposable income was sufficient to meet the repayments. Without  further information 
I didnt find I had enough to say that this loan shouldnt have been provided.
Loan five was for £250 and the income and expenses information gathered 
suggested it was affordable.  Mr Js credit  report showed the number of defaulted 
accounts recorded in the previous  12 months had reduced to two. Based on the 
evidence I didnt  find that I had enough to say this loan shouldnt  have  been  provided.
By loan six a pattern of borrowing had emerged which suggested  Mr J had become 
reliant on short term borrowing. I thought that Uncle  Buck  should  have  been  
concerned that this loan wasnt sustainably affordable. Therefore I uphold  this 
complaint in regard  to loan six.
No further evidence was provided in response  to my provisional decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  We've  set out our general approach to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Uncle Buck  needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr J could repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks  could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts and 
the consumer's  income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
As I set out in my provisional  decision I didnt think there was enough evidence to say that 
the first five loans shouldnt have been  provided.  However, by the time loan six was provided 
I thought Mr Js pattern  of borrowing  suggested  he was persistently reliant on short  term 
loans. As I havent received any further  information my decision hasnt changed  and so I 
uphold this complaint regard  to loan six.
Ref: DRN84743273My final decision
My final decision is that Uncle Buck Finance  LLP should:
refund  the total of the repayments made by Mr J towards interest fees and charges 
on loan six along with 8% simple  interest* on the payments from the payment date to 
the date the complaint is settled.
the overall pattern of Mr Js borrowing for loan six means  any information recorded 
about it is adverse,  so this loan should be removed from Mr Js credit  file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Uncle Buck Finance LLP to deduct tax from this interest. 
It should give Mr J a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2020.  
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8474327