K820x#14Complaint
Mr C and Ms C have  complained that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) 
misinformed Mr C that he could be removed from their joint current  account.
 
Background
Mr C and Ms C hold a joint current account with NatWest.  When  Mr C and Ms C divorced,  
the court order stated  that Mr C should  be removed  from the joint account.
Mr C asked NatWest to remove him from the account in November 2017  he was given 
conflicting information about whether it could do this or not. This was the subject of a 
previous complaint considered by our service in June 2018. The complaint wasnt upheld  
because the investigator was satisfied NatWest couldnt remove Mr C from the account until 
the overdraft was repaid.
Mr C spoke with another  agent of NatWest in November  2018, who told him to bring a copy 
of the court  order  to a branch so he could be removed from the account. Mr C was later told 
that this was the wrong advice. NatWest  apologised,  offering £80 compensation. It also 
refunded some unarranged overdraft charges as a gesture of goodwill.
As he remained unhappy, Mr C referred the complaint to our service.  He thought all of the 
charges should  be waived  as he wouldve cleared  the overdraft  sooner if he hadnt been  
given the wrong  information initially.
Our investigator thought NatWest had already done  enough to put things  right. This was 
because all of the unarranged overdraft  charges  applied to the account  between 
November 2017  and April 2018  when  Mr C had been  told he couldnt be removed from the 
account until the overdraft had been  repaid  had been refunded. As Mr C was aware of how 
the account needed to be serviced after this date,  the investigator didnt think any 
unarranged overdraft charges applied since then should be refunded.
She didnt  think the arranged  overdraft  fee or interest that had been  applied should be 
refunded as there wasnt any evidence to suggest  the overdraft wouldve been  cleared but 
for the misinformation. The investigator also thought the compensation offered was fair as 
Mr C ought to have  known he couldnt be removed  from the account whilst the overdraft was 
in use.
Ms C accepted this but Mr C asked for a final decision as he said he wouldve helped  Ms C 
to pay off the overdraft  if hed been given the right information.
My Findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding it for 
largely the same reasons  as the investigator.
Mr C was told by NatWest  in April 2018 that he couldnt be removed from the account until 
the overdraft was repaid, as per the account terms and conditions. This was also confirmed 
to him by our service in June 2018. So, I dont think it was reasonable for Mr C to ask 
NatWest to remove him from the account  again,  when  he knew the overdraft was still 
outstanding. I appreciate  the agent  Mr C spoke  to in November 2018 shouldve  been able to 
Ref: DRN81094632confirm this. But I still think Mr C ought  to have known the position hadnt changed. NatWest 
offered Mr C £80 compensation for misleading him and I think  this sum compensates  him 
fairly for the impact of this.
Mr C says the account wouldve been  in a different position if he hadnt been misinformed in 
November 2017  and again  in November 2018. I accept Mr C wouldnt have allowed the 
account to exceed the arranged overdraft if hed been informed sooner that he couldnt  be 
removed from the account  when he first made  the request. I say this because  I can see a 
couple of payments were made  towards  the overdraft before November 2017 to keep it 
within the arranged  limit. For this reason, I agree that NatWest should refund any 
unarranged overdraft fees between  then and April 2018. Im satisfied it has done so.
However, I havent seen  any evidence to demonstrate that Mr C wouldve helped  to clear the 
overdraft in full. Between April and November 2018,  when Mr C was aware he was still liable 
for the overdraft, only intermittent payments  towards the overdraft have  been  made.  Again,  
these payments were  made to keep  the account within the agreed  overdraft limit. So, I dont 
think the evidence  suggests Mr C wouldve cleared the overdraft and incurred no other  fees 
if he hadnt been misinformed about whether he could  be removed from the account. I also 
dont think NatWest needs to refund any other unarranged overdraft fees after April 2018 
(although I understand it has refunded some) as Mr C knew  the overdraft remained his joint 
responsibility, despite being misinformed  again.
Overall, I think NatWest  has already  fairly compensated Mr C and Ms C for any incorrect 
information provided about the account.
My Final  Decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mr C and Ms C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 September 2019.
Hannah Wise
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8109463