K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complains that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited, trading as Barclays Partner  
Finance (Barclays) are refusing to repair a fault on a vehicle they are financing  for her.
background
Mrs M took receipt of a used car in March 2016.  The car had completed  63,000  miles at the 
point of supply.  Mrs M financed the deal through a conditional sale agreement with Barclays  
but in September of 2016 the car broke  down  and required a new engine. 
Barclays commissioned an independent engineer to inspect  the car at this stage. He 
confirmed that the fault had been  caused  by the oil being overfilled. He suggested  the over 
filling may have happened  because the oil gauge was broken. Barclays  agreed to replace 
the engine on the car and Mrs M got the car back in January 2017 but in February 2018 
she reported further, similar, problems with the car. The car had completed  over 14,000 
miles on the new engine.
Barclays arranged for an oil test but this identified the wrong oil had been used in the car 
and this had resulted in excessive wear to the crankshaft, piston rings and bearings. So they 
rejected Mrs Ms complaint on these grounds and also because 12 months  and more  than 
12,000 miles had elapsed since they replaced  the engine  and this meant the warranty on the 
work had expired. They didnt think it was fair to expect them  to take any further action.
So Mrs M arranged her own inspection of the vehicle. This suggested the right oil had been 
used and was critical of the work  Barclays had completed to the car. 
But Barclays  didnt accept  Mrs Ms new evidence.  They pointed out that the sample of oil 
Mrs M had tested was newer  and wouldnt be the same as the one theyd checked at the 
time the fault arose.  They  explained  that the car had been  emptied of oil at the time of their 
independent oil test so they couldnt  understand where the oil, Mrs Ms appointed inspectors 
used, had come from. In any case they insisted it was clear  the new fault had been caused 
by the wrong oil being used and they wouldnt support Mrs Ms request for them  to take 
further action.
Our investigator eventually agreed with Barclays. He accepted that the fault appeared to 
have been caused by the wrong oil being  used and didnt think  it was fair to hold Barclays 
responsible for this. 
But Mrs M disagreed. She said shed  arrange a further inspection to demonstrate  that the 
repair Barclays had done was inadequate. But the deadline the inspector agreed with Mrs M, 
for providing  this report, has now passed and the report hasnt been provided. So Mrs Ms 
complaint has been referred to an ombudsman to make  a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators view and for similar reasons.  Please  let me explain why.
Ref: DRN86487632Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mrs M acquired  her vehicle under a conditional sale agreement. The relevant law says that 
the car should  have been of satisfactory  quality when supplied  and if it wasnt  then Barclays  
is responsible. 
Barclays dont accept  they agreed  to replace the cars engine because there was anything 
wrong with the vehicle  when it was supplied. They say they came to an arrangement with the 
broker to pay part of the repair bill. Their contribution to the £7,500  cost was just short  of 
£2,800. I dont think its likely theyd have been prepared  to pay this if there hadnt been 
some concerns about their responsibility. If the initial engine  failure had been  present, or had 
been developing, at the point of supply  then that repair would need to be effective or Id be 
supported by the relevant  law in asking  Barclays to do something to put things right.
But here Im not persuaded that the subsequent  fault with the engine  that Mrs M experienced 
in February 2018  is related. I say that because:
the independent report arranged by Barclays suggests the wear  to the engine is a 
result of the wrong engine oil being used
theres no evidence  that anything has gone  wrong with the engine  that isnt a result  of 
the wrong oil being  used
the car has completed significant mileage and significant time has passed since  the 
engine was replaced
I understand that Mrs Ms subsequent  oil analysis has suggested that the correct oil has 
been used but Im less persuaded by that report than I am by the independent  report  
commissioned by Barclays. I say that because Barclays report was commissioned as soon 
as the fault was reported and Mrs Ms wasnt completed for a further four months. There  are 
also question marks over where the oil sample  came from as Barclays  have explained  that 
the car was drained of oil when their experts took their initial sample.  And, even if the oil 
sample was taken correctly, as Mrs Ms analysis was organised by the garage who may 
have put the wrong oil in the car, I dont think it can be said to be as independent  as the 
report commissioned by Barclays.
Mrs M has said that the engine replacement wasnt done properly  but shes not provided  
evidence to support  this and whilst  there were initial concerns that the cost of the engine 
replacement work was suspiciously inexpensive, I can see that Barclays has now explained 
the total project came in at over £7,000.  This  is much more in line with the cost expectations 
of Mrs Ms garage who had initially raised  the concern. They said a new engine  would cost 
£4,000 plus VAT plus fitting. So I think its most  likely the repair  was a comprehensive and 
adequate repair.
The warranty for the replacement engine covered 12,000 miles or a year, whichever  came  
first. That seems a reasonable period but as Mrs M didnt  report  the failure for more than a 
year it had, unfortunately, expired.  
Ref: DRN86487633So I dont  think theres evidence here to suggest  the current problems with the car are 
related to the work done  to replace the engine  or are related to any other  issue that may 
have been present at the point of supply. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8648763