K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
January 1995.  Miss S says Lloyds Bank  PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold her the PPI. 
Lloyds doesnt  know when the PPI was sold, but it has relied on a default  date of January 
1995. The earliest date for which weve seen  PPI appearing on one of Miss Ss credit card 
statements is 2000. So, when investigating this complaint, we have looked at how Lloyds 
sold PPI between 1995 and 2000,  on the basis it must have been sold in that period.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Ss case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Neither Miss S nor Lloyds  can provide the actual credit card application which Miss S filled 
in, which  is hardly surprising considering that this took place over 20 years ago. Lloyds has 
provided a sample  of an application  form which it says was in use around the time.  Whilst I 
dont know for certain whether this is the same document that Miss S would have seen, 
without persuasive  evidence to suggest otherwise, I think its likely  to be the same.  On this 
sample application form there is a section for PPI and there is the option to tick the box if the 
cover is required. Miss S would have  had to tick the box in order  for the PPI to be added to 
her account.
So, on balance, based on everything Ive seen and been told, and also taking into 
consideration what we know  about  how Lloyds sold these policies at the time, I think  its likely 
that Lloyds made  Miss S aware the policy was optional and she agreed to take it out, 
knowing she could refuse it if she didnt want it.
Lloyds doesnt  have any details of how the policy was sold but it has looked at the complaint 
as though it did give advice. As it puts a greater responsibility on Lloyds, rather than Miss S, 
Ive reviewed this complaint on the basis Lloyds recommended the PPI. This means  it had to 
check that the PPI was right for her  and based  on what  Ive seen of her circumstances at 
the time,  I think that it was. For example she appears to have been eligible for the policy  and 
doesnt seem to have  been affected  by any of the main exclusions or limitations of such  PPI 
cover  such as unusual working  arrangements  or suffering from a medical condition of 
which she was already aware.
Miss S has said she would not have needed the policy as she would receive six months  full 
followed by 6 months half sick pay from her employer if she was too ill to work. But this 
policy would cover 10% of the outstanding balance of her account for up to 12 months  if she 
was too sick to work or she lost her job. And this would  be in addition  to, and potentially  for 
longer than, any other pay she would receive at a full rate. 
Miss S has she had a life and critical illness cover policy. But this is separate product to PPI 
and wouldnt  have  covered the same thing that a PPI policy would have. 
Ref: DRN81211892So taking everything in to account,  I still think she wouldve found the PPI useful should she 
have lost her job or become unwell. 
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Miss S about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve 
been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And it seems  
like it would have been useful for her if something went  wrong. It also looks like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put her off taking out 
the cover. 
This means  Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss S. But Lloyds 
has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss S because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Miss S about  that. Because  Lloyds didnt tell Miss S, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Miss S has said but these points dont change my decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Miss S.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Miss S any commission and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 September 2019.
Sonia Hussain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8121189