K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that UK Property  Finance Limited caused  them  to pay fees which  
werent refundable for a loan application which couldnt proceed.
To resolve  their complaint  they seek compensation for their financial losses  and for the 
stress and upset caused to them.
background
Mr and Mrs H employed UKPF as mortgage broker to obtain a first charge  bridging loan.
UKPF obtained an illustration and an offer from lender  M which Mr and Mrs H accepted.  
Both of these documents said that the security  for the loan would be a first charge on 
Mr and Mrs Hs house. 
However the legal  charge which M sent to Mr and Mrs Hs solicitors also contained a charge 
over all of their assets. This change wasnt acceptable to Mr and Mrs H and the loan 
application didnt  proceed.
Mr and Mrs H complained  to UKPF.  They said UKPF should have notified them as soon as it 
knew it couldnt offer them  a loan on the original terms, and in any case  before they paid 
substantial fees.  Theyd  lost money in paying  these fees through the failure of UKPF  to tell 
them that the terms had changed.  Theyd  paid the fees before they knew about the change. 
They sought  a refund of a valuation fee and legal fees which  they had paid to UKPF, plus 
their solicitors fees and compensation  for the stress  and upset caused.
UKPF said that any complaint should  be made to M. UKPF had instructed M that the charge 
would be against  the house  as requested. It hadnt seen the charge  documents,  as these 
were handled  between M and Mr and Mrs Hs solicitor. UKPF wasnt aware of any issues 
before the money was spent. 
It said its terms of business said that fees were non-refundable once paid and would usually 
be lost if the case  failed to complete. UKPF couldnt be held responsible for refunding any 
such loss. The fees paid by Mr and Mrs H were used by M to cover  the costs  of the valuation 
and Ms legal  team.
Mr and Mrs H then brought their complaint to this service but our adjudicator didnt 
recommend it be upheld. He said the legal charge wasnt sent to UKPF, so he didnt think it 
could have been aware of the all assets clause.
UKPF had submitted the application based on Mr and Mrs Hs requirements for the security 
to be on the house and an offer was issued detailing this. The adjudicator didnt  think  UKPF 
had made  an error when  M added the clause. M had chosen to include it after the mortgage 
offer was issued. 
Mr and Mrs H didnt agree so the complaints been  passed to me for review.  
They said UKPF had told them  this was a standard clause in all Ms offers and it had found  
the same  clause in other lenders offers. They said that if that was true then M hadnt chosen 
to include it after the mortgage offer was issued. 
Ref: DRN83656762As the party which had requested the payments,  UKPF  should  have compensated them,  and 
if it felt that it hadnt been fully informed about the terms of the loan, it could have asked M to 
in turn compensate UKPF.
They said that as professional brokers UKPF should have checked with M that the terms of 
the loan matched Mr and Mrs Hs requirements before asking them to pay non-refundable 
fees. 
And if UKPF thought the clause was standard industry practice  it should  have been aware  of 
this and informed  Mr and Mrs H before asking them to pay these fees.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
M offered  to lend money  to Mr and Mrs H on the security of their house, and they accepted 
that offer and paid the fees required. M then sent to their solicitor a legal charge which  didnt 
match the offer and wasnt acceptable to them, so the fees were wasted.
I can quite see that in those circumstances Mr and Mrs H might be dissatisfied with M, and I 
note that M has made a goodwill payment to them. On the evidence  Ive seen M knew,  or 
should have known, that the document it sent to Mr and Mrs Hs solicitor  didnt  match the 
offer it had made.
But I dont agree that UKPF was at fault in failing to check with M that the terms of the loan 
matched Mr and Mrs Hs requirements before asking them to pay non-refundable fees.  At 
the time the fees were  required, Ms position did match those requirements. 
Even if the all assets clause was standard industry  practice in this type of loan (and Im not 
convinced that it was),  M had nevertheless offered to make the loan on the security  of the 
house only.
Therefore I cant see any basis for making an award against UKPF.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to accept or reject my decision 
before 4 February 2019.
Edward Callaghan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8365676