K820x#14complaint
Mr J has complained that Acromas Insurance Company Limited (Acromas) unfairly rejected 
a claim he made under  his breakdown repair cover (BRC) policy.
Mr Js initial  complaint was about claims he made for two separate cars. Mr J has since told 
us that he sold one of his cars and has asked  us to make a decision on one of his claims 
only.
background
Mr J says he was driving his car when the engine  light came on and it suffered  a sudden 
loss of power. He says the car went into safety mode and he managed  to drive home 
slowly. Mr J called for assistance and a patrol agent  attended the next day.
Mr J says the patrol agent found a fault with the Exhaust Gas Recirculation (EGR) valve and 
made a temporary  repair, so he could continue using the car over the Christmas  period. Mr J 
had the EGR valve replaced around four weeks later and made a claim against his BRC 
policy.
Acromas declined his claim saying that Mr J didnt  suffer a breakdown under the terms of the 
policy. It says Mr J was able to drive around  1600 miles before taking his car to a garage for 
repair. As such, the car wasnt prevented from starting or continuing its journey safely, which  
was required under the policy terms for a valid claim.
Mr J argued that the patrol agents  temporary repair was to bypass the EGR valve using  a 
blanking plate, but the EGR valve remained faulty  until he got it repaired. Mr J complained to 
Acromas, but it maintained that the claim for repair wasnt covered under the policy.
Our investigator said he thought the circumstances  met the definition of a breakdown,  so 
Acromas was unfair to decline the claim.  Acromas disagreed and asked  me to issue  a 
decision.
I issued my provision decision on 12 July 2019  and my findings are set out below. 
my provisional findings 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my provisional decision 
is not to uphold this complaint as I have  reached  a different outcome to our investigator. Ill 
explain why.
Ref: DRN86913292The policy defines  a breakdown as:
Breakdown: A sudden  or unexpected event involving the Nominated Vehicle:
a) As a result of Mechanical  or Electrical Failure; and
b) Which  has been attended by the AA under Your AA membership; and
c) That has prevented the Nominated  Vehicle from starting or continuing its journey safely; 
and
d) That requires  the repair  or replacement of insured part(s) to enable  the journey to be 
resumed or, when home start cover  is held under Your AA membership, commenced
Im satisfied the event  happened suddenly and unexpectedly while Mr J was driving.  I accept 
that whilst  Mr J did manage to drive home in safety mode, he believed he was unable  to start 
a new journey so he called  a patrol  agent.
Its not disputed  that the patrol  agent  found a fault with the EGR valve.  However,  Ive 
considered how it was possible for Mr J to drive for around 1600  miles before taking his car 
to a garage,  which seems to be the main reason the claim was declined.
In this case, the policy requires the fault to prevent Mr J from starting his journey safely. Mr J 
says the patrol agent temporarily repaired the EGR  valve and Acromas says the patrol  agent  
only cleared the fault code and asked Mr J to take the car to a garage.  On review of the 
patrol agents report, it states:
Exhaust-gas recirculation solenoid valve. Error Message: Faulty  operation. Sporadic Fault  
Patrol carried out the following special function/s:  Function tests Special functions 
Adjustments / settings.
The report  doesnt  mention anything about a temporary repair,  especially bypassing the 
EGR valve. It does mention adjustments, but its not entirely clear what this means. I would 
expect more information to be in the report if the patrol  agent  had indeed altered the function 
of, or bypassed any part of the car. Ive also checked with the garage that repaired  the car 
for Mr J, but no one could  remember  if a blanking plate was fitted. Considering the content  of 
the report, and the lack of evidence  to show there  was a temporary  repair completed, I think  
its more likely than not that these adjustments  were to the settings, which  is more consistent  
with resetting a fault code.
The patrol agent also reports a sporadic fault with the EGR  valve. In other  words,  the fault 
was intermittent, which usually means  it occurs  at intervals between periods of normal  
function. In the absence  of evidence to support that the patrol agent temporarily repaired the 
car or that the car was left with the symptoms  of the fault, Im more persuaded to think that 
the patrol agent reset the sporadic fault code and asked Mr J to take his car to a garage.
Because of this, I dont think the circumstances  of this claim meet  the policy definition of a 
breakdown, more specifically, I dont think the fault prevented the car from starting its 
journey safely.  As such, I wont be asking  Acromas to settle Mr Js claim.
the responses to my provisional  findings  
Acromas didnt respond to my provisional decision. 
Mr J responded to my provisional decision.  Mr J said that it wasnt his fault that the patrol 
agent didnt mention fitting the blanking plate on the report, and he is sure the patrol agent 
Ref: DRN86913293did fit the blanking  plate. Hes added that using  a blanking  plate  is a common temporary 
repair for a faulty  EGR valve. 
Hes also said the fault would not be fixed by simply clearing  the fault code and the fault 
would reoccur without  the patrol  agent fitting the blanking plate. Mr J also felt that driving the 
car in safety mode or limp home mode was not safe as the car had a loss of power.  So, he 
feels the circumstances of his claim meet the definition  of a breakdown and the claim  should  
be paid. 
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Its my role to decide  whether allowing 
Acromas to decline Mr Js claim under his policy produces a fair and reasonable outcome to 
Mr Js complaint. On review of all the evidence again and Mr Js further points,  Ive decided 
not to change from the view I set out in my provisional decision. 
While I understand that fitting a blanking plate is a common temporary repair  for a faulty 
EGR valve, I must  look at the evidence to decide  whether it was likely the patrol agent fitted 
one. I appreciate that Mr J didnt  have any control over what  the patrol agent put in the 
report. But, the fact remains that there  is no record of the blanking  plate being fitted to the 
car. Together with the fault code  showing a sporadic or intermittent fault,  I find it more likely 
than not that once  the fault code was cleared, there  was a period  of normal  function  and this 
allowed Mr J to drive for a period of time.
So, while I appreciate Mr J is sure this is what the agent told him, Im not persuaded that he 
did fit a blanking plate  to his car. Therefore, I dont think the fault Mr J had when he 
contacted his roadside assistance provider prevented the car from starting its journey safely,  
which is a requirement  of the policy.  For this reason, it dont think  it would  produce  a fair and 
reasonable outcome to this complaint if I made Acromas settle Mr Js claim. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  in my provisional decision,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this 
complaint against  Acromas insurance Company Limited. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 September  2019.
Jamie Sutherland
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8691329