K820x#14complaint 
Miss W complains she was mis-sold  life and critical illness cover (CIC) by Lloyds Bank PLC. 
In summary  she says:
She was under the impression that shed bought a joint policy  with her partner. 
She thought  her daughter  was also covered in the event of a claim. 
Her command of English was poor so the policies  shouldnt have been sold.  
background
In my provisional decision of 18 June  2019,  a copy of which  is attached and forms part of 
this, my final decision, I said on balance I wasnt satisfied the 2013 recommendation was 
suitable.  
I invited both parties to let me have any further  representations they wished for me to 
consider before making my final decision.   
I havent received  a response from Miss W. 
Lloyds responded and disagreed with my provisional decision. In summary,  it made  the 
following key points:
In 2008, Miss W only wanted to discuss CIC, the policy included life cover at no extra 
cost to her.  
In 2013, the same  adviser made an appointment to meet  with Miss W  it was 
customary to maintain contact  and Miss W wanted her personal circumstances and 
policies reviewed five years later. 
By then she was 46 years of age, employed  but with no employee benefits, and her 
preferred retirement age was 65. 
Her monthly income  was recorded  £1,500 which meant she had net disposable 
income of £735. 
The initial £90,000 figure recommended was correct based on the advisers computer 
programme. But taking  into account her existing policy she wanted  a 
recommendation based on £53,000  worth of cover. 
The advisor recommended cover  at a cost of £63.56 but Miss W had allocated  only 
£40 to meet that need. She didnt want to pay more than £40 a month for this. It 
wasnt that she couldnt afford more. 
The Protection Analysis Report shows  that she agreed to start two policies to meet 
her identified  need which provided the following:
o£28,815 increasing CIC and Life cover and £60,515 life cover,  at a monthly 
cost of £39.90.   
In the circumstances the monthly  premium wasnt unaffordable.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and notwithstanding  the points made by the Lloyds, my conclusion remains 
as set out previously, and for the same  reasons.  I partially uphold  this complaint. 
Ref: DRN89934192Ive considered Lloyds points in relation to the 2013  recommendations.  I dont  really  
consider that any new points have been raised,  other than those already made and 
considered by me in my provisional decision. Ive considered all the points that I consider 
relevant to my decision.  
I think there were some inconsistencies with the fact find in 2008 and 2013. I appreciate 
Lloyds might say that it can only advise  based  on the information given, but on balance  Im 
not persuaded that Miss W wouldve intentionally  provided incorrect  information  relating to 
her circumstances.  
In this instance, I dont  agree that Lloyds distinction between what  she could afford, and 
what she wanted to afford  towards paying  for this additional cover,  applies. I appreciate she 
had an increase in her income but the 2013  policies were designed to increase in level of 
cover and cost over time which doesnt assist with her finances.  
But even if I were to agree with Lloyds about  the affordability issue, it still doesnt dissuade  
me from concluding that there was no need  for the policies. As Ive said in my provisional 
decision Im not persuaded that Miss Ws circumstances  had changed  such that she needed 
this additional  cover. 
Even though  its likely she had no employee  benefits, she still had CIC cover  from 2008 
which I thought  was suitable.   
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, and in my provisional  decision,  I uphold this complaint. 
Lloyds Bank  PLC should refund the premiums for the policies sold in 2013, with 8% simple 
interest from date of payment to date of settlement.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN89934193COPY OF MY PROVISIONAL DECISION 
complaint
Miss W complains she was mis-sold life and critical  illness cover (CIC)  by Lloyds Bank PLC. 
In summary she says:
She was under the impression that shed  bought a joint policy with her partner.  
She thought her daughter was also covered in the event of a claim. 
Her command of English was poor so the policies shouldnt have been sold.  
background
One of our investigators considered the complaint  but didnt think  it should be upheld.  In summary,  he 
said:
The 2008  recommendation was suitable:
oMiss W had no cover  in place at the time.  
oShe wanted to provide cover for herself and her daughter in the event of death  or 
critical illness. 
oThe premiums were affordable. 
oThere was nothing in the policy  to suggest it didnt  provide effective cover. 
The 2013  policy was also suitable. 
oMiss W wanted to increase  her CIC to three times her salary. 
oBecause she had a budget  of £40 a month she couldnt afford this but was able to get 
additional CIC for her budget. 
The investigator has seen nothing from the point of sale documentation  that suggests  Miss W 
was told she had a joint life and CIC policy with her partner.  
oThe 2008  recommendation was made in light of Miss Ws financial circumstances 
only. It covered Miss Ws annual income which ought to have made  her aware the 
policy was only in relation to her. She was also the only one who signed  the 
declaration. 
Miss W didnt ask for documentation  in her native language. If she had no idea what  the 
policy covered she could have.  
Although Miss Ws daughter was covered, this wasnt a guarantee that shed be covered  for 
every eventuality irrespective of the type of illness. And just because there were exclusions 
doesnt mean the policy  was mis-sold. 
On balance Miss W was aware she didnt  have to proceed with the recommendation.  
Miss W disagreed with the investigators conclusions. She maintains the cover was misrepresented 
and she didnt  get suitable  cover for her daughter.  In summary, she says:
She signed the documentation on the basis of what was described to her verbally.
The policy  matched four/five times her earnings. 
She said she was told the policy  would  cover her daughter for any accidents and hospital 
admissions. She wasnt  told itd cover only some critical  illnesses.  
In 2008, she didnt have  any insurance and her objective was to cover her closest family 
members. 
The documentation had incorrectly  recorded:
oshed been in the country for five years  when shed been in the country a year.  
oShe did 20% manual work, when she did 100%.
oHer income was incorrect. 
She didnt  know what she was signing and only did what she was asked to. 
She wasnt told she could  get an interpreter. 
Ref: DRN89934194In 2013, she found out that her daughter was only covered for conditions such as myocardial 
infarction, hypertension  or cancer conditions  that were more common with the elderly.  
In 2013, Miss W was advised to take out cover that covered her and her partner but for a 
shorter period of time that was more expensive and a duplication  of what  she had. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed for me to review.  
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Having done so, subject  to any further provisions, provisionally Im minded to partially  uphold this 
complaint. 
On the face of the evidence and on balance, despite what Miss W says I dont think  I can safely  say 
the 2008  recommendation was unsuitable. However,  on balance Im minded to say the 2013 policies 
were mis-sold. 
Before I explain further why this is the case, its important for me to note I recognise Miss Ws strength 
of feeling about this matter.
She has provided detailed submissions to support the complaint, which  Ive read and considered 
carefully. However, I hope Miss W wont take the fact my findings focus on what  I consider to be the 
central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy.
The purpose  of my decision isnt to address every single  point raised. My role is to consider the 
evidence presented by Miss W and the Lloyds, and reach what  I think  is an independent, fair and 
reasonable decision based on the facts  of the case.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must take into account the relevant  law, regulation and best 
industry practice but Im not bound by this. Its for me to decide, based on the information  Ive been 
given, whats more likely than not to have happened.
Its unlikely Miss W could get a plan, that covered  every eventuality, and certainly  not at the premium 
she was paying. Ive seen  nothing to suggest that Miss W was told her daughter would  be covered  for 
every illness. So, just because she was unable to make a successful claim  for her daughter,  because 
of exclusions, doesnt mean the recommendation  was unsuitable. 
I note Miss W is particularly unhappy that her daughter wasnt covered for bone breaks  and hospital 
admissions but only for illnesses she says are more common  with the elderly.  The injuries Miss W 
refers to, such as bone breaks, dont generally come under the ambit of CIC, which ought  to have 
been reasonably clear  from the name and type of cover she was applying for.   
Whilst I appreciate  Miss Ws command of English wasnt perfect in 2008, and its possible that some 
things said were lost in translation, I dont think this means the policy was mis-sold. Im mindful  at the 
time Miss W was employed and was generally  capable  of conducting  her own affairs   such  as 
banking  without the aid of an interpreter.  
I appreciate Miss W says she wasnt  clear about her rights and what  she could and couldnt  ask for. 
But if she didnt bring to the advisers attention that she didnt understand some of what was being  
said, I dont think I can blame the business for this. She couldve asked for an interpreter, and 
subsequently asked for documentation  in her native language. 
Miss W says she wasnt told she could  get an interpreter but she wasnt told that she couldnt. And I 
note one of the staff members she initially spoke to was from the same country as her and was likely  
Ref: DRN89934195to have spoken  the same language, and couldve  been  asked to sit in on the meeting if she wasnt 
confident about her command  of English.     
Notwithstanding potential language issues, Ive seen nothing preventing Miss W from having  cover for 
her and her daughter, or that prevented Lloyds  from selling cover  to her. 
Despite what Miss W says,  Ive also seen no evidence  that the adviser  deliberately took advantage  of 
the situation and made Miss W sign papers  that related to a different policy to the one they discussed.  
I cant  see that thered be any advantage in the adviser doing this. I note theres  a discrepancy in 
terms of her income in 2008,  but it seems the adviser can only go on the information provided by Miss 
W.  
I think  its unlikely Miss W could get a plan, that covered  every  eventuality and certainly not at the 
premium she was paying. Ive seen nothing to suggest  that Miss W was told her daughter  would be 
covered for everything. And just because Miss W was unable to make a successful claim  for her 
daughter  because there were exclusions   doesnt mean the recommendation was unsuitable.  
I know Miss W isnt happy  that her daughter  wasnt covered for bone breaks and hospital  admissions  
but what  she instead calls illnesses more common with the elderly. But the injuries shes described  
dont come under  critical  illnesses. I appreciate its possible this may have been lost in translation but 
I dont think I can blame the adviser for this. He wouldnt necessarily have known Miss W didnt 
understand. 
So, it seems  Miss Ws daughter was covered  under her plan until her daughter reached the age of 21. 
But this didnt  mean  that she was covered for every eventuality.  Its common for CIC plans  to cover  
certain illnesses and exclude  others  this isnt unique  to Lloyds. 
I appreciate Miss W might have thought she had a joint policy, but on the face of the evidence and on 
balance Im unable to say that this is what she was told. Its possible  she was mistaken  because  the 
policy covered her daughter, and so she thought it was a joint policy. 
In 2013, Miss W was advised to take another  life and CIC policy, and a life cover,  for a term of 19 
years. I appreciate Miss W says she thought she had joint cover. But Ive seen no evidence to 
suggest that she needed additional life and/or CIC at this point. Ive seen nothing to suggest  that her 
circumstances had changed  to warrant this change. 
I also think  that the overall premiums  not withstanding a small increase in her income  were 
unaffordable. So, on the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im minded to say the 2013 polices  
were mis-sold and Miss W is entitled to a refund  of her premiums with 8% simple interest.  
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, subject to any further submissions, provisionally Im minded to partially 
uphold this complaint. 
Provisionally I think  Lloyds  Bank PLC should refund  the premiums for the policies sold in 2013,  with 
8% simple interest. 
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8993419