K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that Canada Square Operations Limited (trading as Egg), mis-sold him a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
I set out the full background to this complaint in my provisional decision which I issued in 
May 2019. Ive attached that provisional  decision here and it forms part of my final decision.
I invited both parties to comment  or provide more evidence.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party had any further substantive comments to make on the decision,  so I dont see 
a reason to depart  from my provisional findings. 
I dont think Mr P lost out as a result of anything Egg mightve done wrong, so Im not 
upholding this complaint.
my final decision
Im not upholding Mr Ps complaint, so it follows  that Canada Square  Operations Limited, 
trading as Egg doesnt have to pay any compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 August 2019.
Sally Allbeury
ombudsman
Provisional  decision
background
Mr P took out a credit card online with Egg in 2000. At the same time he bought a PPI policy which 
wouldve helped cover  the repayments on his card if he wasnt able to work due to an accident, 
sickness or redundancy.
Mr P says that he thought the PPI was compulsory.  He says he didnt need it.
The adjudicator thought that Mr Ps complaint should be upheld.  Egg disagrees, so the case  has been 
passed to me to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Ref: DRN81293962Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website and Ive taken this into 
account when deciding this case. Having done so, I dont intend to uphold this complaint. Ill explain 
why Ive reached this decision.
Mr P says that he thought he had to have the PPI. Egg has provided  screenshots of the process Mr P 
followed to add the PPI. It gives a clear  choice whether to take it, and Mr P couldnt have progressed 
through the credit  card application without deciding one way or the other.  So Im satisfied that Mr P 
bought the PPI knowing  he had a choice about  it.
Egg didnt  give Mr P a personal recommendation  about  taking the PPI, so it didnt need to take steps 
to make sure it was right for him. But it did need to give Mr P enough information so he could make 
his own mind  up about  it. 
The adjudicator who first looked at Mr Ps complaint thought that Egg didnt give Mr P enough 
information about the cost of the PPI. I agree with the adjudicator on this point.  It wasnt made clear 
that the PPI would be added  to the credit  card balance  and that it would attract  interest. It also didnt 
make it clear that if Mr P made a claim then hed still have to keep paying  the cost of the PPI. But this 
doesnt mean  I should automatically uphold Mr Ps complaint.
The adjudicator thought this would  have  made a difference to Mr Ps decision to buy the PPI, because  
he wouldve been able to retire early  if he was off sick for a long time  and Mr P had a good pension 
and lump sum available to him. 
Ive thought carefully about  this. Mr P wouldve been entitled to good sick pay if he was too ill to work, 
but it wouldnt have been paid in full for as long as the PPI wouldve paid out. Mr P provided  evidence 
of his pension arrangements and stated  that he wouldve retired  early if hed been too ill to work. Egg 
responded that this wouldnt have been a rational response to a need to cover his credit  card 
repayments if, say, Mr P had broken his leg. I think this suggestion is disingenuous. I dont think  Mr P 
wouldve been  off work for up to a year with a broken leg. I think hed have been more  concerned 
about serious  illnesses which could require lengthy  treatment and time off work. 
But I do appreciate Eggs argument that the PPI would  have provided  Mr P with a useful benefit. I 
have to remember that Mr P chose to take out the PPI, so it seems that he wanted this type of cover,  
and I dont think  the missing  cost information wouldve made  any significant difference  to Mr Ps 
decision to buy it. The cost was low compared to most other  similar PPI policies available  at the time. 
Mr P hasnt told us that he had any savings he couldve  used  to cover  all his uninsured expenses if he 
wasnt working. And Ive noted  that Mr P transferred a significant credit balance to his card almost 
immediately  meaning that the monthly repayments wouldve been more than a minimal amount  
each month.  
Mr P is likely to have received a reasonable sum if he were made  redundant. I think Mr P wouldve at 
least understood that the PPI wouldve made a payment if he was out of work, even if he didnt know 
all the finer details  and it was up to him to decide if he wanted the cover.  
So, on balance,  I dont think the missing  information about the cost wouldve  made a difference  to Mr 
Ps decision to buy the PPI.
Looking at the rest of Mr Ps circumstances  it doesnt  look as though he wouldve been affected  by 
any of the terms which mightve made it more difficult for him to make a successful claim, and which 
might not have been explained well by Egg  such as those terms related  to self-employment or 
existing medical conditions. The policy was flexible as it couldve been cancelled at any time without a 
financial penalty. And I havent seen anything to suggest  it was unaffordable for Mr P. 
So I dont think Mr P lost out as a result  of anything Egg mightve done wrong. 
Ref: DRN81293963my provisional  decision
Im not currently intending  to uphold Mr Ps complaint, which means  that Canada  Square Operations 
Limited wouldnt have to pay Mr P any compensation. But I will consider any further evidence or 
representations either party wishes to make  by 20 June 2019 before making my final decision.
Sally Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8129396