K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs A are unhappy with the tone of letters they received from Lloyds Bank PLC in 
relation to their mortgage. 
background
Mr and Mrs A had an interest only mortgage with Lloyds. In April 2018, they began receiving 
letters reminding them  that the term was due to end in the next 12 months and that theyd 
therefore need to have  a lump sum available to repay the balance. 
Mr and Mrs A complained to Lloyds  about  the tone of these letters.  They  said that the 
standard letters demanded payment from them and warned them of the end of their 
mortgage term. They were also unhappy  that there  was no acknowledgement  of their 13 
year payment history  nor an apology that Lloyds could  no longer assist them. 
Lloyds said they would  arrange  for chaser letters  to stop, but said they couldnt stop 
automated letters being sent out as they were obliged to send them to customers  nearing  
the end of their mortgage term. 
Our investigator asked  Lloyds initially to pay £50 because Mr A had said thats what  theyd 
be prepared to accept  and Lloyds agreed to do this. But shortly after this, Mr and Mrs A 
received another letter from Lloyds about the end of the mortgage term  even  though theyd 
recently redeemed  their mortgage.  They  asked  for additional compensation  which our 
investigator asked Lloyds to consider. Lloyds didnt  agree that further compensation was 
warranted. And our investigator considered whether further compensation was needed. She 
said, in summary, that she didnt  think it was because  Lloyds had warned Mr and Mrs A in 
their final response that they might still get letters about the end of the mortgage term.
Mr and Mrs A didnt  accept the investigators view. They said Lloyds  had sent a further letter 
after theyd redeemed their mortgage  and this was unacceptable.  So the complaints been 
passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with Mr and Mrs A that Lloyds final response letter was unhelpful, as its not really 
clear what  Lloyds are saying they can or cant do in relation to the letters being sent out. 
That being  said,  I dont  think  this makes a difference  to the outcome of Mr and Mrs As 
complaint and Ill explain why. 
The FCA guidance says that a lender should be in touch regularly with customers  whose 
interest only mortgages are due to end. So I dont think there was anything wrong in Lloyds 
sending the reminders.  And Ive looked at the letters and I dont agree theres  anything  
inappropriate in the content  or the tone. 
I dont agree that there was any inappropriate  demand for payment  from Mr and Mrs A. 
Theres no dispute that Mr and Mrs A owed  the remaining balance and that the mortgage 
term was coming to an end. So I dont think it was unreasonable of Lloyds to write to Mr and 
Mrs A in these terms. 
Ref: DRN86366952I understand Mr and Mrs A feel there shouldve been an acknowledgement  of their good 
payment history as long standing customers. But these were  standard  reminder letters  and 
theres no obligation on Lloyds to do this. I dont think that because Mr and Mrs A always  
made payments to their mortgage  in line with the agreement with the bank means Lloyds 
shouldnt have contacted them about  repayment of the capital at the end of the term. Or that 
Lloyds shouldve done so in different terms. So I wouldnt have expected  Lloyds to have 
mentioned these things.  
However, I dont think Lloyds dealt with Mr and Mrs As enquiries about these letters clearly. 
And I think this has caused  them some  inconvenience.  As I dont think theres anything 
wrong with the letters  being  sent in the first place,  I dont think  Lloyds  needs  to compensate 
Mr and Mrs A for this. But I do think its appropriate that Lloyds compensates them for not 
providing them with a clear response to their comments about  the letters  and having 
considered the circumstances I think the £50 Lloyds has already offered is fair and 
reasonable. 
Mr and Mrs A remain unhappy that a further  reminder was sent out, which they received 
after theyd repaid and closed their mortgage account. Lloyds have said the reminder letter  
wouldve been sent before Mr and Mrs A had actually closed their account,  so I think its 
most likely the reminder letter and the closure  letter crossed in the post. I dont know why, if 
it was sent at the start of March, Mr and Mrs A didnt get it until the end of the month. But I 
dont think this makes a difference to the outcome of their complaint because by the time 
they received  the letter they knew theyd repaid and closed their mortgage  with Lloyds. So 
although it wouldve  been frustrating for Mr and Mrs A to receive yet another reminder, I 
think they knew at this point it was safe to ignore it. And as the impact of this was relatively 
minor, I dont think this warrants  further  compensation.
my final decision
Lloyds have agreed to pay Mr and Mrs A £50 in recognition of the worry and inconvenience 
theyve been caused. I think thats  fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances. 
My final decision is that Lloyds Bank PLC should  pay Mr and Mrs A £50 if they havent 
already done so.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 November 2019.
Eleanor Rippengale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8636695