K820x#14complaint
Miss Ms unhappy with the valuation esure Insurance Limited has made of her car in a claim 
on her motor insurance policy.
background
Miss Ms car was stolen. When it was found it was deemed to be a write off. Esure valued 
the car at £2,747 but deducted 20% from this offer as the car had previously been a total 
loss. And it paid her £2,197 less her £250 policy excess. Miss M isnt happy with this 
valuation and the deduction applied as she says it wasnt her fault her car had previously 
been a total loss. 
Esure said in its final response that its valuation fairly  reflected  the cars market  value at the 
time it was stolen and as defined in the policy  terms. Its been able to get two valuations  for 
the car from three of the main trade guides. They say its value was between  £2,634  and 
£2,860. Its used the average of £2,747 from which its deducted 20% as the car was 
previously a total loss. 
Our investigator felt this complaint  shouldnt be upheld.  She said:
Miss Ms policy says the most esure will pay is the cars market  value. And thats 
defined as the amount she could reasonably have expected  to sell the car for on the 
open market immediately before the theft. And it will base its assessment  on the 
value of similar cars and the values shown  on the main trade guides.
We find the valuations  in the main  trade  guides most persuasive when looking at 
market value. They are based  on likely selling process of cars. Here  three  of the 
main trade guides show values  for Miss Ms car of £2,666, £2,639  and £2,860. 
Esures offer of £2,747 exceeds  the average  of these  values.
Miss M says she knew the car had previously  been a total loss before  she bought it. 
This can put off potential buyers and affect  its value.  For this reason its fair for esure 
to deduct 20% for this.
Esures valuation is fair under the terms of Miss Ms policy.
Miss M doesnt agree and has asked for an ombudsman review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators conclusions for the same reasons.
Miss Ms policy says esure will settle the claim by paying her the market  value  of her car at 
the time of loss. And that is the amount she couldve sold it for at that time. That sum isnt 
necessarily the same  amount that she bought  the car for or the cost to her of actually 
replacing it. 
Ref: DRN81919022We dont provide a precise valuation of a car. We consider  if the offer being made is 
reasonable. We normally base this on the various  trade guides  and we will also look at any 
other evidence produced  including adverts. But I place most weight on the values  in the 
main trade guides as theyre based  on likely  selling  prices  rather than advertised prices,  
which allow  a margin for negotiation.
Trade guide prices  are by their very nature averages  and variations in actual figures may 
occur from place to place. Nevertheless  I think its fair and reasonable to use them to assess 
esures offer. 
In this case its clear esures  valuation  of £2,747 is higher than the average  of the main trade 
guide valuations.  
I also think it fair for esure to take into account the effect the car having  previously  been  a 
total loss may have  on its saleability and value. I think a 20% deduction for that is 
reasonable. 
Taking everything into account,  although  Im aware of Miss Ms frustration, I dont think  I can 
reasonably require esure to increase its valuation or pay any more  to her.
Overall I think  esures acted fairly and reasonably and in line with the policys  terms and 
conditions. And I dont see any compelling  reason  to change the proposed  outcome  in this 
case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 July 2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN8191902