K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains about faults on a car he and his wife acquired using a hire purchase 
agreement from Startline  Motor Finance Limited.
background
Mr C and his wife acquired a car using a hire purchase agreement from Startline in 
September 2017. The agreement was in Mr Cs name.
The car was serviced  in September  2018 and started  to present faults shortly afterwards. 
The car broke down  in December 2018 and Mr C paid for it to be repaired.  The fault 
appeared again in January 2019 and Mr C paid for a recovery truck  to return it to the 
dealership theyd bought  it from.
Mr C had an independent report carried  out on the car. The report  said the car had a number 
of serious mechanical  defects which meant  it was unreliable  and not fit for purpose.  The car 
was repaired and the dealer paid for repairs to the cylinder as a gesture of goodwill.
Mr C considered Startline  should  reimburse him for the costs  and inconvenience  he and his 
family experienced while the car couldnt be used.
Our adjudicator recommended  the complaint should  be upheld. She concluded that the cars  
problems were present  or at least developing at the point of sale. She considered  the faults 
were significant given the cars age and relatively low mileage.
The adjudicator didnt find that Startline  had to cover all of the costs Mr C had claimed, but 
said it should:
-Refund the cost of the diagnostic test carried  out in December 2018 and replacement 
spark plugs  - £190.00.
-Refund the cost of the recovery in December 2018 - £65.00.
-Refund the cost of the recovery in January 2019  - £340.00.
-Refund the cost of the vehicle inspection in January 2019  - £360.00.
-Refund two monthly  hire purchase instalments of £323.28 for the time the car wasnt  
in use.
-Pay £250 for the trouble and upset caused to Mr C.
-Arrange for an independent report to be carried out at Mr Cs home at no extra  cost 
to him.
The adjudicator also said that if the independent  report concluded the car had ongoing faults 
relating to issues found in the January 2019  report,  then Mr C should be allowed to reject the 
car.
Startline didnt agree with the adjudicators conclusions. It said, in summary, that Mr C had 
driven the car for over twelve  months  before he reported any problems, and had completed  
over 12,000 miles. It considered  this was evidence that the car was of satisfactory quality at 
the point of sale.
Startline referred to the September 2018  service,  and said it couldnt be held accountable for 
third party repairs.
Ref: DRN87707632It asked for an ombudsman to review  the matter, so the complaint has been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my conclusions on the balance  
of probabilities  that is, what I think is most  likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
The adjudicator set out in detail the events  surrounding the problems Mr C experienced with 
the car, and the steps he had to take to get it repaired. I wont  repeat all of those details 
here, but Ive taken  them into account in reaching  my overall conclusions.
Startline points out that Mr C had use of the car for over twelve  months  before he reported 
any problems, and had completed over 12,000  miles. It considers this shows the car was of 
satisfactory quality when he acquired it in 2017.
Ive thought about everything Startline has said, and Ive also taken account of the 
independent report  carried  out on the car in January 2019.  The report  identified a number of 
serious faults with the car, and concluded  it was not in a sound,  reliable  running  condition 
and wasnt fit for purpose. The report says:
It is my understanding that the vehicle  was noted  to have  engine performance issues  
immediately after the service undertaken by [dealer name] on the 15th September 2018.  I 
therefore advise  that it is my professional  finding  that the vehicle has either had a latent 
defect from since when  it was supplied to Mr C [and his wife] and/or the actions of [dealer 
name] have resulted in the faults  that are now apparent.
It is of course perfectly reasonable  to expect a vehicle of this renowned quality  and low 
mileage to give far better  reliable service, indeed  it would generally be accepted that such  a 
vehicle should  be capable of covering over 100,000  miles without any reliability issues 
occurring. Unfortunately this vehicle has fallen  well short of expectations.
As Startline  has identified, our approach to complaints  about  faulty  cars is to look at whether 
the vehicle was of satisfactory quality at the point of sale. But in assessing satisfactory 
quality, were also required to consider  the durability of the car. A reasonable person 
wouldnt expect a car and every component  in it to last forever. But there  is a reasonable 
expectation that the components of a car should function without any significant issue  or 
problem for a reasonable period of time.
To assess durability,  we take account of a number of factors including the age of the car, its 
mileage, price and usual  expectations for the performance of that type of car.
Mr Cs car was three years  old when he acquired  it and had done about  28,500  miles. He 
and his wife paid £17,700 for it made up of a cash deposit of £5,700  and £12,000 on hire 
purchase.
It seems  the car was relatively  new when  Mr C and his wife acquired it and didnt have 
excessive mileage. Im also mindful that the independent report  suggests at typical car of 
that brand  and age shouldnt demonstrate the faults that had been revealed in Mr Cs car.
Ref: DRN87707633I accept that the independent report isnt conclusive about whether the cars problems 
existed at the point of sale, or occurred as a result of the service carried out in September 
2018. When I take account of the nature of a service, however, on balance I think its unlikely 
that it wouldve  caused the serious  problems the car later demonstrated.
Im also mindful that the terms of Startlines hire purchase agreement  required Mr C to 
maintain the car in accordance with the manufacturers and dealers servicing 
recommendations, and to make sure it had a full service history. Im satisfied that Mr C had 
the car serviced  at a garage that was responsible  for dealing  with his brand of car.
So even if the service did cause the cars  problems (and as Ive already said, I think its 
unlikely that it did) Im not persuaded this means  Startline shouldnt  be responsible for some  
of the losses Mr C suffered.
Overall from everything Ive seen and been told, Im not persuaded that Mr Cs car 
demonstrated reasonable durability. As such Im satisfied that it wasnt of satisfactory quality  
when he acquired  it.
That means Startline  should refund some of the costs Mr C has claimed, and pay 
compensation for the trouble and upset  this matter has caused. Like the adjudicator, I dont 
think it would  be fair or reasonable  to ask Startline to cover  Mr Cs costs  for borrowing from 
family and friends,  or the loss of earnings  hes claimed.
Startline should  pay for an independent report to be carried out on the car. If that report 
establishes the faults were  present  or developing at the point  of supply, Id expect Startline 
to allow  Mr C to reject the vehicle. If it doesnt, Mr C would  be able to raise  a new complaint 
(firstly with Startline) about its failure  to do so.
Ref: DRN87707634my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Startline  Motor Finance Limited to:
-Refund the cost of the diagnostic test and replacement  spark plugs - £190.00.
-Refund the cost of the recovery in December 2018 - £65.00.
-Refund the cost of the recovery in January 2019  - £340.00.
-Refund the cost of the vehicle inspection in January 2019  - £360.00.
-Refund two monthly  hire purchase instalments of £323.28 for the time the car wasnt  
in use.
-Pay £250 for the trouble and upset caused to Mr C.
-Arrange for an independent report to be carried out at Mr Cs home at no extra  cost 
to him.
If the independent report establishes the faults were  present or developing at the point of 
supply, Id expect  Startline to allow Mr C to reject  the vehicle. If it doesnt, Mr C may want to 
consider raising  a new complaint (firstly with Startline)  about  its failure  to do so.
If the car is returned  this should be at no further cost to Mr C. The hire purchase agreement  
should be cancelled  and any adverse information on Mr Cs credit file should be removed.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 November  2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8770763