K822xcomplaint
Mr H complains that TSB Bank plc (TSB) reduced his credit  card limit without notice and 
wrongly charged him late fees for missed credit  card repayments.
background 
The background to this complaint, and my initial conclusions, were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 30 March  2019  a copy of which is attached and forms part of this final 
decision. 
In my provisional decision I explained  why I proposed to uphold Mr Hs complaint in part, and 
order TSB to pay him £50 compensation and remove the reference to the August 2017 late 
payment from his credit file. I invited both parties  to send any additional evidence  or 
comments they wished  to make. 
TSB accepted my provisional decision.
Mr H rejected my provisional decision. He said that:
he doesnt accept  TSBs denial that it cancelled his direct  debit;
he doesnt accept  that he should have known the direct debit had been cancelled; 
he shouldnt be accountable for missed  payments; and 
all reference to these  late payments should  be removed from his credit  file.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H argues that it was definitely TSB that cancelled his direct debit, not him. From the 
evidence available  to me, theres no conclusive evidence of what  happened here. Im sorry 
that Im not able to give him the certainty  hed like on this point.  
As I explained in my provisional decision,  on balance  I think Mr H hadnt realised what  had 
happened when  he used his card in August  2017  so I think  its fair that TSB refunds his 
first late payment fee and removes any reference  to it from his credit file. I appreciate  Mr H 
also wants TSB to apologise  for the direct  debit cancellation, but because Im not able to 
conclusively say that TSB was at fault here, Im not going to order it to.  
Ref: DRN85296232Mr H also disagrees that he shouldve realised the direct debit was cancelled,  because it 
was still showing as active  on his internet  banking.  Ive considered this point carefully, but I 
dont agree. I say this because Mr Hs online  and paper credit card statements after August 
2017 made reference to the missed  payments. For example, the September  2017 statement 
has details of the late payment charge on the first page and two prominent messages saying 
that the previous months payment was missed. Ultimately, it was Mr Hs responsibility  to 
ensure his payments were made to his account.  And Im satisfied TSB did enough  to make 
him aware  the payments  werent being  made.  Its possible Mr H might not have paid much 
attention to his statements and the other letters  TSB sent. But all in all, I think  Mr H ought to 
have realised he wasnt making payments, even if the direct  debit  was still showing as active 
elsewhere on his online banking. For this reason, I dont agree that the missed  payments 
from September 2017 should be removed from Mr Hs credit file, or the charges and interest  
refunded.
In summary,  I see no reason to change my conclusion  from that set out in my provisional 
decision. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained here and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold Mr Hs complaint  in part. 
I order TSB Bank  plc to pay Mr H £50 compensation and remove any reference to the 
August 2017 late payment from his credit  file.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 June  2019.
Katy Pillai
ombudsman
Ref: DRN85296233Copy of Provisional Decision
complaint
Mr H complains that TSB Bank plc (TSB) reduced his credit card limit without notice and wrongly 
charged him late fees for missed credit card repayments.
background
Mr Hs TSB credit card limit was reduced from £15,000 to £2,600 in May 2018.  He says he only 
received a letter  dated a week before the limit was reduced  advising him of the change after it had 
happened. Mr H says this caused him difficulty because he was going away soon after and planned  to 
pay for the trip on his credit  card but couldnt because the limit was reduced.  
Mr H says that when he went into a TSB branch to discuss  this, he also found  out hed been charged 
several late payment fees on his credit card.  He says hed thought he had a direct debit in place  to 
pay the minimum amount and hed made extra payments manually. Hes shared a screen  shot from 
his TSB online banking that shows a direct debit in place. He says the branch advisor told him his 
direct debit had been cancelled because hed made overpayments. Mr H also asked TSB to increase 
his credit limit again, but was refused.  
Mr H complained to TSB in May 2018.  TSB said it acted within the terms and conditions when it 
reduced Mr Hs credit card limit. And it says that Mr H cancelled his own direct debit in December 
2016, and since then hes made manual payments towards his credit card - but the minimum monthly 
payments were often missed.  TSB says that because  of this Mr H was charged four late payment fees 
from when his direct debit  was cancelled  until February  2019. TSB accepts  that an online banking 
error means his direct debit  is showing  as active now, but says this error  only started in 2018.  TSB 
argues that Mr H wouldve  been aware the direct  debit  wasnt in place from his statements  and 
because hed often made manual payments   so said it was entitled to apply the charges under  the 
accounts terms and conditions.
In September 2018 Mr H referred his complaint  to our service for an independent view. TSB hadnt 
issued a final response letter  to Mr H but said that it didnt uphold his complaint.  Our investigator 
didnt uphold  Mr Hs complaint because they said TSB was entitled to reduce the limit and apply the 
charges as it did here. Mr H didnt agree with this and asked for an ombudsman decision so his 
complaint was referred to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Where there is a dispute about what  happened, I have based  my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, on what  I consider is most  likely to have 
happened in the light of the evidence.
TSB was entitled to make the change to Mr Hs credit card limit here. The terms and conditions 
explain:
We will set a credit limit and tell you what it is after we have opened  your account.  We may change  it 
in the future. Well  give you the new credit limit in writing. If we increase your credit limit we will give 
you at least 30 days notice. If we decrease your credit limit we will let you know before the change 
takes effect.
Mr H wouldve been understandably annoyed to only receive the letter about his limit decrease after it 
had happened. The evidence here is inconclusive because the letter  wasnt sent by recorded  post - 
so Ive considered what I think is most likely to have happened. TSBs  letter was dated a week before 
the limit was reduced and was addressed  to Mr Hs usual address, so I think  the most  likely 
explanation for the delay is that it was sent out promptly and to the right place  but delayed  in the post. 
Ref: DRN85296234That is very frustrating  for Mr H but its not something that it would be fair for me to hold TSB 
responsible for.
And because  Im satisfied TSB sent the letter before the limit was reduced,  I think  it acted  in line with 
the account terms and conditions that Mr H wouldve accepted when he took out the credit card.  The 
terms dont  give a time frame that TSB will send notice of a decrease to a limit. But I think  here, 
posting a letter a week before it took this action was fair and in line with these terms.
Mr H was going on holiday  shortly after and had planned to use his credit card to pay for it. It must 
have been frustrating when  he had to make other arrangements. But I dont think TSB couldve  known 
this when  it reduced his limit. Mr Hs credit  card balance was below  the new limit in the months  before 
it was reduced,  and he clearly used the credit card for occasional spend like holidays rather  than 
everyday purchases.  I realise that this made things difficult for Mr H  but TSB werent aware of his 
plans and, while this was undoubtedly bad timing for him, I dont think  TSB acted  unfairly here.
Both Mr H and TSB deny  cancelling the direct debit. Mr H says a TSB staff member told him his direct 
debit was cancelled  because hed made overpayments, but Ive seen nothing  to suggest  thats 
correct. Mr Hs monthly statements from before December 2016 say that Manual payments received 
4 clear working days before the payment due date will reduce or stop the D/D from debiting your 
account for that month  but that wouldnt explain  the direct debit being cancelled fully. Theres no 
record of this conversation,  but Mr Hs summary of the conversation here is consistent  and persuasive  
 on balance,  I think  the staff member gave him Mr H incorrect information. 
As Ive explained, where the evidence is inconclusive  as it is here  Ive based my decision on what  
I think  is most likely  to have happened. 
TSBs system screen  shot indicates that the direct  debit  was cancelled  by Mr H  but hes adamant  
that he didnt and Im persuaded by his argument that he had no reason  to.  
Ive seen the relevant statements here and they dont show that the direct  debit was cancelled.  Ive 
kept that in mind here, alongside the fact that Mr H had a track record of making at least the monthly 
minimum payment. Hes also regularly  made payments for more than the minimum amount since 
December 2016, so I think its unlikely  he missed the payments deliberately. TSB says that it appears 
that the direct debit has only been incorrectly showing as active  since its system migration in 2018, 
but it cant be certain and I cant rule out that it was already incorrect in 2017. Taking  everything into 
consideration, although  I cant  be sure how the direct debit was cancelled, Im persuaded by Mr Hs 
argument that he didnt know about it at that time.
And for several  months after December  2016, there was no minimum payment to be made  so Mr H 
was unlikely to have noticed  this cancellation. Im not persuaded by TSBs  argument that Mr H 
wouldve known the direct  debit was cancelled  from January 2017 just because his statements didnt 
mention one  I dont  think this would  have caught his attention. He knew a payment wasnt due and 
so I can understand why he would have  thought that his statements were accurate,  as there was no 
payment taken. And when Mr H occasionally  used his card between  January and July 2017 he repaid  
the full amount within the same  month  so he wouldnt have expected a closing  balance or a 
minimum repayment.  Because  of this, I dont think itd be fair to say Mr H should have  realised that his 
direct debit had been cancelled over this time. 
So, when Mr H used his card in July 2017 - I can understand why he wouldve thought the relevant 
payment for this in August 2017 wouldve been covered by his direct debit. But it wasnt,  because  it 
had been cancelled. But, in line with the above, I dont think thats Mr Hs fault. So I think TSB should  
remove this missed payment  from Mr Hs credit file and refund any corresponding interest and 
charges applied  as a result  of this missed payment.
Ref: DRN85296235But, in being fair to both sides, I have  to consider that Mr H should  have been aware  that his direct 
debit was cancelled  from September  2017. His statements clearly show this is the case  including 
prominent statements in the months after the minimum  repayment hadnt been made - and I think its 
reasonable to expect  a customer to keep an eye on their account when theyre  using it. If Mr H had, 
he couldve avoided the later missed  payments and fees from this point on. Mr H has said he doesnt 
get monthly paper  statements because he uses online banking,  but Im satisfied he still wouldve been 
able to see the statements and manage his account online. In these circumstances, Im not going to 
order TSB to refund these charges and interest, or amend  his credit file as these payments were 
missed  and thats what Mr Hs credit file should show.
Given all thats happened  here, I also find that TSB should compensate Mr H for the trouble and upset 
he suffered. I think he was given  wrong  information by the branch  member  about  his direct debit  
cancellation in May 2018. His direct debit was wrongly showing  as active  on his online banking  for 
some time. And I understand that TSB didnt  respond formally to Mr Hs complaint for four months.  In 
the circumstances, I consider £50 compensation to be fair for the frustration  and confusion caused 
here. 
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I propose to uphold Mr Hs complaint.  TSB Bank Plc must  pay Mr H 
£50 compensation and remove any reference to the August 2017 late payment from his credit file.
Katy Pillai
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8529623