K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains about the amount  of money Society  of Lloyds is prepared to pay for the total 
loss of his car under  a motor insurance  policy.
background
Mr Ks car was damaged and he was negotiating  settlement terms but before terms were 
agreed more damage occurred and a second claim was necessary. Ultimately Lloyds 
engineer has said Mr Ks vehicle is a total loss and the issue now is about  what amount 
Lloyds should  pay Mr K.
Lloyds said its starting  point was around  £1,400 as that represented a fair market value 
(deductions would follow though such as excess and salvage where relevant). However, it 
was discovered that Mr Ks car had been  a previous write-off and Lloyds reduced the value 
by 10%.  But Mr K thinks his vehicle  is worth significantly more than what Lloyds is prepared  
to offer.  In part he says this is due to a number of modifications to the vehicle which he 
thinks makes  it more  valuable.
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  but didnt think  Lloyds needed to do 
anything more. He explained that the market value  was the price Mr K could expect to pay 
on the open market for an identical vehicle. But it didnt mean that modifications  necessarily  
led to the vehicle value increasing.  
The investigator further explained  that although Mr Ks policy  was for modified cars it didnt 
change the issue  of the market value. Other similar cars had been  valued between £1,000 to 
£2,500 with the top end being for cars being  unmodified and in good condition.  The final 
value Lloyds placed on the vehicle  was £1,250 and in all the circumstances this was fair.
Mr K continued to disagree with the amount offered and so the matter  has come  to me for a 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The issue  in this case is whether Lloyds has offered Mr K a fair market  value for his vehicle.
The policy describes market value as the cost of replacing the vehicle with another of the 
same make, model and specification and of similar age, mileage and condition at the time of 
the accident or loss. And the most Lloyds will pay is either the UK mainland market  value or 
the cost or repair, whichever is the least. And the policy specifies that Lloyds will not pay the 
cost of any repair or replacement which improves the vehicle or its accessories to a better 
condition than they were before the loss. 
Although the policy is named as Modified  & Imported Car Im not persuaded that means 
anything other than it covers such vehicles.  Many insurance policies will not cover imported 
cars or cars with modifications. 
The market  value nature  of Lloyds  policy and settlement is an industry standard,  other than 
where the policy in question  is an agreed  value one, which isnt the case here.
Ref: DRN82592882Given the nature of the modifications  to Mr Ks car, reaching a fair market value isnt as 
straightforward as if it were in its original  manufactured specification. Photographs of the 
modifications show me that Mr K has exercised his personal taste  and this, in my view, is 
likely to limit its attraction to a wide audience.  For example the steering wheel has branding  
of a different  vehicle  manufacturer to the make of vehicle. 
Our approach to market value is to take into account  the motor trade guides and we usually 
find these persuasive  as theyre  based on likely selling  prices. The range  of values is from 
just over £800 to just over £1,400. Ive taken into account the fact that Mr Ks vehicle had 
previously been  written-off. We accept  that this can put off potential  buyers and indeed  it can 
negatively affect  the vehicle  value.  Lloyds told Mr K that it was deducting 10% to reflect  this 
and I dont think thats unreasonable in the circumstances. So, Im satisfied that Lloyds offer 
of £1,250 is a fair reflection of the market value for Mr Ks vehicle. And as stated earlier  in 
this decision salvage  and the policy excess are deductible where relevant.
Ive considered material which shows examples of similar type vehicles  advertised  at higher 
prices. These appear to be unmodified in contrast to Mr Ks car, and dont appear to have 
some of the condition issues  that Mr Ks suffers (as identified in the engineer reports  
including being  previously written-off). Its also relevant that the prices  are advertised rather 
than sold values. In the circumstances Im not persuaded that this information alters  my 
conclusion that £1,250  is a fair market  value.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019.
Sean Hamilton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8259288