K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain Santander UK Plc (Santander) sent their money to an incorrect 
account when  making  an online transfer.
background
Mr and Mrs C brought  their complaint to us as they were unhappy with the Santanders 
response to their concerns about  a faster payment made on 27 October 2018. Santander 
upheld their complaint  on the basis Mrs C had been  provided with incorrect  information by 
four different  call operatives when she called in to trace the payment on the day it was made.  
On the same  day Santander  apologised and said theyd found an error in one of their 
processing systems and that the payment had in fact been  issued correctly to the right 
details, was going through normal processing and would  be credited by the end of the 
following working day. They said this had been raised with their internal helpdesk who are 
investigating the issue. They offered Mr and Mrs C £50 compensation which  they didnt 
accept.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Santander had acted  unfairly or unreasonably in this case.  He 
understood there was a lot of confusion regarding the payment. He said Mr and Mrs C were 
provided with an account  number and sort code  from an old bank account theyd held with 
Santander when  she called up to enquire about  the status of a payment  and due to an 
error on Santanders system - this appeared to be the correct  details. The adjudicator found 
the faster payment  Mr and Mrs C made to another account had a redirection instruction on it, 
so their payment  was always  going to the intended account. And he thought the payment 
had been made within  the correct faster payment time frame.  Whilst he appreciated the 
frustration the misinformation  caused Mr and Mrs C, he thought Santanders offer of £50 
compensation was fair.
Mr and Mrs C asked for an ombudsman to review the case.  They werent happy
to learn from this service  how the mistaken  information had arisen and felt they were due 
more compensation.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the 
conclusion this isnt a complaint which I can fairly  and reasonably  uphold.  Ill explain why.
Although Santander hasnt  done  anything wrong  with the payment here, I can appreciate 
why Mr and Mrs C were  upset and concerned. The way Santander dealt with their queries 
about the faster payment, particularly tracing its whereabouts, has undoubtedly caused Mr 
and Mrs C upset. I can see Mr and Mrs C were misinformed on a number of occasions. 
Santander has identified  the cause of the confusion and tell us this process is being 
reviewed. So, whilst  I can understand  why Mr and Mrs C told our adjudicator  theyre scared 
to use the account  and dont feel payments are safe anymore theres nothing to suggest this 
will recur.  
Overall, Mr and Mrs Cs payment did reach  the correct account and within the required 
timescale for a faster payment. So I cant see theyve suffered any loss here. But its clear, 
and not disputed by Santander, that Mr and Mrs C have been caused distress  and 
inconvenience by the incident.  I know Mr and Mrs C disagree but I think  the amount offered 
Ref: DRN87651002by Santander  to compensate for this distress and inconvenience is fair and reasonable. Its 
the sort of award Id have  made if it hadnt been  offered. Its also important to note that any 
compensation I consider is solely in respect  of the actual  impact the mistake had on Mr and 
Mrs C. Its not for the impact it might have had if the circumstances had been different.
I understand the payment  hasnt been made so Ill leave it for Mr and Mrs C to decide 
whether to accept  it. But - other than paying  that £50 compensation if accepted - I dont  
require Santander  to do anything further.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 April 2019.
Annabel OSullivan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8765100