K820x#14complaint
Mr J complains that BMW  Financial  Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS) mishandled  the 
termination of a hire purchase agreement for a used a car. 
background 
In June 2018 Mr J acquired a used car via a four year hire purchase agreement with 
BMWFS. Mr J says he was unhappy  with the car and wanted to hand  it back  in exchange for 
a new car. So, in August 2018  Mr J returned the car to the dealership expecting it to be sold 
and for the proceeds of the sale to clear the outstanding finance on the agreement.  Mr J 
says the dealership told him he would be left with an outstanding balance of around £3,000  
that he would need to pay. Mr J also says that the dealership was going  to source him a new 
car and finance  agreement. 
Around the same time that Mr J handed  the car back both he and the dealership contacted  
BMWFS requesting the settlement figure for the agreement. BMWFS provided this figure 
both verbally and via email.
BMWFS also emailed Mr J and said that if the car was to be used as part exchange for 
another car, and the dealership would be paying  the settlement, then it still remained Mr Js 
responsibility to ensure  the finance  was fully cleared. It confirmed that the agreement was 
still active and that the monthly payments would need to continue  as usual. 
Mr J said that as he no longer had the car he wanted to cancel the direct debit. Mr J then 
cancelled the direct debit in September  2018.  He emailed BMWFS  asking what  his liability  
was for the car but BMWFS didnt  answer  as it says it had provided the settlement amount 
and told Mr J that his agreement remained active and the monthly  payments were  expected.
In September  BMWFS sent a further  email  to Mr J saying if the agreement  had been  
cancelled by the dealership due to a fault with the car then it was the dealership  that needed 
to contact BMWFS. BMWFS said the dealership hadnt been in touch and that Mr Js 
agreement remained live and he was still liable for the payments. It advised  him that the 
September direct debit  had not been  cleared and that if the payment wasnt made  he may 
incur late charges and it could affect  his credit  record.
The car was not sold by the dealership and payments in September  and October  2018  were 
both missed. BMWFS  issued a default  notice  in October 2018  and then following no 
payments being  made terminated  the agreement in November 2018. It made arrangement  
for the car to be collected and it was sold at auction  in December 2018. After  the proceeds 
from the sale were put towards the outstanding balance Mr J owed just over £6,000.
Mr J complained to BMWFS about  its handling  of the termination  of the hire purchase 
agreement and that it had recorded adverse  information on his credit  file. BMWFS didnt 
uphold his complaint. It said that it had acted correctly. BMWFS said that it had made Mr J 
aware that it was his responsibility to ensure payments were maintained until the agreement  
had been settled in full. And although  he had handed the car back  to the dealership in 
August no settlement had been received from it. After three monthly payments had been 
missed the agreement had been  terminated and the car collected. 
Mr J disagreed with BWMFSs response  and complained to this service. Our adjudicator 
didnt recommend that his complaint should  be upheld. He said that in order  for the hire 
Ref: DRN89514782purchase agreement  to have been terminated  in August 2018 the agreement had to be 
settled in full and this hadnt happened. 
Our adjudicator said that he thought BMWFS  had been clear with Mr J that he remained  
liable for payments under the agreement and that it was still active.
Our adjudicator said due to the missed  payments he didnt think  BMWFS  had acted 
unreasonably in issuing the default  notice and then subsequently terminating the agreement  
when no payments were  received. He also didnt  think it had unfairly recorded adverse 
information on Mr Js credit  file in these circumstances.
Our adjudicator said that the dealership and BMWFS were two separate  entities and he 
couldnt reasonably hold BMWFS liable for the dealership giving the wrong figure to Mr J 
about what he might owe after the car was sold, nor for the dealership  not selling the car 
before December 2018.
Mr J disagreed with the view of our adjudicator.  He said he had told BMWFS  that he handed 
the car back  to the dealership in August 2018 and that he had been expecting  the car to be 
sold as soon as possible. The error lay with the dealership and BMWFS not communicating  
with each other.
Mr J complained that it had taken  five months for the car to be sold and that it didnt achieve 
the right price. He was also upset that BMWFS had initially said he owed around £6,000 but 
this had later increased to over £10,000.
As the parties didnt agree the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Mr J was unhappy with the car and so approached the dealership about 
exchanging it, but I think  he has misunderstood his liability under the hire purchase  
agreement, and that when  the dealership accepted the car back and spoke with him it wasnt  
acting as an agent for BMWFS. This means BMWFS cant fairly or reasonably be held 
responsible for things  that were either  said or done  by the dealership.
Mr J agreed to abide by the terms and conditions of the hire purchase  agreement so while 
that agreement  remained active, whether he physically had the car or not, he remained liable 
for the monthly payments.
Ive seen that BMWFS provided the settlement figure to both Mr J and the dealership  when 
asked about ending the agreement in August 2018.  Looking at the emails sent to Mr J by 
BMWFS I think it was made clear that only when  the settlement figure had been cleared in 
full would Mr Js liability under the hire purchase agreement end. Ive seen he was also 
advised that missed  payments could have  an impact on his credit file. So, I think Mr J should  
have reasonably been aware that although he had handed the car back  this hadnt 
terminated the agreement.
Mr J feels strongly  that the fault lies with BMWFS and the dealership  for not liaising but 
unfortunately he has misunderstood the position. As set out above, when he was talking with 
the dealership  and agreeing that the car was to be sold it was acting on its own behalf. So, 
Ref: DRN89514783this means any complaint  about the delay in selling the car, or being misled  about what he 
might owe once the car was sold would need  to be made to the dealership. BMWFS wasnt  
a part of any discussions or agreement between the dealership and Mr J to take the car 
back. It also wasnt bound by anything the dealership said to Mr J when discussing handing 
the car back.
As BMWFS had set out clearly that the monthly  payments  remained due until the agreement 
was settled in full I cant say that it acted incorrectly in issuing the default notice. I also cant 
say it was acting  unreasonably in terminating  the agreement  for breach of the terms and 
conditions when further payments were missed. Ive seen the car was eventually  sold at 
auction which isnt unusual.
BMWFS was prepared to limit the outstanding balance to around £6,000 if Mr J either  paid 
this amount or agreed to clear the balance  via a 15 month payment plan. He didnt take up 
these options  and so BMWFS has added the interest that was ordinarily due under the 
agreement. Though I can appreciate that Mr J is unhappy at this addition he had signed the 
agreement showing that he was content  with the interest rate and the cost of the hire 
purchase agreement  for the car. So, I cant  reasonably  say that BMWFS has acted  unfairly 
by adding this amount.  Under the agreement it was entitled to do so.
BMWFS has recorded  the default  notice on Mr Js credit file. As its under an obligation to 
accurately record how a credit agreement  has been managed by a consumer I cant  say that 
BMWFS has acted incorrectly here.
Looking at the evidence, and for the reasons  given  above, Im not upholding Mr Js 
complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above Im not upholding Mr Js complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 June  2020.
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8951478