K822xcomplaint
Miss O complains  that a car supplied to her through a conditional sale agreement  by 
Clydesdale Financial Services Limited,  trading as Barclays Partner Finance (BPF), was not 
of satisfactory quality. 
background 
Miss O acquired a used  car on 6 December 2017  through a conditional sale agreement with 
BPF. When  she acquired it the car was three  and a half years  old and had driven over 
71,000 miles. A short time after taking  delivery Miss O said she heard a noise coming from 
the wheels and saw a light on the dashboard showing a service  was due, despite the 
purchase documents showing  that the car had been  recently serviced. Miss O said she was 
asked to bring the car to the dealer on 24 December but the car wasnt checked on that day. 
She was advised  to take the car to a partner garage and did so on 9 January. 
Miss O has told us the garage inspected the car and discovered  many faults including  with 
the brakes which were  worn. She said she was told not to drive  the car because it wasnt  
safe. The garage liaised with the dealer who did its own checks  on the car, including  
organising an independent inspection.  The report indicated the car was safe to drive. Miss O 
said she could still hear the noise and called the dealer again. The dealer advised she take 
the car to the garage again. The garage  again  reported damage to the brakes and by 
providing evidence  of this to the dealer acquired agreement to do the repairs.  Miss O felt she 
had been lied to and lost confidence in the safety of the car so she asked to return  the car. 
She was told this wasnt possible so she complained to both the dealer and BPF. 
BPF accepted that there were faults  with the brakes and gave her £150 compensation. As 
the dealer had arranged  for the brakes to be repaired  it did not agree Miss O could return the 
car. Miss O wasnt satisfied. She said she hadnt  authorised the repairs to the car so she 
brought her complaint  to this service. 
Our investigator thought BPF had acted fairly. She concluded the dealer had repaired the 
car and so there was no longer a problem. Miss O further complained that the car had been 
repossessed during  the course of the complaint  being with this service.  The investigator 
considered that BPF was allowed to do that under the terms and conditions  as Miss O had 
failed to make payments.  
Miss O remained dissatisfied and asked for her complaint  to be considered by an 
ombudsman. She thought  it was unfair  and unreasonable that the car was repossessed 
despite BPF having  given her a time scale to seek redress with the ombudsman, which  had 
not elapsed. 
Ref: DRN84548222I issued a provisional decision to Miss O and BPF on 5 March 2019. I said:
In conditional  sale agreements the finance provider, in this case  BPF, becomes the owner 
and supplier of the vehicle  and is subject to the Consumer  Rights  Act 2015. The law says 
goods supplied  should be of satisfactory  quality, including, in this case,  taking into account 
the age and mileage of the car. If the car were not of satisfactory quality there  would be a 
breach of contract.  I must take account  of relevant law when deciding what is fair and 
reasonable. So I must consider whether or not the vehicle was of satisfactory quality when 
Miss O acquired it at the point of sale. If I wasnt then I might  find it is fair and reasonable for 
her to reject it. 
I can fully appreciate why Miss O would be troubled  by the car. She has a family and was 
concerned for their safety when driving  a car with a problem  with brakes which  would indeed  
be very worrisome. When considering whether  the car was of satisfactory quality  I must  
identify if the problem with the car was present  at the point of sale and was caused  due to an 
inherent defect rather than wear and tear. I must  also take into account safety. 
Miss O said a warning light appeared about  10 days after she acquired  the car and she 
asked the dealer to look at the car. She said despite  making an appointment the dealer was 
unable to look at the car and suggested she took it to the partner  garage. The fault was 
identified as worn  down brakes  on 9 January. 
When Miss O acquired the car it had been  driven  over 71,000  miles which would be more  
than average for its age. So I might expect an above  average level of wear and tear to be 
present on the brakes. And from the evidence provided it does appear the problem with the 
brakes was due to wear  and tear. So Im satisfied the problem with the brakes was present 
at the time of sale given the short time Miss O had the car. But it does not necessarily follow 
that the car was of satisfactory quality. I would still expect the car to be fit for its intended  
purpose  driving   and Id expect the car to be safe. Miss O said the garage  told her the car 
wasnt safe to drive during her first visit, and subsequently provided a statement to that 
effect. 
The dealer  arranged an independent  inspection. Im not disputing  or questioning the 
independence or the outcome of the inspection. But the scope of the inspection only covered 
what the dealer  had commissioned.  The garage reported a specific problem concerning the 
brakes. I believe  its reasonable  to expect that if the garage reported a specific defect then 
the inspection  would  include this in the scope of the independent report  the dealer  insisted  
on commissioning; especially as the garage reported to Miss O the car was unsafe to drive.  
And because this was a partner garage  Miss O was instructed to visit by the dealer. 
The dealer  did not include a detailed  look at the brakes nor was there  a test drive  included in 
the inspection.  Had both of these been done  I believe the dealer wouldve become aware 
the car was unsafe to drive and would have fixed the brakes sooner. And so I consider the 
dealer had the opportunity  to fix the car at this point,  and didnt do so. I would expect the 
dealer to trust the opinion  of a garage  it recommended Miss O visit to have the car looked  at. 
Following this inspection  Miss O continued to hear the noise and again complained to the 
dealer. This time the garage provided  detailed evidence to the dealer that the brakes needed 
to be fixed and at some point between 8 and 27 February a repair was done. The front disc 
and pads and brake oil were replaced. By this time Miss O said she felt the car was unsafe.  I 
dont believe  it was reasonable  that the garage had to provide further evidence in order for 
the dealer to commission repairs.
Ref: DRN84548223Miss O said she didnt  give permission for the brakes to be fixed  as she wanted to return  the 
car. Im aware the dealer authorised the repair of the brakes. It would be reasonable to allow  
the business to try once to repair the car. But the dealer and BPF had the opportunity to do 
this when the garage first reported  the problem to the dealer. Instead Miss O had to continue  
to drive a car which was unsafe. 
Miss O complained that there were  many other problems with the car including the brakes.  
Its not clear to me what those other problems were but Im satisfied that the problem with 
the brakes was sufficient  to render the car of unsatisfactory quality at the point of purchase 
and unsafe. So I consider  it fair and reasonable to allow Miss O to reject the car. 
Remaining unhappy with the car, Miss O left it with the dealer in February and eventually 
stopped making  repayments. Miss O has further  complained that BPF shouldnt  have  
repossessed the car during the course of this complaint. Ive looked  at the terms and 
conditions of the agreement which I can see Miss O signed. By stopping the payments 
Miss O was in breach  of these. I can see BPF issued letters  shortly  after she stopped 
payments and explained that the car would be repossessed.  As there  was no guarantee of 
an outcome in her favour with this service Miss O was obliged  to continue to make 
payments. So it would have been  wise for Miss O to do so during the course of the complaint 
with this service. 
Miss O has said this caused her a lot of worry which is understandable, especially as the car 
was deemed unsafe by the garage. So Im minded to award Miss O £200 in compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience.
I did notice that these health  concerns affected  her income which  may have impacted on her 
ability to make her repayments. A default notice was sent to Miss O dated  12 June prior to 
the repossession. I notice  on the contact notes  that Miss O spoke with BPF on 14 June and 
there was some discussion about  Miss Os options to reduce payments. Businesses  have  a 
duty to take action when they become aware that a consumer is in financial difficulty.  
Unfortunately, in this particular decision,  I am unable to address  any concerns Miss O may 
have in relation  to how BPF assisted her when she made it aware  she was in financial 
difficulty, as this would form a separate complaint.  If Miss O wishes  to take that further she 
would need to complain to BPF first in order to give them a fair chance to investigate  and 
respond first. 
Nevertheless as Im satisfied the car was unsatisfactory, subject to any responses to this 
provisional decision, I will be asking  BPF to remove  evidence of this agreement from her 
credit file. 
Miss O accepted my findings. BPF did not respond. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I sent my provisional decision to BPF on 5 March 2019. It did not respond nor did it provide 
any further evidence.  Miss O accepted these findings. So I see no reason to depart from its 
conclusions. 
Ref: DRN84548224my final decision
My final decision is that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited, trading as Barclays Partner  
Finance must: 
1.cancel Miss Os conditional sale agreement with nothing further owing;
2.refund  any costs associated with repossession  of the car;
3.refund  any deposit Miss O paid plus 8% simple  interest per annum from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement;
4.refund  all payments  made by Miss O plus 8% simple interest per annum;
5.update Miss Os credit file showing the agreement as settled with nothing further 
owed, in doing so remove any adverse information  connected to this agreement;
6.refund  cost of insurance for vehicle from date of agreement to car collection date and 
cost of cancelling the insurance;
7.refund  road tax from date of agreement to date of settlement;
8.pay Miss O £200 for distress and inconvenience.
Clydesdale Financial Services Limited,  trading as Barclays Partner Finance, will expect to 
see invoices and proof of payment for the fees I mention in 6 above before it makes  the 
payment. I would expect  Miss O to provide these.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 June  2019.
Maxine Sutton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8454822