K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that he was given  unsuitable investment advice by Mayfair  Capital Limited.  
Hes unhappy about the following in particular:
He was advised to move his ISA investment to Mayfair Capital and invest  in Thomas  
Cook, but having done so his shares  have dropped by 85% resulting in a £5,000  loss. 
Having been advised to invest in Arcadia Worldwide Limited   an Australian  company  
which has subsequently  been de-listed, he was advised to remove  Arcadia  from its platform 
and close the account  because Jarvis  (the custodian)  no longer permitted the buying  and 
selling of Australian shares.  Having done so hes suffered  a loss of another £5,000.  
The sale of some  Netflix shares from his account without his consent.  
background
Mayfair Capital hasnt  upheld the complaint. In short,  it said:
The Arcadia  stock  was still held on the Jarvis  platform at the end of 2018, despite 
Mr B being informed via email in July 2017 of the process that hed need to follow  
if he wanted  to transfer  the stock out  when he changed  provider in order to sell 
the position  he didnt.   
It has no record of Mr B opening an ISA account with it or its former appointed 
representative. 
Despite Mr Bs concerns about  losing money, he made money whilst he was with 
Mayfair Capital.
It was a stock that Mr B transferred into that lost money and Mayfair  Capital cant be 
held responsible for that.  
It accepts that a mistake was made  when  Mr B was paid Netflix shares which  it then had 
to sell. 
One of our investigators  considered the complaint but didnt think  it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
Around June 2016, Mr B was advised  to invest in Arcadia and bought around 5700 
shares, which has since  been de-listed from the Australia  Stock Exchange  (NSX) that it 
had been trading  on. 
In December  2017, Arcadia approached NSX to request voluntary de-listing. Having 
initially denied  the request  NSX voluntarily delisted Arcadia  as it considered  the 
company no longer  suitable for listing. 
Hes not aware that Arcadia has ceased  trading altogether, so the shares arent 
necessarily without  value. However, he accepts itll be difficult to sell as they cant be 
traded on the open market. 
Mr B wished to take some risk with his portfolio and wished to achieve  greater  gains but 
was still uncomfortable  about making  a loss. Thats why he was advised to take a 
balanced approach  with the overall  portfolio,  with a more speculative  approach  to 30% 
of his investment.
Having already dealt  with a complaint about  the overall suitability  he doesnt think  the 
advice to invest  in something a little riskier is unsuitable.  
It might be that in future the Arcadia shares  become  tradable  and Mayfair Capital is able 
to trade on the NSX.    
Ref: DRN86446142He could see that in 2017 Mr B was in the process of transferring his SIPP elsewhere 
and Mayfair  Capital  explained that it couldnt  sell the Arcadia shares  as the custodian 
(Jarvis) no longer had the ability to trade on the NSX.  It explained that Mr Bs new 
provider would need to transfer  the position  over but for some  reason this didnt happen. 
Because the stock wasnt delisted  at that point  and the shares were liquid, Mr B couldve 
asked for a new provider  to transfer  the stock over and sell it if thats what  he wanted. 
Or even find a new provider who could trade for him. He doesnt think  Mayfair Capital is 
responsible now that the shares are illiquid. 
On the face of the evidence  hes unable  to say that Mayfair  Capital  advised  Mr B to transfer 
his ISA to it. Hes seen nothing to suggest  that the ISA was opened with Mayfair  Capital. 
The application/brochure isnt evidence that the ISA was opened with Mayfair Capital. 
Whilst the statement  for the ISA shows that it came from the same platform that Mayfair  
Capital uses, there  are others who use the same platform  too. The statement itself 
contains a logo for a third-party  business  with no reference  to Mayfair Capital. 
Mayfair Capital  accepts that it mistakenly assigned some  Netflix shares to Mr Bs SIPP 
in August 2018,  and to correct this it had to sell some  shares at no cost to Mr B.    
In the past Mr B had held Netflix  shares which he bought and sold in 2015.  This 
particular sale was in 2018.     
Hes satisfied with Mayfair Capitals explanation,  and doesnt think that any trouble and 
upset experienced by Mr B warrants compensation.  
Mr B disagreed with the investigators view and raised a number of issues. In summary, he said:
He feels the investigators  view has been based  on his word  against Mayfair Capitals word.
Mayfair Capital  has used his money for its own gains. 
He provided documentation  that showed  that Mayfair Capital held his ISA. 
Hes also provided  an email that shows that after transferring his portfolio to Mayfair 
Capital it said it couldnt trade  the Arcadia stock. 
The investigator having considered the additional points wasnt  persuaded to change his 
mind. In summary he said:
Hes received  confirmation from Jarvis that the only account with it  that was with  
Mayfair Capital   is the SIPP. 
Having considered the ISA application evidence  provided by Mr B, he thinks  there  was 
intent to move the ISA to Mayfair Capital, but in light of comments  from Jarvis, hes not 
satisfied that it happened. 
In terms of attempts to sell the Arcadia  stock, thats up to the new business.  And if it 
doesnt offer an opportunity to trade on the Australian  platform  thats not Mayfair  
Capitals fault either.  
Mr B was provided  with a list of Australian brokers,  so he couldve potentially sold his 
stock before  it was delisted. 
Mr B disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans  decision. In 
short, he said:
He maintains  the investment advice from Mayfair Capital was bad.
He tried to seek advice from NSX but it couldnt help him. 
Jarvis took the stock off his account  without his authorisation. If the stocks  were left he 
couldve tried to sell them. 
Ref: DRN86446143He sent Mayfair Capital proof of transfer  documents which proves  shares were with 
Jarvis and are currently sat on the active share  dealing  platform. 
Mr B disagreed with the investigators conclusion  and asked for an ombudsmans  decision. 
Since then Mr B has reiterated concerns that the investment was too high risk and shouldve  
been spread across  low risk managed funds, so Mayfair Capital has sold him unsuitable 
products for his portfolio.   
As no agreement has been reached the matter  has been passed to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint.  
On the face the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr B says,  Im unable to say that 
Mayfair Capital has behaved unreasonably  in the circumstances.
But before I explain  further why this is the case,  I think its important for me to note I very 
much recognise Mr Bs strength of feeling about  this matter. 
He has provided  detailed submissions to support the complaint, which  Ive read and 
considered carefully.  However, I hope  he wont take the fact my findings focus on what  
I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail,  as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address  every  single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented  by him and Mayfair Capital, and reach what  I think  is an 
independent, fair and reasonable  decision  based on the facts  of the case.  
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I can take into account the relevant law, regulation  
and best industry  practice but Im not bound  by it. Its for me to decide, based on the 
information Ive been given, whats more  likely  than not to have happened.
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what  Mr H says, Im unable to safely  say 
that he was advised by Mayfair Capital  to transfer  his ISA to it. I appreciate hes provided  a 
copy of an application  form and brochure  but that isnt of itself proof that he was advised.  Like 
the investigator I think that in the absence  of any other evidence   such  as a fact find or 
suitability letter/report  it only shows an intention to transfer and not that advice was given 
resulting in Mr B taking  action. Therefore in the circumstances Im unable to consider if the 
move was suitable and thereafter if Mayfair Capital is responsible for any losses. 
I understand that the Arcadia stocks  were still with Jarvis in late 2018,  despite Mr B being 
told as early as July 2017 what  he could do if he wanted to transfer the stock  out  including 
that his new provider would need  to transfer the position  it doesnt seem  that appropriate 
and timely  action was taken. So in the circumstances I dont think  I can blame  the business. 
Ref: DRN86446144Im also aware that in due course,  Mayfair Capital explained to Mr B that it couldnt sell the 
Arcadia shares as Jarvis no longer  had the ability to trade on the NSX.  Whilst I appreciate  
the points made by Mr B  about potentially being able to sell the shares if they hadnt  been 
taken off his account   Im conscious  that he had the opportunity to do so before they were 
delisted. Therefore  this isnt something  I can hold the business  responsible  for.    
On balance, Im persuaded that because  the stock wasnt  delisted  at that point Mayfair 
Capital notified  Mr B (and at that point  the shares were liquid), he couldve asked for a new 
provider to transfer the stock over and then sell it if thats what he wanted, or even  find a 
new provider who could  trade for him  but didnt. So in the circumstances  I dont think  
Mayfair Capital is now responsible now just because  the shares are illiquid. 
On face of the evidence, and on balance, despite  what Mr B says, Im unable  to say that 
advice to invest in Arcadia was unsuitable. It seems to me that he transferred into stock  as 
part of the advice to invest a portion of his portfolio in more speculative  investments  that 
lost money, Im not sure that Mayfair Capital is responsible.  
I appreciate Mr B says he shouldve been advised to invest  in a low risk managed  fund, but 
in the circumstances I dont think I can agree. Im mindful  that a complaint regarding the 
overall suitability  of the advice regarding Mr Bs portfolio has been  considered,  and rejected, 
and therefore  its not something that I can look into again as part of this complaint.  
On the face of the evidence and on balance, Im satisfied that Mayfair Capital sold only the 
Netflix shares it erroneously attributed to Mr Bs account  and not shares that belonged to 
him. Despite  some  minor  inconvenience I dont think Mr B has suffered any financial loss or 
loss of expectation and therefore  Im not going  to award any compensation.   
I appreciate Mr B will be disappointed Ive reached  the same  conclusion as the investigator.  
Furthermore, I realise my decision  isnt what he wants to hear.  Whilst I appreciate his 
frustration, Im not persuaded to require  Mayfair Capital to do anything.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 April 2020.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8644614