K821x#15complaint
Mr J is complaining about the fee Goodwin Barrett  Ltd is charging for a pensions  claim it 
made on his behalf.
background
Mr J was advised to transfer  his pension into a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP). 
Unfortunately the SIPP provider  went into liquidation. Mr J wasnt  aware  of when he would 
get any money back so he approached Goodwin  Barrett.
Goodwin Barrett was instructed in 2018 and submitted a claim to the Financial Services  
Compensation Scheme (FSCS) on Mr Js behalf. This claim was successful  and the 
compensation was around £36,000  (which,  Mr J says is how much  hed paid into his 
pension). Goodwin Barrett charged  its success fee of 40% plus VAT and sent Mr J a cheque 
for the rest. Mr J complained as he didnt feel it was fair for Goodwin  Barrett  to deduct almost 
half of his pension  in fees. He explained he believed the contract  was for Goodwin Barrett to 
take 40% plus VAT on any compensation received over and above  his pension value. 
This complaint was originally accepted for investigation by the Legal  Ombudsman, but was 
transferred to the Claims Management Ombudsman  a Financial Ombudsman service as 
part of the change in the regulation of claims management companies.
Our investigator explained that Goodwin Barrett  was entitled to deduct its fees. This is 
because the amount it deducted was in line with the terms  and conditions  that Mr J signed 
up to. He did explain that there was clearly some confusion over the fees and this may have 
been caused by the information that Goodwin Barrett  gave Mr J over the phone. He 
explained references to new money couldve been  confusing so he recommended 
Goodwin Barrett paid Mr J £300  for the trouble and upset caused  by this.
Goodwin Barrett agreed with the investigator  but Mr J didnt. He explained that £300 is too 
low when hes lost over £17,000 in fees to Goodwin Barrett.  So he asked for an ombudsman 
to reach  a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
findings as the investigator  for similar  reasons.
Fees
When Mr J signed up to use Goodwin Barretts services he signed  an agreement. This 
agreement detailed what fees would be payable if there was a successful claim. The 
agreement says:
Goodwin Barrett  will endeavour to recover all monies in respect  of my claim and undertake 
to forward any payment from my bank  or financial adviser to me within  seven days  from the 
date received, subject  to the agreed fee of 40% plus VAT  total fee payable 40%.
Ref: DRN80948412So I think the terms set out clearly  how much the fee is. The terms then go on to provide the 
following example  of the fee:
Your refund £10,000  Fee payable to us would be £4000 plus £800 Vat totalling  £4800 
leaving you with £5200.
Again, I think  its clear that the fees are going  to be charged overall on the amount of the 
refund from the claim. In this case,  Mr Js pension was worth less than £100  when he made 
his claim.  After Goodwin Barrett  submitted  a claim on Mr Js behalf,  he received a refund of 
over £36,000. As this money was the refund, it follows that Goodwin Barrett  charged its fee 
on this amount and Mr J was given  the remainder of around £19,000. Ive not seen anything 
to suggest that Goodwin Barrett have acted unfairly  in taking its fee.
I understand that Mr J asked Goodwin  Barrett for clarification of the fees before he signed  
the terms. And hes explained  he was told the fee would  be payable on new money. Mr J 
took this to mean any money recovered  over and above his pension contributions.  Although  
Goodwin Barrett hasnt  been able to provide  the call recording, I think  its likely that the way 
the fees were  described in the call was inconsistent with the terms. And I think this led to a 
misunderstanding. But as I can see Mr Js pension was worth less than £100  at the time he 
instructed Goodwin  Barrett  I think  its likely the new money  that was referred  to means  
any money recovered over and above the current value. Regardless, its clear  the 
conversation with Goodwin  Barrett  has caused  Mr J some  confusion,  and because of this 
hes experienced a loss of expectation.
Trouble and Upset
Mr J understood that hed be paying a fee on a smaller proportion  of his refund. So it 
wouldve been a shock to him that Goodwin Barrett will be taking  almost  half of his pension 
refund. Although I think Goodwin Barrett have acted  fairly in taking this fee  as it is in line 
with its terms  which  were  made clear to Mr J  I do think  the confusion  after Mr Js call has 
caused Mr J some trouble  and upset.
Had this call reasserted the terms set out in the agreement, rather  than calling the refund 
new money , I dont  think Mr J wouldve suffered the loss of expectation that he has. I can 
imagine that it has been very difficult to accept that almost half of Mr Js pension refund is 
now being paid to Goodwin  Barrett for their fees, particularly as that was money Mr J had 
paid into his pension  throughout his life. So I think Goodwin Barrett should pay Mr J £300 for 
the trouble and upset it has caused  him.
I understand that this isnt the result Mr J was hoping for, and Im sorry for the position he 
finds himself in. But Goodwin Barrett submitted the claim  on his behalf,  which resulted in a 
refund of his pension.  As such, it is entitled  to charge its fee of 40% plus VAT.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold this complaint. Goodwin Barrett  Ltd must  pay Mr J 
£300 for the trouble and upset it has caused. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 November  2019.
Ref: DRN80948413Charlotte Wilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8094841