K820x#14complaint
Mr Bs complaint is that Gain Capital UK Limited (trading as City Index) wrongly applied 
borrowing charges  to his Quarterly  Spreadbet Futures (QSF)  trades. He wants a full refund 
of the charges.
background
One of our adjudicators considered the matter  and, in the main, said the following:
The terms for the charges could have been  made clearer on City Indexs website.
However, City Indexs terms and conditions  to which the website refers  do say 
that borrowing  costs  may be passed on to its customers  if it incurs  a fee for short 
positions. In this respect, the terms also say City Index  would give notice  of such 
costs but in Mr Bs case no notice  was given.
Mr Bs awareness of similar  charges  in his account with another firm suggests that he 
ought reasonably  to have expected  the same in his City Index  account.
The adjudicator does not appear to have upheld  the complaint.  Given  the balance of 
evidence, he said it is difficult to assess if and/or how much  of a refund  should be given to 
Mr B. However, he appears to have made a settlement proposal for both parties to consider, 
involving a refund of half of the borrowing charges. Mr B disagreed with the proposal and 
presented his response to the adjudicators view and his claim for a full refund mainly  as 
follows:
City Indexs website  explicitly  says that, for Spread Futures, finance charges do not 
apply and that finance charges  reflect the cost of borrowing. This should not be 
confused with the terms for Contracts  for Differences (CFDs) which say borrowing 
costs are applicable.
Reference to his account with the other firm is misguided. The borrowing costs  in that 
account relate to CFDs. QSFs are a differently structured product where borrowing 
costs are already  explicitly  included  in the cost of spread.
The matter  was then referred to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions
The terms that have  been mentioned should  be considered  together. I note the following:
9.2 Depending on the Market concerned and in line with all applicable laws and regulations,  
we may 
                 9.2.3 impose a Daily Financing Fee on your Open Positions 
You can find details with respect  to these as well as other fees and charges applicable to 
your Account on our Website 
Ref: DRN849792229.8 We may pass on to you charges which we may from time to time incur in borrowing 
stock in the external market to hedge  a Short Position which  you have opened with us. 
These charges  will fluctuate depending  on market conditions and the scarcity of the stock  
concerned. We will advise  you of any such charges  at the time they are incurred or as soon 
as possible after we become aware that they have been incurred  [my emphasis]
Annex 3: Trade and Order Execution Policy 
Costs:  We may pass  on some  charges  to you arising from the Underlying Instrument 
traded.  These include borrowing charges when an Underlying Instrument  becomes  
expensive to borrow 
Additionally for many  Markets you will be required to pay Daily Financing  Fees  on the full 
amount of an Open  Position. [my emphasis]
As Mr B says,  City Indexs  website adds the following relevant information:
You will not pay a finance charge  on futures  trades (such as options or bonds} as they 
already have the cost of carry built into the spread.
Financing charges  reflect the cost of borrowing or lending the underlying  asset.
The next step is to apply  these terms to Mr Bs case and I consider the core issue to be the 
notions of borrowing costs and financing under the terms. City Index says each is distinct, 
which is why borrowing costs applied to the relevant trades in their own right.  Mr B says no 
such distinction exists,  that both are the same, that the website quote supports this assertion  
and that the same quote confirms that no borrowing costs (or financing) applies to his QSFs.
I consider that there is a distinction, in the terms, between  borrowing costs and financing.
Distinction between finance/financing and borrowing costs
A distinction can be found in the wording  of the Costs terms quoted  and emphasised 
above. First, reference  is made to borrowing charges which  may be passed to the 
customer. Then, financing  fees are referred  to as an additional charge that customers  should 
be aware of. If the terms intended to treat borrowing costs and financing  as the same they 
arguably would not have  referred to financing  as being an additional charge, instead  the 
terms would  have said financing is the same as borrowing costs  or, even simpler, they would  
not have made a distinction by referring to an additional charge.
I appreciate Mr B could  argue that the website  says financing  is the same  as the cost of 
borrowing. However, the website quotes  refer to how daily or overnight  financing charges 
are treated  for futures trades. The title of the section from which  the quotes come  is  
Overnight financing charges. This  overnight financing  is the context in which  the 
website quotes  should be read. As stated  above, overnight (or daily)  financing is distinct  
from borrowing charges  under  the Costs terms. 
Daily financing is also distinct from borrowing charges under sections 9.2/9.2.3  and 9.8 of 
the terms, as quoted  above. Daily financing (in section  9.2/9.2.3) is referred to separately 
from borrowing charges  (in section  9.8) for short positions which  fluctuate  depending on 
market conditions and scarcity of stock. The fluctuating nature of the borrowing charges is 
also distinct from the definitive nature of financing under the Overnight financing charges 
Ref: DRN84979223section of the website, which refers to  LIBOR (or equivalent rate) + 2.5% on long 
positions and  LIBOR -2.5% on short  positions.
Evidence supports  the conclusion that borrowing charges were  applicable  (or potentially  
applicable) to Mr Bs QSFs. There appears  to have been a dispute  between the parties  
about the identities and dates of the relevant charges. That the dispute appears to have 
been resolved,  which  suggests that the charges accurately match  the relevant trades. If not, 
the matter that has been referred  for a decision does not appear to include a dispute about 
an alleged  mismatch between the charges and the trades. The issue  referred for a decision 
is whether (or not) the borrowing charges are legitimate and, for the reasons given above, I 
consider that they are.
Notice of borrowing costs
Ideally, Mr B should have  been given prior notice, from City Index, of the borrowing charges 
or notice  as they were being applied.  He did not receive such notice. However, section 9.8 
(as quoted  and emphasised above) gives allowance for the possibility that it is unable to give 
such notice and allowance  for it to give notice  subsequently. Mr B appears to have received 
notice of the charges subsequently, within  his account statement.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 July 2019.
Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8497922