K821x#15complaint
Mrs G complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited  took a mid-term payment from 
her account  in relation to her motor insurance  policy. 
Mr G is a named driver on the policy. Advantage is the underwriter of Mrs Gs policy.  
Reference to Advantage includes reference to its agents. 
background
In December 2017, Mrs Gs car was damaged  by a collapsing  wall. She made a claim 
against her policy. Advantage told Mrs G that the car was a category N total loss, which  
means that it was damaged beyond economical repair.  The claim was resolved  in
February 2018, when  Advantage paid Mrs G the pre-accident value of the car, less the 
excess due under the policy.  Mrs G bought another car. In May 2018, her policy  renewed 
automatically. 
In September  2018, Advantage wrote to Mrs G and said that it had recently received notice 
that the claim in December 2017 had been settled and will show  as a fault  claim,  so an 
additional premium  of £357.15  was due. In October  2018, Advantage collected the additional 
premium. 
Mrs G says that she didnt receive Advantages letter  in September 2018 and when she 
noticed that it had taken  a payment, she contacted  it and complained. In response to 
Mrs Gs complaint, Advantage  offered compensation of £75 for its error and said that if she 
wished to cancel  the policy, it would waive its usual  cancellation  fee. 
Mrs G says that the first she knew about  this was when Advantage took the additional  
premium from her account. When she phoned  to complain, she was left on hold for two 
hours. Mrs G says that the reason Advantage has given  for the additional premium  doesnt 
appear reasonable and neither do the timescales involved. She would like the additional 
premium returned and Advantage to be reprimanded and told how to behave  appropriately  in 
future.
One of our adjudicators looked  at what had happened. She said that Mrs G didnt 
misrepresent the nature  of her December 2017 claim, so certain remedies that apply when  a 
policyholder hasnt disclosed something thats  important to an insurer  dont apply here.  
The adjudicator said Advantage  accepts that it made an error  in recording the
December 2017  incident. She didnt think it was fair for Mrs G to be penalised. The 
adjudicator thought that Advantage should have waived the additional premium and 
explained to Mrs G that the premium for the May 2018 renewal was artificially  low and the 
same discount wouldnt  be available at the following renewal. She said that whilst 
Advantages offer of compensation of £75 in relation to poor service was fair, it should also 
reimburse the additional premium it took,  with interest. 
Mr G responded on Mrs Gs behalf and said that they agreed with the adjudicator. 
Advantage didnt  agree.  It said:
Its entitled to ask for the correct premium to continue  the policy.  
Its error doesnt  mean  that its unable to reasonably  amend  or cancel the policy.
Ref: DRN87629092If it hadnt  offered Mrs G the opportunity to cancel her policy,  penalty free, it would 
agree that it should refund the additional  premium.
Mrs G chose  to continue with the policy in the knowledge that it wouldnt refund the 
premium. 
Its proposed resolution is fair. 
As there was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This service isnt the regulator, so we have no powers to reprimand a business  or tell it how 
to conduct itself generally. I realise Mrs G will be disappointed by this but I cant  act outside  
my legal powers. I can consider whether Advantage treated Mrs G fairly in collecting the 
additional premium.  I dont think it did and Ill explain why. 
Advantage admits  that it made an error  in recording the December  2017  claim as a 
windscreen claim, rather than a fault  claim.  Advantage was entitled to record this as a fault 
claim. That doesnt mean that Mrs G was at fault for causing the accident  she clearly 
wasnt. It means that Advantage didnt recover all of its costs. 
As Advantage recorded the December 2017  incorrectly, the premium on renewal was lower 
than it should  have been. In the particular circumstances that arose here,  I dont think  it was 
fair for Advantage  to ask Mrs G to pay the additional premium. Thats because she accepted 
the May 2018  renewal premium in good faith. She also lost the opportunity to obtain a better  
quote from another insurer and she may well have done that if she had been  told about the 
true level of the renewal premium. 
I dont think that it was sufficient for Advantage to offer to waive  its cancellation fee. Mrs G 
didnt want to cancel  the policy. Shed have been put to the trouble of finding  a new policy  
mid-term through no fault of her own. Shed also have lost another  years  no claims discount. 
So, I dont think that the offer to waive the cancellation fee goes far enough. Advantage now 
accepts that the remedies  available under  Consumer Insurance  (Disclosure & 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA ) arent relevant here.
I appreciate that Mrs G says she didnt  receive  the letter in September  2018, which  said that 
the additional premium would be collected.  Ive seen a copy  of the letter  and, on balance, Im 
satisfied that it was sent. Advantage  isnt responsible for the failings  of the postal  system.
Considering everything, I think that a fair resolution here requires that Advantage should  
refund the additional premium to Mrs G. As Mrs G has been kept out of the use of that 
money, it should also pay interest.  I think that the offer of £75 in relation to Mrs Gs distress 
and inconvenience  was fair and I dont require it to pay any more.
Ref: DRN87629093my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Gs complaint. I now require 
Advantage Insurance Company Limited to:
Refund to Mrs G the additional premium  of £357.15.
Pay interest on this amount  at the simple  rate of 8% per year, from the date it took 
the payment,  to the date of settlement.*  
Pay compensation of £75, if it hasnt  already done so.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Advantage to take off tax from this interest. Advantage  
must give Mrs G a certificate showing how much tax its taken off, if she asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 May 2020.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8762909