K822xComplaint
Mrs R complains that Home Retail Group  Card  Services  Limited  (Argos)  wont  refund her the 
amount she spent on her account when she fell victim to a scam.  
Background
What Mrs R says
Mrs R says that on 2 November 2018 she received a call from someone saying they were 
from HMRC. She says the number was the same as the genuine one. Mrs R was told she 
owed money to HMRC  and that as she hadnt  responded to letters  sent to her about it a 
warrant for her arrest had been issued. When Mrs R said she hadnt received any letters she 
was told theyd been returned.  
Mrs R says she was told there was a warrant because she had multiple National Insurance 
numbers in her name and was taking money from the government as a result. Mrs R was 
told she needed to build  up a fund of £75,000 while there was an investigation. She says the 
caller passed her to a police officer who told Mrs R that if she didnt build up the funds her 
job would  be affected and she wouldnt be able to travel, as her passport would be 
confiscated.  After the investigation was complete, Mrs R was told she would receive a 
refund if appropriate.  
Mrs R paid a sum of cash from her savings  and then the warrant fee on her credit card. She 
then used overdrafts  with different banks, credit cards, her Argos card and a loan to build  the 
£75,000 fund.  This complaint relates  only to transactions on her Argos  card. 
Mrs R bought iTunes top up cards and Steam wallet gift cards in three  different  stores  using 
her Argos  account as follows:
Transaction number
Date Time Amount
1 05/11/18 12.52 £225
2 05/11/18 13.28 £200
3 05/11/18 18.16 £500
4 05/11/18 18.34 £500
5 05/11/18 18.38 £500
6 05/11/18 18.40 £600 refund
7 06/11/18 15.41 £500
8 21/11/18 14.06 £205
9 22/11/18 09.50 £400
10 22/11/18 09.52 £80
Total - £2,510
Mrs R says the scammer called her daily and stayed on the line when she bought  all the 
cards. He told her which branch to go to and the amount to buy. If asked by a member of 
staff in store, Mrs R was told to say she was buying  the cards  as gifts. Once Mrs R had 
bought the cards, she was told to either  post them to an address given by the scammer or to 
send a photo of the card numbers via an HMRC app she says she was asked to download. 
In December 2018 the person Mrs R thought was from HMRC ended contact with her and 
she became scared.  Mrs R contacted the police,  who told her she was the victim of a scam.  
Ref: DRN83374002What Argos say
Argos say Mrs R made and authorised the payments herself  and theres no evidence  shed 
been the victim of fraud.  Customers  sometimes change their spending  habits as Mrs R did. 
Argos also said its terms and conditions require a customer to notify it of transactions  they 
dont recognise. Finally, Argos points to the fact Mrs R requested an increase in her credit 
limit.   
Our investigation so far
Our investigator upheld  the complaint and asked Argos to refund all the payments together  
with interest. She accepted that, although tricked, Mrs R had authorised the payments and 
authenticated them using chip and PIN. But the payments were unusual  for Mrs R as there 
was a sudden  increase  in spending.  On 5 November 2018 Mrs R spent £1,925  in several 
transactions, which the investigator felt Argos should have flagged. Had Argos asked 
questions of Mrs R about why she was making  the payments  the investigator felt the scam  
would have been uncovered, especially as its a common scam. In addition,  Mrs R increased 
her credit limit on 6 November  and tried to again on 21 November 2018, but Argos did not 
agree to the second increase. 
Mrs Rs complaint was passed  to me to consider. During my review Argos  provided a 
recording of Mrs Rs call of 6 November 2018 and said that in the call Mrs R advised she 
was buying new goods for her kitchen. Argos say it discussed with Mrs R how much  credit 
she had available  and that Mrs R was given the chance to advise it of the real reason for the 
request to increase her credit limit. 
I issued my provisional decision on 28 January 2021. In it I said,
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering  whats fair and reasonable I am required to take into account; relevant law
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance  and standards; codes of practice; and where
appropriate what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. Having
done so Ive come to a different outcome to our investigator. Ill explain why.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank  is expected  to process  payments
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make, in accordance  with the Payment
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions  of the customers  account.
However, taking into account  the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of
practice and what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time,  I consider 
Argos should fairly and reasonably:
-Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made  or received  to counter
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism,
and preventing fraud and scams.
-Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other  signs that
might indicate that its customers were  at risk of fraud (among other things). This is
particularly so given  the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years,
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
-In some circumstances,  irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken
Ref: DRN83374003additional steps, or make additional checks,  before processing a payment, or in some
cases declined to make  a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
In this case, I need to decide  whether Argos acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings
with Mrs R when she made the transactions discussed above or whether it could and should 
have done more before processing them. That is a question of fact and degree
depending on the circumstances of each  individual case.
Argos terms and conditions say,
2.4 We may refuse to approve a transaction or block further  transactions  on your Account if 
we reasonably consider it necessary to protect the security of your Card or Account,  to 
prevent fraud or unauthorised use of your Card  or Account, if we reasonably believe that 
there is a significantly increased  risk that you will be unable to repay us, or if we are required 
to do so by law, a court  or regulator  or another duty which applies to us. 
So Argos  can refuse to approve transactions in certain circumstances, including to prevent 
fraud.  The section  Argos  referred Mrs R to relating to transactions she doesnt recognise 
isnt relevant in this case, as Mrs R accepts she made the payments, but she did so having 
fallen victim to a scam.  
Taking all of this into account,  in this case, I need to decide whether Argos acted fairly
and reasonably in its dealings  with Mrs R when  she bought multiple gift cards.
Considerations
-All of Mrs Rs transactions  from 5 to 22 November 2018 were for iTunes  cards  top up 
cards or Steam card wallets. In the six months before the purchases Mrs R hadnt 
bought any iTunes or Steam cards.  And on 5 November 2018 Mrs R bought  cards  
totalling £1,925 in a single day. I consider this type of activity to be unusual for her, 
as in the six moths before she hadnt made any multiple purchases on the same  day 
or bought  any iTunes or Steam cards. 
-Mrs Rs spending in November 2018 left her with a credit  balance of £2,490.01. In 
the months before she fell victim  to the scam her balances were  considerably  lower,  
as set out in the table below. 
Month Balance
June £300.97
July £300.96
August £280.97
September £280.97
October £19.99
November (after 
scam)£2,490.01
-The evidence Argos has provided about  some of the purchases is a little unclear but 
it seems that on 5 November 2018 Mrs R bought  cards  in five separate  transactions. 
At 18.40 on the same day she tried to buy further cards costing £600, but the 
transaction failed,  and the notes say Mrs R changed  her mind. But at that stage Mrs 
Ref: DRN83374004Rs credit  limit was £2,000, so she was unable to complete this transaction.  The 
following day Mrs R called  Argos to increase her credit limit to £2,500 and this was 
agreed. Once her credit limit was increased  Mrs R bought further  cards  on her 
account. I think the request to increase her credit  limit was significant and should 
have prompted  some questions about Mrs Rs unusual spending.
-Argos has said Mrs R was given chances  to discuss  the real reason for the card 
purchases in the call mentioned above.  I dont  agree. Mrs R asked to check her 
credit limit and if it could be increased.  The adviser asked what  she would like to 
increase the limit to. Mrs R didnt answer the question posed  and her response 
mentioned buying  things  for the kitchen. She wasnt asked anything at all about the 
number of cards shed bought already and the reason for this. 
-After the call to Argos to increase her credit  limit Mrs R didnt buy any kitchen  goods.  
Instead, she continued to buy iTunes and Steam  cards.  
Payments 1-3
I dont believe its reasonable to conclude  that Argos should have taken any action when Mrs 
R first started to buy iTunes and Steam  cards, as the amounts werent particularly high and, 
as Argos has pointed  out, customers do sometimes change their spending habits.  A pattern 
of spending hadnt emerged  and I dont think theres  anything particularly unusual or 
suspicious about buying gift cards of moderate value in the lead up to Christmas even if the 
consumer hasnt done so before.
Payment 4 onwards
I think the position from payment 4 onwards is different. By this stage Mrs R had bought 
£925 worth  of cards, something  she hadnt  done before, in three transactions  over less than 
four hours and at three separate  shops. Put together,  the series  of transactions  is unusual  in 
amount and nature and I consider Argos ought reasonably  to have asked Mrs R some 
questions when she made the fourth transaction - or refused to complete it and asked her to 
contact customer services  to discuss it.
Even at a later date,  when Mrs R called to increase her credit limit, Argos  didnt take any 
steps to protect  Mrs R from potential fraud or financial harm. Mrs R wasnt asked any 
questions about  her sudden and out of character increase  in spending. 
I consider that had Argos asked Mrs R why she was suddenly buying  so many iTunes and 
Steam cards  on her account the scam would have unfolded and further  losses could have 
been prevented.  Mrs R was under a considerable amount  of pressure from the scammers,  
was very worried and had already paid a large sum to the scammer in transactions that dont 
form part of this complaint. The only cover story she was given was to say she was buying 
the cards  as gifts. But by the fourth transaction Mrs R was looking to buy iTunes and Steam 
cards totalling £1,425  in a day, having never bought  these cards  before. Mrs R has 
explained to me she didnt  know what the cards were for, or how they worked, but followed 
instructions because she was scared. In the circumstances, I dont believe Mrs R would 
have been able to give plausible answers to any enquiries. Had relevant questions been 
asked and warnings  of a potential  scam been given I consider Mrs R would have understood 
what was happening sooner and not made the fourth or subsequent purchases. 
Ref: DRN83374005Did Mrs Rs actions  contribute to her loss?
As Ive said,  I think Argos was at fault here for not taking sufficient steps to protect Mrs R.  
But Ive gone  on to consider Mrs Rs own actions,  whether she should bear some 
responsibility for her losses  and if I should  make  any deductions to reflect this. I understand 
Mrs R was extremely worried, felt under considerable  pressure and the scammer was very 
clever in their dealings with her.  But I also but find it somewhat difficult to understand why 
she accepted  the scammers assertion she could pay HMRC by buying iTunes and Steam 
cards. I dont think HMRC  would  ever ask for payment by these means, not least  because 
they cant realise cash from them, and I believe a reasonable  person ought  to have 
suspected as much and made further  enquiries of HMRC through  its official  channels before  
buying the cards. 
I also dont consider the scammer behaved in a manner a reasonable person would expect a 
member of staff at HMRC  would, for example when he called her almost daily and stayed on 
the line while Mrs R went in to stores to buy the cards.  In the circumstances, I consider Mrs 
R must  bear some responsibility for her loss. Im minded to reduce the award made to Mrs R 
in respect of payment four onwards by 50%. This means Mrs R would receive  half of 
payment four and all subsequent payments up to and including  the payments on 22 
November 2018.  
In its response to this provisional decision Argos should provide a clear breakdown of 
payment four onwards,  including any refund Mrs R received  and the reason for this. E-
receipts show a Failed  top-up voucher on 5 November at 18.40 and that £600 was returned 
because Mrs R changed her mind or the transaction wasnt  required.  Im uncertain  if Mrs R 
paid £600 which was then returned to her or if the transaction  didnt go through  because  Mrs 
R had reached her £2,000 credit limit. This point is relevant  to Mrs Rs settlement figure, so 
Id like Argos to clarify  the position.  It would also be useful if Argos  could confirm in its 
response to this provisional decision  what  Mrs R ordered at 18.38 on 5 November 2018 
where the e-receipt  says In-store  ordered  home delivery. 
Mrs R responded to my provisional decision accepting it. Argos  didnt reply by the deadline I 
set out in my provisional decision. I asked  Argos to provide the information  I requested  in my 
provisional decision, but it said it couldnt provide a definite answer  and provided  further  
copies of evidence  it had already provided to this service. To calculate the redress  due to 
Mrs R, Argos  will need to be clear about  all of the payments Mrs R made  from payment 4 
onwards and to provide Mrs R with a breakdown of these payments. 
My findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint  and taken in to account  the same  
considerations as I set out in my provisional decision. 
As neither party has submitted any new evidence or arguments, I see no reason to depart 
from the conclusions  set out in my provisional  decision  and reproduced  above.   
Argos has been unable  to confirm anything further  about the £600 transaction, but I still think  
it should be deducted from the calculation  of Mrs Rs losses.   I now think it looks  more likely 
than not this transaction was a refund  rather  than a declined payment,  because  a £600  
refund at Argos credit  is showing on Mrs Rs account statement on the same date.  And 
Argos has provided a receipt,  of sorts,  which says £600 was returned  with a reason code of 
changed mind/not required.  I  am unable to tell for sure which  of the previously bought 
Ref: DRN83374006vouchers the refund  relates  to because Argos evidence doesnt  show  this.  But I also think 
its unlikely, given what Mrs R remembers about  her interactions with the scammer,  that she 
wouldve been able to return those she bought in the first three transactions on 5 November.  
Thats because given  the time that passed between  her buying those cards and getting the 
refund, I think she wouldve likely  already scratched off the PIN on the back of the card in 
order to give the details to the scammer  or sent the cards to the scammer.   Also,  the £600 
refund occurred within minutes of the fourth and fifth purchases, so I think  its more likely the 
refund related to those purchases  and so should be deducted from the loss calculation as 
set out below.
So I consider Argos  should refund to Mrs R £492.50. I have calculated  this figure by adding 
together payments four to ten in the table  above  and then halving that figure  as I have 
found Mrs R to have  contributed  to her loss. I have  then deducted  the £600 refund referred 
to above.  
My final decision
My final decision is that Home Retail Group Card Services  Limited  (Argos)  should:
-Refund to Mrs R £492.50, being  half of payment four and all subsequent payments 
up to and including 22 November  2018 less the £600 refund Mrs R has received;
-Pay interest on the above amount at the rate of 8% simple  from the date of the 
transaction to the date of payment.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2021.
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8337400