K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  about the charges imposed on his personal pension  plan by Phoenix Life 
Assurance Limited (Phoenix). He says the charges are excessive and unfair  and have 
resulted in the value of his plan depleting  over the years. He also complains that Phoenix 
was unable to give him an exact amount for the charges deducted from his plan since it was 
taken out in 1997.
background
Mr L took out a personal pension plan in 1997. The plan was set up through a financial 
adviser and it was set up on a regular annual contribution basis. Mr L paid an initial  sum to 
start the plan with his next contribution being due in May 1998. 
Mr L made no further contributions so in 1998  the plan was made  paid up. 
In 2000 Mr L switched funds invested  under the plan from a with-profits fund to a Phoenix 
UK equities fund.
In 2005 Mr L made a complaint about the performance of his plan. 
In 2018 Mr L asked Phoenix  how much he had paid in charges. Phoenix  said it estimated 
that £19,100 had been deducted for charges over the term of the plan.
At around that time Mr L complained to Phoenix  about the charges  deducted  from his plan.
In December 2018 Phoenix responded  to the complaint. It didnt uphold the complaint and 
said it hadnt advised Mr L to take out the plan. Phoenix said it had set up the plan as 
instructed on the basis there would be a regular  annual  contribution.  It had also administered 
the plan. Phoenix  said in effect that the charges on initial units  were higher than 
accumulation units  and because Mr Ls plan only had initial  units that had had a greater 
impact on the value of his plan.
Phoenix also said that it planned to bring a cap on charges on non-workplace pensions by 
the end of 2019. But it said that it wouldnt be applied retrospectively to plans that had 
already had higher charges taken from them. Phoenix said the charges would be lower 
going forward. 
Phoenix sent a further letter in January 2019  apologising  for the way its response letter  had 
been written and the delay in addressing Mr Ls concerns. It offered Mr L £250 for the trouble 
and upset it had caused. 
Mr L disagreed with Phoenixs conclusions about the charges on his plan and referred his 
complaint to our service. 
Our investigator considered Mr Ls complaint but didnt uphold it. She said Mr L had paid an 
initial premium which had been used to buy initial units  but hadnt then made any further 
contributions. So, no accumulation  units had been purchased which  had significantly lower 
charges. The investigator said it was explained  in the terms and conditions that initial  units 
were subject to an annual management  charge of 7.5 percent.  She said that meant Mr Ls 
initial premium and any growth was subject to this charge throughout the life of the pension  
instead of reducing  over time. 
Ref: DRN80118702The investigator thought the charges were made  clear from the outset. She said it would 
have been up to the adviser who sold the pension to explain the terms of the policy  and the 
risks involved if contributions were stopped. 
She noted that Mr L had to ask Phoenix  three times  for a list of charges which had been 
applied to his pension. The investigator  also noted there was some  delay  and confusion  
regarding the final response letter and the letter was written in the third person. She said that 
Phoenix had apologised and offered £250  compensation,  which she considered was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.
The investigator noted that Mr L had asked Phoenix to confirm his complaint wouldn't be 
affected if he transferred  his funds while the investigation was ongoing.  But Phoenix hadnt 
acknowledged this in its response. Mr L had said this further delayed him moving  his funds 
and he'd suffered a loss because of this. So, he felt that Phoenix should  compensate  him for 
this loss. The investigator agreed  that Phoenix  should have responded to Mr Ls request. But 
as no details of how this had caused him a loss had been provided, she couldnt conclude  
that Phoenix should pay compensation  to Mr L.
Mr L disagreed with the investigators conclusions. He provided a detailed  response setting 
out several points.  In summary he said:
There was no investigation, or warning  about,  the investment risk Mr L was forced to 
try to take to achieve capital growth and so combat the excessive charges.
It wasnt pointed out in the literature  that the investor should anticipate  a transfer 
value less than the original investment if no further contributions were made. This 
should have been  clearly stated.  
The statement by the investigator that she wouldnt expect Mr Ls pension  to have a 
current transfer value  above the initial £10,000  supported his point that the 
information provided by Phoenix was insufficient  and that he was misled  into 
believing the first premium could  grow in value. He reiterated that insufficient warning 
was given.
There was no mention in any of the literature that if only one premium  was paid the 
pension fund will be eroded and there  were no illustrations demonstrating this. It was 
important to note that, regardless of any additional  money  being  added after the first-
year premium,  the treatment of the first-year  premium would have been unaffected 
and would only have  served to cover  up what Mr L considered to be the extortionate  
amount of money taken from the first-year contribution at his expense.
The pension literature  did not provide enough information about  the type of funds 
required to be invested in to avoid erosion of the first-year contribution. Neither  was 
there any suggestion that investments would  have to be of a high-risk nature to avoid 
erosion; this omission was a key aspect  that should have been absolutely  crystal 
clear in the literature,  but it was not.
The design of the pension had trapped Mr L in a contract that was clearly  being used 
ostensibly as a profit-making instrument by Phoenix, using what  he considered  to be 
extortionate exit penalties to ensure  he remained in the pension  for the long term. 
This would  enable Phoenix  to extract the maximum profit from it, even after Phoenix  
Ref: DRN80118703had recovered  their initial expenses. This served  to inhibit Mr L from transferring 
elsewhere whilst the fund was at a higher value. Mr L said there  was no 
understanding of the unfair  nature of this and how this had impacted the value  he 
could have achieved  from his initial premium if he had been able to transfer away  
from Phoenix much earlier.
There was no reference  in the findings or conclusions  to the application of unfair 
terms and conditions  or whether Phoenix has applied the principles laid down by the 
FCA in this regard.
It is not clear that FCA Finalised  Guidance FG16/8 in respect of Terms and 
Conditions has been considered. 
The impact of these  charges upon  the premium to which  they relate had not been  
explained, demonstrated or illustrated. Mr L disagreed  that clarity of the charges  had 
been provided. 
The descriptor of the charges was misleading  as only a tiny proportion of the charges 
(Annual Management Charge) were for managing the policy.  If the wording had been 
clear it would have  informed Mr L of the element that related to policy management 
and that the remainder  was fees/business  expenses (profit)  this was not clear. As 
no information was available  to warn of the impact  of these charges and as 
illustrations didnt  identify  initial  units separately from accumulation  units  Mr L didnt 
think anyone could  imagine the devastating effect they would have.  
It was for the product  provider to provide clear detail of their product in their literature 
and illustrations and it was they who were  responsible for any shortcomings in such.  
Providing an illustration that combines two wholly different charging structures (initial  
units and accumulation units) in no way provided clarity about the effect of charges 
on the first-year premium. This further  supported  Mr Ls contention that the charges 
were insufficiently clear to understand their impact.
There was an incorrect assumption that if a term was written into a policy  a business 
was entitled to apply it. No notice  was taken of the unfair contract terms guidance, 
Principle 6 (FCA PRIN 2.1) or FCA Finalised Guidance FG16/8.
It was widely known  that the costs of administering  a policy  are minimal, especially 
when outsourced. Mr L was of the understanding that his policy  was administered  by 
Diligenta, and Phoenix had recently commented on the significant  savings  it makes  
when utilising the outsourcer. 
Mr L said that the only administration that takes  place is the production of a 
statement once per year (apart from the automatic deduction of charges from his 
pension to the Phoenix account). Therefore, he considered his estimation of £25 per 
annum to manage the policy was quite  realistic, but the findings to date did not 
appear to recognise  this fact. 
The annual pension statement stated that the annual management charge was the 
annual charge levied against  your investment fund in which you are invested to help 
meet the costs  of administering your investments.  The  cost of administering  the 
investments would be no more than investments for any other year where 
Ref: DRN80118704accumulation units  were held, and therefore  this description was extremely  
misleading.
 
While  this service  may not be in a position  to determine the profit  a company can 
make, it is in a position to determine whether  the descriptors provided to a policy  
holder were accurate and fair, whether the policyholder has been treated fairly, and 
whether conditions the policyholder  has been  subject  to throughout the term of the 
policy were fair or unfair. Mr L says the terms were  unfair.
As no agreement could be reached  the complaint was referred to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have read and considered all the detailed representations provided by Mr L, but I dont 
intend to respond  in the same level of detail, nor do I think  I need  to. Ive focussed  on those 
issues I consider to be central to the complaint.
There are some undisputed facts  here.  Mr L took out a personal pension  plan in 1997. I can 
see from the application form that he had a financial adviser acting for him and the 
instructions for the plan were  to set up a regular  annual contribution of £10,000. Those 
instructions are significant because the provider  of the plan, Phoenix,  will apply its charges 
depending on how the plan is set up. It isnt the adviser, so it doesnt provide  
recommendations, instead it acts upon the instructions it receives.  
Where the plan was set up with an expected regular contribution,  the costs of this pension 
plan would be largely paid for with the first years regular contribution(s), which would be 
allocated to initial units. 
Regular contributions made after that time would be used to purchase  accumulation or 
ordinary units.  
The terms and conditions  of Mr Ls plan described  the two different  types  of unit and set out 
the management charge for each  type.  The management charge was significantly higher for 
initial units compared to ordinary units.
Overall, I think it was clear the charge on the initial units was significantly higher. And so the 
set-up costs of the plan would effectively be collected at the beginning of the policy.
The expectation would be that, with a policy set up for regular premiums only, there  would 
be a need to administer subsequent contributions which might be similar  to that received  at 
outset. So if Phoenix  was expecting to administer  and take responsibility  for a £10,000 
premium on a regular  basis,  the costs  associated with this might seem  more proportionate 
on that initial £10,000. Alternatively, with many policies it was possible to begin contributions 
with a sizeable single premium and then smaller regular  premiums thereafter.
As the charges would have been much lower  on the accumulation units,  and had regular 
contributions of £10,000 been received thereafter,  this left significantly more potential  to 
provide an investment return and increase the value of the plan- certainly  beyond  the impact  
Ref: DRN80118705of the initial  charges. Although this would, of course,  always  be dependent on the investment  
performance of the fund or funds the plan was invested in.
Unfortunately for Mr L his plan was set up with the expectation of regular  annual  
contributions, and because he didnt make  any further contributions  after 1997, all the money 
he invested was made  up of initial  units with the higher management charge rate. This is 
what makes the impact on his single  contribution  seem so disproportionate. It also made it 
much more difficult to achieve an investment return, because  the fund would have to perform  
at a rate where it would cover  and exceed  the cost of that management  charge. This didnt  
happen, which is why the value of Mr Ls plan has gradually declined  over the years.  
Mr L says this is unfair and it makes  the plan poor value for money. And I can understand 
why he feels that way. Clearly to now have a plan with a value which  is less than he 
originally invested  in 1997 would  appear to be poor value for money.  But I have to consider 
how this type of plan works. Mr Ls pension plan was designed to receive regular 
contributions and the charges were  based on those contributions being made.  If Mr L had 
made regular annual contributions, these would have been  invested in accumulation units 
with much greater potential to make  an investment  return. In those circumstances the 
charges he paid would not have seemed disproportionate. 
I asked Mr L why he didnt  pay anything further  into his plan after 1997 and he said:
I believed initially the premium paid would be affordable and continue to be paid, this was 
not the case, however  had information  from the product provider been supplied  that properly  
explained the impact  the charges would have on initial units,  I would not have taken out the 
contract.
I think the level of charges  to be applied to the initial units was made clear in the terms and 
conditions. And I consider  it was the advisers responsibility to explain the charges, and how 
they worked, to Mr L and the risks if he didnt make any further contributions. Particularly 
because a regular  contribution pension  plan is designed for regular  contributions to be 
made- it is different to an investment where a lump sum is invested in the expectation of 
achieving capital growth on that sum. The charges on this would be different, because  
theres no expectation of further sums  to additionally administer, in a similar way to a single 
premium pension investment.
I also think Mr L was aware that this was a regular contribution  plan because  the application 
form signed by him made it clear it was an annual premium. And the policy  schedule  sent to 
his adviser at the point of sale indicated that Mr Ls next contribution  was due in May 1998.  
In addition, Mr L was sent a letter  in 1998  indicating the plan had been  made  paid up 
because no contribution had been  made.  And Mr L himself has said he believed the 
premium would continue to be paid.
Mr L has also said, however, that insufficient  warning was given about the impact of the 
charges on the initial units. This plan was taken out more than 20 years  ago, so there is 
limited documentation  available from the point  of sale. It is difficult  to say therefore exactly 
what warnings were  given at the time.  I can see from the application  form that the adviser 
has confirmed that the key features  document was provided to Mr L. So, I am satisfied on 
balance that policy documentation was provided  to Mr L, via his adviser.  
In addition, I am satisfied  that the terms and conditions  relating to units, and the relevant 
charges, were set out clearly in the pension policy document  and I dont think it would have  
been difficult for the adviser to locate  the relevant information and explain its significance to 
Ref: DRN80118706Mr L. I consider it would have been clear to a financial adviser that the level of costs  on initial 
units would  impact the performance  of the plan if no further contributions were made. And 
this should have been made clear to Mr L. 
At this point, I should also point out that the costs  incurred  in the setting up of a policy  at that 
time would also have typically included the commission which  would be paid to the adviser.  
If there was the anticipation of a regular  premium of £10,000, this would not have been 
insignificant (although a clawback was in some instances possible to mitigate  the effects of 
this).
Mr L says the terms relating to charges and exit fees are unfair and he refers to guidance 
relating to unfair contract  terms issued  by the Office  of Fair Trading.  He notes it provides A 
standard term is unfair if, contrary  to the requirement of good  faith,  it causes a significant 
imbalance in the parties rights and obligations arising under the contract, to the detriment of 
the consumer. 
Mr L also refers to principle 6 (FCA PRIN 2.1) and the FCA Finalised Guidance 16/8. He 
refers specifically to these points made by the FCA:
We expect firms to assess whether outcomes for customers paying exit or paid up charges 
are fair.
A term is not binding  on a consumer if it is contained within a contract concluded from 1 
July1995 and is deemed unfair.
Whether the UTCCRs  apply or not, the firm should be able to justify the way in which  a term 
is applied in practice to ensure it is applied fairly
In line with TCF outcome 6, we expect firms to monitor  the extent to which paid-up and exit 
charges result in unreasonable  barriers  to changing product or switching provider.
Reliance on what the customer was told in the original T&Cs, or reference back to this 
alone is unlikely  to be sufficient as set out under RPPD1.21(3).
Although were not a court, I have to consider the business actions in light of the relevant 
law and what was good practice at the time. I have also taken  into account the Unfair Terms 
in Consumer Contract Regulations in considering  whether I think these terms were  unfair.
But I dont consider the terms regarding charges under this plan were unfair to Mr L or 
created significant  imbalance. Phoenix was providing what was envisaged to be a long-term 
contract and it was set up on that basis. The agreement  was that Mr L would pay a regular 
premium in return for the benefits provided  by the plan.  If Mr L had made regular premiums, 
as set out in the agreement, then the charges applied to his ongoing payments would have 
been significantly less. But because he didnt the costs had a disproportionate  impact.  
Phoenix was effectively taking the costs for the set-up of the plan upfront. That meant  that if 
the contract  was cancelled it would still recover a significant proportion  of its costs. That is 
because these types of contracts were designed with a view to consumers paying  regular 
premiums over a significant  number  of years. And this type of contract was not unusual  at 
the time.
Ref: DRN80118707So, I dont think the way the term was applied in practice was unfair. I also dont consider 
there was an imbalance in the rights of the parties given the nature of the contract as I have 
outlined. 
I also note that Mr L had a financial adviser to assist him to understand the contract he was 
agreeing to sign up to. 
Overall, taking into account the circumstances, the relevant  law and the guidance referred to 
by Mr L, I dont think the term was unfair or onerous.
I note that Mr L has also referred  to the exit fees being unfair which I will come back to later 
in this decision.
Whilst I do acknowledge Mr Ls concern at the reduction in the value of his plan over the 
years, I must consider  whether Phoenix has done anything wrong. I am satisfied Phoenix set 
up the plan in accordance  with the instructions  it received  from the financial adviser acting 
on behalf of Mr L.  As the provider of the plan it wasnt  Phoenixs  responsibility to give advice 
and nor has Mr L suggested it gave him any advice. 
Phoenix has applied  charges  to Mr Ls personal pension plan, and I am satisfied on balance 
it has applied those  charges in line with the terms and conditions of the plan. 
And as I have said, it would have  been  the responsibility of the adviser  to explain the 
charges and how they worked. It would be for Mr Ls adviser to explain the advantages  and 
disadvantages of setting up the plan in different ways.
So, I am satisfied on balance that the charges have been applied  in accordance with the 
terms and conditions of the plan, that they couldnt reasonably be described as unfair,  and 
that Phoenix hasnt  misled Mr L about  the charges. 
Change to charges
Phoenix informed  Mr L that it intended  to change the charges on its non-workplace pensions 
and implement a cap on its charges  by the end of 2019. It said:
All pots smaller than £5,000 that had charges  in excess of 3 per cent per year, will now be 
capped at that level with no exit charge applied, or at 1 per cent per year for workplace  
pensions
All pots larger than £5,000 where  charges  exceeded  1.5 per cent per year will now be 
capped at that level, or at 1 per cent per year for workplace pensions.
But Phoenix also said that the charges would not be retrospectively applied to plans  that had 
already had higher charges than this taken from them, as is the case with Mr Ls plan.
Mr L says this change  supports  his argument that the charges are excessive and unfair.  But 
I consider this is a commercial business  decision taken by Phoenix.  It was entitled to charge 
those fees under the terms and conditions.  New pension legislation meant  it had to cap its 
fees  but only going  forward. It didnt have to retrospectively apply  the change.  
Exit fees
Ref: DRN80118708Mr L has said he was stuck with the pension plan as he couldnt transfer it elsewhere 
because the exit fees were significant. And he has referred to FCA guidance  regarding  the 
application of exit fees.
And so Ive considered that guidance.  I note the section referred to by Mr L is primarily 
concerned with exit fees and paid up charges. It was asking firms  to consider whether its exit 
fees acted as an unreasonable barrier to changing  a product or switching provider. And, as 
Mr L has also pointed out the FCA requires firms to pay due regard to the interests of 
customers and treat them fairly.
I can see that prior to 2018 the exit fees represented a significant proportion of the value of 
Mr Ls plan. These types of plans were set up as long -term plans for retirement so exit fees 
did apply -particularly  in the earlier years. After  changes to pension  legislation it became less 
expensive to exit a personal pension plan, which is reflected in the lower exit fees on this 
plan from 2018.  However,  I note the caps to fees that were put in place as a result of these  
changes were not applied retrospectively. So, for instance, firms werent  required  to go back 
and refund consumers  who had paid exit fees prior to the cap being imposed.
Ive also taken into account that the exit fees in this plan applied to the initial units and not 
the accumulation units. So, if further  contributions had been made over the term of the policy  
the fund would have been made  up of mostly  accumulation units. That means the exit 
penalty would have been a relatively  small proportion of the overall fund.
I recognise that this doesnt alter the reality of this situation. The problem  here ultimately 
stems from the way in which  the plan was set up -on a regular contribution  basis but regular  
contributions werent then made.  This impacted on the return on Mr Ls investment  and the 
amount which  Mr L was able to transfer up to 2018. Its of course possible that if the plan 
had been performing well, then Mr L probably  wouldnt have  considered transferring it away  
to another provider,  or in any event  the exit fees would have been  less significant.
But I dont think the way the exit fee applied in practice was unfair  in the context  of this long-
term contract where the expectation was that regular premiums would be paid. 
Response to queries  around fees
Mr L has also complained  about the delays in responding to his information requests about 
the charges applied to his plan and the lack of detailed  specific information in the response.  
Phoenix has explained that the problem was caused  by the old legacy IT systems that 
Phoenix has inherited, where  the costings are hard  coded' into the system in percentage 
terms only, as was the requirement when they were  commissioned, it is very difficult  to 
therefore simply convert one percentage charge to a monetary  amount,  and ensure  this is 
accurate for every Customer, and every policy. The way in which these inherited systems 
were designed,  is much  different to the more fluid IT platforms  that are now available,  and 
are not as easy to make  changes to, without affecting the whole functionality  of the system 
itself, and the ongoing management of each policy.
Whilst I accept  this isnt ideal, I am nevertheless  satisfied that this is a reasonable 
explanation for the delay in providing  information about the amount in charges deducted 
from the plan- also bearing in mind the plan was taken out more than 20 years  before the 
request was made. 
Ref: DRN80118709I also note that Phoenix was able to provide an estimated figure  for the amount deducted in 
costs and that it apologised for the delay  in providing the information. I also take into account 
that it offered  compensation for the delays overall  in dealing with Mr Ls concerns.  
Response to the query around transferring the plan during the complaint process
Mr L has complained  that he asked Phoenix  whether transferring his plan would impact on 
his complaint, but it didnt acknowledge this in its response.  I can see that Mr L asked about 
this in his letter in November 2018. 
I agree  with the investigator that Phoenix  should  have  responded  to Mr Ls query. But Im not 
persuaded that it caused Mr L any loss because Im dont think this prevented  him from 
transferring his plan if he thought this was the right or prudent  thing to do. There  was nothing 
to indicate that transferring his pension  plan would preclude him in any way from pursuing 
his complaint about the charges. So, I think whether he transferred the plan in the interim 
was a matter for Mr L.
Complaint handling  
Phoenix has apologised for the wording it used in its final response letter to Mr L which 
made the contents less clear. It has also apologised for the delay in providing a response to 
his complaint and offered £250  in compensation. 
I should clarify that this service can only decide complaints about  regulated activities. 
Handling complaints is not a regulated activity in and of itself,  so Im not able to consider that 
point in isolation. But I can see that Phoenix has tried to address this issue  with an apology  
and offer of compensation.  
Summary
I can appreciate that Mr L is unhappy  about the level of charges  applied to his plan and the 
impact on the return. I do very much sympathise with his position and I agree the outcome 
for Mr L is very disappointing. But ultimately, I have to consider whether Phoenix  has done 
anything wrong  here and I dont consider it has. So, it follows  that I cant fairly uphold the 
complaint.
However, Im nevertheless conscious  of Mr Ls depth of feeling  on the matter - and although 
I dont think that Phoenix has done anything wrong in the way its handled the policy, I can 
certainly understand why. And so, whilst  not upholding the complaint, weve  asked Phoenix 
whether it would be prepared to discuss the matter further with Mr L and see if a 
compromise on the level of charges applied can be reached. So, it may be that some 
agreement can be reached, although  that will now be a matter for the parties outside of the 
scope of this service.
And I should make it clear that this is an additional step which  Phoenix  has offered to take, 
but which its not bound to do as a result of our consideration of the complaint. And so if Mr L 
remains unhappy with the outcome of any further discussions, this is not a matter which we 
would look into again. 
Ref: DRN801187010my final decision
My decision  is that Mr Ls complaint against Phoenix Life Assurance Limited is not upheld  for 
the reasons outlined. But on the basis of my final comments, Id recommend that he contacts 
Phoenix directly to discuss the matter further.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 April 2021.
Julia Chittenden
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8011870