K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  Barclays  Bank Plc (Barclays) mis sold him payment protection insurance  
(PPI) in connection  with his credit  card account. 
background
Mr L applied for a credit card over the internet  in 2007. At the same  time he took out a
PPI policy  to cover his credit card repayments. 
The policy cost £0.79 per £100  of the balance on Mr Ls credit  card.  A successful claim on 
the policy wouldve  paid 10% of the outstanding balance  for up to 12 months per claim if 
Mr L was unable to work  due to accident or sickness or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr Ls complaint about  the sale of PPI. Mr L disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ls complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ls complaint. 
The policy was applied for online when Mr L applied for a credit card. Barclays have given us 
a copy of the screen shots of the application  form Mr L wouldve seen and completed when 
he applied  for his credit card.
I can see that theres a separate  section  on the application form that deals with PPI. Within
this section it briefly explains what the cost of PPI is along with what  it protects against.
Directly under this it gives the customer the option to either  select:
Yes, I would like to apply  for Payment  Protection Insurance; or
No, I do not wish to apply  for Payment Protection Insurance 
Mr L wouldnt have been able to move on without  making a selection.  I can see from the 
information captured on Mr Ls application form that he selected  to take PPI. 
  
So I think Mr L had PPI because he selected  to take it when  he applied for his credit card. If 
Mr L didnt want to take out PPI he couldve selected  not to take the cover. So I think Mr L 
wouldve understood he had a choice  in taking out the PPI and chose to take it because he 
wanted the cover.
Because the policy was taken over the internet I dont think Barclays recommended  the PPI 
to Mr L so it didnt have to check if it was right for him.
Ref: DRN88084492But it did have to make  sure Mr L got the information  he needed to decide  if it was right for 
him. Its possible  the information Barclays  gave Mr L about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But he chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover.
And based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for him if something went wrong. It also wouldve paid out on top of any work benefits  and for 
potentially longer and it looks like it was affordable. So I dont  think better information about 
the PPI would have put him off taking out the cover.
Which means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr L or refund
any interest and charges  applied to his credit  card that may have been incurred because of
those premiums.
But Barclays  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr L because:  
When the policy was sold, Barclays expected to get a high level of commission and profit  
share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr L about that. 
Because Barclays didnt tell Mr L, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank Plc does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr L.
But Barclays  Bank Plc does have  to pay back to Mr L any commission  and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 April 2019.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8808449