K822xcomplaint
Ms D complains about the service she received from Lloyds  Bank PLC when  she asked it to 
raise a chargeback.
background
In May 2019  Ms D asked Lloyds to raise  chargeback for £145. She says she was told that 
the money would  be credited to her account within five working days, but may be re-debited 
again at a later date.
Ms D then received  a secure message about her chargeback request, but it didnt contain 
details of any timescales. So she called Lloyds as she hadnt received  the refund shed 
expected. She spent  over two and a half hours  on the phone trying to find out when this 
would happen.  And after shed spoken to a number  of different people  she was told the 
retailer had 32 days to respond to Lloyds about  transaction shed disputed. After which  the 
money would  be refunded  to her account  if it didnt challenge the chargeback. 
 
Miss D has explained  its difficult  for her to have long phone  calls because of her poor 
health. Lloyds  paid her £50 compensation,  and refunded her the £32 call costs she incurred 
to apologise for this and acknowledge that she wasnt happy  with way some  of its advisors 
had spoken to her. 
Ms D then switched her account to another bank and emailed Lloyds to ask where her 
chargeback would be paid. She says that these questions were ignored  and Lloyds sent her 
generic email responses, and then failed to respond at all. Lloyds customer services  team  
then rang her, even though shed previously asked not to be contacted by phone for health  
reasons. And it sent an email to an old email address of hers that had previously been  
hacked. Lloyds  gave her a further  £50 compensation  to apologise for these issues.
On 3 June 2019 Ms D received a letter from Lloyds asking her to call so that her chargeback  
could be progressed. But when  she did so its advisor told her they didnt know  why the letter 
had been sent. He said hed ask the contact  shed spoken to previously in the customer 
services team to send  her an email. But Ms D says she emailed  the advisor and left 
telephone messages but didnt hear back.  
Ms D brought her complaint to our service.  In summary shes  unhappy with:
The level of service  she received from Lloyds
The attitude she feels it displayed  towards her health, and its failure to make  
reasonable adjustments around  her request to communicate by email and not 
telephone
The fact confidential  information was sent to a hacked email address
The inconsistent levels of compensation she feels Lloyds have offered
The time she spent  trying to resolve  this matter, and the stress this has caused her. 
Shes explained that in addition to a number  of health conditions  shes  had major 
surgery during this period.
Our investigator felt that this complaint should be upheld and recommended Lloyds pay 
Ms D a further £75 compensation, taking  the total compensation to £175,  alongside a refund 
of £32 for call costs. The investigator  thought  this was fair considering Ms Ds circumstances 
and the level of distress  and inconvenience shed experienced here.
Ref: DRN84755102Ms D initially  accepted our investigators  suggestion  that Lloyds should pay her a further £75 
compensation. Though she has since told us she remains unhappy with the way Lloyds have 
treated her and dealt  with this complaint.
Lloyds disagreed with the investigators view.  It said it feels  the compensation its already 
paid Miss D is sufficient to apologise for the mistakes it made here.  
The case  has been passed to me to review. I understand Ms D is also unhappy  with the 
outcome of her chargeback which she has now received. This is being looked at as a 
separate complaint by Lloyds, so Im not able to consider that matter here. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I know  Lloyds will be disappointed, but I 
think our investigators recommendation that it should pay Ms D a further  £75 compensation 
is reasonable. 
Its clear this has been a very distressing experience for Ms D, especially given her health 
concerns. I think the initial concern about the five working day timescale  may have been  a 
misunderstanding given  the advice recorded in Lloyds' notes.  But I do agree Lloyds  could 
have done more to assist  Ms D and provide her with clear information in response to her 
queries about  the chargeback process.  
Our investigator also felt that Lloyds could have  done more to respect  Ms Ds wishes  that it 
contact her only using email. I can see from its records  Ms D made this request in August 
2018, and reiterated it at several points during the contact she had with Lloyds here.  Lloyds 
doesnt agree with our investigators  findings  on this point. Its explained that it isnt able to 
share confidential information by this method as it does not have  the ability to send secure 
emails. And I can see from its notes that an advisor tried to explain this to Ms D on a call on 
13 May 2019.
Ms D feels  Lloyds should take steps to be able to accommodate her request not to be 
contacted by telephone.  Its not my role to scrutinise Lloyds processes for contacting 
customers. But I do think it could  have done  more  to try and minimise the inconvenience she 
experienced here even if it felt it could only deal with some issues  by phone.  For example  by 
using email to arrange  convenient times  to speak to her, or a representative,  in advance.  
Lloyds has also pointed  out that Ms D contacted it by telephone on a number of occasions 
which it feels contradicted  her communication preferences. But I can see Ms D only 
telephoned them after having  not receiving satisfactory details by email,  or when she had a 
query she felt was very urgent.  And I appreciate she wouldnt have needed to do this if shed 
been provided with clearer  information  and responses to her questions.
Its clear that during  these phone calls some of Lloyds advisors made comments  that Ms D 
took offence to. And I can see it acknowledged  this in its complaints notes. After it had paid 
Ms D the compensation shes received to date, it sent her a letter  asking her to telephone it 
again for her chargeback to be progressed. But when she did she was told that this letter  
mustve been sent in error. Given the difficulties Ms D has using the telephone I appreciate 
this would have  been especially frustrating for her.
Ref: DRN84755103Ms D is concerned Lloyds  sent an email to an old email address that had been  hacked, 
despite her having  given  them updated contact details. Lloyds have assured us its not their 
policy to send any confidential information  by email and confirmed that notes  have been  
added to its system to prevent this from happening again. I appreciate why this would have  
been alarming  for Ms D.  So  Im pleased to see Lloyds has taken these steps. And I havent  
seen any evidence that Ms Ds personal  data was compromised as a result  of this email. 
Our investigator didnt  identify that these service  issues  caused any delay in Lloyds raising  
the chargeback.  I havent either  when  looking at the dates Ms D provided it with the 
information it asked  for and the date she received the outcome to her chargeback request. 
But it is clear Lloyds  actions caused her considerable trouble and upset here. And she spent 
a lot of time dealing  with this matter. So I feel that a total of £175 compensation is fair and 
reasonable to resolve this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that Lloyds Bank PLC should  pay Ms D a further £75 compensation to 
resolve this complaint in light of the poor service  she received from it. This is in addition  to 
the £100 compensation and £32 of call costs  it has already paid her.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 September 2019.
Jenette Lynch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8475510