K821x#15complaint
Ms M has complained about short-term loans granted to her by CashEuroNet UK LLC 
trading as QuickQuid. Ms M says she couldnt  afford these loans and that QuickQuid didnt 
take appropriate steps to check whether she could afford them when she took them out. 
background
QuickQuid agreed three short-term loans for Ms M between March  2017 and October  2017  
The loans ranged from £150 to £350  and were due to be repaid in around three months.  Ive 
set out a summary of lending below.
loan no. applicationprincipal amount 
(£)no. of repayments  
duehighest monthly 
repayment  due (£)
1 01/03/2017 150 3 183
2 01/06/2017 200 3 244
3 11/10/2017 350 3 434
One of our adjudicators has looked into Ms Ms complaint already and recommended the 
complaint be upheld in part. She felt that the checks QuickQuid out for loans 1 and 2 were  
proportionate, but that the checks carried out for loan 3 werent.  And thought that had 
QuickQuid carried out proportionate checks, it wouldve seen that loan 3 wouldve been 
unaffordable for Ms M and it would not have agreed to it.
Ms Ms representative raised no objection to the adjudicators findings. QuickQuid however, 
disagreed with the findings on loan 3. So as no agreements  been reached at this stage, the 
case has been passed to me for a decision.
As loans  1and  2 no longer  seem  to be in dispute, my decision will focus on the remaining 
loan  loan 3.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time.  
QuickQuid argued initially  that  since  1st March 2015, QuickQuid implemented affordability  
review, which  involved  collecting and validating income and expense details from customers, 
in line with the FCA Handbook. As such,  we believe Ms Ms loans issued post 2015  were 
affordable. Please note that we have escalated the broader concern of loans issued post 
February 2015 to your senior leadership and are in active discussion in an effort to reach a 
resolution.
Our adjudicator, having looked  at everything both sides  put forward,  found that QuickQuid  
didnt carry out proportionate checks for Ms Ms last loan. And, had it done so, the lender 
would likely  have understood that this loan would not have  been  sustainably affordable for 
her because of the level of her existing financial commitments. These  findings  were set out 
in some detail in a view letter to the lender.
Ref: DRN83701482QuickQuid didnt comment  on our adjudicators  findings about the proportionality of its 
checks or the affordability of the loans,  nor did it provide any new information for me to 
consider after the adjudicators view.  So Ive considered all the points raised  by both parties  
so far.  
Looking at the adjudicators opinion, I see that she addressed QuickQuids point about post 
2015 affordability assessments, and said: I note what you've said about the loans Ms M 
borrowed from 2015 onwards, however our job is to look not only into the rules and 
regulations set by the regulator  at the time of borrowing but also the law, good  industry  
practice and all the available evidence and arguments to help us decide whether we think 
what QuickQuid has done is fair and reasonable. In this particular case  I don't think you were  
right to provide  Ms M with one of the loans  she borrowed from 2015 onwards.
I fully agree with this point. This service has responded to QuickQuid on this generic 
argument directly and through earlier final decisions.  So Im not going  to expand on this point 
any further here, though I have considered it alongside everything else in making my 
decision. 
Ill remind QuickQuid at this point of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) guidance in how 
complaints are to be dealt  with promptly and fairly  (my emphasis) by businesses.  In 
particular DISP 1.3.2A [G] which says that businesses procedures  for complaint handling 
should  
ensure that lessons learned as a result of determinations by the Ombudsman are effectively 
applied in future complaint handling,  for example by:
(1)relaying a determination by the Ombudsman  to the individuals in the respondent who 
handled the complaint and using it in their training and development;
(2)analysing any patterns in determinations by the Ombudsman concerning  complaints 
received by the respondent and using this in training and development of the 
individuals dealing  with complaints  in the respondent;  and
(3)analysing guidance produced by the FCA , other relevant regulators and the 
Financial Ombudsman Service and communicating it to the individuals dealing  with 
complaints in the respondent.
So my decision will focus on the specifics of Ms Ms complaint and what  both parties have 
said about this.
The FCA was the regulator at the time Ms M borrowed the loan in question. Bearing in mind  
the rules and guidance set out in its Principles for Business  (PRIN) and its Consumer Credit 
Sourcebook (CONC), I would expect  a lenders affordability assessment to vary with 
circumstance. (I am not quoting the specific regulations here because,  as before, I would 
expect QuickQuid be conversant  with these through previous ombudsman decisions, 
particularly recent decisions, which set these  out in detail.)  
But in general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to 
the consumer  of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender  to seek more assurance by carrying out more  detailed checks
- the higher  the loan amount,
- the lower the consumers income;  or
- the longer  the lending relationship.
Ref: DRN83701483In making this decision Ive considered whether or not QuickQuid did everything it shouldve  
when assessing  Ms Ms loan application.  And if it didnt, had it done further checks, whether 
it wouldve  realised this loan may have been  unaffordable for her.
Having reviewed the case, I agree  with the adjudicators findings. And Im upholding Ms Ms 
complaint for the same reasons as our adjudicator did and directing QuickQuid to put things 
right in the way she recommended. I appreciate this is not the outcome QuickQuid was 
hoping for, but I hope my explanation will make  it clear as to how and why Ive reached this 
conclusion. 
When Ms M took out loan 3, shed been borrowing from Quick Quid for around seven 
months. And the amounts  shed been  borrowing had generally  increased. The third loan she 
took out with QuickQuid  for £350, was the same  amount shed borrowed across loans 1 and 
2 combined. 
Given the length of time shed now been  borrowing  from QuickQuid, and the fact that shed 
been making repayments on short-term  credit every month  for the past six months, I think  at 
this point, QuickQuid  shouldve been concerned about whether Ms M was in a position  to be 
able to meet  the repayments on this loan in a sustainable manner. 
QuickQuid seem to have already calculated an estimated disposable  income EDI at the 
time Ms M applied  for loan 3 of £568.  Yet its records suggest  Ms M declared a monthly 
income of £1,500 and total outgoings of just £375, which suggests she had over £1,000  in 
monthly disposable income. 
So it seems  QuickQuid had reason to doubt  the accuracy of the information it received from 
Ms M at the time she applied, and has told us that it amended  her disposable income  figure 
down after validating  the reasonableness of her declaration  against  Credit Reference 
Agency data. 
I havent seen  the information QuickQuid obtained from the credit checks  it carried  out, and I 
dont know how it calculated its EDI figure. So I dont have sufficient  information  to say 
whether or not it carried out proportionate  checks. So Ive looked at the information  provided 
by Ms M to gain a better picture of what her outgoings were, including  short-term credit.
I can see that she initially seems to have reported  her monthly outstanding regular credit 
commitments at around £50. But I can also see that when she applied for her third loan, she 
also had outstanding short term credit repayments  totalling £680 due the following month.
So if QuickQuid deducted the £680 of short-term loan repayments along with expenditure 
she declared, from the income she declared (which subsequently  was around £300 a month  
higher than shed  declared in previous months),  this wouldve left her with around £445 in 
monthly disposable income. 
So overall I think it was questionable as to whether  Ms M had sufficient disposable  income 
available to meet the repayments  on this loan sustainably.  And I think Quick Quid  ought to 
have been concerned about the risk to her of not managing to do so.
I also think, that proportionate checks wouldve shown  QuickQuid,  that from the amounts 
Ms M had borrowed to date, shed  been unable to free herself of the need to take out 
Ref: DRN83701484short-term loans on a regular basis, and had been  making repayments  to QuickQuid alone 
for the last six months, as well as borrowing from other short-term lenders. 
Looking at the amounts Ms M was borrowing each month from other lenders, as well as the 
fact that shed been making short-term loan repayments to QuickQuid for the last six 
months, and still seemed  to need  to borrow again,  so shortly after settling each  loan, meant 
that this pattern of lending was no longer sustainable at the time she applied for loan 3. And 
its likely  proportionate  checks wouldve made this clear to QuickQuid, and that it would 
therefore not have agreed  to this loan.  
 
In summary,  I havent seen enough  to show that QuickQuid carried out proportionate checks 
when Ms M applied for loan 3, and I think  proportionate checks wouldve shown QuickQuid 
that Ms M was not in a position to afford the repayments on loan 3 in a sustainable manner, 
and therefore  would  not have agreed to this loan. 
what QuickQuid  should  do to put things right
For the reasons  outlined  above, I think QuickQuid should not have agreed to loan 3 for 
Ms M. So it needs to refund all of the interest and charges Ms M paid on this loan.
Specifically, it should:
-refund  the interest and charges paid for the loan it agreed in October  2017
-pay interest on these refunds at 8% simple  from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement
-remove any adverse information  about  this loan from Ms Ms credit file
*HM Revenue & Customs requires QuickQuid  to take off tax from this interest. QuickQuid  
must give Ms M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
If Ms M still owes  some  of the principal balance she borrowed on this loan, QuickQuid may 
offset that outstanding principal balance, using the refund above. If, after the total 
compensation has been applied against  any principal balance outstanding, there is still a 
sum outstanding, a mutually agreeable repayment  plan should be arranged.
If QuickQuid no longer owns this debt,  it needs  to buy it back. If it doesnt then it isnt entitled 
to make any deductions for it from the amount it needs to pay Ms M.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I uphold Ms Ms complaint in part.
And I require  CashEuroNet UK LLC trading  as QuickQuid to put things right as described  
above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 March  2019.
 
Brad Mcilquham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8370148