K822xcomplaint
Q, a limited company,  complains that Metro  Bank  PLC caused delays to its international 
payment resulting in financial loss.
background 
Q gave instructions for a payment from its account at Metro  Bank  to a supplier abroad.  Metro  
Bank was contacted for compliance checks by its intermediary bank. There  was a delay. 
After these were completed the payment was further  delayed and took a total of over 30 
days to reach the beneficiary. Q says that this has affected its trading relationship  and that 
the supplier wants to charge it interest.
The investigator did not recommend that Metro  Bank do anything  more than it had offered to 
after the complaint was referred to this service. It would pay Q £175 for inconvenience  and 
write a letter  saying that Q was not responsible for the payment delay. He said that the 
amount of interest  claimed was unreasonable. And that Metro  Bank  had shown it was not 
responsible for half of the delay period.
Q did not agree. The director  said that Metro Bank had not dealt with it fairly and was not 
recognising the losses.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
payment timescales
As I understand it the payment of just over £6,500 was first processed by Metro  Banks  
intermediary on 16 November 2017. On 17 November 2017 that intermediary raised  a 
number of questions  about the payment and beneficiary. Despite the director calling Metro 
Bank twice  about  the payment in the meantime these questions were  not put to him until a 
call on 29 November 2017.  The information was sent by Metro Bank on 1 December  2017.  
On 18 December 2017 the beneficiary banks intermediary raised  a question about  the 
payment. But the payment was credited on 19 December 2017 without any further 
information being provided.
Metro Bank  accepts it was responsible for not dealing with the initial questions as quickly as 
it ought to. But it says that by 1 December 2017 it had provided all the information necessary 
for the payment to be made successfully.
background to payment
The director  of Q says he had a good relationship with the supplier. Hes explained that Q 
had always bought goods through this company and Q has a turnover of about £80,000 per 
year. The goods are shipped before payment.  Q has had up to 30 to 40 days  credit. It seems 
that the supplier  recently opened an account  denominated in sterling to which this payment 
was sent.
Ref: DRN89254192Q has provided an invoice  from the supplier  dated 22 December  2017  relating to this 
payment. This says that the delivery date of the goods was 14 November 2017. And that Q 
is required to pay 10 per cent interest per day on the amount owed from 15 November 2017 
to the date of receipt of the payment given as 22 December 2017. That total is over 27,000  
Euros.
Q accepts that there was no contractual arrangement for interest on late payments. But it 
says that the supplier  will no longer provide it with credit. And that it has withheld funds from 
a further order  against  this interest.
my assessment
In my view, and I think likely on any reasonable view, the interest charges claimed by the 
supplier are unreasonable and punitive. They are not supported by any contractual  
requirement and it would appear there  are limited  grounds for recovery.  Im not clear in what  
way Q has challenged  this invoice.
If this is the consequential loss then I dont, as a result, see any fair basis on which Metro 
Bank could  be responsible for it. Metro Bank  has offered to write a letter saying that Q was 
nor responsible for the delay.  I think that would provide evidence to help Q rebuild  its trading  
relationship and to establish its terms of trade with that supplier.
I agree  that Metro  Bank  is responsible for some delay until 1 December 2018. I take into 
account that with a number of parties  involved communication will never be instant. And that 
the questions  raised  were  part of legitimate checks which would by nature cause  some  
justifiable inconvenience  to Q and delay. But also that Metro  Bank  says it should have 
contacted the director  earlier for information - and that he was already pro active in calling. 
Metro Bank  had an earlier opportunity to resolve  this.
I think that the inconvenience  payment of £175 is reasonable to reflect this. I note that Metro 
Bank previously offered  to refund its payment charge of £25. Im going  to hold it to that too 
given the poor service  and so the total amount it will pay Q is £200.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and require Metro  Bank  PLC to pay Q a total of 
£200 of which I understand it has already paid £175.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Q to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 February  2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8925419