K820x#14complaint
Miss O complains  that Paypal Europe  Sarl & Cie, SCA, wont refund what  she paid for items 
online.
background
Miss O made a payment of £43.82 online for two wigs on 13th September  2018. When  she 
received the items she made a claim under Paypals buyer  protection scheme on the basis  
that the wigs did not look like the images on the website and she wanted her money back.
Paypal closed the dispute in favour of the seller. Paypal didnt  think  the wigs met their 
definition of Significantly Not As Described, although they may not have met Miss Os 
expectations. So they did not refund the money.
Our investigator looked into things and thought that Paypal  hadnt  done anything wrong 
when they rejected Miss Os claim.
Miss O does  not agree. She says the items she received were completely  different to the 
images listed online. And so her case has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Miss O feels strongly  about  what happened here. But Im not going to 
uphold her complaint  and Ill explain  why.
Under the Paypal buyer protection  scheme  a buyer can raise a complaint about an item 
theyve bought, as Miss O did here.  But this scheme  does  not give buyers  an automatic right 
to a refund.
The terms and conditions  of the user agreement  say that Paypal will make a final decision 
about a claim at their sole discretion. In this case Paypal refused to refund Miss O because 
they didnt think  that the wigs purchased were  Significantly Not As Described when sold.  
Paypal are entitled  to reach this decision.  But Ive considered whether I agree that this was 
reasonable in the circumstances.
For an item to be Significantly Not As Described,  it needs to be materially  different from the 
purchase description. Miss O is not saying that she didnt receive wigs. And while  I 
appreciate that she says the images  are no longer listed online, she hasnt specified how 
exactly the seller described the wigs in a way that was materially different  to what she 
received.
When she raised her complaint with Paypal she just said, 
the items purchased  look nothing like what was listed. I am in the UK currently but at 
the time was in the U.S on holiday,  so I took advantage of the postage  fees, but 
when they arrived  it looked nothing like the pictures!  Very disappointed!!
Ref: DRN82035212There is no mention there (or anywhere else) of precisely how the wigs Miss O received 
were materially  different to what was described  by the seller - for example the wigs are of 
short hair when she wanted long hair, or they are in a different colour. 
So on balance, I dont  think Paypal were unreasonable when they rejected Miss Os claim on 
the basis that it wasnt that the wigs were materially different to how theyd been described, 
but rather that they didnt meet her expectations.
I appreciate this is not the outcome Miss O was hoping for, but I wont be asking Paypal to 
do anything.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given, I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Miss O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2019.
Sonia Kalsi
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8203521