K821x#15complaint
Mrs H has complained about AXA Insurance UK Plcs handling of a claim on her motor 
insurance policy.
background
In May 2017  Mrs H was in an accident with another car. Both drivers said the other was at 
fault. Mrs H claimed on her policy and AXA eventually arranged  repairs.  Mrs H had to pay a 
£300 excess.
Mrs H wasn't happy with AXAs handling  of her claim. She complained to AXA but it didn't 
respond promptly so she bought  her complaint to us. Our adjudicator  noted that AXA hadn't 
provided all the information  wed asked for. So she found it difficult to say whether or not 
AXA had come to reasonable conclusions. Amongst other things our adjudicator said:
Its unclear what happened after 21 November 2017 when AXA told Mrs H the best 
possible outcome  would be 50/50 split liability.
Theres no evidence to show if AXA has arrived at a liability  decision or, if it has, what  
that was and the reasons for it.
If AXA hasn't reached a conclusion on liability it should seek  a legal opinion about 
liability (if it hadnt  already  done so) and move the claim forward.
She couldnt say whether or not AXA should refund Mrs Hs excess  as the liability  
status is unknown  and a refund of excess would depend on the outcome of that 
decision.
It appears that AXA took three  months  to arrange the repair of Mrs Hs car which  was 
unreasonable.
Mrs H said the call waiting times were long. Although we had limited  evidence of this 
there was corroboration  that AXA left Mrs H on hold for 40 minutes in June 2017.
AXAs service was poor and there were delays.
Our adjudicator recommended  that AXA should pay Mrs H £400 compensation. She also 
asked it to confirm the liability status.  And, if it hadn't been determined, to seek  a legal 
opinion to move the case forward.
AXA didn't  agree with the adjudicators view so the complaint's been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im going to uphold it. 
Mrs H is very unhappy with AXAs handling  of her claim. Shes complained about numerous 
aspects of its service, including that it hadn't kept her updated, long hold times on calls and 
that she still didn't  know the outcome of the claim.
As our adjudicator has said, AXA has only provided us with limited information. In particular 
it hasn't  provided  us with the details  of how it was proposing to settle the claim.  But, from the 
information it has provided, I can see that there  have been  periods of delay. Its also 
apparent that AXA hasn't  kept Mrs H updated with whats been happening  with her claim. 
And I can understand thats been a source of distress and inconvenience for her. In 
particular AXA had told Mrs H that a 50/50 spilt liability  was a possibility. Had that happened 
Ref: DRN85061742then AXA would have  recovered half of her excess,  so it would have refunded  her £150.  But 
as it hasn't told her what the outcome is it hasn't done that. 
In response to the adjudicators view AXA didn't confirm what  the outcome of the claim was. 
And I haven't  seen any evidence that its arrived at a liability  decision.  That means, some 20 
months on, AXA still hasn't brought the claim to a conclusion. As it hasn't provided us with all 
the evidence its considered on liability, its difficult for me to determine why the claim has 
taken so long.  But, even if the delay  is because of reasons outside of AXAs  control I would 
have expected it to keep  Mrs H regularly updated as to where it was up to with the liability 
decision and what the next action would  be. But its apparent that it hasn't done  that. So I 
don't think  its dealt with Mrs H fairly. 
To put things right, I think AXA should  seek a legal opinion on the next steps to move the 
liability decision forward. It should  also explain to Mrs H in writing  what those steps are.
It's also apparent  that AXAs poor service  has been  a source  of distress and inconvenience 
for Mrs H. To address that I think it should  pay her £400 compensation.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I uphold this complaint. I require AXA Insurance UK Plc to:
Seek a legal opinion on the next steps to conclude the disputed liability.  It should 
write to Mrs H to set out what  those steps are.
Pay Mrs H £400 compensation to address her distress  and inconvenience.
It should pay the compensation within 28 days of us telling it that Mrs H has accepted  my 
final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the compensation from the 
date of my final decision to the date of payment at a rate of 8% a year simple1. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 February  2019.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
1 If AXA pays interest and considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs  to take off income 
tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs H how much its taken off. It should  also give Mrs H a 
certificate showing  this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate. 
Ref: DRN8506174