K820x#14Complaint
Mr and Mrs P have  complained that Yorkshire  Building Society (YBS) will not refund any of 
the commission it received from their PPI premiums for the policy that they took out in 2003 
to cover their mortgage.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To be clear, my decision  only deals with Mr and Mrs Ps complaint about commission.  Thats  
because theyve previously complained  about the mis-sale of the PPI, and this was dealt 
with by YBS in 2011.
Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Ps complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs P first took out a mortgage with YBS in 1998, and then PPI to cover  the 
payments on this mortgage in 2003. They then took out a new mortgage with YBS in 2007 
and the PPI was amended to cover  the payments on this second  mortgage.
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA), 
issued some rules about how businesses should deal with complaints about  PPI.
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit share  from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium  and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties.  So to put that right, the FCA said that 
businesses should  pay back  the amount of commission and profit share  that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. 
But these  rules and the Supreme Court judgment relate to the unfair relationship  provisions 
in the Consumer Credit  Act 1974. The unfair relationship provisions  which  were  added to 
the Consumer  Credit Act in 2006  came into force on 6 April 2007. The changes  made in 
2006 explained that the unfair relationship  provisions would only apply to credit  agreements 
taken out on or after 6 April 2007, or agreements taken out before then, which were still 
running on 6 April 2008.
YBS has sent us information that shows Mr and Mrs Ms first mortgage  started  in 1998 and 
ended in 2007. So it was taken out before 6 April 2007 and wasnt  still running on 6 April 
2008. And so based on what Ive said above, I dont think the unfair relationship  provisions in 
the Consumer  Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment, or the rules and guidance made  by 
the FCA in relation to the non-disclosure of commission apply to this first mortgage.
On 31 October 2004 the regulation of mortgages by the FCA began  and mortgages were 
no longer covered by the Consumer Credit Act.
YBS has sent us information that shows Mr and Mrs Ms second mortgage was taken  out in 
2007, so after 31 October 2004, and that it was a regulated mortgage. And so this second  
mortgage wasnt under the scope of the Consumer Credit Act and the FCAs relevant rules 
and guidance  dont apply.
Ref: DRN86768472As the Consumer Credit  Act and the FCAs relevant rules and guidance dont apply to either 
of Mr and Mrs Ps mortgages, YBS doesnt need to refund  any of the commission  Mr and 
Mrs P paid for the PPI they had with these mortgages.
Mr and Mrs P have  said the commission on their policy  should  be refunded up to the point 
when their mortgage became regulated. But, as Ive explained above, the rules  and 
guidance dont  apply to either of Mr and Mrs Ps mortgages. And so YBS doesnt need  to 
refund any of the commission Mr and Mrs P paid for the PPI on those mortgages.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 April 2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8676847