K821x#15complaint
Mr R complains that Hastings Insurance Services Limited provided him with poor service  in 
relation to the motor insurance policy he bought through it. Mr R is represented  by his father, 
Mr R2, a named driver on the policy.
background
On 26 April 2018, Mr R told Hastings he wanted to change the car insured on the policy.  
Hastings told him the current insurer wouldnt agree to continue cover. Hastings said it was 
due to a fault claim that it had just recorded  against Mr R on the Claims and Underwriting 
Exchange (CUE). The policy was cancelled and Mr R got a refund of £70.90. He found 
insurance elsewhere, but at a higher price than hed expected. 
Hastings later accepted  that although  another driver had reported an incident to it involving 
Mr Rs car, that driver took full responsibility for it. Hastings corrected the CUE record.  It then 
tried to take a premium  payment  of £45.16 by direct debit after the policy ended.  Mr R had 
cancelled the direct debit instruction with his bank, as Hastings had told him he owed 
nothing more. So Hastings took the payment  using  the card details Mr R used when he 
bought the policy. It notified Mr R in advance that it would do so - but he didnt get the letter.
Mr R2 said Hastings recording of a fault claim led to higher insurance premiums for Mr R
with his new insurer. He said Hastings couldnt explain it and had taken money  using Mr Rs 
card outside  its own terms and conditions. He said it tried to cover up for that by sending  him 
a letter  suggesting  hed authorised it. He said this deception hadnt  been explained either,  
and could have  led to Mr R being  overdrawn,  so he wanted it investigating. He said Hastings  
hadnt returned his calls and had been evasive. Part of that was not giving  him an 
explanation about the possible damage  to Mr Rs credit rating  it may have caused.   
One of our investigators  looked into Mr Rs complaint. He noted that Hastings  had written  to 
Mr R to say £45.16 was due - which was correct - but that it later refunded the money 
anyway. He noted that Hastings had said the failed  direct  debit  wouldnt affect Mr Rs credit 
rating and had offered him £100 compensation for its overall poor service. It had also 
refunded the £45.16 and offered Mr R2 £25 for the time he spent on calls to it. The 
investigator thought  it should pay a further  £100 compensation and refund the difference  
between Mr Rs current premium and the sum he would have paid to continue  the old policy  
had there  not been a fault claim.  
Hastings then checked with Mr Rs previous insurer. It was able to show that the insurer  
didnt agree to cover  Mr Rs new car due to the combination of its type / category and Mr Rs 
age. It checked, and found  other insurers on the panel wouldnt him offer cover for the same 
reason. The investigator  still thought Hastings should pay a further  £100  for poor service.  
Hastings disagreed. It asked for a review of the complaint  by an ombudsman.  Mr R2 
repeated that the record of a fault claim led to a higher  premium  for Mr R. And he still wanted 
a better  explanation  for Hastings wrongly having  used Mr Rs card details.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Even if Mr R didnt  want to claim following the incident with the other vehicle, I think he 
Ref: DRN83858282should have told Hastings about it so it could be recorded correctly. Hastings can show that 
it wrote  to Mr R when  the other driver  contacted it. As he didnt get the letter, he wasnt able 
to comment until he called  Hastings  a few days later to change the car on the policy. 
Hastings changed  the CUE record on 27 April 2018  to notification only, so the wrong record 
was only in place  for three days. Mr R2 has assumed  that it led to Mr R paying higher 
premiums. I understand  why he thinks that, but I dont think hes shown evidence of it. 
The cost of premiums is based on numerous  factors  such as the type of car and the age of 
the policy holder.  We know from Hastings that these two factors alone  made  a big difference 
to the insurers  on its panel, as they wouldnt offer Mr R cover for the new car. Mr R got one 
quote he was happy with before the claim was recorded, but rates  can vary greatly from day 
to day, for various reasons. There are also differences between policies that may not be 
immediately obvious  but that affect  their cost. Taking all this into account, I dont think  it was 
unreasonable for Hastings not to be able to explain why Mr Rs premium  rose.  
A fault claim generally  makes a difference to the price of a premium.  So although Hastings 
corrected its error quickly, it may still have  affected the amount Mr Rs new insurer charged.  
The only way to know for sure would  be for Mr Rs new insurer to say what it would have 
charged for his new policy without  a fault claim. We asked Mr R2 to check  with that insurer,  
but he said insurers wont explain how they rate premiums. Although thats  true in general, 
theyre usually willing  to say what they would have charged for a specific policy without a 
fault claim.  In the absence of that information, its not possible to say what  effect the wrong 
CUE record may or may not have had on Mr Rs new premium.  
Hastings says Mr R owed  it a further payment of £45.16 at the start of May 2018. But the 
letter it sent him on 27 April 2018 said he owed nothing,  and that he was in fact due a refund 
of £70.90. Hastings has accepted that it was wrong not to note the sum still due when 
working out the refund.  As it didnt include it in the calculations, Mr R was misinformed.   
Hastings says the direct debit payment  was attempted because  the automatic collection 
instruction was already in flight at the time of the cancellation. It says it takes  four working 
days to cancel such instructions. I have  no reason  to think thats  not correct,  but Mr R wasnt  
told about the attempt at the time. Hastings can show  that it wrote  to him after the direct  
debit request failed,  to let him know it would  collect the payment  due within seven days, 
using his card details. Unfortunately, once again Mr R didnt get the letter. 
I think its fair to say that Hastings thought it had notified Mr R of its intention to use his card,   
in line with its terms and conditions, so I cant say Hastings was at fault in making  the 
attempt. Its terms and conditions say a card wont  be used to take a payment if theres  a 
dispute between  the parties. In my opinion,  the wording of the relevant paragraph isnt 
particularly clear. We asked Hastings to clarify it, but it didnt do so. I think the wording could 
relate to a general  dispute between the parties or a specific dispute about a repayment. But 
as the heading above the wording is repayments I think  its more  likely it relates to that. 
At the time the card payment  was taken, Mr R2 had complained to Hastings about the fault 
claim being recorded, but he wasnt in dispute with it about  repayments.  Mr  R hadnt  
received Hastings letter of 2 May 2018,  so he didnt know it thought he owed it £45.16, or 
that it was going to use his card to get that sum. Its clear Mr R2 would have disputed the 
apparent debt had he known  about it, But he wasnt in a position  to do so. In these 
circumstances, I dont  think  Hastings  acted outside  its terms and conditions.  
Ref: DRN83858283Mr R2 thinks theres something suspicious about Hastings  correspondence, especially the 
letter of 9 May 2018 thanking him for getting in touch and inferring that hed agreed  to the 
card payment. Mr R2 says Hastings  sent the letter to mask its unauthorised action. I 
understand his concern, but I dont think theres any evidence that Hastings did anything  
other than make a further mistake in issuing that letter.        
Hastings has told us it took no action that would have meant the failed direct  debit  led to an 
adverse entry against Mr Rs credit history. It says it had no need to do that, and I havent 
seen any evidence that it did. Its open  to Mr R to check his credit rating, as we suggested 
some time ago, if he has doubts.  It seems the unexpected card payment Hastings took didnt 
lead to Mr Rs account being overdrawn,  either,  or Mr R2 would  have told us. 
Theres no doubt that Hastings made a number of errors in dealing with this case. It 
accepted it was at fault and attempted to put matters right.  But I dont think  its offer of 
compensation was sufficient. Ive taken into account its general poor service  and the amount 
of distress and inconvenience it caused. I think it would  be reasonable to require Hastings to 
pay Mr R a further £100 compensation.   
Mr R2 wants us to establish exactly how Hastings made the errors it did. We dont  have the 
power to force it to tell us who made  errors and give a precise description of each step along 
the way. Hastings may not be able to do so anyway, and Im not sure what  it would usefully 
add to the outcome of the complaint.  
Mr R thinks Hastings has avoided the truth by implying that human error caused  the errors.  I 
dont think theres any reason to assume that Hastings caused  problems for Mr R or Mr R2 
deliberately. Mr R isnt convinced that human error is the likely explanation behind  its 
mistakes. But I think many mistakes are caused purely by that. If Mr R2 has wider concerns  
about the way Hastings  operates  its business, I think thats a matter for the Financial 
Conduct Authority  (FCA) rather than for this service. 
I dont think it was reasonable  for Hastings to make a series of errors. I think  its poor 
communication (especially in not returning  calls and not providing  some explanations) 
caused unnecessary  frustration  and confusion.  In my opinion,  paying a total of £225 (plus 
the refund  of £45.16  for the last premium payment) is a fair and reasonable way to settle this 
complaint. 
Mr R2 says he asked  Hastings not to pay the £125  compensation it proposed initially, as that 
might suggest a settlement had been agreed. Hastings  did so anyway - in addition  to 
refunding £45.16 - as part of its resolution  attempt. I dont think it should have acted against 
Mr R2s specific request.  Although that had no effect on the outcome in terms of our review  
of the complaint, I think its likely  that Hastings will have to issue  the compensation (or part of 
it) again  if it wasnt accepted at the time. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Hastings Insurance Services 
Limited to pay Mr R a further  £100  compensation for distress and inconvenience (£225 in 
total  plus the £45.16 refund). 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 December  2019.
Ref: DRN83858284Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8385828