K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that Barclays  Bank  UK Plc wont reimburse him the 10% cashback reward  
he said he should have  got when he purchased a holiday through his mobile  banking.
background
Mr C said he decided to purchase  a holiday using his mobile banking as Barclays  were  
offering a 10% cashback reward if he made his purchase this way. Mr C paid £2352.86 for a 
holiday and expected to receive  £235.29  within 30 days of returning  from his trip. When the 
cashback reward wasnt received he contacted Barclays, it told him he hadnt  made  the 
purchase through its cashback service but had made the purchase  direct with the supplier. 
This meant he wasnt eligible for the cashback offer. 
Barclays did accept the time taken  to resolve Mr Cs complaint  took longer than it should 
have and paid £25 to compensate him for this.
Mr C wasnt happy with the response and referred  his complaint to us. Our investigator didnt 
uphold his complaint as there wasnt any evidence to support that Mr C had made the 
purchase using  the required method, and so he hadnt qualified for the cashback  reward.
Mr C said he had started the process  using his online banking and this had referred  him to 
the suppliers website. He asked for an ombudsman to review  and make  a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint and I will explain why.
Its not unusual  for me to need to decide a case where its simply not possible to know 
exactly what happened. In situations where I cant ever know for sure what took place, I will 
decide what I consider  is most likely to have happened, based on the balance  of the 
evidence that I do have.
Barclays offer cashback as a free service that enables its online banking  and mobile banking  
customers to get money back on goods,  services and travel through exclusive partnerships  
with premium brands  and leading retailers. 
On its cashback information page the process  to follow  is outlined.  It also explains the need 
to register with its reward partner before a purchase  can be made.
Barclays tracks the use of this service using a click record. This means when the consumer 
logs onto their online or mobile  banking they would  need to click on the Rewards option. 
This would then take the consumer to the cashback  offers page   here the consumer would 
have to again click to be taken to the particular suppliers website to make  the purchase.  
Mr C has said this isnt the only purchase he has made using the cashback  service where he 
didnt get his cashback reward. Having  investigated  these further Barclays  has arranged  for 
the cashback reward to be paid where its investigation shows the cashback process had 
been followed. 
Ref: DRN89143432But for Mr Cs holiday  purchase  Barclays investigation hasnt found any trace  of the 
necessary clicks being made by Mr C using the cashback service for this purchase. And the 
supplier has also confirmed the purchase was made  direct through its website and not via 
Barclays cashback service.
I know Mr C will be disappointed but based on the evidence I have here Im not persuaded 
Mr C followed  the necessary process to qualify for the cashback  reward.  So I am unable to 
uphold his complaint. 
Barclays has accepted  that it could have  handled Mr Cs complaint better  here and has 
credited £25 to him. 
As Im not upholding this decision I wont be telling Barclays  to do anything  differently
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 February  2019.
Anne Scarr
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN8914343