K820x#14complaint
Mr S has complained about the way his insurer, the Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company 
Limited (LV),  handled his car insurance  claim.
background
Mr S made a claim for the theft of his car. He met with a claims assessor  appointed  by LV. 
During the meeting, the claims assessor interviewed Mr S and took a lengthy statement. Mr 
S says he felt the procedures followed by LVs claims assessor were intrusive and stressful.  
He thinks the questions asked were designed to trick him in a deliberate attempt to invalidate 
his claim and allow LV to evade payment.
Mr S says the claims assessor didnt explain the significance of the statement he was taking 
or say that it might be used in evidence. Mr S says that if hed known,  he would have 
insisted his solicitor was present. 
Mr S also says he was asked to sign the statement three times but refused because he 
hadnt been given time to prepare properly. So, he couldnt be sure everything  hed said was 
accurate. 
Mr S also told us that the claims  assessor  said the information hed provided would be put 
on a fraud  prevention database. He said this compromised his privacy  as it could be made  
available to third parties. He wants his personal  data to be removed from the databases  of 
LV and their claims assessor.
Mr S feels  very strongly about the way he said he was treated  and told us that he has 
suffered great distress.
Mr S made an earlier complaint related to this one in subject matter. This concerned the theft 
of a car whose registration documents had been  transferred into someones  elses name. Mr 
S asked  for his claim to be settled and requested  answers to other points  hed raised. LV 
said they couldnt validate Mr Ss claim until theyd received his signed  statement. This was 
eventually provided  in November 2018, and LV went on to accept Mr Ss claim. So, this 
aspect of his complaint  was largely resolved. Mr S came back  to ask that his other points be 
addressed, particularly the way LVs claims assessor conducted  the interview, and these 
form the substance  of the current complaint.
Our investigator looked into these issues and, in his view of 14 November 2019, said that LV 
had handled  Mr Ss claim appropriately.  So, he didnt ask them  to take any further  action. As 
Mr S didnt agree, the case has come to me for a decision.
In his follow-up email to us of 11 September 2019,  Mr S suggested he was also unhappy 
with the value LV had placed  on his car as part of its settlement offer. But it doesnt look like 
hes actually complained to LV about this or what the current position is. So, as this is a 
separate issue, I wont be considering it here.  But if Mr S wants  to make  a new complaint 
about this he can. And he can do this by contacting LV or we can check the position  and do 
this on his behalf.
Ref: DRN82814742my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Nature of investigation  by LVs claims assessor
LV has responsibilities  set out in the Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook (or ICOBS) 
which includes claims handling  by an insurance  company. The overall aim of ICOBS  is to 
ensure that all customers are treated fairly. And these  regulations  cover  the behaviour of the 
claim assessor used by LV.
Its normal and reasonable, as Mr S has acknowledged, that an insurer should investigate  
any claim and to do so as they see fit. So, LV was entitled to use a claims assessor to 
investigate Mr Ss claim and interview him as part of his investigation.  But he had to act 
reasonably when doing this and make sure Mr S understood what  was happening  and why. 
Firstly, Ive looked through  the statement the claims assessor produced. And Ive considered  
the nature  of the questions Mr S was asked. The questions, while  extensive, related to the 
car that had been stolen and Mr Ss insurance policy.  Or they were about  Mr Ss 
circumstances. So, I think they were just designed to form a picture of Mr S and how he 
used the car. Although some  questions may have  seemed irrelevant, and therefore intrusive, 
to Mr S, Im satisfied  they were only asked to provide the claim  assessor with relevant 
background to the claim. I also note that Mr Ss objections  to the process  are actually 
recorded in the statement the claims assessor drew  up, so he clearly understood Mr S 
wasnt happy and tried to make sure this was properly reflected.
Ive also considered the way in which Mr S says he was questioned. Ive read the email 
exchange between  Mr S and the claims assessor  the day after the meeting. Mr S raised  his 
concerns and discomfort about  the meeting immediately. And its clear he was angry and 
upset. The claims assessor responded the same  evening.  He explained that the questions  
were standard ones  designed to assist  the insurers to assess the claim. He reminded Mr S 
that hed explained before the interview why some  questions were being  asked and 
specifically told him that some could be seen as intrusive. In his emailed response, Mr S 
accepted this. The claims assessor said he didnt accept that any of the questions  were 
irrelevant and he hadnt realised Mr S felt uncomfortable. He denied any attempt to discredit 
Mr Ss claim and offered  to escalate  his comments as a formal complaint, if Mr S wanted. 
And because of this Im satisfied that the assessor  handled Mr Ss concerns appropriately 
and did his best to help alleviate them.
Mr S said that the claims assessor didnt offer him an opportunity  to review his statement 
before signing  it and put pressure on him to sign it there and then. But the claims assessor 
said he hadnt minded that Mr S hadnt signed  his statement. He said it wasnt uncommon  
for people  not to sign until theyd had a chance to consider their statement properly. He also 
said that Mr S could submit a signed copy of the statement after hed reviewed it. LV later 
confirmed this and, in an email they sent on 20 June 2019, told Mr S they had no concerns  
with him speaking to a solicitor before signing his statement.  And they had kept his 
complaint open  for over two months while they waited for his signed statement. So, Im 
satisfied the claims assessor  and LV gave Mr S time to consider the evidence hed given 
and to confirm  he was happy with his account. This is what Id expect LV to do in these  
circumstances.
Ref: DRN82814743In summary,  I appreciate  Mr S felt under pressure and that being asked to sign a statement 
was an intimidating  experience  if he hadnt  been asked to do this before. But that doesnt  
mean that either  LV or the claims assessor  did anything wrong in how they handled  Mr Ss 
claim.  Im satisfied  that the questions Mr S was asked  were all relevant and reasonable. 
Given the claim was one for theft of a car, I think LV and its claims assessor acted as I would 
expect and in line with the above-mentioned  regulations, and treated Mr S fairly. So, I wont 
be asking them to take any further  action.
Putting information  about Mr S on a fraud database
In his email of 11 April 2018,  the claims assessor explained that Mr Ss data contained in his 
statement would be held by in accordance with the terms of the Data Protection  Act. This 
meant it wouldnt be passed to any third party  except in the case of prevention and detection  
of crime. And based on what  the claim assessor said in his response to Mr Ss original email,  
and what LV has said since, Im satisfied  the assessor made  it clear  to Mr S that information 
about him would  only be put on a fraud database  if they felt hed committed  fraud. And 
theyd give him the chance to comment before he did this. 
If Mr S is concerned about  any data that LV or its agents are holding, he can raise this issue  
with the Information Commissioner, as explained  by the investigator  at our service  who dealt 
with his complaint  originally.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2020
Simon Stanley
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8281474