K820x#14complaint
Ms B and Mr A complain that when  carrying out repairs under their building  warranty 
National House-Building Council caused damage  to the internal doors  at their property.
background
Ms B and Mr A have a buildings warranty with NHBC  to cover their new-build home.
As is usual  with this kind of policy, issues within  the first few years  of ownership are to be 
resolved with the builder.  In that period, NHBC provide a resolution service if the homeowner  
and the builder cant agree on what needs  to be done.
Where NHBC  accept  that repairs or rectification works need to be carried  out, they will give a 
deadline for these  to be completed. If the builder doesnt do the agreed works,  NHBC will 
step in and take responsibility for carrying them out.
In this case, NHBC did take over responsibility  for some repairs to the home. Ms B and Mr A 
moved out of the house for around nine months to allow fairly fundamental repairs to be 
carried out.
Ms B and Mr A have made  other complaints about  NHBC  and the way they dealt with the 
issues with their house. I cant deal with those here.  This complaint is solely about the 
wooden internal doors on the first floor of the property.
Ms B and Mr A say NHBCs contractors didnt take steps to ensure that these doors werent 
damaged by exposure to extremes of temperature.
When Ms B and Mr A first moved  out, the contractors didnt heat the property  and the oak 
doors were exposed to winter temperatures. And when Ms B and Mr A pointed out the 
problem, industrial heating was installed which raised the temperature  very quickly  and to an 
unnecessarily high degree.
Ms B and Mr A say the exposure to these  extremes  of temperature damaged  the upstairs 
internal wooden doors, which  have either  shrunk or warped so that they now dont fit 
properly in the frames.
Ms B and Mr A asked NHBC to pay for the doors to be replaced at a cost of over £3,000. 
NHBC said theyve inspected the doors and there  is no damage  to put right.
Ms B and Mr A werent happy  with this and complained to us. Our investigator looked into it 
and didnt think NHBC had done  anything wrong.
Ms B and Mr A disagreed  and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to Ms B and Mr As complaint, NHBC said theyve inspected the doors (amongst 
other things)  on a number  of occasions. 
Ref: DRN84399502They referred to a number of inspection reports provided before the repairs were carried  out 
at Ms B and Mr As home. These  found  no issue with the doors in question. These  are 
entirely irrelevant to Ms B and Mr As current complaint  which  is that the damage was 
caused during  the course of the repair work being carried out.
However, NHBC did inspect the doors after the repair  work  was finished. And again they 
found no issues and no need for any repairs. NHBC inspection  reports after the repairs were 
completed are of course  relevant.
NHBCs view is contradicted  to an extent by a report provided by an independent expert  
appointed by NHBC to inspect  the property immediately after the repair  work was finished. 
This says that a number of the upstairs  doors are not set in uniform and have an excessive 
threshold space.
Ms B and Mr A have provided evidence  form a number of sources  including the 
manufacturer of their doors - to confirm that oak can be damaged  by exposure to extremes  
of temperature  and humidity. I dont doubt  that for a minute. 
The key questions for me in this case though are: (a) whether the doors in question are in 
fact currently damaged or defective; and (b) if so, whether thats likely to have been  caused 
by the NHBCs contractors exposing the doors  to extremes of temperature.
On the first of these  two questions, the key expert  reports  differ on the state of the doors. I 
think its fair to summarise Ms B and Mr As current issues as being  about the doors  not 
being straight in the frames and the gaps between the doors and their frames being  
excessive.
The independent report says the threshold space  is excessive.  I take this to mean the gap 
between the bottom  of the doors and the floor beneath. But the report  isnt specific about the 
size of those gaps and it doesnt  say what the correct  tolerances  for those spaces are.
It also says some of the doors are not set in uniform. I take this to mean the doors are not 
square with the frames  and so the gaps around the doors  increase  or decrease in size as 
you move  along the relevant edge of the door.
NHBC did measure the gaps. And as far as I can see, their measurements havent  been 
questioned or disputed. 
Ms B and Mr A say the gaps should be no more than three millimetres, because thats the 
specification NHBC gave  to the contractors carrying  out the repair work. NHBCs list of 
measurements (from autumn 2016  when they carried out their inspection) suggests the 
tolerance is for a gap of around four millimetres.
Other experts appear to differ about  how wide the gaps between  doors  and frames  should 
be. With wooden  doors  in particular  which expand and contract depending on temperature 
and humidity - the size of gap the experts recommend seems  to depend on whether they 
regard the main risk as the door sticking at times because it fits too tightly  or the door having 
gaps which  might allow draughts  at times.
Ref: DRN84399503NHBC took measurements for nine doors. Ill come back to the gaps at the bottom  of the 
doors later. For now, Ill concentrate on the 27 measurements for the gaps at the top and the 
sides of the nine doors. 
There are seven of those 27 measurements  where  the gap is more than four millimetres. 
The widest  gap is five millimetres.
Bearing in mind that wood expands and contracts  depending on temperature and humidity,  
Im not convinced that those wider gaps are excessive.  Four of the seven measurements 
above four millimetres  relate to doors to en-suite bathrooms, which are likely to experience  a 
higher degree  of fluctuation in humidity  and/or temperature.
Four of the 27 gaps  appear to increase or decrease in size along the edge of the door  
which would seem to indicate  the doors  arent square to the frames or have edges which 
arent completely straight. The largest  deviation is of 2.5 millimetres along  the two-metre  side 
of one of the doors.
Its debatable  whether  this means  the doors are damaged or defective in some  way. Thats 
probably why the experts disagree  about  it. If they are damaged  or defective,  its very 
marginal.
The gaps at the foot of the doors are measured  from the bottom of the door to the chipboard 
floor beneath. They  vary from door to door, but the largest is 24 millimetres. Again the 
experts disagree about what  clearance should be left to allow for the installation of flooring 
and/or carpets  or rugs. 
Some of the gaps on Ms B and Mr As doors  appear  to be towards the extreme end of the 
range usually regarded as appropriate.  However,  Im not convinced they could be termed 
excessive.
Ill turn now to the question of whether the issues with Ms B and Mr As doors were likely  
caused by the changes  in temperature  to which they were  exposed during the time the 
repairs were being  carried out.
The expert evidence  provided by Ms B and Mr A is compelling. Oak doors  can be damaged 
by radical changes in temperature  and humidity.
The expert evidence  also suggests that where that is the case  the fibres of the wood are 
damaged or broken.  This can lead to a very obvious  shredded  or cracked appearance to 
the wood and/or to warping and/or to shrinking.
I dont think anyone is suggesting that the surface  of the wood in Ms B and Mr As doors  is 
breaking up. 
Neither NHBCs inspector  nor the independent  expert is suggesting theres any obvious 
warping. Theres no suggestion thats  the reason for small number of non-uniform gaps is 
that the doors are warped. As the independent report  suggests when it refers to the doors 
not being set in uniform,  these deviations  are more likely to do with the way the doors 
have been put in place  (by the original builder).
As for the possibility that the doors shrank after exposure to changes in temperature,  I have 
to bear in mind  that the largest gaps  and the ones  closest to being outside the normal  
Ref: DRN84399504range (if any are)  are the gaps at the bottom of the doors. Only one of the gaps at the top 
of the doors is wider  than four millimetres  and thats 4.5 millimetres wide.
That suggests the gaps at the foot of the doors are there because of the way the doors  were  
hung and not because  of any shrinkage.  It would be odd  to say the least   if all the 
shrinkage happened at the bottom  of the doors. One might expect that if there  was 
shrinkage due to the changes in temperature, there would be a more even distribution of any 
excessive gaps.
So to summarise, if the doors are in any way defective, it is at its worst very marginal. 
Even if I accept the doors are defective,  theres  no evidence theyre disintegrating in any 
way, or that theyve  warped, or that theyve shrunk. And so Im satisfied on balance that 
means any defects in the doors are more likely  to be a result of the way they were installed 
in the first place rather than the temperatures changes they were exposed to during the 
repair work.
If the original  installation of the doors  was defective  then: (a) it wasnt  so defective that 
anyone noticed  it  all parties agree there was no issue with the upstairs doors before the 
repair work was carried  out; and (b) its the responsibility of the builder and not NHBC.
It really does seem that Ms B and Mr A have had an awful  experience  with their new home.  
Having to move out for nine months to allow substantial repairs to be carried out so soon 
after they bought the house must have been extremely  inconvenient and very worrying.
Im really  sorry  Ms B and Mr A had this experience. But taking all the evidence into account, 
I dont think NHBC  have  done anything wrong  in the way theyve handled these particular 
issues about the upstairs internal doors. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Ms B and Mr As complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 June  2019.
Neil Marshall
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8439950