K821x#15complaint
Miss F complains that Nationwide  Building Society  wont refund a payment of more than
£1,200 taken from her Nationwide  debit  card. She says she didnt authorise the payment.
Shes been represented by her mother in bringing  the complaint.
background
Miss F has explained that a friend asked her to pay a deposit for a hire car. She made a
payment of £180  and the friend paid her back  in cash. But the car hire company
subsequently charged a further £1,262.58 and took the payment from Miss Fs card,  leaving
her account  overdrawn.
Miss F asked Nationwide to look into the payment. It said the car hire company had taken
the payment to cover damage  to the car. Nationwide wouldnt refund  the payment, as Miss F
had agreed to make a payment  to the hire company.  In that sense, the payment  wasnt
fraudulent. Nationwide did however agree to pay Miss F £100, as it had given the impression
that Miss F would get a full refund.
When Miss F referred  the matter to this service, one of our investigators looked at it. She
didnt think that Miss F had agreed to the second payment. Whilst the car rental terms
appeared to allow the car hire firm to take payments to cover  damage, those terms didnt 
the investigator thought  apply to Miss F; she hadnt hired  the car or signed  any rental
agreement.
Miss F accepted the investigators recommendations, but Nationwide didnt. It said that, by
authorising the first payment.  Miss F accepted the rental terms; they allowed the car rental
company to take further payments to cover, for example, damage to the car. Nationwide
asked that an ombudsman review the case.  I did that and issued a provisional decision. 
I said in my provisional decision that I had some sympathy for Miss F. It appeared that shed 
been put in a difficult position by a friend she was trying to help.  But I disagreed with the 
investigators assessment  that she was not a party to the car rental agreement.  I thought she 
was, because her card had been  used with her authority to make the initial  payment. Ill set 
out my reasoning,  as it appeared in my provisional decision.  
This service hasnt been able to obtain a copy of the actual hire agreement  which  led to this
complaint. To the extent  the terms of that agreement are relevant, I have therefore  based my
decision on the terms published on the rental companys website.
In my view, the key issue for me to consider here is whether Miss F agreed  to the second
payment to the rental company. Clearly, she didnt  make the second payment herself - that
is, she didnt hand over her card and use her PIN to authorise a payment. So I need to
consider the rental agreement to decide  whether she agreed to make a further payment or to
allow the car hire company to take it. And, as I say, I am assuming the terms on the
companys website dont differ significantly from those in use at the time.  The terms include:
1 TO WHOM  DO THE RENTAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS APPLY?
These T&Cs will apply to:
1.1 you because  you are the person  who is paying for the rental and any associated
costs and you may also be a driver:
Ref: DRN843417521.2 any other driver  who is expressly  named on the Rental  Agreement  and who is
therefore authorised  to drive the Vehicle: ...
12 DAMAGE TO THE VEHICLE
12.1 As set out in section 5 ... and, in particular section 5.1, you are obliged  to return  your
Vehicle and its keys.  Accessories, or documentation to us in the same condition as
they were at check out, subject to any fair wear and tear
12.2.1 we are entitled to repair the Vehicle at our convenience so that it is restored to this
condition: and
12.2.2 you will be liable to pay the damage charges detailed in sections 12.8 to 12.18 ...
Sections 12.8 to 12.18 set out various  types of damage and provided links to schedules  and
tariff guides. I dont  need to discuss those in any detail here.
Section 19.2 said that, if there were  any further  charges, the rental company could use the
credit or debit card used to pay for the rental to take payment of them.
The investigator took the view that the reference to "you" in the rental agreement was to the
person who had signed it. I accept that Miss F probably didnt sign the agreement. But I dont
believe "you" meant only the person whose signature was on the agreement. The effect of
section 1 was that it included  the person who had paid (who might  also be a driver), as well
as any other  driver. The phrase "... and you may also be a driver.."  in section 1.1 clearly
anticipated that a person could be covered by the terms and conditions,  even if they werent
a driver.
In my view, therefore, Miss F was covered by the rental agreement - because she made the
card payment. It follows  that the rental company could take further payments from her card,
if they arose.  I stress  that I havent  decided whether or not there was damage to the car, or
indeed whether any other charges arose. That isnt something I have power to investigate
and may be an issue Miss F or the driver  can raise  with the rental company.
However, I dont believe  that Nationwide could  properly  have  challenged the card payment,
given Miss Fs agreement to make  the initial payment and the link through the terms and
conditions with the second payment.
As I say, I have a good deal of sympathy with Miss F here. Theres no suggestion  that any
additional charges arose  because of anything she did, and she almost  certainly  wouldnt
have expected the additional charge. Nationwide could have declined  the payment, since
there were insufficient funds in Miss Fs account.  I cant however fairly say it should have
done; and once it allowed the payment it had no realistic way of recovering it. It may be that
Miss F can recover  her losses from the person  who incurred the additional charges, but
thats a matter for her.
In all the circumstances, however,  I dont believe it would be fair to require Nationwide to
reimburse Miss F.
Neither Nationwide nor Miss F had anything further to add in response to my provisional 
decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I havent however changed my 
Ref: DRN84341753conclusions from those  set out in my provisional decision, or my reasons for reaching  them.  
And, since neither  party has commented  further,  I dont need to add anything to what Ive 
already said.   
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Nationwide Building Society  to do anything  further  to 
resolve Miss Fs complaint. Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im 
required to ask Miss F to accept or reject  my decision before 8 May 2020.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8434175