K820x#14complaint
Ms T complains about her interest-only  mortgage  she has with Bank of Scotland Plc (BOS). 
Specifically shes explained that the mortgage isnt interest-only, so it was misrepresented to 
her.
background
Ms T has an interest-only buy-to-let mortgage with BOS which  she took out in 2015 following 
advice from her broker. In 2017,  Ms T discovered that her mortgage  amount had decreased, 
despite her only repaying the interest. When she complained,  BOS  explained that the way 
interest is calculated means sometimes there will be an overpayment which will be applied  to 
the capital. Ms T was unhappy  with this as it means the mortgage wasnt interest-only and 
so had been misrepresented to her.
I sent my provisional decision on this complaint  on 29 August 2019 (a copy  of which is 
attached and forms part of this decision). In summary, I said I intended to uphold Ms Ts 
complaint, but that I didnt think BOS needed to do anything more  to put things right.  This 
was because I agreed that the mortgage  Ms T had taken wasnt  operated  in line with how 
the mortgage offer suggests  but I didnt think that Ms T wouldve done anything differently 
if shed known at the outset that her payments may pay off a small part of the capital. I did 
think that BOS had caused Ms T some  trouble  and upset  but I felt the £400  compensation it 
had already paid was fair and reasonable.
BOS didnt respond to my provisional decision. Ms T made  some  further submissions. To 
summarise Ms T has said:
The bank  has obligations to administer a product in-line with the mortgage  offer and 
as it cannot do so it shouldnt be allowed to operate those  products.
BOS has made a change to the administration of Ms Ts mortgage as from around  
March 2018 it has used Ms Ts payments to only pay the interest  which  is what  
Ms T expected at the outset. So how can this now be accurate when before Ms T has 
been told it couldnt be done?
Theres no evidence to show what calculations are done or how they are correct.
Its unproven that Ms T hasnt been financially disadvantaged and she shouldnt  have 
to wait the remaining term of the mortgage to find that out.
BOS should  be mandated  to work  through  the numbers with Ms T, and a direct 
named contact should be given  to Ms T to enable her to see what is being done  with 
her mortgage payments.
Ms T should be released  from the mortgage  before the end of the fixed  rate without 
early redemption  penalties if she finds a suitable alternative elsewhere.
I contacted BOS to ask for an up to date breakdown of payments, and have asked the bank  
for its comments on Ms Ts request about early release from the mortgage.  BOS responded 
reiterating its explanation around  how the mortgage is administered. It also provided me with 
an updated breakdown of payments (which  had been manually calculated). It said it wouldnt 
allow Ms T to be released from her mortgage early  without incurring any early  repayment 
charges.
Ref: DRN83105672my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive fully considered  Ms Ts submissions. Id like to start by explaining that my role is to look 
at all the available evidence and determine  whether something has gone wrong. And where  I 
think something has gone wrong, my role is to decide whether I think, on balance,  there  has 
been any detriment  caused. The Financial Ombudsman Service is an informal  alternative to 
court; as such our decisions are more informal than court  judgments. I understand that Ms T 
would like detailed responses  to her points, but this decision  will deal with the substantive 
complaint, having  regard  for all submissions and evidence both parties  have provided. So I 
wont address each point made individually.
Having looked  at Ms Ts submissions in response  to my provisional decision, my decision 
remains the same. But I will address her concerns.
Ms T has said throughout  her complaint that BOS shouldnt  be allowed to administer the 
mortgage in the way that it has. And I explained  in my provisional decision, this service isnt 
the regulator. So its not within my remit to comment on how BOS administers its mortgage 
products.
In my provisional decision I explained  that I felt BOSs explanation on how its systems work 
was sufficient. Ms T disagreed with this. BOS has maintained its explanation and has given 
further examples  to show how the system works.  I continue to be satisfied  that the 
explanation is sufficient.
BOS has confirmed that the monthly payment on Ms Ts interest-only mortgage  is calculated 
to cover the average  amount  of interest charged to the account each month. This would 
assume that every month has the same number of days which  we know  isnt the case. 
Therefore the monthly payment is always overpaying or underpaying interest depending on 
how many  days  pass  between  the monthly  due dates. BOS  has also confirmed that when 
the monthly payment doesnt cover  all interest charged to the account  since  the last payment 
due date, the underpaid amount doesnt accrue  any further interest.  For months where the 
interest is overpaid, this underpaid  interest is reduced.  Usually, the amounts will offset  
against each other  over the year. Where they dont, any monthly payment is first used for the 
interest expected  to be charged,  and then if greater it will be applied to cover  outstanding 
interest from previous  months. Where there is surplus, it will be used to reduce the capital  
balance.
BOS has pointed out that there have been  points where there have been overpayments 
caused by other events,  such  as the backdated  interest rate change,  and also when Ms T 
made a £10.00 payment  to the account a day before the monthly payment. Ms T has said 
that in March 2018, BOS changed the administration of her mortgage and started accepting 
the monthly interest payment  as the actual  interest owed each month.  But BOS has said this 
is incorrect and it hasnt  changed its systems. Whilst the table Ms T has seen shows  her 
payments are being applied entirely to cover the interest  it does also show there is a 
difference in interest due and interest paid which supports  BOSs  explanation. Ive also seen 
the up-to-date calculations  which demonstrate the mortgage is continuing to be administered 
in line with how BOS  has explained  calculating interest on a daily basis and so there are 
differing amounts of interest balance each month. 
Ref: DRN83105673I continue to agree with Ms T that the way the mortgage is administered, and the subsequent 
decrease in the capital  she owes,  differs from the suggestion in the mortgage  offer  which  
expressly states that she will owe the same balance at the end of the mortgage term. But Im 
satisfied BOS has explained why that is and I wont be asking  it to explain any further.
Ms T has asked for BOS to be mandated to work through the numbers with her but I wont 
be asking it to do this. Ive not seen anything to suggest that the way the mortgage payments  
are applied will financially disadvantage Ms T in the future.  And Ive concluded  that there 
hasnt been any financial detriment to Ms T caused by the way the mortgage operates. Its 
clear that there has been a breakdown in trust between Ms T and BOS. I can also see that 
Ms Ts fixed rate expires in January 2020. At this point  Ms T may wish to find an alternative 
mortgage elsewhere  but I wont be asking BOS to allow her early release  from her 
mortgage without  paying the applicable early repayment charges. Whilst I understand that 
the capital balance has reduced, I dont think that Ms T wouldve taken a different mortgage 
out had she known this at the outset. And as early repayment fees apply to this mortgage,  it 
wouldnt be fair to ask BOS to release  Ms T without her having to pay these.
In my provisional decision I explained  that I felt BOS  had caused Ms T trouble  and upset 
because it had provided differing explanations  about how her mortgage was calculated 
which caused confusion, and it was clear that it caused stress as well. But I felt the apology  
and £400 that BOS  had paid Ms T for this was reasonable.
In summary,  neither  Ms T nor BOS have provided me with any additional evidence that has 
changed my decision  on this complaint. Ive upheld Ms Ts complaint because  her mortgage 
offer suggests she will only repay  interest, and her capital balance  will not decrease,  but the 
way in which the mortgage  is administered  means  some capital has been repaid. So there 
has been some miscommunication  about  the exact way the mortgage will be administered.  
But Ive not seen anything to suggest  that Ms T has been financially disadvantaged  by this, 
or that she wouldve done anything differently if the mortgage offer explained this at the 
outset. So I wont be asking BOS  to do anything to put this right. I also believe  the payment it 
has made for the trouble  and upset is fair and reasonable.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold this complaint. However Bank  of Scotland Plc has 
already done enough  to put things right so I wont be asking it to do anything further.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 November  2019.
Charlotte Wilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN83105674copy of provisional decision
complaint
Ms T complains about her interest-only mortgage she has with Bank of Scotland plc (BOS). 
Specifically shes explained that the mortgage isnt actually interest-only, so it was misrepresented to 
her.
background
Ms T took out a buy-to-let mortgage with BOS in 2015.  She was advised to take this mortgage from 
her broker. The mortgage  was set up on an interest-only basis. In 2017, when  Ms T was looking to 
secure a new rate she was advised  that her mortgaged amount had decreased  so a small payment 
had been made towards the capital she had borrowed. 
Ms T complained about this as she couldnt understand  how any of her capital had been repaid when 
she was only paying the interest. BOS  wasnt able to provide a satisfactory response to Ms T about  
how the capital had been repaid. It did however  acknowledge she hadnt experienced  good customer  
service so it offered  her £400 compensation. Ms T was unhappy with this so she brought  her 
complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold Ms Ts complaint. He said that BOS explained  its systems  meant that it 
calculated interest every  30 days. But that Ms Ts overall  mortgage repayments were worked out on a 
monthly basis. So this means on some months shed overpaid interest  and some  months she 
wouldnt. BOS explained  this would  average out. However, its unable to hold overpayments  so when 
this happens, the additional payment would be applied to the capital. This is the reason  Ms Ts capital 
has reduced. Our investigator didnt think that Ms T had suffered any financial detriment from this, so 
didnt feel the complaint should be upheld. He felt the £400 compensation for the confusion  BOS 
caused was reasonable.
Ms T disagreed. She has since submitted her detailed  account  of whats happened including copying  
this service into emails shes exchanged with BOS. Shes explained her concerns around  not being  
able to balance  her mortgage account when she should  be able to. Shes  also explained  that by virtue  
of BOS repaying some  of her capital, this has breached her mortgage contract  which states  that none 
of the capital  will be repaid during the term of the mortgage.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Ms T has spent a number  of hours on the phone to me explaining her complaint and the reasons why 
shes unhappy. Ive considered the conversations  weve  had, the information  Ms T has supplied  and 
the information BOS has supplied. I dont intend to address or reference all of this information 
individually, but instead Ive focused my decision on what has happened and the impact this has had 
on Ms T.
What does Ms Ts mortgage offer say?
Ms T has explained that her mortgage is interest-only. She has explained that she works with 
numbers and likes to ensure  that she knows the state  of her finances,  which is reasonable for anyone. 
She has taken  the mortgage  sold through her broker  on the basis that she will only be repaying 
interest.
Ms Ts mortgage offer says that her total loan amount is £288,290.00. It then goes on to say:
Ref: DRN83105675You will still owe £288,290.00 at the end of the mortgage term.
So I think this supports the idea that only the interest will be paid during the term of Ms Ts mortgage.  
Its reasonable  for Ms T to believe that she will still owe the full loan amount at the end of the term so I 
can understand her concern  when she found out that some of her capital  had been repaid by her 
making her contractual  monthly  interest payments.
How does  Ms Ts mortgage  work?
BOS has explained that Ms Ts mortgage is an interest-only  mortgage. But that her monthly  
repayments have been calculated  on a simple calculation  whereby the amount of interest applied  over 
the full term of the mortgage  was divided  into the number of months of the mortgage term. And BOS  
has explained  this isnt how its systems actually calculate interest. It explained  that interest is 
calculated daily. So in some months the interest is overpaid and some months it is underpaid  
depending on the number of days in the month. BOS said, therefore,  that its not possible for the 
outstanding balance at the end of the mortgage to be exactly the same as the starting balance.
Ms T has said this caused  her concern  because if there are overpayments  that have been  made, 
shes worried  that the opposite could  happen, and shed be in arrears. I can understand this concern, 
however BOS has said that it would all even out as long as Ms T makes her contractual monthly  
payments.
I do think that BOSs  explanation on how its systems work is sufficient. But I also understand Ms Ts 
frustration that she doesnt  actually have the product she believed she had. Her mortgage  offer says 
that she will owe the total amount of the loan at the end of the term. There  isnt a provision  saying this 
may change  due to the systems. Its in the general mortgage conditions that any remaining amount 
from a monthly  payment would be used as repayment of the loan. But it is also in the mortgage 
conditions that if there are any inconsistencies to the mortgage offer, the offer document  prevails. And 
the offer document  states Ms T will still owe the total loan amount at the end of the term.
So I think that Ms T has a valid point when  she says her mortgage  isnt how it was described to her. 
She expected  to only be paying interest, and she has ended up repaying  some of the capital  which  
she says goes  against what she wanted and expected. In essence  the mortgage that Ms T has with 
BOS isnt as its described in her mortgage offer.
Impact
When we consider complaints, we have to look at what went  wrong,  and if something has, the impact 
that has had. In this case, Ms T doesnt have the mortgage she believed she was getting. Ive 
considered what she would have done differently had she known  the mortgage didnt work in the way 
she was led to believe it would. And Ive considered any trouble and upset this has caused her.
BOSs systems  work out interest on mortgages on a daily basis. It has said this means  it isnt possible 
for Ms Ts loan amount  to be exactly the same at the end of her interest-only term. So it could never  
have offered her the mortgage she thought she was getting  one which would  only pay the interest.  
Ive asked Ms T what she wants BOS to do, knowing  it cant offer her this type of product, but she 
hasnt provided a response to this question. I invite Ms T to make any further submissions in relation 
to this for me to consider  before issuing a final decision. However Ive thought  about  what  would  be 
likely to have happened if BOS had explained how it would work  at the start  or had made it clear  in 
the mortgage offer that the amount Ms T would owe would be marginally different.
Ms T went  to a broker for her mortgage, so I imagine she was interested in getting a good interest 
rate. She was advised to take this mortgage, indicating  that the rate and terms were  likely to fit her 
circumstances at the time. So, if the mortgage offer said that the amount owed at the end could be 
slightly different  (due to some capital  being repaid from overpaying interest) I think its likely Ms T 
wouldve still been advised  to take this mortgage, and therefore would still be in the same position  
now. So I wont be asking  BOS to do anything in relation to her mortgage.
Ref: DRN83105676But I do think  that this issue has caused her some  trouble and upset. Ive noted that Ms T has found it 
very difficult to get the information from BOS in the first instance to understand what had happened  
and that she has raised this with the Information Commissioners Office (ICO)  so I wont  be 
commenting on this further. But she also found that the explanations BOS  were giving her were 
confusing and differed.  I agree and this isnt in dispute. BOS had already apologised for this and paid 
Ms T £400  for the trouble  and upset caused. I think this is fair and reasonable.  I say this because its 
clear Ms T had to contact BOS on multiple occasions and wasnt getting  the response or explanation 
she was looking for. I think this matter  caused  her ongoing concern, and as she was due to find 
another fixed rate, this wouldve made it more stressful  for her. So I think £400  to recognise  this is 
reasonable.
Summary
I understand Ms T is mainly upset about the fact her mortgage doesnt match  the offer she accepted.  
So this is what Ive addressed here. There were also some issues with a delayed product transfer 
which I understand have been resolved so Ive not commented on them  here. I do hope  that this 
decision has gone some way in resolving Ms Ts complaint. I do agree with her that the product 
offered to her differs in some  way to the actual product  she has  in that some of her capital has been 
repaid when  she understood  that she would  only ever pay the interest on the mortgage. So I do 
uphold this complaint on that basis. But Ms T hasnt been financially  disadvantaged in terms of having 
to pay anything  more for her mortgage so Im not recommending BOS does anything  to redress this 
issue. And I dont think Ms T wouldve done anything differently had she been aware  of how the 
systems run. I dont have  the power to ask it change its systems  and the way it operates  is something 
that it agrees with its regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority.  And I think  BOS has done enough 
to put things  right for the trouble and upset the misinformation caused  Ms T.
my provisional  decision
I intend  to uphold  this complaint but Bank of Scotland plc has already done enough to put things right 
so I wont  be asking it to do anything further.
Charlotte Wilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8310567