K820x#14complaint
Miss A complains  about the quality of a car she acquired under a hire purchase agreement
with Mercedes-Benz  Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS).
background
On 2 August  2018, Miss A entered into a hire purchase agreement with MBFS to acquire a 
used car, manufactured  in 2017,  for around £18,000. Miss A says that around two weeks  
later she dropped an item on the ground, and when she bent down to pick it up she noticed 
that the external trim over the spare  wheel metal  casing was dented. Miss A says that on the 
damage there was visible rust and she says this would not be possible to form in a two-week 
period while  she had the car. 
On 16 August 2018, Miss A emailed the dealership with pictures  of the damage and asked 
for the car to be repaired. The dealership responded and said that they suspect that the 
damage happened in the two weeks that she had the car as the car wouldve been checked 
before she took delivery, so they told Miss A they will not do the repairs. 
On 18 August 2018, Miss A had the car inspected by a third-party garage.  The report  says 
that the external trim over wheel well is smashed. It goes  on to say that there is damage to 
the spare wheel  well metal casing  showing  underneath and inside the boot. The mileage on 
the car was recorded as 14,793.
On 22 August 2018, Miss A wrote to the dealership and MBFS requesting a repair or 
replacement. 
On 24 August 2018, Miss A emailed the dealership and MBFS to reject the car as she felt it 
was of unsatisfactory quality. Also, in her email  she told the dealership and MBFS that she 
will park the car and will not be using it until she hears from them.
Since then Miss A has parked the car and has not been using it. She told us that the mileage 
on the car, as of 24 August  2018, was 15,009 miles and it was 13,678 when she took 
delivery. 
On 30 August 2018, MBFS wrote to Miss A saying that the damage was not present at the 
point of sale. They said that, most likely,  the damage was caused by the car being reversed 
into something. They said that the damage  was so conspicuous that it wouldve been 
impossible to have  missed this, in the pre delivery inspection, as the inspection  requires the 
car to be elevated in the air.
On 1 September 2018, Miss A replied to MBFS saying  that there was a six-week gap 
between when the car had the visual check done on 19 June 2018 and when it was actually 
collected by her on 2 August 2018. 
On 4 September 2018, MBFS responded saying that there is no time limit of when  a car has 
to be sold from the time a check is carried out. They said that they are confident that full 
checks were carried  out prior to the sale and are not convinced that the dealership  wouldve 
caused such significant damage  to car in the meantime. 
Miss A was unhappy  with this, so she brought  her complaint to this service.  
Ref: DRN83864812She has also told us that when she initially  noted  the damage  to the car, she did an HPI 
check. This revealed  a mileage discrepancy.  She says it was only after she contacted  the 
National Mileage Register,  who then investigated and contacted  the dealer, that this was 
corrected. She has mentioned this to us because  she says that given all subsequent 
interactions that she had with the dealership, she has lost all trust in them. MBFS have also 
confirmed that the mileage discrepancy  has been corrected as of 21 August 2018.  
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should  be upheld. He thought  that the damage most 
likely happened in the six weeks before Miss A took delivery. He thought that Miss A should  
be allowed to reject the car. He also thought that MBFS  should  refund the £2,000 deposit, 
payments made to date and pro-rated insurance costs  back to Miss A. He was also of the 
opinion that MBFS  should pay Miss A £150 for the trouble and upset she experienced. He 
didnt think MBFS needed to do anything about  the mileage discrepancy  as he thought that 
most likely it was just an administrative error.  
MBFS disagreed with the adjudicator. 
So, the complaint has been passed  to me to decide.  After reviewing the case,  I issued a 
provisional decision on 5 May 2020.  In the provisional decision I said:
my provisional findings  
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where evidence  is unclear or in dispute, I
reach my findings on the balance of probabilities  which  is to say, what I consider most
likely to have happened based on the evidence available and the surrounding 
circumstances. 
Ive come to a different outcome than the one reached by the adjudicator and I dont intend 
to uphold this complaint.  Ill now explain why.
Miss A acquired the car under  a hire purchase agreement, which  is a regulated  consumer
credit agreement. Our service can look at these sorts of agreements . MBFS is the
supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and is responsible for dealing  with
complaints about  their quality.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015  (CRA)  covers hire purchase agreements  such as the one 
Miss A entered into. Under a hire purchase agreement,  there is an implied  term that the 
goods supplied  will be of satisfactory quality. The CRA says that goods will be considered of 
satisfactory quality where they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider 
satisfactory  taking into account  the description  of the goods, the price paid and other 
relevant circumstances.
In Miss As case the car was used, with a cash price  of around £18,000. It had covered
around 14,000  miles and was approximately a year old when she acquired it. Id have 
different expectations  of it compared  to a brand-new car. But given the age, mileage and 
price paid, I think its fair to say that a reasonable person would have high expectations of it 
and wouldnt  expect  anything significant  to be wrong shortly after it was acquired,  as the car 
was almost brand new. 
On 16 August 2018, Miss A emailed the dealership, with pictures  of the dent to the external 
trim over the spare wheel  metal casing. From the pictures it is clear that the dent is very 
Ref: DRN83864813large with a lot of the paint scratched off the surface.  Taking  everything  into account  
including the price paid, the age and usage of the car, and the size of the damage,  as seen 
on the pictures,  Im not persuaded the car was of satisfactory quality if this was the 
condition of the car when Miss A took delivery. So, the question  is - was this damage  caused  
before Miss A took delivery of the car or did it happen, while the car was already in her 
possession?
MBFS say there was a visual inspection  carried  out on the car on 13 July 2018, and they say 
that since this inspection, there were no other  test drives taken in the car. But I dont think  a 
visual inspection wouldve highlighted this specific damage. Miss A says she only noticed 
this damage when she dropped her keys, right by the back bumper, and she bent down to 
pick them  up. I agree with Miss A that the damage is not visible  from a standing  position, so I 
think most likely  a visual inspection wouldnt have highlighted it. I say this based on the 
pictures Miss A provided to us in February  2020. The pictures  are taken  in daylight, some of 
them even more  than a meter away from the car and the damage  still cant be seen from a 
standing position.  One of the pictures is even taken from a lower  angle, closer to the car, 
and the damage  still cant  be seen. Based on this, I think most likely  a visual  inspection  
wouldnt have highlighted this damage. These  pictures are attached to the provisional 
decision for MBFSs consideration.
MBFS say that there was another  inspection done  on 19 June 2018. They say that during 
this inspection the underside of the car wouldve been looked at, so they say the damage 
wouldve been spotted then. MBFS say this inspection  was done by a technician who is well-
respected. At the time of this inspection  the car had 13,667 miles recorded on the inspection 
sheet. Ive seen  a copy of this inspection sheet and it looks  like it covered many aspects of 
the car. Some parts needed fixing and they were  marked  as Red with recommendations of 
what needed to be fixed. One of the areas  inspected were suspension/steering/exhaust 
including a visual inspection  of the vehicle underside  for any damage and leaks,  which  is 
marked as Green and there are no fix recommendations noted. So, I agree with MBFS that 
most likely during this inspection the damage in question wouldve been spotted  and noted  
on the inspection  sheet. 
However, this inspection was done six weeks before Miss A took possession  of the car. So, 
the question that I have  to answer, on balance  of probabilities, is whether the damage 
occurred during those  six weeks  before Miss A took possession  of the car or after. 
On 16 august  2018 when  Miss A emails  the dealership, she says the metal of the damaged 
area is a bit rusty  which  means the damage has been there  for a while.  MBFS have told our 
service that, based on the pictures  provided  by Miss A, rust has not been  confirmed,  and the 
dealership has not seen  the car to inspect the damage. But MBFS also say that the impact 
has clearly removed not only the top surface of paint, but also the protective 
undercoat/primer and exposed bare metal. They say any bare metal  is prone to corrosion, if 
exposed to moisture, or corrosive substances such as contamination  found  on the road and 
can occur  in a short  space of time. 
Ive looked at the pictures that Miss A sent to the dealership on 16 August 2018, and from 
these it is difficult to tell if it is rust that is appearing on the damage as the affected areas are 
very small. It looks  like it could also be dirt or even  paint; that has rubbed  off from the item 
the car made  impact with when the damage occurred.  So, Ive asked Miss A to take some 
further pictures of the damage which she has taken  and emailed to our service in 
February 2020. 
Ref: DRN83864814The new pictures  are clearer but because the area in question is so little, even zooming in 
and looking  closely, it is still difficult to tell whether  it is rust or not. So, Ive also looked  at the 
inspection report Miss A provided from a third-party garage done  on 18 August 2018. This 
report describes the damage in some detail,  but it doesnt mention rust at all. So, taking 
everything into consideration,  I cant say that most likely the area in question  was affected by 
rust on 16 August  2018 when Miss A emailed the dealership. And even if there was a bit of 
rust, looking at the pictures of the affected  area - it is so small that I think  most  likely this 
small amount of rust couldve formed in less than a two-week period on bare metal that is 
exposed to moisture, or corrosive substances such as contamination  found  on the road.
MBFS say the most likely and reasonable way for the damage to have occurred was during 
usage on the open roads, where relevant  hazards are present and not at the dealership 
where there  are no low-lying walls or high curbs that could cause such damage. They go on 
to say that the car wasnt continually used  during  the six-week period; after the inspection on 
19 June 2018  and before  Miss A took possession of the car. MBFS say that a lot more miles 
were done  by Miss A during the two weeks she had the car. So, Ive considered the usage  of 
the car in the six-week period while at the dealership versus the two-week  period  while  
Miss A had the car. 
On 19 June 2018, during the cars inspection the mileage was recorded  as 13,667 and when  
Miss A took delivery, six weeks later, the mileage on the handover check sheet was 
recorded as 13,678. This means that during the six-week period at the dealership the car 
was driven for approximately  11 miles.  We dont know what  the mileage was when Miss A 
emails the dealership on 16 August  2018, but two days later when she gets the inspection 
done by a third-party garage, the mileage is recorded at 14,793. So, Miss A has done 
approximately 1,115 miles during the 14 days since taking possession of the car. Even  
though this mileage  is recorded two days after Miss A reported the damage to the 
dealership, it is still a lot of miles that Miss A covered  in a two-week period compared to only 
11 miles that the car was driven for during the six weeks at the dealership.  So, considering 
the high number of miles  the car was driven during the two weeks Miss A had it for, I think  it 
is more likely that the damage was sustained during this time,  because it had a much  greater 
exposure to potential damage-causing  occurrences,  rather than during the period where the 
car was only driven for 11 miles. 
Whilst I realise that my decision  will come as a disappointment to Miss A, looking at all the 
evidence available  to me I think, on balance, the damage happened after she took delivery 
of the car, and therefore the car was most  likely of satisfactory quality when Miss A took 
possession of it. 
I know that initially Miss A was also unhappy  about  the mileage discrepancy.  Miss A and 
MBFS have told us that this has now been corrected so Im satisfied that MBFS is not 
required to take any further action in relation  to this issue. 
my provisional decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont intend  to uphold Miss As complaint. 
I asked both parties to provide me with any additional comments  or information  theyd like 
me to consider by 5 June  2020.
MBFS replied  and said they have nothing further to add. 
Ref: DRN83864815Miss A replied  disagreeing with my provisional  decision and provided further submissions. I 
will address  these in my findings below.
my findings
Ive carefully considered  all of the available evidence and arguments provided by Miss A and 
MBFS (including the responses provided  to my provisional decision) to decide whats  fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss A has made several points after my provisional  decision and I will address them each in 
turn below. Although Ive summarised and only set out the main  points of her response,  I can 
confirm that Ive read and carefully considered all of the arguments she has made.
Miss A says, that in my provisional decision, I said that the car has been  acquired on an HPI 
although the car has been acquired  as a Personal  contract policy. For clarification purposes,  
I said that Miss A entered into a hire purchase agreement  with MBFS. I said this because a 
Personal Contract Purchase agreement (PCP), like the one she entered  into, is a type of a 
hire purchase agreement.  Sometimes a PCP can be referred  to as a Personal  Contract  Plan. 
Our service can look at PCPs, like the one Miss A entered  into, because  it is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement.
In her response to my provisional  decision,  Miss A has referred to negative  comments made 
online by other customers  of the dealership  and MBFS, so she said these  should  be taken 
into account. But our service considers each complaint on its own individual merits  and 
circumstances. So, I do not think it would be fair to draw negative  inference from 
experiences that others have had because  even cases  that appear  similar  may have  
different circumstances.
Also, before I address  Miss A points in turn below, I should clarify a point about the standard  
of proof  that applies in this case.  In her submission to my provisional decision,  a few times 
Miss A has referred to beyond reasonable doubt. But beyond reasonable doubt is a 
standard of proof used in certain criminal prosecutions. The standard I must apply, in this 
particular civil dispute, is very different as it is on balance of probabilities  that is, what I 
think most likely  happened.  So, the degree of probability is not as high as is required of the 
beyond reasonable doubt  standard. In other words, I must  decide what  I think is more likely 
than not to have  happened,  based  on all the available evidence  and circumstances.
Miss A is still adamant that the damage was caused before she took delivery of the car. She 
emphasises that she only noticed  the damage when she dropped  a shopping  item whilst 
removing her shopping from the boot of the car. She feels  that in my provisional decision I 
disproportionately place  emphasis on the mileage accrued and completely ignore  certain  
points. To summarise, Miss A questions the credibility of what  has been said and provided  
by MBFS, and she thinks that Ive not given enough consideration to: 
-MBFS response, attitude  and unwillingness to engage on this complaint including  
lack of response to requests from our service. She said that this caused  her to suffer 
financially and emotionally and she provided a timeline.
-MBFS lack of genuine attempt to investigate  this complaint, and the inconsistencies 
and confusion around the presentation of key facts  and timelines. She provides an 
example of this where MBFS said there was a visual inspection carried out on the car 
on 13 July 2018, and they say that since this inspection, there  were  no other test 
Ref: DRN83864816drives taken in the car. But Miss A says that she herself took the car for a test drive 
on 29 July 2018.  
-MBFS lack of honesty and or competence with respect to two mileage 
discrepancies. Miss A says that the mileage discrepancies have been resolved but 
she says this was only after she contacted  the national mileage register which 
investigated the case. She says that this again  reflects on the dealers incompetence 
or their lack of integrity, as the correct mileage shouldve been sent to the NMR and 
checked prior to selling  of the car.
-Her motives of initially requesting for the dealership to repair  the damage.
I want to assure Miss A that I have  taken all the above into consideration. And I understand 
that she is questioning MBFS honesty  and credibility, but that alone doesnt mean that most 
likely the damage  was caused before she took delivery of the car. When  Im making my 
decision, I need to consider the testimony  of both parties, and all the other evidence and 
circumstances relevant to this complaint.  This includes all the things I mentioned  in my 
provisional decision and among them the report and pictures provided by Miss A, as well as 
the number of miles the car covered before and after Miss A took delivery of it.    
Miss A says that a reasonable and fair response  to the pictures wouldve been for the 
dealership to inspect  the car instead of her having to arrange  for a third party  to do so. She 
says this way it wouldve  been done  by specialists and the inspection itself wouldve been  
more thorough. Miss A says the report she got only focused on the location of the damage 
and not the likely cause or the time period for the damage to occur. I agree that a more 
detailed report wouldve been  helpful  but, considering one is not available,  Ive got to base 
my decision  on the evidence I do have. As I mentioned in my provisional decision, the report 
still describes the damage in some detail,  but it doesnt mention rust at all. And even though 
the new pictures provided by Miss A are clearer - the area in question is so little that even 
zooming in and looking  closely, it is still difficult to tell whether rust is present  or not. So, 
taking all of this into consideration,  I cant  say that most likely the area in question was 
affected by rust on 16 August 2018. If what I can see on the pictures is rust - it is so small 
that most  likely it could have formed in less than a two-week period, considering that is was 
on bare metal that was exposed to moisture, or corrosive substances  such as contamination 
found on the roads.
Miss A says that placing  a significant weight  on the fact that driving the car for longer is 
positively correlated  with likelihood of damage  overlooks the possibility that the damage 
couldve been done whilst the car was still at the dealership. But in my provisional  decision I 
have considered all the evidence available  to me, as mentioned above. Looking at the 
number of miles the car travelled  is relevant  as it speaks  to the cars exposure to potential  
damage-causing occurrences in the six weeks before she took delivery  vs the two weeks in 
her possession. And, as I mentioned in my provisional decision, Miss A did approximately  
1,115 miles during  the 14 days she had possession of the car  which  is a lot of miles 
compared to only 11 miles  that the car was driven  during  the six weeks  at the dealership.  
So, I think most likely the damage  happened  during this time as the car had much  greater 
exposure to potential damage-causing  occurrences.
Miss A says the overwhelming majority of mileage done in that period was as a result  of 
motorway driving. She says that she was commuting from her home to work sites in three 
different locations.  She also mentions that during a weekend she made  a trip to another city 
to visit a family member  (202 miles round trip). And she also made  another trip to a different 
city to see her family (220 miles). She says that because this was motorway driving  it is 
inconsistent with the damage in question.  But even  though a lot of the miles might have 
Ref: DRN83864817been done on the motorway,  the car still covered  approximately more than 100 times the 
amount in her possession  vs when it was at the dealership. Also, it was exposed to different 
locations and different  cities where  it could  have been exposed  to variety of different 
hazards. So, I still think  most  likely the damage  occurred after Miss A took possession of the 
car.
Miss A also mentioned that her estimated mileage usage is 20,000 per annum ~1666 miles 
per month or 416 miles per week. She says that all of this is gross not net of what is a 
significant annual  leave and shift holiday allowances, which she says would no doubt reduce 
the overall annual mileage. She says she mentions this because my provisional decision  
implied an excess around the mileage and therefore  contextualisation was warranted.  But in 
my provisional decision I wasnt commenting on Miss A covering excess  millage. I was only 
comparing that the cars exposure of 1,115  miles, while it was in her possession  vs the 11 
miles covered in the six weeks  at the dealership. 
Miss A says that to repair the damage it wouldve cost between  £700 and a £1,000. She 
says if she was responsible for causing  the damage, she wouldve accepted this cost; 
considering it cost her significantly  more  money  for a car she wasnt using. Ive considered 
this part of her testimony but, as I mentioned above, I have to take all evidence  and 
circumstances into account.  And having  reviewed everything provided on this case, I still 
think, on balance,  the damage  happened after Miss A took delivery of the car, and therefore 
the car most  likely was of satisfactory  quality when Miss A took possession  of it. 
I know Miss A says that she has suffered financially and, while  she has my sympathy, I cant 
award any compensation to her because Im not upholding her complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, and in my provisional  decision,  my final decision is that I 
dont uphold Miss As complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 July 2020.
Mike Kozbial
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8386481