K820x#14complaint
Mr T has complained about his property insurer, Society of Lloyds (SOL) because it took 
too long, in his view,  to handle his claim, which it then declined.
background
On 30 November 2015 SOL received a call from Mr Ts broker.  The call note made  at the 
time recorded the facts as follows:
PH [policyholder] broker  has called in to register a claim on behalf of the PH. He 
mentioned that on Friday  27th the PH called to report an incident  of the units in the kitchen 
coming crashing  down.  There is no reason  behind  it. All he knows  is that PH has small 
children and they climb the units to get cereal  and other items. The unit runs along 2 walls. 
One wall the whole  unit came crashing down and the other the unit slid down causing 
everything inside to fall out.
SOL appointed a loss adjuster who visited the property on 1 December 2015. In his report  
he recorded that Mr Ts wife explained that the lino flooring also has small chip/dent as 
result of the units falling  from the wall.
The report  also recorded that by the time of the visit all the units  had been  fully removed 
and placed in the garden. According to the report Mrs T told the adjuster that the family had 
been out at the time the units fell. Its understood that a third-party witnessed the damage 
occurring but wasnt interviewed at the time of the visit by the loss adjuster and has since  
become unavailable to talk (having left the country  without  a forwarding address).
The adjuster  also noted in his report:
Mrs T advised that the only reason that they could think  of [for the units  falling] was that 
their young  children may have climbed  on the kitchen worktop to get snacks/cereal or may 
have been playing  around or hanging  from the units and as result this would have caused  
the units to fall off from the wall. The kitchen  wall units run along the two walls.
SOL received this report on 16 December 2015.  In January 2016 Mr T fitted a new kitchen. 
The broker  chased  a response from SOL on a couple of occasions. At one point he was 
told some  serious flood claims had taken  priority. In March 2016,  when  the broker  chased 
the claim again, SOL realised it hadnt  actioned the report. It carried  out a review 
straightaway.
SOL said it had some concerns and needed Mr T to provide it with more  information. In that 
respect the claim would  progress. In the meantime  it accepted that it had caused  some 
serious delays by not progressing matters and offered  £100  compensation. In June 2016 
SOL said it had concerns with the claim and it wouldnt progress it further unless these  could 
be allayed.
Ref: DRN81543472SOLs letter  in June 2016  explained that a larder unit in the kitchen had fallen down but it 
was unclear how this had been attached to the wall, if it had and/or what caused it to fall. In 
doing so units  near it had been affected. These  had been left hanging at an angle and had 
to be removed for safety purposes. SOL noted there was no obvious damage to the units 
that had been removed  on grounds  of safety.  There was no reason, it said,  why these 
couldnt have  been re-used/repaired,  or why the whole kitchen needed  replacing.  It noted 
that even allowing for replacement  of the displaced run of units, other unaffected parts  of 
the kitchen had been replaced and there was no price breakdown  to allow  it to determine 
what might  reasonably be covered under the policy. It asked for details of the cost of the 
flooring. It said it hadnt been contacted prior to work  commencing.
In November 2016 Mr T, via his broker again,  asked SOL to review  matters. He provided  
some more detail regarding what cupboards hed had before and what had been  installed in 
replacement. He provided some photos  too. SOL said this evidence didnt change anything.
In October  2017 SOL issued  a final response. It noted Mr T had replaced his whole kitchen 
as well as the flooring.  It reviewed the details  of the claim and referred to the policy  
definition for accidental damage; sudden, unexpected damage which is not inevitable and 
has not been caused on purpose. As well as the exclusion to that cover for damage 
caused gradually or by wear and tear. SOL said it was far from clear  as to what  had 
happened or to what extent the kitchen parts had been damaged.  It said it wasnt  minded to 
reverse the decision to decline  the claim.
On 31 May 2019 SOL confirmed  it had sent Mr T a cheque  for £100. This was in respect of 
the compensation originally offered in 2016.
Our investigator felt that Mr T hadnt  shown hed had a loss as covered by the policy.  He felt 
it would  be unfair to ask SOL to pay for his whole kitchen to be replaced. He noted the £100  
compensation that SOL had paid.
Mr Ts broker said hed been treated unfairly  by SOL.  The broker  said thered been delays 
by SOL which had prejudiced the claim and Mr T shouldnt suffer as a result.  SOL, the 
broker said, had been unable to assess the damage  for weeks  whilst unfairly prioritising 
flood victims instead, causing Mr T to have to make  his kitchen safe and then replace it. 
The broker  also asked for clarification regarding the damaged flooring which hadnt been 
mentioned in the view. The complaint was passed  to me to decide.
I didnt feel the complaint  should be upheld. But my reasoning  differed to that set out by our 
investigator. I also needed  to consider the point about the floor.  I, therefore,  issued  a 
provisional decision to which  Mr T has now responded. My provisional  findings, Mr Ts 
responses and my replies are all set out below as part of my findings of this, my final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I said provisionally:
SOL clearly delayed  this claim between 16 December 2015  and March  2016. But I dont  
think it caused delays  from the outset. It isnt clear what day the incident occurred but Mr T 
Ref: DRN81543473seems to have called the broker  on 27 November  2015. The broker then didnt call SOL until 
30 November and SOL had a loss adjuster visit Mr Ts home on 1 December.  And I note that 
when the broker  called  SOL it was also stated that the units  had been removed for safety  
reasons. So Im not persuaded that Mr Ts decision to remove the units  was caused by any 
delay or failure  by SOL. Whilst  I appreciate  he had to keep his family  safe he also had a duty 
to allow  SOL a reasonable chance to consider his claim.
Mr Ts broker, in reply  said the incident had occurred on 27 November when Mr T called it. 
And it had tried to call SOL but got no answer.  It, therefore, called again on the next working 
day, 30 November.  
I appreciate the brokers explanation. But as far as my consideration goes regarding  SOLs  
handling of matters, it doesnt change  anything.  
My provisional findings continued:
That consideration  can take the form of assessing photographs and other evidence 
gathered at the time of the loss. And sometimes, if all available evidence,  including the 
testimony of those concerned, all fits together and makes sense, that can be sufficient to 
show that, on the face of it, a claim as covered by the policy has occurred.
Here Im not persuaded  that is the case. Mr T didnt see the cupboards  fall, but he reported 
to the broker that one set came crashing down, whilst the others  slid. Having seen some 
photographs it seems  to me that it was a single larder unit that was being referred to as 
having crashed  to the ground. And a row of wall units, running  away  from it, that appear to 
have slipped  down  at an angle at that end, with the end furthest away still being  supported  
in their original position.
I see that the larder unit is a tall oblong item with a square base. It doesnt seem  to have 
feet. Mr T says it wasnt overloaded. It isnt obvious  if this was secured to the wall at all. It 
doesnt appear to have  been attached in any way to the wall units that run in-line  away from 
it. The wall units seem to have come  away from the wall without  damaging the wall or the 
units. They are all still intact, and even the wooden bracket they are attached to it is still in 
place along their length with what appear to be the original fixing  screws in place, complete 
with raw-plugs attached.
Going back to the larder unit, in the photo Ive seen this laying on the floor as though  the 
front of its base remained in place whilst  the unit toppled forwards. The unit doesnt  appear 
to be damaged  I can only see two sides  but it doesnt seem  to be crushed  at all or laying 
at angle which might suggest severe  damage  to the non-visible front or side.
There is one shot that shows  a scuff  in the lino flooring. There  is nothing  to show where  this 
is in relation to the larder unit  which seems to be the only unit that actually contacted the 
floor. Or any suggestion  or reasonably obvious  reason how the larder unit toppling  
forwards, as the photos  suggests it did, would have caused such damage.
Having seen what I think the photos show, I can understand why SOL didnt feel inclined to 
overturn the original decision that had been  made to decline  this claim. I also bear in mind 
that the photos werent provided  until the latter stages of the claim.  I can understand why  
being told what the circumstances of the loss were,  as reported by the broker, and seeing 
the kitchen with the units removed  SOL couldnt  be satisfied on Mr Ts report alone that 
sudden and unexpected damage  had occurred such as to meet  the definition required for a 
Ref: DRN81543474successful accidental damage claim.
On this occasion, Im persuaded that Mr Ts word, attesting to the cupboards  having fallen 
suddenly and unexpectedly, isnt sufficient  to reasonably conclude that is most likely what 
happened. Thats at least in part because cupboards dont just fall for no reason. And whilst 
victims of accidents may not know for sure how or why the situation occurred, the pieces 
that are left afterwards can usually  be put together to determine what  most likely led to the 
incident. That isnt the case here.
The broker  said SOL could have interviewed the eye-witness when it attended on 
1 December but didnt. Theres no clear reason why it didnt, said the broker,  and this likely 
prejudiced the claim. Similarly, that the units,  still at the property at that time, should have 
been assessed but werent.
Ideally SOL should have interviewed the witness and looked at the units. But Im not 
persuaded it not doing so prejudiced matters. I think its most likely that Mr T reported  to the 
broker and SOL what the witness  told him. Im not persuaded that talking to the witness  
direct would likely have  added anything.  And the testimony  about  what happened  simply  
doesnt fit with the photographic evidence that is available. Similarly as photos  are available  
of the units as they were being  taken  off the wall, and of the larder unit on the floor,  none  of 
which show damage to the units, I dont see that the adjuster looking at the units would 
likely have changed anything.
The broker  also said SOL should have inspected  the floor during this visit too. It wasnt  
possible to provide more evidence  about  this damage now and clearly SOLs  failure to 
assess the floor when it had the chance  has prejudiced  the claim.
Its clear to me that SOL already  had a lot of concerns about  this claim even during the visit. 
Ideally as much information should have been  gathered then as possible, despite  those 
concerns. But Im still not persuaded that SOLs failure to determine  where  this 
scuff/indentation on the flooring was materially  affects  my findings.  Not least  because  it is 
always for the policyholder to show, at least on the face of it, that they have  a claim. SOL 
could have done more during its visit, but so could Mr T when he found  the damage  before 
removing/moving all the units. 
My provisional findings continued:
Furthermore, an incident alone doesnt necessarily  give rise to a claim. There  has to be a 
loss too. As I explained above,  the photos  Ive seen dont show any damage  to any of the 
units. SOL has asked  Mr T to explain why the units couldnt be repaired and/or re-fitted. He 
hasnt been able to give a good  reason for that.
Even were I persuaded that a valid claim under the policy had occurred, which  had resulted 
in a loss, an insurer  still has to be able to quantify that loss. Assuming for one minute that 
the larder and wall units were damaged  beyond  repair, SOLs  liability under the policy  
would only extend  to replacing  them on a like-for-like basis.  If a match  couldnt  be found  for 
undamaged parts of the kitchen, SOL might need to contribute to replacing those parts too, 
but it wouldnt have  to pay for all of it. Mr T has provided costs  for stripping and replacing 
his whole kitchen  and floor. New units have  been  added. And it isnt clear if new appliances 
are included in the costs  stated as well. Despite being requested  to do so Mr T hasnt 
provided a full breakdown for the costs, including fitting. Without such,  and even if I felt it 
should otherwise  do so, I cant  reasonably  require  SOL to make a settlement to Mr T.
Ref: DRN81543475So I dont  think Mr T has shown  that, on the face of it he likely  had a valid claim either in 
respect of what is said to have happened  or having suffered a loss. And any loss that there 
might have been hasnt been properly quantified.  Therefore,  I think  SOLs  decision to 
decline the claim was fair and reasonable, I dont intend to make it accept and settle the 
claim.
The broker  also said it wasnt fair for me to have mentioned (in the background) that Mr Ts 
children climb  on the units; as a rule they dont, rather it was seen to have happened once 
on the day of the incident.
I understand why my including  that detail  in the background is upsetting. But I am reporting 
what I saw on the file about what SOL was told; initially  by the broker and then by Mrs T. In 
any event, my findings havent  relied  on that. I havent discounted the claim on the grounds 
I find that is unlikely  to have caused  the problem or because that would have  amounted to 
wear and tear (damage caused  by which the policy excludes). My reasoning for saying SOL 
doesnt need to do anything more  is set out above  and hasnt changed. 
My provisional findings continued:
In respect  of claim handling SOL did cause delays at the start. I dont think matters  did, in 
this case, get delayed  due to flood claims.  Although that is what  the broker was told. But if it 
had I couldnt  reasonably  criticise  SOL for that. The flood  damage at the time was severe 
and there  were homeowners in much more dire and urgent need of assistance  than Mr T 
was. In any event  I think he could have made the kitchen safe by removing the wall units and 
then lived with some disruption  for a few weeks whilst SOL progressed  matters Whilst it then 
failed to do so for a few months,  Mr T had already got his estimate for replacing the kitchen 
by 8 December  and the new units seem  to have been purchased at the beginning of
January 2016.  I dont  think  Mr T acted reasonably even  in light of SOLs  failures.
SOL has paid Mr T £100 for any upset  its delays at the start of the claim caused.  I think  
Mr T progressed with work regardless of what SOL was doing.  And it was his broker that 
chased the claim for him. Im also satisfied that his claim  wasnt prejudiced because of 
SOLs delay.  All in all Im satisfied that SOLs payment of £100 fairly and reasonably 
compensates for any upset caused.
The broker  said the cheque was sent a long time after the claim with no letter of explanation  
The broker  said a letter should have  been sent explaining the cheque.
A letter explaining the £100 was sent to Mr T. Im not persuaded though that this is really 
relevant to the complaint  at hand here about SOLs decline  of the claim. I remain satisfied 
that was fair and reasonable, as is the £100  paid for the distress  and inconvenience caused 
by its delays.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  I dont make any award against Society of Lloyds.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 November  2019.
Ref: DRN81543476Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8154347