K820x#14complaint
Mrs H complains about the service she received from Barclays Bank UK plc when there was 
fraudulent activity on her accounts.
background
The detailed background to this complaint  is well known to both parties, so Ill only provide a 
brief summary here.
In September  2018 someone  purporting  to be Mrs H called Barclays  and had sufficient 
information to be able to transfer money from her savings account to her current account. 
There was then some fraudulent activity on Mrs Hs current  account, through use of her debit 
card details. 
Barclays identified this as unusual account  activity  and contacted  Mrs H to confirm  the 
transactions were  genuine. The fraud  was then identified and investigated. Ultimately  
Barclays accepted  Mrs H wasnt  responsible for any of the transactions  and all of the funds 
were returned to her. 
But Mrs H wasnt  happy with the service shed received,  so she complained. She explained  
she had been  put to a lot of inconvenience in contacting Barclays numerous times. She 
pointed out that the terms and conditions of her account say that she will be issued a refund 
whilst an investigation takes place. And this isnt what happened. She also wanted a detailed  
explanation of how the fraud took place and copies or transcripts of the calls made to 
Barclays by the fraudster. 
Barclays accepted  they hadnt handled things as well as they could have done.  So they 
upheld the complaint, refunded charges incurred as a result of the incident and offered £300 
compensation. This was to compensate Mrs H for the distress and inconvenience  caused 
and the lost interest whilst  the funds were missing  from her accounts.  
Mrs H referred  the matter to our service. One of our investigators thought Barclays had done 
enough and didnt recommend that they needed to do more. He explained  that he wouldnt 
expect Barclays to share information  that might be useful to others  looking to commit fraud.  
Mrs H accepts the £300 compensation. But she thinks that fair resolution to her complaint 
ought to include  a full and detailed  explanation  and the provision  of the information  shes  
requested. Because of this the complaint came to me to make a final decision. 
 
I initially contacted  Barclays  and pointed out that their response to Mrs Hs complaint 
included that they would  provide her with a transcript  of the call and that she could request 
this by making a Subject Access Request  (SAR). I asked  why the transcript  hadnt been  
provided. Barclays explained that it was a mistake to offer the transcript, as this isnt 
information theyd  share.  They said it isnt Mrs H on the call so it isnt her data. But they 
acknowledged the mistake in the complaint response would have raised  Mrs Hs 
expectations. And following discussions with our investigator a further £100 compensation 
was offered to acknowledge the inconvenience caused. 
Our investigator took this offer to Mrs H. But Mrs H remained unhappy with the outcome of 
her complaint and still asked that an ombudsman review everything again.  
Ref: DRN84223042my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
The Financial Ombudsman  Service isnt the industry regulator. That is the role of the 
Financial Conduct  Authority. So I have no power  to ask a business to change  their 
processes or procedures.  My role is to look into the circumstances of individual complaints 
and come to a decision that I think is fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances.  
It isnt in dispute that the service provided by Barclays in this case hasnt been to the 
standards that they usually aim for nor was it what wed expect to see. Their usual policy of 
offering an immediate refund pending  an investigation wasnt  followed, there were delays 
and misleading  information was provided. So all that remains  to be decided in this case is 
whether Barclays need to do more than theyve already offered to resolve this complaint.   
I can understand why Mrs H wants all the information shes requested.  A third party  was able 
to access her account through telephone banking and went on to make transactions enabled  
by her card details. So Mrs H sensibly wants to take precautions to mitigate  the risk of this 
happening again. 
In their complaint  response Barclays said I am afraid it is not possible  for us to disclose 
information around how details were compromised or the actions we are taking internally  to 
tackle the issue. The reason for this is providing our customers with this information could 
effect a future investigation with the police.  
I have no doubts  or concerns as to Mrs Hs reasons for requesting  the information. But I 
dont think Barclays are being unreasonable by not wanting to put anything  potentially useful 
to those looking to commit fraud  into the public domain, irrespective  of how genuine and 
honest Mrs H is. This includes both information  about the debit card fraud and the call when 
her telephone banking was compromised. So I wont be asking Barclays  to share  more  than 
they already have. 
Im satisfied that the initial £300 offered was fair to compensate for the impact  of the service 
provided and to cover any lost interest  for the time Mrs H was without her funds. But I agree 
that having her expectations raised that she would receive further  information  about the call 
would also have had an impact on Mrs H. Particularly when this is clearly  an important issue  
to her. 
I acknowledge Mrs Hs complaint isnt driven  by a desire for compensation. But as Ive 
explained above, Im not going to tell Barclays to provide further  information.  And I think the 
further £100 compensation is a fair way to resolve this complaint and to compensate  for the 
disappointment and inconvenience  of being given incorrect information  in the complaint 
response.   
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. 
Unless theyve already done so, Barclays Bank  UK Plc must pay Mrs H £400 compensation 
for the trouble and upset  caused. If a proportion of this has already been paid, then only the 
extra required to make £400 in total must  be paid.  
Ref: DRN84223043Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 December  2019.
Richard Annandale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8422304