K821x#15complaint
Mrs W complains about fees and charges that have  been added to a mortgage she holds 
with Southern Pacific  Mortgage Limited  (SPML
background
By way of a jurisdiction  decision in February  2020,  I explained, with reasons, why our remit 
to consider Mrs Ws complaint was confined to charges levied during two time periods: these 
were:
from the start of the mortgage in 2004 to February 2011; and
from February  2017  to March 2018.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and set out her findings  in November 2020; she 
began by telling Mrs W that SPML had subsequently  produced a copy  of a final response 
issued in October 2008 addressing a complaint  about charges levied up to then. 
She explained that the effect  of this was to shorten the first time period my jurisdiction 
decision had specified we could look into. Instead of considering charges applied between  
2004 and February  2011, wed only be able to look at charges applied between  October  
2008 and February  2011. The second time period, from February 2017 to March 2018, was 
unaffected.
As to the merits of the complaint, the investigator  identified one charge (a £50 arrears 
administration fee from November 2008) that she thought SPML had applied  unfairly and 
therefore should refund it. SPML raised no objection to this, but Mrs W has asked for her 
complaint to be decided by an ombudsman.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
For the sake of clarity and good order, Ill start by saying that I agree with the investigators 
view that the final response letter from October  2008 removes any charges applied before 
that date from our remit. That letter gave Mrs W six months to refer that complaint to us, 
which didnt happen.  She had legal  representation at the time, so theres no reason for me to 
think exceptional circumstances prevented  her from doing so.
The starting point  is that lenders generally are permitted under the mortgage terms to apply 
fees and charges to cover  the additional cost of administering a mortgage  account that is in 
arrears. Such charges are typically set out in a separate tariff of charges. 
But lenders  also have a duty to treat customers fairly, and even where  fees have been 
applied in accordance with the account terms and the tariff of charges, well still give 
separate consideration to whether theyve been applied fairly.  One situation  where  we 
generally find that arrears  fees or charges  havent been applied  fairly is if more than one 
charge has been  levied in the same  month. 
Another is if a charge  is levied in the month  following  one where the customer has paid 
either the contractual payment or a different amount agreed as part of a payment 
Ref: DRN89498312arrangement. Well also consider  finding  a charge to be unfair if a monthly payment hasnt 
been made in full but the shortfall is similar  to or less than the amount of the charge. 
Thats not an exhaustive  list of all the reasons we might consider a fee to have been applied 
unfairly. 
In Mrs Ws case,  the investigator  identified  one occasion where a charge had been applied  
in a month where one or other of the relevant situations has arisen. That was in November 
2008; the investigator considered it unfair because in the preceding month  Mrs W had made 
a payment that exceeded the contractual amount due. 
Having considered everything  that both parties have said and provided,  I agree that the £50 
fee levied  in November 2008 should  be refunded, but that no other  refunds are required. 
SPML has additionally offered to pay Mrs £200  for her time and trouble. In the 
circumstances, I think  thats fair.
I understand how much importance Mrs W has attached  to a court order that she says was 
handed down  in late 2008 and referred  to discrepancies  in the mortgage account. Neither 
she nor SPML has been able to produce  such a document, so Ive no way of knowing what it 
might have said. In any event, the rules under which we operate largely preclude us from 
interfering with or changing what a court has decided. If Mrs W wants SPML  to comply with 
the aforementioned court order, shed need  to go back  to the court  that handed it down and 
ask it to enforce  the order on SPML.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part, and in full and final settlement, I direct Southern Pacific 
Mortgage Limited to refund the £50 arrears management fee from November 2008, 
backdated for interest purposes, and pay Mrs W £200 compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 April 2021.
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8949831