K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2000. Mr L says The Royal  Bank  of Scotland  Plc (RBS) mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ls case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Mr L applied for his credit card by post.  The application form he signed had a separate  
Payment Protection  section. It said the cover was to protect the card payments in case of 
accident, sickness or unemployment. It also said We strongly  recommend you take out this 
cover and For cover  just tick this box. The box on Mr Ls form is ticked. 
Mr L has said this was his first credit card and the wording of the form led him to tick for the 
PPI not knowing  it was optional. But given how long ago the sale was, what  Mr L remembers 
isnt enough on its own to make me think he didnt realise he had a choice about  the PPI. On 
balance Im not persuaded that Mr L wouldnt have known that he didnt have to tick the box 
for the cover if he didnt  want the cover. So what I have makes  me think  its likely  RBS made 
it clear Mr L didnt have to take the PPI and he chose  to take it.
The PPI was sold by RBS on a non-advised basis. I dont think RBS gave Mr L personalised 
advice about the PPI when he applied for his card by post. And I think  RBS left it to Mr L to 
decide if the PPI was right for him. But RBS still had to make sure Mr L got the information 
he needed to decide if the PPI was right for him.
Its possible the information RBS gave Mr L about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  
been. But I think Mr L chose to take the cover  so it looks  to me like Mr L wanted  cover for 
accident, sickness or unemployment. And based  on what  Ive seen of his circumstances at 
the time,  Mr L wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover.  So he 
couldve claimed on the cover if the circumstances arose. For example Mr L didnt have any 
health issues, so he wasnt affected  by the policy exclusion for existing health issues.
Also the PPI wouldve paid on top of any Mr Ls work redundancy pay or sick pay. For a 
successful claim  it would pay out for up to twelve months  and Im not persuaded Mr Ls 
work benefits or savings wouldve lasted that long. Taking everything into account, I dont 
think better information about  the PPI wouldve changed Mr Ls decision to take the cover.
What Ive said above means RBS doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr L. 
But RBS has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr L because: 
RBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr L about  that. Because  RBS didnt tell Mr L, that was 
unfair.
Ref: DRN86352812To put that right, RBS has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share  that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about all Mr Ls points, including  what hes said about  not being  told anything 
about the policy terms and conditions. But Ive explained  why I dont think better information 
about the terms wouldve changed Mr Ls decision to buy the policy.  So, for the reasons  Ive 
already given above, these points dont change my decision.
My decision  is only about the sale of the policy. If Mr L thinks  he shouldve  had a claim paid 
by the policy  in the past or thinks he might be due a refund for any period during which  he 
was paying for cover  he wouldnt  have been able to claim on because he wasnt working, 
hed need to try approaching the policy insurer about  that separately.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr L.
But The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc does  have to pay back to Mr L any commission  and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont  award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 May 2019.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8635281