K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a single premium  payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken 
out in 2003. Mrs M says Northern Bank  Limited  mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Mrs M has told us she was sold the PPI with her loan in a meeting. Northern Bank  says she 
applied for the loan by phone. Either  way I dont know exactly what  Northern  Bank asked or 
told Mrs M when  she made her application. Ive no application form, no meeting notes, no 
call recording  and no sales script  relevant to the date of sale.
Mrs Ms credit agreement  includes both her main loan and a loan for the PPI. So by signing 
for the main loan Mrs M was also signing for the PPI. But the credit agreement  did set out 
the details of the PPI loan separately from the details of the main loan. It also had a separate 
boxed section  for the PPI with equally noticeable  boxes  to tick to say either  yes or no to 
the PPI. And below each of these choices  there  was a space for Mrs M to sign separately to 
confirm her choice. On Mrs Ms signed  credit agreement the yes box for PPI is ticked. And 
Mrs M also signed below the tick to confirm that selection. 
Bearing in mind all Ive said above,  I think its likely Northern Bank made  Mrs M aware  she 
was taking the PPI and aware that it was a separate product with separate  costs. Mrs M has 
said she wasnt told the PPI was optional. Ive thought about that carefully. But with all Ive 
said above in mind, and taking into account the choice given on credit agreement, I think 
Northern Bank made it clear that Mrs M didnt  have to take the PPI and she chose to take it.
Northern Bank recommended the PPI to Mrs M so it had to do more  and check the PPI was 
right for her. And based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think  the cover  
was right for her. For example she wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the 
cover. And she seems to have had a need for the cover.  Mrs M has said she wasnt asked 
about her sick pay scheme. But from what shes told us Mrs M wasnt  entitled to anything 
more than statutory  benefits if she was made redundant or was too sick to work. So the PPI 
unemployment and disability benefits couldve helped her. Given how long the policy  could 
pay out for a disability  claim, Mrs M couldve got back quite a bit more  than she paid for it if 
she made a successful claim. And although shes said her family couldve helped instead, 
other peoples  circumstances and ability to help can change.
Its possible the information Northern Bank gave Mrs M about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But I think  she chose to take it knowing that she didnt have to. So it looks  to 
me like she wanted this type of cover. The credit agreement she signed shows the cost of 
the PPI policy   including the amount of the premium, the interest payable  on the premium 
and the total cost. So I think its likely Mrs M wouldve  understood how much the PPI would 
cost if she kept the policy for its full term. And, for reasons  Ive given above, it seems like the 
cover would have  been  useful for her if something went  wrong.  It also looks  like the policy 
Ref: DRN81758582was affordable. Taking everything into account,  I dont  think  better information about the PPI 
would have put Mrs M off taking out the cover.
What Ive said above means Northern Bank  doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the 
PPI to Mrs M. But Northern Bank  will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs M 
because: 
Northern Bank got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mrs M about that. Because  Northern Bank didnt 
tell Mrs M, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Northern Bank  has basically  offered to pay back the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that 
offer is fair in this case.
Ive thought about all Mrs Ms points,  including what shes said about the credit agreement 
not describing the PPI as optional insurance.  But given what Ive said about there being  
boxes to say yes or no to the PPI, I think its likely Mrs M wouldve known the PPI was 
something she could  say yes or no to. And she couldve tick no and signed below that 
instead if she didnt  want the cover. Ive also thought about what  Mrs M has said about 
Northern Bank not asking  her about her job security or whether she was in good health. But 
from Mrs M has told us, she didnt  have health  problems at the time.  So she wasnt  affected 
by any policy  terms excluding existing  health problems. Also Ive seen  nothing  to suggest 
that it wasnt possible at the time for Mrs M to suffer future unemployment or disability of the 
kind that the PPI was designed to cover. So, for these reasons and all those Ive already 
given above, these points dont change  my decision.
what the business needs  to do
Northern Bank has to pay back to Mrs M any commission and profit share  it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. Northern Bank  should also pay back to Mrs M any extra 
interest she paid because of that.
Northern Bank should pay back to Mrs M the extra she paid each month on the loan 
because the commission  and profit share  was more than 50% of the PPI premium - including  
any extra  Mrs M paid if the loan was paid off early. Northern Bank should also pay Mrs M 
8%* simple interest on the extra paid each  month.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mrs M can claim back  the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Northern Bank  Limited does not have to pay back  all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs M.
But Northern Bank Limited does  have to pay back to Mrs M any commission and profit  share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2019.
Ref: DRN81758583Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8175858