K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  that Masthaven Bank Limited instructed an unsuitable surveyor to 
prepare a valuation report following their application for a mortgage.  
background
In 2018, Mr and Mrs S applied to Masthaven for a mortgage. Masthaven instructed a firm of 
surveyors to carry out a valuation of their property. 
Mr S says that their complaint isnt about the actual valuation figure, although  they were  
disappointed with it. He says that the surveyor wasnt suitable, as he didnt have knowledge 
of the area. He has concerns about the surveyors awareness of the desirability  of the area,  
his knowledge  of local schools and the suitability of comparable valuations.  
Mr S says that the surveyor didnt comply with Masthavens requirement not to carry out the 
valuation if the property is outside  his area of intrinsic local knowledge. Mr and Mrs S 
want a return of the valuation fee. 
Our investigator didnt  think that Masthaven had treated Mr and Mrs S unfairly. He said that 
this service cant look at the actions  of surveyors but can look at what  Masthaven did. The 
investigator said that Masthaven instructed a reasonably competent firm and that the 
individual was appropriately qualified. He thought that Masthaven  was entitled to rely on the 
valuation. The investigator said that when Mr S raised his concerns, Masthaven referred  his 
comments to the surveyor, which he thought  was a reasonable approach.  
Mr S didnt agree with the investigator. He said:
Masthavens instructions to the surveyor drew  attention to the requirement  that the surveyor 
should have local knowledge and said that it is a legally enforceable requirement.
It asked how many miles the property  is from the surveyors normal base of operation.  
The surveyor didnt answer the question. 
He alerted  Masthaven to the fact that he was unhappy about the surveyors lack of local 
knowledge and asked for a refund of the fee.  
Masthaven  was negligent in its efforts to ascertain  whether the surveyor  had the 
required local knowledge. 
It wasnt sufficient to ask the surveyors  colleagues about his competence.
Masthaven  should  have asked the surveyor for evidence of his regular valuations  in 
the local area.  
Masthaven  failed  to ensure a properly suitable  surveyor was appointed to carry out 
the valuation.  
As there was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide. 
Ref: DRN83263052my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Masthaven instructed an independent  firm of surveyors to do the valuation. As Masthaven  
didnt conduct  the valuation itself,  it isnt responsible for the actions  of the surveyor. In the 
circumstances that arise here, Masthavens obligation is limited to instructing a reasonably  
competent surveyor. The individual surveyor was a fellow of the Royal  Institution  of 
Chartered Surveyors. So I think Masthaven instructed a reasonably competent  surveyor.  
Mr S has drawn attention  to Masthavens instruction  to the surveyor in relation to local 
knowledge. The enforceability of that requirement  is between Masthaven  and the surveyor, 
not Mr and Mrs S and Masthaven. 
Masthavens instructions  to the surveyor asked how many miles Mr and Mrs Ss property is 
from his normal  base of operation and knowledge . The surveyor  answered:
We regularly provide  valuations in the general  area. I think the surveyor was saying that Mr 
and Mrs Ss property is within his firms normal area of operation.  It was up to Masthaven to 
decide whether  it wanted further  clarification  about  that. I dont think  that the surveyors 
answer means that hes not a reasonably competent surveyor. 
It was appropriate  for Masthaven to ask the firm of surveyors about Mr Ss complaint. I dont 
think it was required to do more  than it did. 
Masthaven was entitled to rely on the valuation. It wasnt required to ask the surveyor  for 
evidence of his regular valuations in the local area.  Masthaven  can decide what  it asks the 
surveyors it instructs. I dont think it failed to instruct a reasonably  competent surveyor  here.
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr and Mrs S but for the reasons Ive set out above,  I dont think there 
are any grounds on which to direct Masthaven  to return the valuation fee.  
  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 February  2019.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8326305