K820x#14complaint
Mrs G complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc turned down  her cancellation claim under her 
travel insurance policy. 
background
Mrs G has travel insurance  with AXA, linked to her bank account. In 2013 she called AXA 
and told it about  a heart condition she had, which was now being monitored on a six-monthly 
basis. AXA explained that it wouldnt be able to cover her for that condition because  she was 
having regular  investigations for it. It said it wouldnt cover her for that condition  (and a 
separate eye condition) for a holiday  shed  booked for early  2014. 
In late 2013 Mrs G had her six-monthly test (called  an echocardiogram). The consultant 
doctor was concerned about her heart, and asked  her to have another  cardiac  procedure  in 
early February 2014. As she was due to be on holiday  then she cancelled  her trip, and made 
a claim to AXA. 
AXA turned down the claim. It said it had told Mrs G that she wasnt  covered for her heart 
condition. In any event,  it hadnt seen medical evidence that shed needed to cancel the trip. 
Mrs G didnt agree and came to us.
Our adjudicator looked into the complaint. She said that AXA had fairly turned down the 
claim. She said there  hadnt  been  any medical evidence that Mrs G needed  to cancel, but 
even so AXA had told her it wouldnt cover her heart  condition. Mrs G didnt agree and sent 
in a letter from her consultant  doctor  about her medical condition.  
Our adjudicator asked  AXA whether  the new medical evidence  would make a difference to 
the claim.  AXA said it wouldnt because the medical evidence showed  she was due to have 
tests and investigations for her heart condition at the time of booking  her holiday. This meant 
it wouldnt cover  her condition. Also it had clearly  told her about  that when shed called it 
during in 2013. Our adjudicator called Mrs G to explain this. Mrs G said she hadnt  
mentioned the six monthly check ups (during the 2013 call when she told it about the heart 
condition). 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  to disappoint Mrs G but I think AXA made a fair decision not to pay her cancellation  
claim. Ill explain my reasons. 
Under the policy Mrs G was required to call AXA about her health before booking a holiday if 
shed had treatment  for a medical condition, including tests or investigations within the six 
months prior to booking  a trip.  
In September  2013 Mrs G properly called AXA to update it about her health, although this 
was after shed booked  the holiday for January  2014  (that she later had to cancel). She had 
a longstanding heart condition, which shed  told AXA about.  But the change was that shed 
been advised by her cardiologist to change  from annual  tests (angiograms) to six-monthly 
angiograms. She knew  about this change  because she told AXA about it. 
Ref: DRN80038202The change to more  regular angiograms meant that AXA wasnt willing  to cover  Mrs G for 
her heart condition. AXA is entitled to decide what risks its prepared  to cover, and the 
increase in regularity of these tests meant it wouldnt cover her any more. It did cover her for 
a holiday in November  2013 because that was booked before she knew  about the change 
from annual to six-monthly  check-ups.
Ive listened to the Mrs Gs call with AXA back in September 2013 and Im satisfied AXA 
made it clear  to her that it wouldnt cover her heart  condition. 
Mrs G didnt give AXA medical  evidence  that shed had to cancel  the January 2014  holiday 
when she claimed.  Her consultant doctor has now confirmed  that he would have advised her 
to cancel the holiday, if shed discussed  it with him because of the new cardiac procedure 
she needed to have. But Im afraid this doesnt make  any difference to the outcome. AXA 
simply didnt cover Mrs G for the heart  condition and it told her this in September 2013. She 
had to cancel  the holiday because of that heart condition,  and so AXA made a fair decision 
to turn down  her claim.  So I dont uphold  her complaint about AXA.   
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 June 2019.
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8003820