K822xcomplaint
H, a limited company,  complains that National Westminster Bank  Plc made  mistakes  with 
the process of switching  its accounts from another bank causing  inconvenience.
background 
H spoke to a relationship  manager about switching  its accounts from another  financial 
business. It completed forms to do so in April 2018.  It had four accounts it wanted to transfer 
including a business current account, clients account and two reserve accounts.  H found out 
that only the business account could be switched and it would have  to make manual 
arrangements to transfer the other ones. The current account switch  happened on 31 July 
2018. But not all the direct debits  transferred from the other business. NatWest  said it 
accepted that there had been a delay and offered to pay H £30.
Our adjudicator recommended  that NatWest pay H a total of £500.  He said that it was clear 
that the relationship manager  did not have a full understanding of which accounts could be 
switched and what would be required. The manager did not tell H until September 2018  that 
the clients account and reserve accounts could not be switched over. And H said it had 
spent time manually transferring funds and reconciling accounts at NatWest and the other  
financial business (the old bank) as money was not transferred automatically.  NatWest had 
caused a significant amount of inconvenience.  But he said he could only look at the further 
compensation for costs that H wanted  if it could provide  specific evidence of the additional  
work including the daily book keeping  involved.
H did not agree and wanted the complaint  to be reviewed. The officer  representing it said 
that it would  not be providing further information. There were issues  about  client  
confidentiality and H had already devoted  a considerable  period of time to this and did not 
think it was likely to get what  it wanted anyway. And given the time that had now passed  it 
was not reasonable to have to provide  this information.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The switching of current accounts is covered by an industry switching guarantee which 
means that the new bank, here NatWest,  takes  care of closing the old account, moving the 
balance and switching  payments. This should  all happen on the day chosen.  In its brochure 
about this service NatWest says at section 3.2 If something goes wrong  with the Current  
Account Switch Service (for example if a payment is not redirected, is redirected  incorrectly, 
or is lost) we will correct the error.
I would have expected the relationship  manager at NatWest to have given better guidance  to 
H about the process and which accounts  could or could not be switched.  Even if he was not 
clear himself  the NatWest  brochure under frequently asked  question  10 said in relation to 
what type of accounts  could  be switched  If you are still unsure if you qualify, please  ask 
your new bank or building  society to confirm.
The evidence Ive seen  is that the relationship  manager was told on 9 April 2018  by the 
switching team in response to his question  about  whether the client  account could be 
switched that the switch can only be possible for the business current  account. I cant  see 
Ref: DRN89831282he clearly gave that information to H until an email of 17 September 2018 when he said that 
the accounts under  discussion at [the old bank] are apparently  not eligible for the switch due 
to the account  type.
Im satisfied that until this date H expected  all the accounts to be transferred. And it had 
been making arrangements to manage accounts  at both NatWest and the old bank in the 
expectation that any payments to the old clients account say would be transferred 
automatically and this did not happen.
The reality  is that there would always  have been an element  of inconvenience for H in 
dealing with accounts that could  never  have been  transferred under the switch  service. And 
this would involve  notifying its clients of the change to account details and for a period 
dealing with accounts at both financial businesses. I take the view though that this 
inconvenience could  have been  minimised had H been told this from the start.
There would  also always have been  some checks and verification for NatWest to complete 
for H before it could  open the new current account  and arrange  the switch.  These  included  
know you customer and regulatory  checks.  And NatWest  needed all the documentation.  I 
dont see this was all completed by 9 April 2018  the original switch  date as I understand it. 
But Im struggling to understand why the process  then took so long especially as H received 
confirmation on 27 April 2018  from NatWest that the last formalities of opening a new 
account were being completed.
The other point  on which I take a different view to NatWest is the responsibility for dealing  
with regular payments.  NatWest says that if the old bank did not provide all the details then 
H would  need  to contact it. I dont see that in line with the guarantee  here. And I think  
knowing of the specific problems in my view NatWest should  have  followed this up with the 
old bank and sought to resolve  it. Thats the point of having the guarantee in the first place.
H has made its position on providing further evidence clear.  To make an award  for costs I 
would have needed to see specific evidence. So I will be focussing here on assessing the 
inconvenience involved.
There are several parts to this: the delay in having access  to a current  account; not giving 
the correct information about  the other accounts;  and the problems with the current  account  
direct debits when the account was running.  I dont think that the amount recommended now 
fairly reflects all of these  elements.  And so as the issue here is solely  about compensation 
for inconvenience for an upheld complaint on which all the evidence has clearly been given 
Im going  to be applying my judgment  now and increasing this to £750. I appreciate that this 
will still remain much  less than H wanted.
Ref: DRN89831283my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and require National Westminster  Bank  Plc to pay 
H a total of £750 in compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2020.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8983128