K820x#14complaint
Miss C complains about her account  being blocked by Lloyds Bank PLC. She suffers from 
physical and mental health illnesses  and feels she hasnt been  treated fairly.
background
Miss C is a Lloyds current account customer.  She suffers from physical ill health, which 
restricts her mobility. And she also suffers from mental health illnesses, which  are 
exacerbated when  shes  stressed. 
On 14 March 2019 at approximately  10:25  am and 6:30 pm Lloyds said it received two calls 
from an individual purporting to be Miss C. Lloyds said the person calling tried to gain access 
to Miss Cs account and change her registered  telephone number. But they werent  able to 
pass security  questions. So Lloyds staff couldnt  verify if the caller  was Miss C. As a result 
Lloyds was concerned about the security  of her account. So, it placed a block  on her 
account to prevent any further transactions and to protect her funds. 
After this happened, Lloyds told Miss C that she would  have to attend her local branch with 
photographic identification  to remove the blocks on her account. But Miss C told Lloyds she 
cant visit a branch due to her disabilities and ill health. And she said she cant produce 
photographic identification  as she doesnt have a passport  or driving  licence. Because  of this 
Miss C is unhappy with whats been suggested  by Lloyds to resolve the problem. She says 
shes been left without access to her bank account  and she feels  shes  been treated unfairly.
When Miss C complained to our service about what happened our investigator  looked into 
her complaint. But they didnt uphold it. They thought Lloyds hadnt made an error in placing 
a block on Miss Cs account or telling her that she would need to visit her branch to remove  
it. They also thought  Lloyds had dealt with Miss Cs complaint fairly. But Miss C didnt agree 
and asked for her complaint to be referred to an ombudsman
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I recognise Miss Cs frustration here. This is the only account she has. And shes  been left 
without access to it, which means she hasnt been  able to pay bills or access her money.  I 
understand that Miss C has been  receiving  financial support from her family, which  has 
caused friction because they are now struggling financially. This, in turn, has led to Miss C 
suffering from stress.  To resolve matters Miss C wants access  to her account reinstated  and 
for the block  to be removed without her needing to attend her local branch.
What I must determine here is whether Lloyds acted fairly  and reasonably. The first part of 
her complaint is about Lloyds decision to block her account. So, Ill focus  on that issue  first.
Banks have a duty to have robust strategies to safeguard customer accounts from potentially  
fraudulent transactions. Where a bank suspects fraud it must take positive action on a 
customers behalf. Preventing fraud  is as important for the bank as it is for its customers. To 
do so a bank may block an account  and prohibit transactions if it thinks someone has 
attempted to gain access without the account holders permission.
Ref: DRN82299302I understand that when Lloyds blocked Miss Cs account it was an inconvenient and 
frustrating experience  especially given that it was Miss C who had contacted the bank on 
14 March 2019.  But, I think Lloyds had reason to suspect that the person contacting  it may 
not have been Miss C. And I think, on this basis, it had cause for concern  about the security 
of her account. I say this because, while I accept  it was Miss C who telephoned  Lloyds that 
day, Lloyds wasnt  aware  of this at the time of those calls. Miss C hadnt  been able to 
successfully pass security  and this had, understandably, attracted red flags . 
In these circumstances, I think it was reasonable for Lloyds to have concerns that the 
individual calling  may have been  attempting to fraudulently access  Miss Cs account.  And 
Im persuaded that it acted fairly in blocking Miss Cs account and prohibiting transactions. 
This was just as much  for her protection as it was for Lloyds. 
I think, overall, it was reasonable for Lloyds to respond in the way it did to ensure it was 
acting in Miss Cs best interests.  I believe Lloyds was simply trying to safeguard Miss Cs 
account from potential  fraud and unauthorised  access. And Im satisfied  that the blocks were  
added appropriately  and in good  faith in the interests of protecting the security of Miss Cs 
account. It follows that I cant fairly conclude that Lloyds made an error  when it blocked Miss 
Cs account. 
As Lloyds  had concerns over whether the person  calling it was Miss C she was asked to 
attend a branch with proof of identification. Lloyds says the block  on Miss Cs account cant  
be removed without her producing identification in branch.  Its said this is in line with the 
security procedure it has in place for these situations.
Miss C doesnt want to attend her local branch. But Lloyds  isnt willing to deviate from its 
policy. Its clear  that Miss C feels Lloyds request here is unreasonable  and unfair in view of 
her physical and mental health difficulties. And this comprises  the second  part of her 
complaint. So, Ive thought carefully  about  whether it was reasonable for Lloyds to ask Miss 
C to attend her local branch with photographic identification.
In circumstances  where Lloyds is concerned about  potential fraud its policy  is to request that 
a customer visits a branch  with photographic  ID to unlock their account.  Miss C may 
disagree with Lloyds approach here.  But its entitled  to determine its own policy  in relation to 
account security. So, we cant comment  on whether a business policy  is right  or tell it that 
its policy should be changed. But we can consider whether a business has followed its policy  
fairly. And, in the individual circumstances here, Im satisfied Lloyds has done that.
Lloyds isnt willing to deviate from its policy on security checks here. It maintains that the 
only way in which Miss C can unlock her account  is to visit a branch with photographic ID. 
Given its concerns that originated from the telephone conversation  on 14 March  2019 Im 
satisfied that asking Miss C to attend a branch was a reasonable precaution for Lloyds to 
adopt here. So, I cant fairly conclude it made  an error in making this request.  And taking 
everything into consideration,  Im satisfied that the way in which  Lloyds responded was 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
Miss C states that she cant  comply  with Lloyds request because she doesnt want  to attend 
her branch  because of her health needs. I acknowledge that attending  would cause difficulty, 
inconvenience and frustration to Miss C. But thats  the only way shes able to resolve this 
problem and regain access to her account.   Its clear  that Miss C feels  shes being treated  
unfairly. She wants Lloyds  to allow her to unlock her account without attending a branch. But 
a business need only accommodate a reasonable adjustment  if its a reasonable request. 
Ref: DRN82299303And Im not persuaded that Miss Cs request here is reasonable given  the concerns Lloyds 
has about her account. 
I can see that alternatives to Miss C attending her branch have been considered and 
discounted by Lloyds. Specifically, visits to Miss Cs home address or web appointments, in 
the alternative, arent viable and have been ruled  out. 
Lloyds has also said its willing to liaise with Miss Cs local branch to make staff there  aware 
of her visit to ensure  it goes as smoothly as possible for her. Its also offered to pay Miss Cs 
return taxi fare to the branch. Im satisfied Lloyds  is willing to cover her out of pocket 
expenses and I think this is a reasonable approach for it to take here. And Im also 
persuaded this all demonstrates that Lloyds has tried to make reasonable adjustments  so 
Miss C isnt disadvantaged by her health conditions in attending  her local branch.
Miss C also feels  shes  unable  to satisfy Lloyds requirements because she doesnt have a 
passport or driving licence. But I can see that Lloyds is willing to accept other documentation 
as proof  of identity, which Miss C may be able to provide. These  alternative  ID documents 
are listed  on Lloyds website and I note that our investigator has already drawn Miss Cs 
attention to the different  ways in which she may be able to prove  her identity  in the absence 
of a passport  and driving licence.
I understand Miss C feels very strongly about  the issues  raised  in this complaint. But, for the 
reasons set out above, I think that Lloyds acted fairly and reasonably.  So it follows that Im 
not going to be asking  it to do anything.   
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 August 2019.
Julie Robertson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8229930