K820x#14complaint
Dr L complains about the service provided  by Moneysupermarket.com Financial Group 
Limited when trying  to obtain a home insurance quote.
background
Dr L wanted to obtain a quote  through Moneysupermarkets price comparison website. They 
were asked to specify a gender  or gendered title. Dr L contacted Moneysupermarket about 
this. When corresponding  with Dr L about  the matter, Moneysupermarket referred  to Dr L 
with the incorrect  title on two occasions. 
Dr L complained to Moneysupermarket about its use of the incorrect title, and also remained 
unhappy that Moneysupermarkets  website  had asked for their gender  or gendered title. 
Moneysupermarket issued a final response. It accepted that it would be preferable to remove  
the requirement to specify a gender  on their website. However, it said this wasnt  
straightforward as many  of the insurers it uses to provide quotes  cant do so without the 
gender field being completed. It apologised for using the incorrect  title when addressing 
Dr L. It offered them £150 compensation for this.
Dr L remained unhappy with Moneysupermarkets response, and brought a complaint to this 
service. 
Our investigator explained to Dr L that this service  cant make a business  change its 
processes. However,  he did think it would  be helpful if Moneysupermarket considered  
allowing customers to use its website without  selecting  a gender or gendered title, so long as 
it made it clear that in doing so, this would reduce the number of quotes returned  from 
insurers. Our investigator accepted that Dr L had been caused upset by 
Moneysupermarkets use of the incorrect title, but thought the offer of £150  compensation 
was reasonable.  
Dr L didnt  accept our investigators conclusions, so the matter has been passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Requirement to specify gender on website
Moneysupermarket offers an online price  comparison service  for a range of products. A 
customer enters information into the required  fields on the website,  and the answers 
generate quotes  from various providers. 
When obtaining a quote for home  insurance, Dr L was asked  to specify  their gender or 
gendered title. Dr L says theyve been denied access to Moneysupermarkets service, 
because they werent  able to use it without specifying their gender.  They  make the point that 
its illegal for insurers to vary insurance premiums based on gender  and this has been  the 
case for several years. 
Ref: DRN84595852Dr L makes a valid point  that insurers arent  allowed to discriminate on the basis  of gender.  
That means insurers cant take gender  into account when pricing individual policies. So I can 
understand why Dr L is frustrated that they cant use the service Moneysupermarket offers  
when their gender is of no relevance  to the cost of the cover. 
The difficulty  Moneysupermarket has is that its reliant on other companies (in this case, 
insurers) often requiring  gender information before quotes will be produced. 
Moneysupermarket says insurers  require gender information in order  to return  quotes, 
correspond with customers, and in some  cases, to manage risk across  their book of 
business. And if the title/gender field were  removed, this would result  in fewer quotes  being 
returned by insurers.  It says this wouldnt be in the best interests of its customers. 
Dr L didnt  agree that it would be in their best interests for Moneysupermarket  to make its 
service inaccessible  to them,  rather than provide them with a limited  service. Im minded to 
agree with Dr L here.  Although I cant require Moneysupermarket to change  its processes, I 
think it ought to consider  giving its customers the option to select a non-binary title and also 
not to specify a gender, with the explanation that this would produce limited results.  The 
customer could then make their own decision about the matter. 
I recognise that Moneysupermarket  is taking steps  to try and arrange  for the insurers it uses 
to accommodate  a non-binary title field, and is also in discussions with an industry body 
about the matter.  But until advances are made  in this area with insurers,  the above could be 
a short-term solution. 
Use of wrong title
Moneysupermarket accepts that it made an error  when it called Dr L by the wrong title. 
Unfortunately, this happened  on two occasions.  
Id expect Moneysupermarket to take better  care to ensure its customers  are addressed 
correctly. However, given the nature  of Dr Ls correspondence, I think Moneysupermarkets 
errors were particularly thoughtless.
I see that the staff member who made  both errors  offered her own apology to Dr L, and a 
further apology  was offered by a manager.  Moneysupermarket also offered Dr L £150 
compensation to recognise any upset theyd been caused. 
Overall, I think this was a reasonable response.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Dr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 November  2019. 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8459585