K821x#15complaint
Miss B complains  that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited  declined  her pet 
insurance claim and added specific exclusions to the policy.  My references  to Red Sands 
include its agent.
background
On 19 April 2016 Miss B bought pet insurance with lifetime cover for her puppy  on-line. 
Red Sands  is the insurer. The policy provides cover for medical  conditions  (subject  to policy  
limits) for the lifetime the policy is in force.
In 2019 Miss B claimed for her dogs  treatment for allergic skin disease from November to 
December 2018.
Red Sands  declined the claim. The policy doesnt  cover pre-existing medical  conditions.  
Red Sands  said the dogs  allergic  skin disease symptoms began  before the policy  started so 
wasnt covered.
Red Sands  also said if Miss B had told it about  her dogs medical history  it would  have 
added specific exclusions to the policy for all claims in respect of the dogs ears and skin 
conditions. It added  those  exclusions to retrospectively take effect from the start of the policy  
and also used those  exclusions to decline the claim.
Following the claim, Red Sands also added an exclusion in respect of allergies of any cause 
with effect from the start of the policy, which it later agreed to remove.
Miss B says the symptoms noted  by the vet before  the policy started  are unrelated  to the 
condition she claimed for. Her vet sent a letter saying the dogs skin and ear problems in 
2016 may have  be unrelated to his more recent  problems, but it was impossible to know one 
way or the other.
Our investigator thought Red Sands had fairly declined the claim but hadnt fairly added the 
retrospective exclusions for skin and ears. It needed to remove the exclusions but he said 
the exclusions could  be added back to the policy again at a later policy review date.
Neither party agreed and both wanted  an ombudsmans decision.
Miss B said Red Sands hadnt  asked her relevant questions about her dogs health and her 
dog hadnt been diagnosed with a condition when she took out the policy. So she told the 
truth in her policy application. She said if there was no proof that her dog had a pre-existing 
condition we couldnt decide  he had. Also she had a lifetime policy so she didnt  think 
Red Sands  should  be able to add the exclusions at a later date.
Red Sands  said the dogs  symptoms for the pre-existing condition were  also present within 
the first 14 days of the policy  so it could also decline the claim and add the exclusions on 
that basis.
my provisional decision
I made  a provisional decision  that I was intending to partly uphold this complaint. I said:
Ref: DRN85018742I think Red Sands acted fairly and reasonably in declining the claim but not in adding the 
retrospective exclusions. Unlike our investigator  I dont  think Red Sands can fairly add those 
exclusions in the future.  Ill explain why.
the claim
The policy is clear theres no cover for any claim relating to a pre-existing condition  or for an 
illness that first showed clinical signs before the policy started.
The policy defines  pre-existing condition as any condition, symptom or sign of a condition 
occurring or existing in any form before the start of the policy.
The exclusion means Miss B's dog didnt have  to be diagnosed with a medical condition 
before the policy was taken out. He just needed to have shown signs or symptoms of the 
condition. Many pet insurance  policies have the same  or similar exclusions.
But for Red Sands to be able to fairy rely on the exclusion I consider whether Miss B knew  if 
there was something  wrong with her dog which was likely to lead to further investigation or 
treatment when she took out the policy.
The vet notes show that on 11 April 2016  the dog had antibiotic treatment for his skin and 
ear drops. On 16 April 2016  (three days before Miss B bought the policy) the vet notes say:
Ears and skin much better. Still slight inflammation in R[ight] ear. Cleaned  in consult, 
adv[ised] cont[inue] with drops. Rx hibiscrub to clean patches on legs.  Finish  off abx.
So there is evidence  that Miss Bs dog was having problems with his skin and ears before 
the policy started and he needed some ongoing  treatment. I accept that at that time it was 
low level treatment, but even so Miss B knew there  was something wrong with her dog which  
needed further treatment.
The next vet visit was on 22 June 2016. The vet notes say Still has rash in groin,  comes  and 
goes That evidence  links the rash Miss B's dog had in his groin to the skin problems he 
had before the policy was taken out.
Miss Bs vet says its impossible to know if the dogs skin and ear problems before the policy 
started are related to his allergic skin disease. In those circumstances I have to decide if it's 
more likely than not that there is a link between the two.
I do appreciate that it wasnt  until April 2018  that the vet notes say the vet suspected 
underlying allergies. But the vet notes show that Miss Bs dog returned to the vet several 
times throughout 2016 and 2017  with various  skin and ear problems which ultimately  led to 
the diagnosis  of allergic skin disease. And importantly Ive no vet evidence to explain  what 
caused the problem with her dog's ear and skin before  19 April 2016 if it wasnt  the start of 
the allergic skin disease.
Red Sands vet evidence is that 75% of dogs with allergic skin disease experience  recurring 
ear issues,  bacterial or fungal  infections.  Thats a general statement and doesnt mean that 
has to be the case  with Miss B's dog.
Ref: DRN85018743However, looking at the overall vet evidence I think Red Sands can reasonably understand 
its more likely than not that Miss Bs dog did show signs and symptoms  of allergic skin 
disease before the policy started.
On the evidence I have I think Red Sands fairly and reasonably declined  the claim.
exclusions
Red Sands  didnt ask Miss B about pre-existing conditions  when  she bought the policy. If it 
had, and Miss B misrepresented  the answers, it might be fair to apply exclusions 
retrospectively  if thats what it would have  done, had it known the true position. The law 
allows this in some circumstances where theres been a relevant misrepresentation. But as 
Red Sands  hasnt shown me it asked Miss B those questions there  isnt an issue  of 
misrepresentation.
When Miss B bought  the policy Red Sands only asked her to tick a box to say shed read the 
statement of presumptions. One of those presumptions is that Red Sands  reserves the right 
to apply an exclusion in respect of any illness or conditions it subsequently learns were pre-
existing at the start of the policy (or within the first 14 days). The relevant  conditions were 
skin rash and an inflammation of the ear. But Red Sands imposed exclusions that were very 
broad in scope.  I dont  think  that was fair or reasonable.
The way the presumption is worded would allow Red Sands to impose  any exclusion 
whether it relates  to the specific  condition or not, effectively  allowing Red Sands complete 
discretion to exclude anything. I dont  think thats  fair.
Red Sands  should  remove  the specific exclusions on all claims with respect  to skin 
conditions and the dogs ears with effect  from the start of the policy.  It cant rely on the 
exclusions to decline the claim.
Red Sands  acted reasonably in removing the exclusion in respect  of allergies  of any cause 
with effect from the start of the policy.
Our investigator said Red Sands could add back the exclusions for all claims relating to ears 
and skin conditions  at a relevant policy review date.  But I dont think  thats fair. Miss B 
doesnt have a policy which just gives 12 months  cover for a medical  condition.  She has a 
policy which  provides  lifetime cover. Red Sands cant later fairly  add the exclusions that Ive 
told it to remove.
responses to my provisional  decision
Red Sands  didnt respond. Miss B said she wanted to clarify a few things but she didnt give 
any more information  by the revised deadline we gave her to respond.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has given  any objections to my provisional decision Ive no reason  to 
change my mind. For the reasons given in my provisional findings and these findings I partly 
uphold the complaint. Red Sands must remove the exclusions  on all claims with respect to 
Ref: DRN85018744the ears and skin conditions  with effect from the start of the policy.  It cant  later add those 
exclusions to the policy.
my final decision
I partly  uphold  this complaint.
I require Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited to remove:
the exclusion on all claims with respect  to the ears with effect from the start of the 
policy, and
the exclusion on all claims with respect  to skins  conditions  with effect from the start of 
the policy.
Red Sands  Insurance Company (Europe) Limited  cant later add the above exclusions  to the 
policy.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 August 2019.  
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8501874