K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains about the settlement amount paid by Covea Insurance plc under his 
personal accident insurance  claim,  and that it later turned down his claim. 
background
In 2008, Mr T took out the policy.  In 2013,  Mr T had a fall and says he injured his right ankle. 
Mr T made a claim under the policy for loss of use of his ankle. 
Covea initially accepted that Mr Ts ankle injury had been caused by an accident in 2013.  It 
worked out that the maximum benefit amount for total loss of use of an ankle under the 
policy was £13,200.  As the evidence supported that hed lost 50% of his ankle movement, 
Covea paid Mr T 50% of the maximum benefit (so, £6,600). 
However, after later review, Covea changed  its mind about the validity  of the claim. It 
concluded that Mr Ts ankle injury  hadnt  resulted from his 2013 accident. Instead,  it thought  
this resulted from a fracture that had occurred in 1992, which  was before the policy had 
started. Consequently, Covea declined Mr Ts claim. Nevertheless, it decided  not to recover 
the money it had already paid him. 
Mr T has complained about Coveas  decision. He thinks hes entitled  to 75% settlement 
under the policy,  though given Coveas handling  of his claim,  he says it should  pay him the 
full benefit.
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought  the evidence  
supported that Mr Ts ankle problems began before the policy  started, and had steadily 
declined ever since. She therefore concluded that Covea  had been right to turn down the 
claim.
Mr T didnt  accept our investigators findings. The matter has therefore  been passed to me to 
consider.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
The policy explains  that benefit is payable in the event  of an accident  which  results  in bodily 
injury. It includes a table of benefits which  sets out the amount payable in the event of 
various injuries  one of those being the total loss of use of an ankle. 
The policy also explains  it wont cover an accident  which occurs prior to the start date.
In order for me to require Covea to accept  Mr Ts claim, I need  to be satisfied that an 
accident occurred  after the policy started, and that the accident  on its own caused Mr Ts 
ankle injury (or was a significant  factor).  Ive therefore considered the available medical 
evidence. 
In March 2018, Covea wrote  to Mr B (consultant orthopaedic surgeon) and said Mr T had 
fractured his right ankle in an accident  in November 2013. It asked Mr B various questions 
about the injury.  
Ref: DRN87204532In April 2018, Mr B responded to Covea. He said Mr T fractured his ankle in 2013 and had 
permanent loss of function following his accident. He estimated  that Mr T had 50% of normal 
ankle movement after undergoing a right ankle replacement in 2017. 
At this point, Covea paid 50% of the claim. However, it later reviewed Mr Ts medical  history  
and saw there was no reference to an ankle fracture  in 2013. Covea wrote to Mr B about 
this. 
Mr B explained he didnt have access to Mr Ts medical history before 2016.  He said that 
when Mr T was assessed in 2016,  he was noted  to have an ankle injury  and this was 
recorded as being from 1992. He confirmed Mr T had definitely had a previous ankle fracture 
but he couldnt give the precise date of this. 
I can understand why Covea paid 50% of the claim based on Mr Bs report of April 2018. 
This does  make it seem as though the partial loss of use to Mr Ts ankle resulted from a 
fracture that happened by accident  in 2013. However, I think  Mr Bs reference to the fracture 
taking place in 2013 was simply a repetition  of what Covea had said to him in its letter of 
March 2018.
In any event, the later information from Mr B casts  doubt on the fracture  taking place in 2013 
 whilst Mr B could  be definite about  the fact that Mr T had previously fractured his ankle, he 
didnt know when this happened. Crucially, he said it had been  recorded that Mr T had 
injured his ankle  in 1992.
Ive therefore  looked  at Mr Ts GP records to see if theres any evidence  of Mr T fracturing or 
injuring his ankle  in 2013.
In June 2013, a note said Mr T had foot pain which was a chronic problem that was 
worsening. It was noted his ankle joint had minimal residual  movement.  
Then in November 2013, Mr T attended  accident  and emergency because of foot pain. It 
was recorded  that hed hit his foot on the pavement while walking. His foot was reportedly 
swollen and red, and tender over the fourth and fifth metatarsal. He had an x-ray and was 
found to have a fracture of the fifth metatarsal.
Later GP notes refer to Mr Ts previously fractured  fifth metatarsal. He was seen in a fracture 
clinic. 
A few years later, on 24 November 2015,  Mr T attended accident and emergency with pain 
in his right foot. Shortly after that, he was seen in a fracture clinic. 
Ive looked at a letter  from the fracture  clinic written in December 2015. This confirmed  Mr 
Ts diagnosis was severe right foot osteoarthritic  painful ankle  sequela  of injury in 1992. It 
confirmed Mr T had attended accident and emergency earlier that month.  It said that he had 
sustained an injury  back in 1992  and had had problems with his right leg and ankle. And that 
he normally maintains  a four out of ten pain on a daily basis  but recently had an episode 
where the pain was excruciating and had attended  accident and emergency. On examination 
he said there was no significant pain on the little ankle movements that he had preserved.  In 
the long term it was thought he could be referred to an ankle specialist to decide  on the best 
management. 
Later GP notes refer to Mr T continuing  to experience ankle pain.  
Ref: DRN87204533Then in March 2016, Mr T wrote to his GP. He said hed experienced his ankle  problem 
since 1992 and had managed to a certain  degree. He explained hed fallen over two weeks  
earlier and visited the hospital (I havent seen any evidence of this hospital visit). He said he 
had a high level of pain, but then this reduced whilst  he was there. He thought perhaps a 
piece of bone fragment had fallen  away. He said the hospital  suggested  fusion as a last 
resort. Mr T thought it was time to consider this and asked  to take part in a clinical trial. 
After this, Mr T was reviewed in hospital by Mr H (orthopaedic registrar) in December 2016.  
He said Mr T had told him hed injured  his ankle in 1992 and following  this he underwent 
open reduction and internal fixation, followed by removal  of the metalwork around two years 
later. Following this, he had had a steady and progressive decline in ankle function and 
worsening pain.  
Mr T then had the right ankle replacement surgery in 2017.  
Having considered Mr Ts medical  records, I agree with Covea that theres no evidence  to 
support that Mr T injured his ankle in an accident  in 2013. I fully accept  that he did have an 
accident at this time and that he fractured  a bone in his foot, but theres nothing to suggest  
that this accident  caused  any further injury  or aggravation to his existing ankle problem. 
Mr Ts own reporting to Mr H of his ankle problem also made no mention  of a fall in 2013.
Instead, all the evidence points to Mr Ts ankle injury resulting  from his 1992 accident. Mr T 
has reported a progressive decline in his ankle function since  this time. It seems  it was this 
decline in function  which led to Mr T undergoing the ankle replacement  surgery  and the 
partial loss of use of his ankle - rather than any later injury caused by his 2013 fall. 
Consequently, I think it was reasonable for Covea to turn down Mr Ts claim.  
Mr T is also unhappy with Coveas handling of his claim, in particular its reference to his 
other medical problems  when it turned  down  his claim. He also says that whilst Covea paid 
him £50% of the benefit  amount of £13,200, this benefit figure was incorrect  and so he 
should have received 50% of £17,400.
Covea has apologised  to Mr T for mentioning his other medical problems when these  
werent relevant  to his claim. I think it was reasonable  for Covea to apologise. I dont require 
it to do anything further. 
Covea accepts that the benefit amount under the policy is higher than £13,200 (though I 
note it doesnt  accept it should  be as high as £17,400). However, I dont think I need to 
consider this point  further, as Ive found that Covea  was entitled to turn down the claim. The 
payment made to Mr T by Covea was done  so in error, and therefore  I dont  require the 
payment to be increased to take into account a higher benefit  amount. 
Mr T points  out that Mr B said in May 2018 that hed lost 75% of his ankle function.  However, 
again, as Ive found that Covea was entitled  to turn down the claim, I wont  be requiring 
Covea to pay Mr T 75% of the benefit  amount.
Mr T says hes still paying for the policy, and wants to know  if the insurance is still 
necessary. I would recommend that Mr T seeks independent financial advice about  this.
Ref: DRN87204534my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 November 2019.
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8720453