K820x#14complaint
Mr B has complained that a patrol agent misdiagnosed a fault with his car when he called for 
assistance under his Breakdown Cover policy with Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited. 
All references to Admiral  in my decision include its agents. 
background
Mr B broke down in October 2018.  He called Admiral for assistance and a patrol agent 
attended. 
The patrol agent told Mr B that the battery wasnt holding its charge. Mr B said the agent told 
him the alternator  was on its way out. The agent was able to get Mr Bs car running  again 
by jump starting the battery and advised Mr B to take it to a local garage. 
This wasnt convenient for Mr B so he booked his car in at a garage  of his choice. The 
garage replaced the alternator. But Mr B broke down again  shortly after.
Mr B complained to Admiral. A friend of Mr Bs looked at his car in December 2018 and said 
it was the battery  that needed  replacing.  Mr B was very unhappy that he paid £435 to 
replace the alternator based  on the patrol  agents  diagnosis at the roadside. 
Admiral spoke to the patrol agent  and said he diagnosed the fault as the alternator not 
charging the battery. But this didnt  necessarily mean the alternator was faulty  as it may 
have been a wiring issue.  The agent told Admiral that the garage Mr B took his car to should 
have checked  the existing  alternator was faulty before replacing it. 
As a goodwill  gesture,  Admiral paid Mr B £35 compensation for the distress  and 
inconvenience caused. But it didnt uphold his complaint.
Mr B remained unhappy  so he asked us to look at his complaint. He wanted Admiral to cover 
the costs he paid to replace the alternator and pay fair compensation for the inconvenience  
caused. He said he was never  sure if his car would start or not when he used it between 
October and December 2018.  
Our investigator thought Admiral had acted  reasonably. She explained that the purpose of a 
roadside recovery policy is to get the vehicle running  again  or get the vehicle safely to a 
garage. Once the vehicle  Is up and running  or has been dropped off at a garage, the 
responsibility of the roadside assistance provider ends.
Mr B didnt agree. He said the patrol agent  shouldnt have offered any diagnosis  rather  than 
misdiagnose the fault. He said any person who was told the alternator  is on its way out 
would have taken  their car to a garage to replace the alternator.  This is what  he asked the 
garage to do. 
So Mr B would like an ombudsman to decide.
Ref: DRN81180192my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
it. Ill explain why. 
Mr Bs policy  with Admiral says that it isnt always possible for an agent to accurately 
diagnose a fault with the vehicle when carrying out an emergency repair  at the roadside.  I 
dont find this term unreasonable  given  the nature and conditions of attending  at the 
roadside. The patrol agent  advised Mr B to take his car to a garage. A garage workshop has 
the tools to properly inspect and diagnose any faults  with a car. 
I think it was reasonable  for any garage mechanic to first check  the alternator  was faulty 
before replacing  it. I cant hold Admiral or its agent  responsible for what happened once Mr B 
took his car to a garage. The advice was to have his car looked at by a garage.  
I understand Mr B will be disappointed with my decision. But I dont think Admiral acted 
unreasonably. So I dont think it needs  to do any more. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 March 2020.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8118019