K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Santander UK Plc, (trading as Abbey National), mis-sold him a 
mortgage payment  protection insurance, (MPPI), policy.
background
Mr S bought the monthly-premium policy in or around April 1992. He says that the sale took 
place in meeting,  at the same time as he took out a mortgage. Ive taken that into account  in 
considering his complaint. 
Because of the time that has passed, Santander understandably hasnt been  able to supply 
copies of the paperwork signed  by Mr S at the time,  nor does it have much information about  
the MPPI  sale.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  Because Mr S 
disagreed, the matter  has come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of payment protection 
insurance on our website. Ive followed this in Mr S case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr S complaint. I explain why below.
Santander has sent us a copy of a leaflet that was first in use about 9 months before the 
sale to Mr S. It summarises the main terms of the MPPI being  sold by Santander at that 
time. I havent seen  anything to suggest  that this leaflet and the policy  described  in it, or 
a very similar leaflet  and policy, werent  in use at the time of the sale being complained 
about. So in the absence  of any more relevant paperwork  I find it is reasonable and fair 
to assume that the paperwork seen and signed  by Mr S was like the leaflet Ive seen. 
The leaflet says that [Santander] strongly recommends that the insurance is taken out. 
And it has attached  an application form and bank mandate  for the premiums,  both to be 
signed by the proposed insured. The form provides for the amount of cover to be written  
in. I find that this shows that the MPPI was separate from any mortgage  and that the 
applicant had flexibility over whether  to take the policy at all and the amount of cover  to 
take. 
Mr S says that the MPPI  was presented  as being  an integral part of the mortgage. He 
says that he was given the impression that he had to take it if he wanted  to get his 
mortgage. I dont  doubt that this is Mr S recollection  now of what  happened during the 
sale. But it was over 25 years ago and I dont  think  that I can fairly and reasonably rely 
solely on his memory. And taking  into account the paperwork to which Ive referred 
above, in the absence  of more persuasive evidence I dont find that I can reasonably  
conclude that Santander didnt make  it clear that the policy  was optional.
Santander recommended  the policy to Mr S. This means that it needed to take 
reasonable steps to ensure that it was suitable  for his needs. I dont know  what  steps 
Santander actually  took but, in any event, I find that the MPPI was suitable  because:
Ref: DRN83995172oMr S was eligible  for the policy;
oMr S wasnt caught by any of the policys main restrictions and limitations  such  as 
those affecting  someone  with a pre-existing medical condition;
oWeve been  told that the first premium was collected in April 1992, but that the 
earliest record of the amount of the monthly premiums  is from eleven moths  later. At 
that stage they were  about £17 a month. And the premiums increased by a few 
pence on two occasions thereafter  until the policy was cancelled in 2003. From this, 
and in the absence of any other information, I think that it is reasonable to assume 
that the cost of the MPPI when it was first taken out was less than £18 a month.  I 
dont know what the monthly benefits  were. But the leaflet referred to above says that 
the cost of the insurance was £6 for each £100  of monthly cover.  And Santander has 
also told us that the premiums were increased to £6.95 from July 1991. At this cost 
Im satisfied  that the insurance was reasonably priced by reference  to other policies 
available in the market at the time;
oI havent seen  anything to suggest that the MPPI  was unaffordable  for Mr S. In any 
event had he later felt that he couldnt  afford the premiums, or that he no longer 
wanted the policy, he could have cancelled  it at any time without further cost;
oMr S has told us that he was entitled to sick pay and a redundancy package  from his 
employer. He also says that he had some  savings. However,  following a successful 
claim, the policy would  have  paid out in addition  to the foregoing,  leaving them 
available to help meet his other  expenses  while  he wasnt  working. In the case of him 
being off work because of accident or sickness the payments would have been for up 
to 36 months - which is a much longer period  than his sick pay entitlement from his 
employment. And in the case of Mr S being made redundant  the payments  would 
have been for up to 12 months.  So I find that the MPPI could have been of use to 
Mr S;
Its likely  that Santander didnt tell Mr S everything that it ought to have about the 
insurance so that he could make a fully-informed  decision  whether to take it or not. But, 
as Ive concluded that it was suitable for him, I dont think that clearer information would 
have changed  his mind and stopped him buying  it. I think that he would have felt that it 
was good value. I say this particularly bearing  in mind the serious consequences that 
could have arisen had Mr S not been able to make his monthly mortgage repayments. 
So I dont think that Mr S has lost out because of anything that may have been wrong in 
Santanders sales process.
As Ive said earlier, Ive carefully  considered  everything that Mr S has told us, including that 
his family  could have  helped  him out had he not been working. As we explain on our 
website, we dont  usually take this into account because circumstances change   and such 
assistance isnt guaranteed. Theres nothing Ive found in Mr S case  to make me think its 
reasonable to deviate from this approach here.  Mr S has also pointed  out that he was in a 
secure job. But, as Ive said above,  circumstances  change  and Mr S couldnt  be certain that 
his employment  situation wouldnt deteriorate over the life of his mortgage. So these and 
Mr S other comments dont change my decision.
Ref: DRN83995173my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above  my decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 August 2019.
Ros Barnett
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8399517