K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs D say Lloyds Bank plc mis-sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
background
Mr and Mrs D took out a PPI policy in 2001.  The sale took place in one of the banks  
branches. It seems the sale was at the same time as they applied  for a further advance on 
their existing mortgage. The policy gave them accident, sickness  and unemployment  cover. 
They paid a monthly amount for it.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  Mr and Mrs D 
disagreed so the complaint was passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our general  approach to complaints about  the sale of PPI is on our website  and Ive followed
it here.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs D say PPI wasnt  discussed  and it wasnt made clear PPI was optional. They say 
theyve since been told by a friend working  in the branch it was sold as mandatory and they 
were amazed to find out they had PPI. I cant know what  was said in the meeting but Ive 
looked at the available paperwork. Mr and Mrs D didnt take out PPI with their initial  
mortgage in December 2000. But at around the time they applied for a further  advance  in 
August 2001 they completed  and signed  a separate PPI application  form and direct  debit 
mandate. There was nothing on the form that I think could reasonably have led them to think  
the cover  was mandatory. And as they hadnt taken  it out in December 2000 I think they 
would have known  it was a separate, optional product.   
Overall, I think its most likely Lloyds made  it clear  the PPI was optional and Mr and 
Mrs D chose to take it out. I can understand they might not remember this given how long 
ago the sale was. 
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs D so it had to check  that the PPI was right for 
them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think that it was. 
Mr D says they were both entitled to six months  full pay and six months half pay if they 
were sick, but the PPI wouldve  paid out in addition to their work  benefits and for up to 12 
months for each successful accident and sickness claim. It also gave them  up to 12 months 
redundancy cover. Mr D says they had savings of £15,000 but the PPI would have allowed 
them to use these for other living expenses whilst  not working, or to keep them intact  for 
their future needs. And I cant know they would always have savings they could rely on if 
they were not working for a period of time. Mr D told us he also had a death-in-service 
benefit and private  health insurance  but these provide different benefits and dont help with 
monthly mortgage repayments in the same  way as PPI.
Ref: DRN86096592Mr and Mrs D were borrowing a large  sum over a long period, secured  on their home. So the 
effects of not keeping  up the repayments could have been serious for them.  Overall,  I think  
the PPI would have been useful for Mr and Mrs D if they were sick, had an accident or lost 
their job(s). 
Its possible Lloyds didnt  give Mr and Mrs D all the information they needed before deciding  
to buy PPI. I dont know when the cost was first made  clear  but the cover  was competitively 
priced and apparently affordable. It was paid for monthly so it didnt add to their borrowing, 
or attract interest. And they could  cancel it at any stage, with no further cost. 
I dont know that the bank  pointed out the main things the PPI didnt cover.  But they dont 
appear to have been affected by any of the main exclusions. As Mr D has pointed out his 
minor accident wouldnt have prevented him doing  his job in anyway. I dont  think  hed ever 
have expected to need to make a related  claim and so wouldnt have  been  affected by the 
exclusion for pre-existing medical conditions. Overall I dont think better information about 
the PPI would have changed  their decision.
It follows I dont think Mr and Mrs D have lost out because of any problems with this sale.
Mr D has mentioned he didnt claim under the policy when he was made redundant. It might 
be that he can make a retrospective claim.  He should contract the bank or the insurer  
directly to find out more.
my final decision
My decision  is I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 September 2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8609659