K820x#14complaint
Mrs E complains that she asked to withdraw £8,000 from her accounts with National  
Westminster Bank Plc, but only received £6,000. Her account  was however debited  with the 
full amount of £8,000. 
background
Mrs E needed some  money  to pay for medical  treatment. She went to a branch of NatWest 
to withdraw £8,000. Her account statements and the printed receipts show that £5,977.48 
was transferred from her savings account and that there were  two withdrawals from her 
current account  one of £2,000 at 2.31pm and one of £6,000  at 3.19pm. The statements 
dont show when the transfer was made,  but the bank says that it was between the two 
withdrawals. The receipts indicate  that the withdrawals were verified at separate  times with 
Mrs Es card and PIN. 
Mrs E says that she was given three  envelopes, which she took home and put in her safe. 
When she later came  to open  them, she found  that there was only £2,000 in each envelope 
 or £6,000 in total. She asked the bank to look into things.
NatWest said that its tills balanced  on the day in question; that is, the amount of cash  in the 
branch was consistent with the transactions that had been carried  out. It also checked CCTV 
footage from the branch. That showed that Mrs E was served by the same cashier for each 
transaction; Mrs E was handed  one envelope for the first withdrawal and several  for the 
second. It wouldnt allow Mrs E to see the footage,  because of confidentiality  issues  around 
other customers, but it did send it to us. 
The bank also said that Mrs E was provided  with £6,000 in £20 notes (300 notes) and 
£2,000 in £50 notes  (40 notes). It said that would have needed more than three envelopes.  
Mrs E suggested that proper procedure hadnt been followed, as each envelope  had been  
signed twice by the same individual. The bank said that wasnt correct; there were two 
different signatures  on each envelope.  
Mrs E referred the matter to this service  and one of investigators looked into it. She thought 
that the bank had, as it said, given Mrs E the full £8,000. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, however, Ive come to 
broadly the same conclusions as the investigator, and for similar reasons. 
I note first of all that the banks own tills balanced. Had NatWest  simply made  an error in 
counting the money,  for example, that wouldnt have been the case. There would have been 
£2,000 too much in the branch tills. If, therefore, Mrs E only received  £6,000,  that would 
mean that a member  of staff had managed  to remove the balance without Mrs E or other 
staff noticing, and without that appearing on the CCTV coverage  which  both the bank and 
this service have reviewed. 
When our investigator looked  at the CCTV footage, she observed a customer  being handed 
more than three envelopes and placing them in her bag. I saw the same when I looked at the 
footage. The investigator couldnt  be sure it was Mrs E, but I think it probably was; the 
Ref: DRN89329102likelihood of someone making  a similar large  cash withdrawal at around  the same  time is 
quite small.  I also noted that the branch was quite  busy at the time, that there were two other  
cashiers working and that several security  cameras were installed. In the circumstances, I 
think that theft by a cashier is very unlikely.   
Mrs E also sent us photographs of the envelopes  she received. They appear to be standard 
(DL) size for an A4 letter  folded in three. Since the bank counted  out 340 notes in total, more 
than three  envelopes would  have  been  needed. The envelopes have  been  signed on the 
back, with one signature covering the seal. They appear to be the signatures of two different 
individuals. That supports the banks  case that the money was counted  by two people  and 
makes it much less likely that this was a case of theft by cashier. 
On balance, therefore, I believe that Mrs E did receive the full amount of £8,000; I think its 
more than likely that she was given more than three  envelopes. Its possible, as the 
investigator suggested, that she mislaid one at some point, but I dont believe NatWest can 
properly be held responsible for that. 
my final decision
For these reasons my final decision is that I dont require National Westminster Bank Plc to 
take any further steps to resolve Mrs Es complaint. Under the rules of the Financial  
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or reject my decision before 3 
January 2020.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8932910