K820x#14complaint
Mr S says Evergreen Finance London  Limited, trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk,  lent to him 
irresponsibly.
background
Mr S had three loans  with MoneyBoat: an £800 loan in April 2015,  a £1,500 loan in 
April 2016 and another £1,500 loan in August 2016. These were all instalment loans with 
terms of six months and with repayments  of between £220  and £456  a month. The first two 
loans were settled early and the third was settled  late under a repayment plan.
An adjudicator considered  the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. Mr S didnt 
agree with the adjudicator   he thought  MoneyBoat shouldve been  aware  he had an 
individual voluntary arrangement (IVA) and so shouldnt have lent to him.
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
MoneyBoat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr S 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
There may sometimes come a point where  the lending  history and pattern of lending  itself 
clearly demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.  But as Mr S only had three  loans 
with MoneyBoat, I dont think  that applies in his case and so Ive primarily focussed on 
whether MoneyBoat carried out proportionate checks  before lending.
Having looked  at everything, I think MoneyBoat did carry  out proportionate  checks before 
lending to Mr S. On each  occasion it asked him for information about his income and 
expenditure and carried  out credit checks. It made  (sometimes significant) adjustments  to 
Mr S declared expenditure based  on those  credit checks  and for loan one offered to lend 
Mr S less than hed requested. It seems that the information Mr S provided  was also 
manually reviewed.
Based on the information it obtained,  each loan appeared to be affordable. With this in mind,  
Ive thought about whether there was anything else MoneyBoat ought to have  taken into 
account  particularly the issue Mr S has raised about his IVA.
I take Mr S point that IVAs are a matter of public record   so MoneyBoat couldve picked it 
up. But I understand Mr S IVA started around  four years before the loans were approved. 
His circumstances couldve changed  during  that time. I dont think  having an IVA is an 
automatic bar to lending  in all situations. So I dont think its the case that taking the IVA into 
account necessarily  makes a difference to Mr S complaint.
Ref: DRN86162632In Mr S case, proportionate checks suggested  all the loans were affordable. He had a high 
income and MoneyBoat reasonably believed he had enough  disposable income to repay the 
loans sustainably. And ultimately  it was up to Mr S to comply with the terms of his IVA  so it 
was for him to ensure  any loans were appropriate  in that sense. I therefore dont think the 
matter of Mr S being in an IVA makes a difference in his particular case.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint against  Evergreen  Finance London  Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 June  2019.
Matthew Bradford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8616263