K821x#15complaint
Ms H and Ms M have  complained about the service  they received from OneSavings Bank  
Plc (trading  as Kent Reliance) in connection with a request to withdraw funds from their 
savings account.
background
In December 2016 Ms H and Ms M asked  Kent Reliance  to transfer £560,000 from their 
savings account  to their solicitors for the purchase  of a property. They  telephoned  Kent 
Reliance several times to ensure the transfer would take place  and were  given conflicting 
information including being told at one stage that the transfer couldnt proceed.
Ms H and Ms M complained to Kent Reliance about  the service theyd received. It 
acknowledged the frustration  and confusion caused  by an oversight of its customer services 
team. It offered them £75 compensation.
Ms H and Ms M werent happy  with Kent Reliances response and referred  their complaint to 
this service.
our initial conclusions
Our adjudicator recommended  the complaint should  be upheld. He thought  the 
compensation should be increased to £200.  Kent Reliance  didnt accept our adjudicators 
recommendation.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Kent Reliance has accepted that the service  it gave Ms H and Ms M fell below the standard 
they were entitled  to accept. I have to decide what would be an appropriate  sum for them  to 
receive to compensate them  for the trouble and upset they suffered as a result.
Ms H and Ms M were  in the process  of purchasing a property for a substantial  sum of 
money. The consequences of being unable to complete the transaction  through lack of funds 
could have been significant.  Im satisfied they shouldnt have been put in the position where 
they werent certain whether  the funds would be transferred.  This caused them  unnecessary 
trouble and upset.
In all the circumstances Im satisfied Ms H and Ms M should be paid £200 to compensate 
them for the trouble and upset they suffered as a result of Kent Reliances errors.
Ref: DRN84975652my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is I uphold this complaint. I require OneSavings 
Bank Plc to pay Ms H and Ms M £200.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H and Ms M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 June  2019.
Charles Bacon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8497565