K820x#14complaint
Mrs S complains that Vanquis  Bank  Limited added a Value Saver membership to her credit 
card account  without her knowledge.
To settle  matters Mrs S would like the monthly  payments refunded  from when she took out 
the Value  Saver  membership in 2013.
background
Mrs S is represented in her complaint by her husband, Mr S. Mrs S received  a letter  from 
Vanquis stating that their Value  Saver  membership  was being taken over by a new 
company. Mrs S realised  at this point that shed been paying  £6.95 per month for 
membership since approximately June  2013. She cant remember receiving any 
documentation about her Value Saver membership at the time it was taken out or 
subsequently so shed like her monthly  payments since 2013 refunded.
Mrs S complained to Vanquis but it said its records  showed that she had agreed to the 
product being  charged to her account.  Unhappy with Vanquiss  response, she referred her 
complaint to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked  into Mrs Ss complaint. Vanquis provided a copy of call 
recording it made to Mrs S in May 2013  when the Value  Saver  membership was sold to her. 
Based on the call recording and on the documentation that would have been sent to Mrs S 
she thought Mrs S had agreed to take part in the offer and was aware  it could be cancelled 
at any time during  or after the 30 day free trial. So she didnt think  Vanquis was wrong to 
charge Mrs S £6.95 per month for her Value  Saver  membership.
Mrs S would like an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im sorry to disappoint  
Mrs S but I agree with the conclusion reached  by our adjudicator and for broadly the same 
reasons.
Vanquis provided to us a copy of the call it made to Mrs S in May 2013. In this call Vanquis 
offered a product known as Value Saver which it said would provide savings across  many 
high street retailers. This was offered alongside  a Remember  to Save  membership to help 
customers keep track  of key dates  and events.
Ive listened to the phone call Vanquis  made to Mrs S at the time.  During  the call the agent 
explained to Mrs S that the membership offer was free for the first 30 days and this would be 
followed by monthly  payments of £6.95. The agent  also explained that the membership 
could be cancelled at any time. Vanquis provided  Mrs S with a telephone number she could 
call if she wanted to cancel her membership and Mrs S noted this down.
Vanquis also provided a sample of the welcome pack  that it would have sent to Mrs S after 
the phone  call. I appreciate Mrs S says she didnt  receive this but Vanquis  provided 
evidence to show it was issued the day after the initial phone call so Im satisfied it took 
reasonable steps to provide her with the documentation relating to the offer.
Ref: DRN85372472Based on the phone call and welcome  pack that would  have been sent to Mrs S at the time, I 
think Mrs S agreed to take the Value Saver membership. During the phone call it was made 
clear to Mrs S that she could cancel her membership at any time but I havent  seen anything 
to suggest she attempted  to do so.
Ive looked at her credit  card statements and the monthly charge for her Value Saver 
membership is clearly  shown so its difficult for me to say that Mrs S wasnt aware of the 
charge that was being made.
Based on everything  I cant  say it was wrong of Vanquis to charge Mrs S £6.95 per month 
for her Value  Saver membership so I wont be asking it to refund the payments shes made.
Ive also considered Mrs Ss request that she should be compensated for the trouble 
Vanquis has caused her but Im afraid I dont agree. I say this because, as the adjudicator 
has already explained, theres nothing to suggest Mrs S has been  caused any more  trouble 
or upset  than can be expected when someone  needs to bring a complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 March  2020.
Michelle Hayward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8537247