K820x#14complaint
Mr M says Usay  Business  Limited (Usay) mis-sold him a private  medical insurance policy.
background
In May 2017  Usay  recommended and sold Mr M a private medical  insurance  policy.  
Sometime after, Mr M tried to claim on his policy  in relation to his cataracts. But this claim 
was declined by the insurer as it said this condition was pre-existing  and therefore  excluded.
Mr M cancelled his policy in May 2018,  and complained to Usay.  He said hed told Usay of 
all of his existing conditions before  he took the insurance  and was assured hed be covered 
for his cataracts. As his claim had been declined he felt the policy wasnt fit for purpose,  and 
said it was mis-sold to him. And he asked  Usay for a full refund of the premiums  hed paid.
Usay said it listened  back to the telephone calls Mr M had with its advisers  prior to the policy  
being taken out. It said Mr M was asked clear questions about any existing  medical 
conditions he had. And it said while some conditions were  disclosed and discussed, Mr M 
did not tell Usay he had existing cataracts.  Usay said it also sent follow up paperwork which 
clearly explained  that the policy wouldnt cover any conditions that Mr M had symptoms,  
treatment, advice, or medication for in the five years  prior to the policy being taken.
Mr M brought his complaint to our service and one of our investigators looked into his 
concerns. He listened to the initial conversations Mr M had with Usay, and said while Mr M 
did ask about  whether  cataracts would be covered; he didnt say he had cataracts.  The 
investigator found Usay  had explained  that existing  conditions  wouldnt be covered, and said 
it had recommended the policy reasonably based  on the information it was given.  So the 
investigator didnt  uphold the complaint.
Mr M disagreed and said he had been clear in each  of his phone  calls with Usay.  So the 
complaint has been passed to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain  why.
Usay says it recommended  this policy to Mr M. This means, under the relevant rules, it was 
required to take reasonable care to ensure the suitability  of its advice to Mr M. These  rules  
also required  Usay to communicate in a clear,  fair, and not misleading  way when giving 
information to Mr M.
So Ive thought about whether Usay has met these obligations when selling  the policy to 
Mr M. The dispute in this case is about the information given by both parties on the phone.  
To understand what was said, Ive listened to the calls Mr M had with Usay.
During the first conversation with Usay, Mr M was asked if he had pre-existing conditions for 
which he had treatment,  symptoms, medication  or received advice about. He listed  some 
conditions but did not mention his cataracts.
Ref: DRN84548422A follow up conversation  with Mr M took place, in which he says his read all of the literature 
sent to him but had questions about  the moratorium. The advisor explains if the policyholder 
had any symptoms, treatment, medication, or advice within  five years that condition wouldnt 
be covered. But if the policyholder went for two years without treatment or advice it would 
covered. Mr M goes on to ask things like, to do with the eye, like cataracts, are they 
covered? He says he has his eyes tested regularly, but doesnt say he did have cataracts  or 
early signs  of cataracts.  
Later that day Mr M called Usay  again to ask further  questions. He asks about cataracts and 
indicates it might be something he gets with time.  The adviser asks specifically if he has 
anything wrong  at all with his eyes. Mr M says no but says he wears glasses and has tests 
regularly. Taking all of these calls into account Im satisfied  Usay provided clear  information 
in response to Mr Ms questions. And based on what Usays advisers were told and the 
follow up questions they asked, Im persuaded it took reasonable care to ensure the 
suitability of advice  given.
Usay is entitled  to rely on the information  Mr M provided when making a recommendation 
about the suitability of a policy. And, as Ive outlined above, I dont think Mr M did say he had 
cataracts. So it wasnt something Usay could take into account when making its 
recommendation. 
I also note that the demands and needs statement  said there was a moratorium in place. It 
explained that Mr M couldnt claim for pre-existing conditions where hed had symptoms,  
treatment, medication or advice on in the five years before the policy start date.
However, it said the pre-existing conditions may be covered following a two year 
consecutive period without treatment, medication,  or advice. So, if Mr M had an existing 
condition he specifically wanted cover for, such as cataracts, Id have expected  him to 
contact Usay to clarify this. 
Having considered the policy more  widely, Ive seen nothing else that would suggest  the 
policy was mis-sold. So I dont think Usay did anything wrong or mis-sold this policy,  and 
Im not asking it to do anything further.
my final decision
For the above reasons, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 July 2019
Jack Baldry
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8454842