K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that ReAssure Limited  caused delays in his application  for an annuity, which 
resulted in his income payments starting  a month  later than he thinks they should  have.
background
Mr M was due to receive his retirement pack,  setting out his options on his approaching 
retirement date of 28 March 2018, on 17 January 2018. However, the pack was not sent.  
Mr M contacted ReAssure on 31 January 2018  to ask about his options. He was then sent 
the pack on 8 February  2018. 
On 20 March 2018 Mr M called ReAssure to say he wanted to take a tax free lump sum from 
his pension, and use the remaining money  to buy an annuity. Mr M was transferred to the 
third party annuity  provider. 
The application for the annuity was completed on 26 April 2018.  ReAssure  said this would 
be the start date for the annuity as, because  it did not receive the completed forms on or 
before the retirement date or up to 7 days after, it was unable  to backdate to the retirement  
date. Mr M was not happy about this. He said ReAssure had caused a delay, which meant 
the application process had taken longer than it ought to have.  He said he should not miss a 
months income as it was not his fault things had been delayed. 
On 18 May 2018 ReAssure asked Mr M to complete some forms to allow  it to start paying 
benefits, and provide  some information about his other pensions.  ReAssure  received  all the 
information it needed to start paying benefits on 6 June 2018, and on 4 July 2018,  it 
authorised the payment of benefits. Mr M received his income payable from 26 April 2018 
shortly after this. 
In its response to the complaint ReAssure  said it had made a mistake in the figures  quoted 
in the retirement  pack, and also that it had taken too long to start paying benefits, once it had 
all the information  it needed from Mr M. In compensation for this, ReAssure paid Mr M £250.  
ReAssure did not however  accept it was responsible for benefits  not being  paid from Mr Ms 
retirement date of 28 March 2018. It said Mr M had not confirmed what  option he wanted to 
take until 20 March  2018, which did not allow enough  time for the annuity application to be 
made and processed  before Mr Ms retirement date. 
Mr M was unhappy with this response. ReAssure  said it would consider whether any loss 
had been suffered as a result of the delay in benefits being paid. It later said it did not think  
any loss had been suffered, as Mr M had received the same benefits as he would have, had 
payment began on 26 April 2018. It did however pay Mr M £19 in interest,  to compensate  
him for the delay in the payment being  made. 
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. In short, he said that if ReAssure 
had sent the retirement pack when it was meant to, and not made  errors in the figures  it 
quoted, things would have  concluded sooner and the annuity could have started on Mr Ms 
retirement date. The investigator said ReAssure should pay Mr M one months annuity 
payment - £376.  
ReAssure did not accept this view. It said Mr M had not contacted it until 20 March 2018,  
after it had sent the retirement  pack on 8 February  2018. It did not think  it was fair to attribute 
all the delays to it. It said it had agreed  to backdate the benefits  to 26 April 2018 to account  
Ref: DRN82941552for the delay  in issuing the retirement  pack.  It also said that the additional income  Mr M 
would have received would have  been 29 days worth, not a full month, and would  have 
been taxable. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have reached the same 
conclusions as the investigator. 
ReAssure says it has already compensated Mr M for the delay in it issuing a retirement  
pack, by backdating the benefits to 26 April 2018. But the letters it sent in response to 
Mr Ms complaint simply say as a matter of fact that the benefits were  payable from 26 April 
2018, as that is the date the annuity application was completed. Theres  no mention of this 
being something that was done in compensation for a delay in issuing the retirement  pack. In 
its letter of 13 July 2018 ReAssure says:
We supplied [third party annuity provider]  with the relevant quotes and clarified on 26 April 
that we couldnt backdate the annuity to the selected  retirement date as the application 
wasnt completed with [third party annuity  provider]  within 7 days of the retirement date
That suggests ReAssure  paying benefits from the date the annuity application was a matter  
of routine, rather than a compensatory  measure taken exceptionally for Mr M. It also 
suggests if the annuity application had been completed within seven days  of 28 March  2018, 
benefits would have been payable from that date. 
ReAssure sent the retirement pack 22 days late, and made some errors in that pack.  I think  
it more likely than not, had the pack been  sent on time and no errors  made,  Mr M would 
have made  his annuity application within seven days of his retirement  date of 28 March  
2018. Benefits  would therefore have been  payable from 28 March 2018. 
So I think it is fair to ask ReAssure to compensate  Mr M for the loss of income. I do however 
agree with ReAssures  point  that Mr M lost out on 29 days income, not a full month, and that 
this should be taxable as it would  have been taxable had it been paid. So ReAssure should 
work out what income Mr M would have received over the 29 day period and pay that to him, 
less income tax. It should provide Mr M with a certificate for the tax. 
I am satisfied that the £250 ReAssure  has paid is fair compensation for the trouble and upset 
caused by its errors. So I do not think it needs  to pay any further  compensation for that. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  I uphold the complaint. ReAssure Ltd should calculate and pay the 
additional income Mr M would have  received,  had benefits been payable  from his retirement 
date. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2019.
John Pattinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN82941553
Ref: DRN8294155