K820x#14complaint
Mr M and Mrs M complain that Ageas Insurance Limited turned down a claim under their 
home insurance policy.
background
Mr M and Mrs M made a claim on their home  insurance policy  after a wall on their property 
fell down during  a storm. 
Ageas investigated  the claim and instructed a surveyor to look at the damage. The surveyor  
concluded that winds from the storm highlighted  the poor pre-existing condition  of the wall, 
and that the winds alone wouldnt have caused  the wall to fall down.
Using this information  Ageas  turned  down  the claim saying the policy  excludes damage  
which happens due to wear, tear and deterioration which they thought was the main reason  
why the wall fell down. Mr M and Mrs M were  unhappy with this and thought the damage  
should be covered,  so brought  the complaint to our service.
One of our investigators  looked into what happened. He was persuaded Ageas acted 
reasonably when considering the findings of the report and saying the damage was caused 
by wear, tear or deterioration which  happened over time. This meant  that the claim wasnt 
covered as the wear and tear exclusion applied. Mr M and Mrs M disagreed so the complaint 
has come  to me for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important to tell Mr M and Mrs M its clear  theres an issue with the wall, and this 
has caused a great  deal of upset, and theres  a cost to repair  it. But its also important to say 
that my role isnt to re-underwrite the claim, but to decide whether Ageas acted fairly and 
reasonably when applying the policy terms to their claim.
Insurance policies  cant  and dont  cover every eventuality. Insurers  are free to decide what 
events they wish to provide  cover for under  a policy. They  are also free to include exclusions 
in policies for events  they dont want to cover. Here  the policy doesnt cover  damage due to 
wear, tear or deterioration, nor loss or damage that happens gradually  over time. Ageas has 
relied upon this exclusion  when deciding  not to pay the claim.
When considering  claims  for storm damage  an insurer should investigate three things:
-were there storm conditions at the time?
-is the damage of a type consistent  with that caused by a storm?
-was the storm the main cause of the damage?
All parties  agree, as do I, that on the day of the damage there  were  storm conditions. This 
means there  is an insured event under the policy.
To answer  the second  and third questions Ageas instructed a surveyors  report  on the wall. 
Ref: DRN80452302The wall fell over during strong winds which  could  be consistent with the type of damage 
caused by a storm. The wall is made  of perforated bricks which  allow wind to pass  through. 
Because of this Ageas didnt think the damage  was consistent with that caused  by a storm. 
The report  said there were no piers or supports holding the wall up, nor were there any weep 
holes. It also said the foliage and bushes from the neighbouring  property were  big enough to 
have affected  the wall over time which seemed to be listing outwards. There  were also roots 
and branches pushing outwards. The report concluded that the wall had fallen down due to a 
breakdown of materials over time. It said the strong  winds  highlighted the pre-existing 
condition of the wall, and that the wind wouldnt have brought down the wall on its own. 
Ageas applied the policy terms to the claim. They said because  of the issues highlighted by 
the surveyor the main  cause of damage wasnt due to the storm. Ageas said the damage 
occurred over time due to wear and tear which was highlighted by the strong winds.  This 
type of damage  is excluded under  the policy. 
Having looked  at the report, and the notes of the investigation, Im satisfied Ageas 
considered the expert evidence in a reasonable way. Thats  not to say there  isnt a problem 
with the wall; there is. But Ageas looked at what the expert report had to say about  the 
cause of the wall falling  over and applied  an exclusion under the policy.  Im happy  this is a 
fair way of investigating  a claim and that Ageas acted  reasonably  on the evidence  provided.
Mr M and Mrs M say they the surveyor told them they have a valid claim and they should  
fight it. I dont doubt their recollections of this conversation however it is for Ageas to decide  
the claim and not the surveyor.
Having considered everything, Im satisfied  Ageas applied the policy  terms in a fair and 
reasonable way when  turning down  the claim.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 February  2020
Warren Wilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8045230