K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complains that Virgin Money  plc failed to inform her that it was reducing the interest  
rate on her ISA, thus depriving  her of the opportunity to try and find a better  rate elsewhere.
background
An investigator at this service felt the evidence indicated that Virgin had emailed her  and to 
her correct address   more than 14 days before the reduction,  as required in her terms and 
conditions.
She acknowledged that Mrs M had not opened  the email but she was satisfied that Virgin  
had done all it was required  to do.
Mrs M disagreed, and said:
Virgin had never asked her what her preferred  method  of communication  was so she 
hadnt agreed that it could send important communications  solely by email
She had opened and read all the other emails from Virgin  Money so she strongly 
disputes that this one was sent
Also, one email  was not sufficient to communicate this key message
According to banking regulations, customers should be told how and where they can 
get up-to-date information  on interest rates and how and when they will be notified of 
interest rate changes. Virgin did not meet this standard
She and her husband have their own identical ISAs with Virgin Money.  On 18 March  
her husband received  an email  from Virgin Money with information about his account 
while she didnt receive one. This reinforces her argument about its likely  failure  to 
have sent the email  in question
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In this case I agree with the investigator 
and for the same  reasons.  
We regularly received complaints where either the business  or a customer  claims not to 
have received a particular  communication, whether  it is a letter or email. There is 
understandably a limit to what we can do to try and establish beyond  reasonable doubt 
whether the letter or email was sent, correctly delivered or opened.
In these situations we take the view that if a letter or email was correctly addressed, it was 
more likely than not correctly delivered either by post or electronically (whether this was 
opened it is impossible  to say). In this case,  the evidence I have seen indicates it is more 
likely than not that Virgin sent the rate notification to Mrs M and to her correct email  address. 
I cannot say whether there was a problem with her service provider, server or it went  into a 
junk box. So I do not dispute  that she may not have seen it, let alone opened it.
But when assessing a complaint, my role is to decide whether a business  clearly did 
something wrong, and I do not believe there  is sufficient evidence to reach such  a 
conclusion in this case.
Ref: DRN80574252I am satisfied that Virgin Money was entitled  to send a single communication  to customers 
notifying it of a rate change, and Ive seen no evidence that Mrs M specifically told it to do 
this via letter rather than email. As banks frequently ask customers  to choose one method of 
communication only, the fact that Mrs M received  emails from Virgin  suggests that she will 
have agreed to this preferred method of communication at some point, albeit perhaps as the 
default option.
Given this, I dont feel the additional points  she raises,  including  a recent email to her 
husband, is sufficient  to conclude Virgin Money  did anything  wrong  in this instance. 
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8057425