K822xcomplaint
Mrs Gs unhappy that The Co-operative Bank  Plc cancelled her personal career 
development loan (PCDL) - even though she says shed never missed a single payment - 
and sold it onto a debt collection agent. She wants the loan reinstated, her credit  file 
amended, a written  apology and compensation for the stress  and anxiety  shes  been 
caused.
background 
The Co-operative said itd paid Mrs G £100  compensation  which  shed declined. Its 
subsequently offered  to increase this to a total of £300. Its also agreed to take Mrs Gs 
account back from the debt collection agency  but says it will not be able to reopen the loan 
on its systems  meaning Mrs G wont be able to view the account online and it wont  be able 
to send her letters or statements regarding the account which  will be managed  by its debt 
recovery unit. 
Mrs G hasnt accepted  The Co-operatives offer.
Our adjudicator felt this complaint should be upheld. She said:
The terms and conditions of the PCDL say The Co-operative  can transfer its rights 
and obligations  under the agreement to another  qualifying party. Here its admitted it 
made a mistake sending a default  notice and final demand  to Mrs G. And that it 
wrongfully transferred her loan to the debt collection agency. But this was prompted 
by changes made as the PCDL wasnt compliant with the Consumer Credit Act.
The Co-operative took a commercial decision to transfer all accounts that were 
shown as in arrears to the debt collection agency.  That wrongly included Mrs Gs 
loan. Here it wasnt an escalation of debt recovery action,  it was merely a transfer of 
ownership and no adverse  information will be recorded. As thats  a commercial 
decision we cant interfere with it. 
Although The Co-operatives  errors  have  caused Mrs G stress she hasnt suffered 
any financial loss and no adverse  information  has been recorded  on her credit file. 
Its now up to Mrs G to decide  if she wants her account transferred back to The Co-
operative. And if she doesnt, she will need  to contact the debt collection agents  to 
make arrangements  to repay  the account. 
The Co-operatives offer of a total of £300  compensation is fair and reasonable. Its 
also agreed to send Mrs G an official letter of apology. She isnt asking it to do any 
more.
Mrs G doesnt agree  and has asked  for an ombudsman review.  She says £300 
compensation isnt enough. It doesnt  reflect the distress shes  been caused and the effect  
this has had on her health. Shes also being  offered an unsuitable account with The Co-
operatives debt collecting  team.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN89257292The Co-operative accepts  it made mistakes. It appears that changes it made to Mrs Gs 
PCDL, because of it not complying with the Consumer Credit Act, resulted in it treating the 
loan as being in arrears.  It issued a default  and transferred the loan to a debt collection 
agency even though  it shouldnt have been  subject  to any further debt collection action.
Even so, as the adjudicator has pointed  out, The Co-operative was entitled under the terms 
of the loan to transfer it to another suitable party at any time as a commercial decision. 
What I must now consider  is what The Co-operative should fairly and reasonably do to put 
things right.
The Co-operative has confirmed that because of the type of loan involved no adverse 
information has been recorded  on Mrs Gs credit file. And its also recently agreed to send 
her a formal  apology. Thats fair.
The Co-operative has also offered to pay Mrs G a total of £300 compensation for the 
distress shes  been caused.  Mrs G says this isnt enough to compensate her for the stress 
and anxiety caused. 
I accept this matter has been  distressing for Mrs G and has caused her inconvenience.  But 
theres no evidence  from an expert  medical  supporting her suggestion that its had an 
adverse affect  on her health.
Taking everything into account,  including the level of awards  we make,  I think a payment of 
a total of £300 compensation  for the distress and inconvenience Mrs Gs been caused is fair 
and I dont think I can reasonably ask The Co-operative to pay her any more.
I understand Mrs Gs frustration at The Co-operative saying if it takes  back her account  it will 
be run by its debt recovery department with certain  practical consequences.  But this appears  
to be a reasonable solution given whats happened and issues with the PCDL not being 
compliant with the Consumer Credit Act.
I realise this proposal  isnt Mrs Gs ideal  resolution  to this case. But if she doesnt want to 
deal with the new owners of her account she will have to decide if she is prepared to accept 
this compromise to get the account back into the hands of The Co-operative. So, thats a 
decision I will leave  her to make.
Overall, although understand Mrs Gs strength  of feeling, I dont see any compelling  reason 
to change the proposed outcome in this case.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  To put things  right The Co-operative Bank Plc should, if it hasnt 
done so already, pay Mrs G a total of £300  compensation.
The Co-operative must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it 
Mrs G accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
If The Co-operative considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs G how much  its taken  off. It should also give 
Ref: DRN89257293her a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 June  2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8925729