K820x#14complaint
Mr W1 and Mr W2 have complained that a claim for storm damage under their retail  
insurance policy was unfairly declined by Ageas Insurance Limited.
Mr W1 and Mr W2 are represented. For ease my reference to things  Mr W1 and Mr W2 have  
said includes  their representatives  comments.
background
In December 2017 damage was caused  to the flat roof. Mr W1 and Mr W2 reported water 
ingress to the bathroom and they think the damage caused was a result  of a storm.
On 22 January 2018 Ageas appointed a surveyor to validate the claim. Mr W1 and Mr W2 
told him that they had owned  the property for about  10 years and thought the roof was about  
8 years old. They also said the roof had been temporarily repaired in recent weeks  to stop 
further water  ingress. The surveyor said the roof looked older than stated  and appeared to 
be suffering from lack of maintenance  and general  wear and tear. The claim was declined.
Mr W1 and Mr W2s roofer  who completed  a temporary  repair on the roof thought  the 
damage was caused by storm. 
Mr W1 and Mr W2 brought their complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold  the 
complaint. She didnt  think the storm was the dominant cause of the damage and the storm 
only highlighted an already pre-existing problem with the roof caused by wear  and tear. 
Mr W1 and Mr W2 didnt agree, they provided a photograph of the roof after the damage was 
caused but prior to any repair being done and asked what else could cause the damage  to 
the roof other than storm when  a section has been ripped off. They also said despite recent 
storms the roof is continuing to remain weatherproof at the current  time.  The complaint has 
been referred to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked  at the policy I can see it provides cover for damage  caused by storm.
When considering  a storm complaint, I generally take into consideration the following 
questions:
 do we agree  that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said to 
have happened?
 is the damage claimed  for consistent  with damage a storm typically causes?
 were  the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
If the answer  to all of these questions is yes then the claim is likely to succeed. But, if the 
answer to any of the above questions is no  the claim for storm damage is unlikely to be 
covered.
Ref: DRN86731182do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage  is said to 
have happened?
I have seen the weather records for the day of the incident; storm conditions were  recorded, 
and Ageas hasnt  disputed  this. 
is the damage claimed for consistent with damage  a storm typically  causes?
I think a flat roof lifting and tearing  and water leaking into the bathroom below the damaged  
area is the type of damage that could be associated with a storm.
were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
In deciding this, I usually rely on expert  evidence. Ive considered the information given by
Mr W1 and Mr W2s roofer, the Ageas surveyors report  and the photographs  provided by 
both parties. I have to look at all the evidence and part of my assessment is to consider 
whether the roof was in a good condition  or if the storm has just highlighted an existing 
problem, such as wear  and tear.
I appreciate that Mr W1 and Mr W2s roofer actually went up onto the roof to inspect the 
damage and repair  the roof. And in his opinion he thinks the damage was caused by a storm 
as the roof felt had lifted and torn causing a section of the felt to come  clean  off the roof. He 
said that The position  of the adjacent buildings and the direction  of the wind would have 
caused a swirling motion which  I consider  to be the reason that only part of the felt roof lifted  
and was damaged.  The roofer  also said since  I have made the temporary repair to stop 
any more water ingress the roof has not suffered any more damage  or water penetration 
which in my experience  shows that the roof is in a reasonable  state  of repair  and that if the 
repair is holding up during the recent weather conditions being  experienced at this time in  
then I would assume that the roof is not generally  in a state of disrepair.
Having looked  at the Ageas surveyors report I can see Mr W1 and Mr W2 told him that the 
roof was about  8 years  old. But the surveyor believes that looking at the growth of weeds 
and the weathering of the roof it appears to be much older. The surveyors  expert opinion 
was that the degradation in the felt was due to wear and tear. 
Ive considered the photographs from both parties  and I can see weeds  and moss. 
Mr W1 and Mr W2s roofer  has said this is quite common  in the area and doesnt affect the 
structural integrity or weather resistance of the roof. I agree that the presence of moss  
doesnt necessarily  mean  the roof is in a poor state  of repair  or maintenance. 
The photo  provided by Mr W1 and Mr W2 shows a section of felt has been torn from the 
roof. If strong wind got under the felt, I agree it could have  lifted  it. And the force of the wind 
on the now lifted felt could have caused  it to tear away from the roof. But I think this could 
only have happened  if the section of felt was already loose  enough for the wind to get under 
it. If the felt was fully secured to the roof, I think its unlikely the wind would break it free.
Ref: DRN86731183In my opinion the roof does look to be cracked and brittle in places and the repairs  look to be 
quite extensive  and not just in the area where  the felt was lifted out. So I think  it was more 
likely than not that the roof has deteriorated over time and the strong winds  exposed  that. I 
appreciate that the repairs carried out has kept the property water tight at present but the 
roofer has also quoted  for a replacement roof and I think that could be an indication that he 
thinks the roof needs to be replaced. Im persuaded the storm highlighted an existing 
problem.
I understand Mr W1 and Mr W2 are unhappy that Ageas surveyor inspected the roof using a 
camera pole. But having looked at the photographs, I think they show  the condition  of the 
roof sufficiently clearly  for the surveyor to be able to form an opinion of the cause of the 
damage. Ageas was entitled to rely on its surveyors  opinion to decline Mr W1 and Mr W2s 
claim and I think  that it was reasonable for it to do so. Im not satisfied Mr W1 and Mr W2 
have provided  sufficient information  that persuades me the surveyors  conclusions are unfair 
or unreasonable. I think Ageas has shown  that its more likely than not that there were 
existing problems with the condition of the roof and that the storm was not the main  cause  of 
the damage. My conclusion is that Ageas decision  not to settle Mr W1 and Mr W2s claim for 
storm damage was in line with the policy terms and in all the circumstances fair and 
reasonable.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint against Ageas Insurance 
Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W1 and Mr W2 
to accept or reject my decision before 23 February 2019.
Angela Casey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8673118