K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Vanquis  Bank  Limited  lent irresponsibly when it approved a credit card 
with a £250 limit in 2012. 
background
In August  2012  Mr M applied for a credit card with Vanquis.  Mr Ms application said he was 
employed and earned around £16,000  a year.  Vanquis  completed  a credit search and went 
on to approve Mr Ms application.  A £250 limit was placed on his account. 
Mr M maintained his payments for several  months but the account defaulted and the debt 
was sold to a third party. 
In 2018 Mr M complained  above Vanquis decision to approve his credit  card in 2012. 
Vanquis looked at whatd  happened but didnt  uphold his complaint  as it said his application 
had met its lending criteria. Mr M went on to refer his complaint  to this service.  
An investigator looked at Mr Ms complaint but didnt uphold it. They said Vanquis had 
completed proportionate checks and the decision to approve the credit card was reasonable 
based on what it knew about Mr M. Mr M didnt agree and said that older credit searches this 
service has on file in relation to other  complaints hes raised show  his position  more clearly. 
As Mr M didnt agree with the adjudicators  view of his complaint its been  passed to me to 
make a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before a lender  approves borrowing its required to complete checks  in order to assess  
whether the debt is affordable and sustainable. Theres  no specific set of checks  a lenders 
have to complete  but they should be proportionate to the level and type of debt applied  for. 
Vanquis has provided evidence to show  Mr M supplied information about  his personal 
circumstances when  he applied, including his income and employment type. Vanquis also 
completed a credit search and assessed the application in line with its lending criteria. 
Vanquis says it found Mr M had a default that was over a year old before  applying. The 
credit search Ive found on another of Mr Ms complaints shows he also had a default  from 
January 2011  but it appears  he was making repayments to clear that debt when he applied 
to Vanquis. Vanquis confirmed that the outstanding default balance at this time was around 
£700, it didnt  find any County Court Judgements and that Mr M had around £900 
outstanding on other  debts at the time of his application. 
Ive looked closely  at Mr Ms credit file which he produced in November 2016 and supplied in 
relation to a separate  complaint. The credit  search goes back for six years from the date it 
was produced so covers  the period when Mr M applied for his Vanquis credit card. And while  
I can see he did have two defaults showing at the time of application in 2012,  they were  both 
over a year old at that point and appear  to have been in the process of being  repaid. 
Ref: DRN88875702I can also see that Mr M had taken payday  loans around this time. But Ive not found 
evidence that Mr M was having trouble  managing those loans at this time and they all 
appear to have been repaid without  missing any payments. 
Vanquis has explained its a second chance  lender and it will consider borrowers whove 
had some previous  credit  problems. In this case, Im satisfied Vanquis was aware of Mr Ms 
position and the information on his credit file was taken into consideration when  it assessed  
his application.  
Looking at everything, Im satisfied Vanquis completed proportionate  checks to see whether 
the £250 credit card limit was sustainable  and affordable. And based on what Mr M told 
Vanquis and what  it found  out about him, Im satisfied the application met its lending  criteria 
and it was reasonable for it to proceed.  As Ive not found Vanquis lent irresponsibly,  Im not 
telling it to do anything  else to resolve this complaint. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision 
before 11 February  2019.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8887570