K820x#14complaint
Mrs W says Bank of Scotland Plc  trading  as Halifax - mis-sold  her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background
Mrs W bought the policy  at the same time as taking out a credit card. This was during a 
meeting with Halifax in 2001.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs W disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion,  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ws case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ws complaint. Ill explain why. 
Halifax shouldve made Mrs W aware  she had a choice about  taking  out the policy. Halifax  
no longer has a copy of the paperwork Mrs W wouldve  completed. So it has provided a 
sample of the application form that Mrs W is likely to have completed. 
The form has a section  for the PPI which required applicant  to tick a box to opt for the PPI to 
be added  to their account. From  what I know about how Halifax  sold these  policies, the form 
was usually completed based on a discussion between the applicant and Halifaxs  employee 
and the form was then printed out for the applicant to read and sign.  
As Mrs Ws account  ended up having the policy added, I think this is most likely what  
happened in this case. Mrs W wouldve been  given  the form to sign so I think  if there  was 
anything on the form she wasn't sure about  or hadn't agreed to she would've had the 
opportunity to question  it at the time.  There isnt anything in what Mrs W has told us that 
makes me think Halifax did anything differently here.  
So - on balance - I think its likely  Mrs W chose to take the policy   although  I can 
understand why she cant  remember this. 
Mrs W says Halifax  didnt recommend the policy her. Halifax  says it did. It says this because 
it was sold during a meeting in branch, and branch sales at the time were advised. So it had 
to check that the PPI was right for her. And based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at 
the time,  I think that it was. For example she wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or 
limits on the PPI cover. 
Mrs W says she would have received some sick pay benefits from her employer. The policy  
would have paid out alongside her benefits, as well as covering her repayments if she 
became unemployed. And it doesnt look like Mrs W had any other means  such  as savings 
 she could have  used. 
Ref: DRN85815312Ive thought about what Mrs W has said about  her husband being  able to help out if she 
couldnt make her repayments. But circumstance can change  and whilst  I dont  doubt        
Mrs Ws husband wouldve wanted  to help, this help couldnt be guaranteed. So Halifax  
wasnt wrong to recommend the policy to her. 
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mrs W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted  this type of cover. And for the 
reasons Ive explained above, it seems like it would have been useful for her if something  
went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think  better information about the 
PPI would have  put her off taking out the cover. 
Overall I dont think Mrs W has lost out from anything Halifax  might have done wrong. So 
Halifax doesnt need to refund everything  Mrs W paid for it. But Halifax  has already offered 
to give Mrs W back  some of the cost of the PPI. I dont think  it needs  to do anything  more. 
Halifax will make arrangements  to pay Mrs W now Ive issued my final decision.  
 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 June  2019. 
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8581531