K820x#14complaint
Mrs R says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold  her a payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy.
background and summary to complaint
Mrs R bought the policy in 2000 at the same  time as taking out a credit card. She applied for 
the credit  card and PPI policy  through the post.
Mrs R has told us she was employed as a sales assistant and had been there for ten years.  
She has told us she was entitled to full sick pay and redundancy  pay. Shes told us shed get 
less than three months pay if she were off work due to sickness  or accident, or were made 
redundant, and she didnt  have any other  means of repaying her credit card should she be 
unable to work. Mrs R has said she was in good health at the time of the sale.
The policy provided  cover  for accident, sickness and unemployment, and also had life cover,  
subject to its exclusions and limitations. Barclays has told us at the time it cost 70p per £100 
of the monthly  outstanding balance. The premium would continue  to have to be paid during a 
successful claim  and it did attract interest.  The policy offered to repay 10% of Mrs Rs credit  
card balance in the event  of a successful disability or unemployment claim.  The life cover  
would, subject to its terms, clear the card balance on death.  
Barclays has sent us a statement to show that the credit card account closed in 2007. 
Mrs Rs representative has made lengthy and substantial representations on her behalf. 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mrs Rs representative says:
Barclays failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mrs R wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mrs Rs 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Barclays should have 
told Mrs R about  the poor value;  
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Barclays should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mrs R and the 
impact they would have had on her chances of making a claim; and
The information Mrs R received was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Ref: DRN84655172Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Both parties have had a chance  to see and 
provide their responses  to the adjudicators  opinion. Mrs R disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons.
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint.
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Rs. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Rs complaint.
This sale took place  in 2000 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2007. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Barclays at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI code  and 
these other  publications into account when deciding, what  is in my opinion,  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Mrs Rs case.
Ref: DRN84655173 
I have also taken account of relevant law in reaching  my decision, including: the law relating 
to negligence, contract (including the express and implied duty on professional  advisers to 
give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost duty of 
good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness).  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   the Office of the Banking Ombudsman  in this 
case  might have been expected to reach in relation to an equivalent complaint. I note that 
under the Banking Ombudsmans  terms of reference the Ombudsman was required to 
decide complaints  by reference to what was, in his opinion, fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances  and that the Ombudsman was required  to observe any applicable rule of 
law or relevant judicial  authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Barclays was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mrs Rs complaint.
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If Barclays gave advice, whether it advised  Mrs R with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether Barclays gave Mrs R sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to enable  
her to make an informed choice about  whether to take out the policy,  including  
drawing to her attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mrs R, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mrs R suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage.
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mrs R and 
Barclays, Ive decided  not to uphold Mrs Rs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning  below.
did Mrs R know she had a choice?
Barclays had to make it clear the PPI policy was optional. Mrs R has said it was just included  
as part of her package with the card and she wouldnt have had it if Barclays hadnt included  
it with the package. But Mrs Rs credit  agreement form had a separate section on it with a 
box for her to tick if she wanted the PPI. The box is ticked, Mrs R signed the form and there  
isnt anything on the form to suggest  that she had to tick the box.
Ref: DRN84655174Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mrs R knew the policy was 
optional and she agreed to take it out without undue  pressure.
did Barclays provide  advice?
Barclays says it didnt  provide advice during this sale.  Mrs R hasnt said whether advice was 
given or not. Bearing in mind the sale was made by post and the absence of anything from 
the time to show that advice was given,  I think most  likely Barclays didnt provide advice.
This means  Barclays didnt have  to check if the PPI was suitable for Mrs R. Instead, it had to 
give her sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable  Mrs R to make an informed 
choice about whether  to take out the policy, including drawing to her attention and 
highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main provisions of the policy and 
significant limitations and exclusions. 
the information
Barclays has provided us with Mrs Rs credit agreement form, which has a PPI section 
showing that PPI had been  selected.  Barclays says Mrs R wouldve been provided  with a 
policy leaflet too, but it no longer has a copy of this  so I cant  say what this wouldve told 
Mrs R. Barclays  has also referred us to a summary of cover in a policy  certificate which  I 
accept - on a balance of probabilities - applied  to policies like Mrs Rs.
Looking at Mrs Rs credit agreement form and the information it gave Mrs R at the time  I 
dont think Barclays gave  Mrs R the information  she fairly and reasonably needed  to make 
an informed decision about  whether  or not to take out the policy.
This sale took place  by post. Mrs Rs credit agreement form told her the PPI was cover in 
case of unemployment,  accident, sickness and death. It also referred to a monthly premium.  
So I think the information provided  would  have given Mrs R a broad sense of what  the policy  
covered. And I think its unlikely Mrs R wouldve thought  it was free.
But it was Barclayss responsibility  to draw to Mrs Rs attention the important information  
i.e. the key information about the nature  of the cover  and any significant exclusions and 
limitations which might be relevant to her decision. 
Im not persuaded Barclays did enough  to do this. For example, I dont think  the true cost of 
the policy was made  clear  to Mrs R, including the need to maintain  premiums during a claim 
or that the payments would attract interest. In addition,  I cant  see that Barclays  adequately 
drew to her attention  the main  provisions of the policy and significant limitations and 
exclusions. 
So I dont  think Barclays gave Mrs R sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable  
her to make an informed choice about  whether to take out the policy,  including  drawing her 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.  
I have considered how my findings interact with the FCAs list of significant  failings  in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded that there were significant failings in this case.
Ref: DRN84655175In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mrs Rs representative has raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mrs Rs. Ive considered  
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mrs Rs representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mrs R about  the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Mrs Rs representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mrs R has suggested.  And taking into account  the law, industry  codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Barclays ought to have  done  either.
what effect did Barclays shortcomings have  on Mrs R? To what extent  did Mrs R 
suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that Barclays  didnt  do all it should  have done when it sold this policy  to Mrs R. So 
Ive gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude  Mrs R suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether  or not Mrs R would have 
still taken out the policy,  had Barclays done  things properly. 
Mrs R says she wouldnt have taken it out and believes that I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. 
As this was a non-advised sale, Mrs R had to weigh up in her own mind  the cost of the policy  
against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if she didnt insure against the 
risk of being  unable  to work.
As Ive found above, Mrs R chose to take this policy out. So I consider that its reasonable to 
conclude she had some  interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But she 
made this decision  based  on incomplete information. So what Mrs R thought she was getting 
is not exactly what she got. The extent to which this differed is a relevant consideration when 
determining if Mrs R has suffered any loss or detriment.
In relation to the costs, Im satisfied Mrs R ought  reasonably to have known she would have 
to pay something for the PPI and that it would cover  a portion of her outstanding balance.  
But, I accept that Barclays didnt make clear  the on-going cost information. So while  Mrs R 
didnt know some things,  the ultimate position  in the event of a successful claim was not 
dissimilar to what she would reasonably have thought from the information  she based her 
decision to take out the policy on and found acceptable. 
Ref: DRN84655176Possibly the most significant differences between what Mrs R thought she had bought and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims that were the result  of any conditions  that, at the policy  
start date, Mrs R already knew about  or had received doctors  advice or treatment for 
in the previous twelve months;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mrs R 
wasnt a permanent employee; and
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mrs R be unable  to 
do her normal job or any paid work her experience,  education  or training reasonably  
qualified her to do. 
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  or exclusions above might well have  
caused Mrs R pause for thought  and may well have caused  her to conclude  that the policy 
was not as good as she thought  and she might have decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mrs R from taking out the policy.
But, the evidence  about Mrs Rs circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy  
wasnt fundamentally wrong for her. She was eligible for its benefits  and it provided  cover 
that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable to her should the 
insured risks have  become a reality. I also havent  seen any evidence to suggest she 
wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions  Mrs R didnt have any 
pre-existing medical conditions and was in permanent employment.  So, I still think she had 
some good  reasons to take the policy out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions, or place  any additional 
restrictions or more onerous  evidential  requirements in the event of a claim on those 
grounds than would have applied to any other  disability claim. And I think its unlikely Mrs R 
would have expected to make a disability claim on the policy  without first providing some 
evidence to support  that claim.
If Mrs R had known she could only claim for disability if the sickness  or injury she suffered 
not only stopped her doing her normal job but also stopped her doing any paid work that, in 
the insurers view,  her experience, education  or training reasonably  qualified  her to do, it 
might have played into her thinking  about what to do  and I accept it may have  given her 
pause for thought. But given her circumstances,  and in particular what shes told us about 
her work benefits and her lack of other  means, on balance I think she wouldve still been 
interested in taking out the cover.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not that Mrs R would still have taken  out the PPI. The policy was sufficiently close to 
what she thought  she was getting and I think the policy  could provide a useful benefit in a 
difficult time, taking into account  what shes told us about her employment benefits and 
about not having any other means of making  her credit card payments. And in those 
circumstances I consider it more likely than not that she would have taken out the policy in 
any event.
Mrs Rs representatives say the rules  about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
Ref: DRN84655177That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
I have thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, I have found  it would be reasonable to conclude  there  
were substantial flaws  in the sales  process.  In those  circumstances, DISP App 3 says it 
should be presumed Mrs R would not have  bought  the PPI she bought unless, in the 
particular circumstances  of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption. 
I am satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude  the presumption  is rebutted 
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mrs Rs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mrs R 
found herself in as result of the sale was the same  position she would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mrs R believes  the presumption may only be rebutted  when the flaws in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I dont  consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mrs R in the position she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policy.
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that she would not have taken out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that she would still have 
taken out the PPI had she been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy she was buying. So Im not persuaded it would  be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude Barclays should  pay Mrs R compensation, as that would put her 
in a better position  than she would have been in if everything had happened as it should  
have done. 
Im also aware that Mrs R thinks Barclays misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Barclays statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why Barclays  
failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in the 
information it provided  but because the overall  information Barclays  gave Mrs R, in the 
way it did, was insufficient to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it 
to have met in 2000 when providing information  about an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mrs Rs representative  says a court might take if it were 
to find Barclays negligently misrepresented  the contract to Mrs R and about the remedy a 
court might award if it were to find that Barclays had been in breach of its duty of utmost  
good faith. But this doesnt persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint   including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mrs R in a better position than if everything  had 
happened as it should have done.
Ref: DRN84655178my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 June  2019
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8465517