K821x#15complaint
Mr W complains about poor claims handling by Acromas  Insurance Company Limited
("Acromas") when his car was badly damaged in an accident and he claimed  under  his
motor insurance policy  with Acromas.
background
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 26 June  2019.  Mr W said he had no 
further points  to make. Acromas said it would accept  my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Mr W nor Acromas has provided any fresh information or evidence  in response to 
my provisional decision, I find no basis to depart  from my earlier conclusions.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint, and order Acromas Insurance  Company Limited  
to pay Mr W, for the distress and inconvenience  he suffered, compensation of £300,  
inclusive of the £150 it has already offered, and in addition  to the £15 road tax it has 
refunded.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 August 2019.
Lennox Towers
ombudsman
COPY OF MY PROVISIONAL DECISION  OF 26 JUNE 2019
complaint
Mr W complains  about  poor claims  handling by Acromas Insurance Company  Limited (Acromas)  
when his car was badly  damaged  in an accident and he claimed under  his motor insurance policy with 
Acromas.
Ref: DRN81321812background
In the middle of May 2018, Mr W and his wife were on holiday in Europe when their car left the road, 
hit a phone mast, and tumbled into a field. Fortunately, Mr and Mrs W werent injured,  but their car 
was badly  damaged. It was recovered to a local garage.
Mr W contacted Acromas  who confirmed it would provide  £500 of emergency  travel expenses to get 
them home.  Acromas  accepted Mr Ws offer to return to the local garage and obtain information 
needed for the claims process, including the cost of repairing the car.
The garage  said the car couldnt be repaired and so repair costs couldnt be provided. Acromas said it 
would be sufficient  if Mr W got a letter from the garage confirming the car couldnt  be repaired 
together with a copy of the inspection report on the car. Mr W got these  and passed them on to 
Acromas, along with the V5C vehicle registration document,  when he returned to the UK on 18 May 
2018.
Acromas also asked Mr W for the purchase  receipt from when he bought the car some 18 months 
previously. However Mr W said he didnt  have this  he thought it was still in the car. He did provide a 
copy of the signed purchase order for the car and a copy of the receipt  for the deposit he had paid.
Acromass claims  department  then started to deal with his claim. They  again  asked for the purchase 
receipt, and he explained  why he couldnt provide this. He did supply a copy of his bank statement  as 
proof of payment. They also wanted to check the repair  costs were  at least 60% of the manufacturers 
list price. He reminded them  of the information he had obtained from the garage at Acromass  
request.
Under Mr Ws policy, he was entitled  to have his car replaced with a new car of the same make  and 
model if certain conditions were satisfied. Acromas told him at the end of May 2018 that it would  
process his claim  on this basis once  it had the necessary  documents. The particulars for this included  
that:
his car was damaged and the cost of repair would be more than 60% of the manufacturers 
list price (including vehicle tax and VAT) at the time of the damage;
his car wasnt more  than 24 months old from date of first registration;
Mr W was the first registered keeper; and
the cars mileage wasnt more than 12,000 miles.
It seems that on 18 June  2018 Acromas wasnt satisfied on the information  it then had that these 
conditions were  satisfied.  So it told Mr W that it would only offer the market  value of his car before the 
accident, which it assessed at £14,640.  Mr W wouldnt  accept this and complained to Acromas.
He managed  to get a receipted order form from the supplier of his car, which he passed on to 
Acromas, and finally on 2 July 2018 Acromas accepted that Mr W qualified for a replacement  new car 
under the policy. Mr W had by this time ordered a comparable replacement new car at a cost of 
£16,983, and on 4 July 2018  Acromas agreed to reimburse him this amount under  the policy.
After Acromas had agreed to pay Mr W, there  was then a further delay before he received the 
payment. He also thought that as Acromas had had his V5C document  since May 2018 it would have  
notified DVLA  of the cars loss so that DVLA would process a refund of his road fund tax. However  he 
found out this hadnt been done. So he only received one months refund (£2.50) from DVLA  instead 
of the six months (£15) he was expecting.
Mr W complained to Acromas about the delays in its process. Acromas paid him £75 compensation 
for asking for some  information  after it had already received it, and a further £75 for delay  in paying 
him the replacement new car cost. It also refunded the £15 he said he was out of pocket from DVLA.
Ref: DRN81321813Mr W complained to us. He said the whole process, from the date of the accident until this final 
reimbursement of road tax, had taken some five and a half months.  He thought  this was far too long, 
and could have been concluded in a couple  of weeks. He had to pay for his new car himself before 
being reimbursed. He was repeatedly asked for information he had offered  or already provided, or 
had told Acromas he didnt have.
The whole procedure had been unnecessarily stressful, and the delays in being  able to replace his 
car had caused him inconvenience. He thought the £150 compensation he had been offered  was 
wholly insufficient.
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld. She said there had been  
some delay before Acromas accepted that the requirements for new for old replacement  had been 
met. Acromas had offered  compensation  of £75 for this, which she thought  was reasonable.
Acromas also acknowledged that a systems error meant payment of his claim was made to Mr W 
some 7 days after it should  have been. Acromas had apologised and offered a further £75 
compensation for this, which  she thought was reasonable.
The investigator said she wouldnt expect an insurer to deal with DVLA regarding the refund of road 
tax. However in addition to the £2.50 Mr W received  back from DVLA, Acromas had paid him £15 
which she thought  was fair.
Mr W responded to say, in summary,  that:
he supplied enough  information earlier for Acromas  to settle his claim;
it was unreasonable for Acromas repeatedly to ask for the purchase receipt  until he managed  
to get the supplier of the car to send  a copy of the receipted order. If it was a required 
document he thought Acromas could  have  asked the local garage to check the car for it;
he explained at the outset that the local garage declined to supply  a repair estimate,  but 
Acromas continued to ask for this information;
Acromas hadnt compensated him for the stress of the five and a half months he spent  
dealing with his claim;
it was unfair  that he had to buy his replacement  car before his claim was settled; and
he thought Acromas were intentionally delaying his claim and offering market value instead of 
replacement value for his car.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Mr W and his wife are both elderly.  So the accident and its aftermath were  quite traumatic  for them.  
That being so, I would have  expected Acromas to make particular efforts to guide  them  through  the 
claims process. I dont  think  Acromas  did as well in this respect as it could have.
That said, there  were two aspects of this claim which made it more complicated than usual. First of all 
the accident happened in a foreign country, and the car remained with a local garage there. That 
meant it was always going to be more difficult for Acromas to get the information  it needed about the 
state of the car. The network of engineers that it would normally call on in this country wasnt 
available.
Secondly, Mr Ws car was relatively new, and under the terms  of the policy he was entitled to a new 
for old replacement rather than just its market value at the time of the accident. This was a valuable 
benefit  In Mr Ws case it increased  the value of his claim by more  than £2,300.  However there were 
conditions under  the policy terms, which I have referred to above, which  had to be met.
Ref: DRN81321814An insurer is entitled to set out in its policy  the terms that apply for payment of any benefit. In this 
case there were two requirements of Acromas in relation to such claims which caused  difficulties:
it wanted to see the original purchase invoice for the car; and
it wanted to be satisfied that the cost of repairing the damage would be more  than 60% of list 
price.
Mr W explained at the outset that he didnt  have the purchase invoice,  but Acromas repeatedly asked 
for this. Eventually he managed to produce a receipted order from the supplier of the car, which  
Acromas accepted. I think Acromas could  have engaged  earlier  with Mr W to try to come up with an 
acceptable way round the difficulty.
Again, Acromas persisted  in trying to get a repair  estimate  for the car when it was clear from the 
outset that the local garage wouldnt produce this. Without this, Acromas wouldnt offer a new for old 
replacement. So it offered Mr W market value instead.  I dont think  this was a deliberate  ploy by 
Acromas to reduce the claim - it just wasnt satisfied  at that stage that its requirements were met.
After Mr W complained, a member  of Acromass complaints department became involved, and the 
handling of the claim improved. This was nearly five weeks  after the accident. Acromas decided that if 
it had photos of the damage to the car this might suffice instead of a repair estimate. Mr W had 
offered these immediately after the accident, but Acromas had declined them.
Once Acromas had these it accepted that new for old replacement would apply and on 2 July 2018 it 
agreed a settlement figure with Mr W. Because of a systems failure  there was a short delay  in paying 
this but Mr W has confirmed  that payment was received in his bank account on 13 July 2018.
Mr W felt he had to get on and order a replacement car while this was going on. He took delivery,  and 
paid for, this car on 10 July 2018.  While  there was a short period that he was out of funds I dont think 
this is something I can reasonably require  Acromas to compensate  him for. I think it was always 
unlikely that the payment of the claim  and the purchase of the replacement  car would be matched  
exactly.
I think  Mr Ws claim was substantially  settled when the claim was paid, which was some two months 
after the accident. I know there was then the issue of the refund of road tax, which  Mr W raised with 
Acromas in September 2018. But I think the claim was in practice settled by mid July 2018.
Road tax refund is something  that would normally be for the policyholder to deal with directly  with 
DVLA. Acromas had retained the V5C for the car from the outset. Acromas says this wasnt actually 
needed by Mr W to reclaim  the road tax. But in the circumstances I think  Acromas should have 
pointed this out to Mr W so that he could  make his reclaim earlier.
Acromas has refunded the full six months of the road tax from the date of the accident. I think this is 
reasonable and dont require  it to do anything more  in this respect.
It took Acromas  two months to settle Mr Ws claim. Mr W says it could all have been dealt with in a 
couple of weeks. As I have  mentioned, there were  particular  difficulties in this claim  which meant that 
was always going to be challenging.
Nevertheless, I think Acromas could  have  done  more to engage with Mr W at the outset and guide 
him through the process, as it did latterly when  its complaints department became involved.  Its failure 
to do so lengthened the process, and caused Mr W distress and inconvenience.
Acromas has offered Mr W compensation  of £150 in total,  plus the £15 refund of road tax. I think the 
appropriate compensation  for the distress and inconvenience Mr W suffered  is £300,  rather  than 
£150, plus the £15 refund  of road tax.
my provisional  decision
Ref: DRN81321815For the reasons  Ive explained, but subject to any further comments and evidence I receive from 
either Mr W or from Acromas  by 10 July 2019, I intend to uphold this complaint.
I intend  to order Acromas Insurance Company Limited  to pay Mr W, for the distress and 
inconvenience he suffered, compensation of £300, inclusive of the £150 it has already offered,  and in 
addition to the £15 road tax it has refunded.
Lennox Towers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8132181