K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs K are unhappy with the valuation of their car by Acromas  Insurance  Company 
Limited, following  a claim  on their motor insurance  policy. 
background
Mr and Mrs K made a claim on their motor insurance policy  after their car was involved in an 
accident. Acromas decided the car was a write-off (known as a total loss) and initially  valued 
their car at £4,820. 
Mr and Mrs K werent happy  with this  they said they wouldnt be able to replace the vehicle 
for that amount. And they sent some of examples of similar vehicles currently for sale to 
Acromas. Acromas considered the adverts and decided to increase their valuation to £5,250.  
Mr and Mrs K still werent happy  with this amount. They wanted £6,500. They  pointed  out 
that theyd recently  had a new battery, brake discs and pads, and new tyres fitted shortly  
before the accident. So they referred the complaint to our service.
An adjudicator considered  their complaint but she didnt think  it should be upheld. She 
checked the relevant trade  guides to see if Acromas valuation  seemed fair. And as the 
guides came  back with values lower  than Acromas had offered she thought the valuation 
was reasonable  and in line with the policys terms and conditions. 
Mr and Mrs K didnt  agree. They said they cant buy a replacement  car at a trade price and 
so the valuation still isnt fair. As Mr and Mrs K didnt agree,  the complaint has been passed 
to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  Acromas 
has made an unreasonable offer to Mr and Mrs K. Ill explain  why. 
The terms and conditions  of Mr and Mrs Ks policy say if the car is lost or damaged  the most 
Acromas will pay is the market value of the car at the time of the loss. It defines market value 
as the cost of replacing the car with one of the same  make,  model, specification, age, 
mileage and condition  immediately before the loss. 
Its not our role to value  the car but to consider  whether the valuation the insurer  has given is 
a fair and reasonable one. To do that, I consider  in particular relevant trade guides used for 
valuing cars, as well as all the other evidence provided by both sides.  We find the guides  
persuasive as theyre based on nationwide research of sales prices. We do consider  other  
information, such as the adverts  Mr and Mrs K have provided, but generally find the guides  
more persuasive as they take account  of negotiation from advertised prices.  The guides  also 
take account of the cars mileage and optional extras. I understand Mr and Mrs K are 
concerned that they cant buy a car at trade  value. But it might be helpful for me to explain 
that although theyre called trade  guides they do give the retail market value of a car, which 
is what Acromas  has used. So the guides dont  only give trade  prices  and Mr and Mrs K 
arent expected to be able to buy the car at a lower trade value.  
Ref: DRN89387832Ive looked at the advertisements Mr and Mrs K have provided  showing cars priced higher 
than the amount theyve been offered. Generally though Id place less weight on advertised 
car prices than trade  guides.  The reason being  is that the value a car is advertised for is not 
necessarily what it sells for. The valuation Acromas did was using two particular trade  
guides. It said one guide gave a valuation of £4,890 and the other of £4,750. Acromas 
initially offered the mid-point  of these values, £4.820.
Weve checked  two different trade  guides  as well as the ones Acromas looked  at - and 
these show the value of the car being  lower than the amount Mr and Mrs K have been 
offered. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs K had recently  had a new battery, brake discs and pads and tyres 
fitted. But the trade guides gives the valuation of a car in good condition.  So these repairs 
would be considered general  maintenance  and have already been taken into account when 
valuing the car. I understand Mr and Mrs Ks car also had a sun roof and running boards but 
the guides that I checked didnt show these as increasing the valuation of the car. I dont find 
this unusual as often optional extras dont increase the value of second hand cars.
Im pleased to see Acromas considered the adverts  Mr and Mrs K sent in and revised  their 
valuation. However  as all the guides  show the cars value as being  lower than Acromas final 
valuation and Im not persuaded the adverts  increase  the value of the car above  £5,250,  I 
dont think Acromas needs to increase the valuation further. 
Mr and Mrs K had a hire car for about  a month while their claim was going through.  And they 
think that the total cost of that has had an impact on the valuation of their car. But this isnt 
something Id expect the insurer  to take into account  when valuing  the car being  claimed  for 
 and I havent seen anything which makes  me think the cost of the hire car has affected 
Acromas valuation. And Ive already explained  based on what  Ive seen, I think  the offers 
been made in line with the relevant guides.  
Mr and Mrs K have  also said that they dont think the offers  fair, taking  into account the time 
and inconvenience  of finding a similar vehicle. But again, this isnt something  Id expect 
Acromas to take into account. By its very nature, being involved in an accident and having 
your car written-off is inconvenient  but thats  not what  car insurance is designed to cover. 
Under the terms of the policy, Acromas wont pay more than the market  value of the car 
immediately before the accident  its not meant  to cover the inconvenience  associated with 
having to replace a car. So I dont  think Acromas needed to take this into account  in their 
valuation.  
So, having  taken everything into account,  Im satisfied that the valuation made by Acromas  
for Mr and Mrs Ks car is a fair one.
Ref: DRN89387833my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 July 2019.
Eleanor Rippengale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8938783