K820x#14complaint
B, a limited  company, has complained that Health  and Protection Solutions Limited (HPS) 
mis-sold it a group private medical insurance  policy. B is represented by its director, Mr C.
background
B had a group private medical insurance policy which covered Mr C and his wife. Mr C met 
with an adviser from HPS and agreed to switch the cover to a new insurer  on a continuing  
medical exclusions basis. This meant that, subject to their satisfactory completion of a 
medical declaration,  he and his wife would have no new exclusions on their cover.
A short time after the cover started, Mr Cs wife, Mrs C, had a claim declined  on the grounds 
that her condition was pre-existing. Mr C also had a claim for a scan declined because the 
referral for the scan had been made by his GP rather than a specialist. 
Mr C, on behalf of B, complained that these  claims would have been allowed under Bs 
previous policy. He said that he had been misled  into taking out the new policy.
HPS didnt uphold  the complaint. It said the documentary evidence  from the time of sale 
showed its adviser had asked  whether Mrs C had seen a specialist in the past twelve  
months and had been told she hadnt. This information was incorrect  and had led to the 
decline of her claim by the insurer. It said that its adviser hadnt  been shown Bs previous 
policy and so couldnt have known what cover  it provided. Mr C hadnt specifically asked for 
cover for GP-referred services and so this hadnt  been included.
Mr C, on behalf of B, was unhappy at HPS response. He referred  the complaint to us. He 
said that the adviser had completed the paperwork without explaining to him and his wife 
what it was all about. He thought the adviser  hadnt shown any duty of care.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. He felt from the 
documentary evidence  that the adviser had done nothing  wrong.
Mr C, on behalf of B, didnt accept  the investigators  findings. He said that he and his wife 
trusted the adviser  and so signed  the forms without properly reviewing them. He maintained 
that the adviser had failed to show any duty of care.
In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I shall explain  why.
The adviser completed a fact find when he first met with Mr C. This recorded  that, to the best 
of Mr Cs knowledge, no-one to be insured under the policy  had seen a specialist in the past 
12 months. Mr C signed the fact find to confirm the information in it was correct.  Mrs C later 
signed a medical  declaration confirming that she hadnt seen a specialist in the past 12 
months. It was on this basis that the insurer agreed  to offer the policy with no new medical 
exclusions. It turned out the information was incorrect and so the insurer  declined  Mrs Cs 
Ref: DRN84360372claim but I cant hold the adviser responsible for the fact Mr C and his wife gave him wrong  
information.
The fact find stated that the key features of Bs previous policy  were  not discussed.  This 
means the adviser had no way of knowing whether this provided cover for scans  when 
referred by a GP. I can see no evidence that the adviser promised the cover  under the new 
policy would match or better the cover under the old policy. On the contrary, the fact find 
confirmed that there may be differences between the two plans. I note that the key features 
document for the new plan stated  clearly that scans were  covered if referred  by a specialist. 
Given that Mr C hadnt  specifically asked for the policy  to provide cover for scans when 
referred by a GP, I cant reasonably conclude the adviser was at fault.  
I recognise that Mr C disputes the advisers  version of events. He says the adviser  was 
provided with details of Bs old policy and gave various assurances about the cover under 
the new policy. He also says the adviser  completed  the forms without explaining what  they 
were about  and that he and his wife signed  these without properly reading  them.  I have 
considered Mr Cs comments. However,  I still consider it is reasonable in this case  to rely 
largely on the documentary evidence available  from the time of sale. Based on this 
evidence, I see no grounds  for concluding  that the adviser did anything  wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C on behalf  of 
B to accept  or reject  my decision before 8 August  2019. 
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8436037