K820x#14complaint
Mrs K complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard opened  a new account  
for her instead of adding her as a supplemental card holder on her husbands account.
background
Mrs K says her husband opened a Barclaycard account and made  an application that she be 
made a supplemental card holder. But she says Barclaycard opened a new account in her 
own name and says Barclaycards  processes must have allowed  this to happen. Mrs K says 
the mistake resulted in a credit  search being carried out which has affected  her credit file 
and says Barclaycard  refused to speak  to her husband about the problem. She would like 
compensation of £200 for the mistake and the credit search details removed from her credit 
file.
Barclaycard says it hasnt  made a mistake  and says Mrs K made a new application for an 
account and that its not possible to apply for a new account when applying  for a 
supplemental account. It also says Mrs Ks application was made using a third party 
company, I will call M, in any event.
Mrs K brought her complaint to us but our investigator didnt uphold it and didnt think 
Barclaycard had made a mistake. The investigator  thought it reasonable of Barclaycard to 
want Mrs Ks authority before speaking to her husband and didnt think  that the delay caused 
was excessive. She also thought the application  was submitted via a third party website and 
so Barclaycard couldnt have made  a mistake. The investigator thought an application for a 
supplementary account card was a completely different process. The investigator advised 
Mrs K that if she believed a fraudulent application had been made then that should be 
reported to the police and other relevant authorities.
Mrs K doesnt accept that view and disputes the application  was made via M. She says there 
were calls to Barclaycard that support that and if Barclaycard  suspect fraud then it should 
have told her. Mrs K says her husband applied for his account via M.
The investigator reviewed  that information  and said she didnt  think  the calls would be 
relevant and clarified that she or Barclaycard hadnt  said there was a fraudulent application.
Mrs K has asked  that her complaint be looked at by an ombudsman.  In summary she says 
there is an alternative explanation that Barclaycards systems have picked up an incorrect  
source of the application. So she says her credit  file should be amended.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall conclusions  as the investigator  for the same  reasons. I realise  Mrs K will be 
disappointed by my decision.
Ive looked at Barclaycards records of the credit card application and Im satisfied the 
application was made in Mrs Ks name  with her details from a third party website called  M. 
Im also satisfied the application wasnt for a supplementary card on her husbands account. 
I also accept that it would be highly unlikely for an application for a supplementary card to be 
mistaken by Barclaycards systems for an application for a new account.
Ref: DRN83094002I think there can only be two explanations  for what happened in those circumstances.  Firstly 
an application was fraudulently made in Mrs Ks name via M. Or Secondly Mrs K made an 
application for the account card via M whilst at or around the time her husband  made a 
separate application for her to be added to his account.
If Mrs K believes a fraudulent application  has been  made then no doubt  she will consider the 
advice given to her by the investigator that it should be reported  to the relevant authorities. 
The source of the application can then be investigated and possibly the computer address 
the application was made  from. I appreciate Mrs K asks why Barclaycard hasnt explained 
that to her. But Im satisfied that its for Mrs K to make that complaint as Barclaycard  has 
processed the application in good  faith.
I appreciate Mrs K asks why the calls about  this matter havent been  asked  for. I also agree 
with the investigator  that I dont think they are needed or could provide any more information  
than I have already  seen.  I also appreciate  that Mrs K says that Barclaycard  refused to 
speak to her husband  about the complaint and that caused a delay. But I think  Barclaycard 
were entitled  to ask Mrs K for her authority to do so and in any event I dont  think  that delay 
affected matters.
Overall Im satisfied Barclaycard hasnt made a mistake or acted  unfairly here and that the 
application for an account came from a third party website in Mrs Ks name. So I cant fairly 
hold Barclaycard responsible for that, order it to remove any information  it recorded on Mrs 
Ks credit file or pay her the compensation she would like.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 July 2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8309400