K821x#15complaint
Miss H says Bank  of Scotland  Plc (trading as Sainsburys Bank Plc) mis-sold her two 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policies.
background
Miss H bought the policies in 2007  and 2008 at the same time as taking out personal  loans 
with Sainsburys.  The loans included amounts to pay for the policies. 
I issued a provisional decision for this complaint on 8 January 2020. A copy  is attached at 
Appendix A, and forms part of this final decision.
Miss H and Sainsburys both responded to say that they accepted  my provisional findings.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Hs case.
In the absence of any further representations  from the parties, I think  its fair and reasonable 
to maintain the position set out in my provisional decision.
fair compensation for the 2008 policy
Miss H borrowed  extra  to pay for the 2008  policy, so her loan was bigger than it shouldve 
been. She paid more  than she shouldve each month and it cost her more  to repay the loan 
than it would have  done. So Miss H needs  to get back the extra  shes  paid.
So, Sainsburys should:
-Work  out and pay Miss H the difference between what she paid each month on the
loan and what she wouldve paid without  PPI.  
-Work  out and pay Miss H the difference between what it cost to pay off the loan and
what it would  have  cost to pay off the loan without PPI.
-Add simple interest to the extra amount Miss H paid from when she paid it until she
gets it back. The rate of interest  is 8% a year.
-If Miss H made a successful  claim  under  the PPI policy, Sainsburys can take off 
what she got for the claim  from the amount it owes her.
-Sainsburys can also take off any commission refund for the 2008 policy which it has 
already paid from the amount it owes Miss H.   
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Sainsburys to take off tax from this interest. Sainsburys 
must give Miss H a certificate  showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
Ref: DRN85896712my final decision
The 2007  policy  wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Sainsburys Bank  Plc) 
does not have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss H.
But Bank of Scotland Plc does have to pay back to Miss H any commission  and profit  share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium for the 2007  policy. I understand it has 
already done this, so I dont award  any further compensation in connection with the 2007 
policy. 
The 2008  policy  was mis-sold and I direct  Bank  of Scotland  Plc (trading as Sainsburys Bank 
Plc) to pay compensation  to Miss H in line with the instructions above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 March  2020.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN85896713APPENDIX A
Copy of Provisional Decision
complaint
Miss H says Bank of Scotland plc (trading  as Sainsburys Bank plc) mis-sold  her two payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policies.
background
Miss H bought the policies in 2007 and 2008 at the same time as taking out personal loans  with 
Sainsburys. The loans  included amounts to pay for the policies. 
Our adjudicator didnt think either  policy  had been mis-sold. Miss H disagreed  with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint  has been passed to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Miss Hs case.
2007 policy
Ive decided the 2007 policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Sainsburys  made Miss H aware  the PPI was optional and that she chose to take it out. 
Miss H says she was told she had to take the PPI to get the loan she wanted.  She says she 
applied for her loan over the phone, and that the documents were  then sent by courier for her to 
sign. Miss H says the courier  waited while she signed them and that she felt under pressure to 
complete them. As such, she doesnt think Sainsburys gave her a fair choice about buying the 
PPI. Ive noted everything Miss H has said.
The difficulty  I have is that I cant be sure what was discussed between Miss H and Sainsburys  
when the policy was sold. But from what we know about  the banks usual sales process for loan 
applications made  by phone, on balance I think its likely that it wouldve  made  Miss H aware she 
had a choice about buying the cover.
Without anything else to support what Miss H has told me, I dont think I can fairly and reasonably 
say that Sainsburys didnt make it clear to Miss H that the PPI was optional.
Sainsburys  has accepted that it probably recommended the PPI to Miss H, so it had to check  it 
was suitable for her. But it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable for her based on what Ive seen of 
her circumstances at the time. Even though Miss H has told me she was entitled to sick pay from 
her employer, the policy wouldve paid out in addition  to Miss Hs employer benefits and wouldve 
been useful to her if she couldnt work. 
The cost of the policy  was shown on the loan documentation  including the amount of the 
premium and the interest payable  on it. Although I cant see that the monthly cost of the PPI was 
made clear, I still think Miss H had enough information to understand  how much  the PPI would 
cost if she kept the policy  for its full term. I also think that Miss H couldve afforded it.
Ref: DRN85896714From what Ive been told, its likely Miss H would have received  only a limited refund of the PPI 
premium if she cancelled the policy early. I dont know if Sainsburys thought  about this when it 
recommended the policy or explained the situation clearly to Miss H. But Ive seen nothing to 
suggest she thought she would  repay  the loan early. So I dont think  this made the policy 
unsuitable or better information about this wouldve stopped her buying  it.
Its possible Sainsburys didnt point out the main things the policy didnt cover. But its unlikely Miss H 
would have been affected by any of these.
This means  Sainsburys doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI sold in connection  with the 
2007 loan to Miss H.
But Sainsburys has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss H because: 
Sainsburys  got a high level of commission and profit share (more  than 50% of the PPI premium)  - 
so it should have  told Miss H about that. Because Sainsburys didnt tell 
Miss H, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Sainsburys has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
2008 policy
I think  the 2008 policy  was mis-sold because Sainsburys recommended the policy  to Miss H - but I 
dont think it was suitable  for her.
I say this because the reason for the loan was recorded by Sainsburys  as Contra of Existing  Loans.  
Miss Hs 2007  loan was paid off around the same as the 2008 loan was taken  out. From what Ive 
seen, on balance I think its likely that the 2008 loan was used to repay  the 2007 loan and extend  
Miss Hs borrowing.
The 2007 loan term was 50 months, so Miss H had paid it off much sooner than expected. So I think  
Sainsburys shouldve realised it was possible  Miss H might also refinance the 2008 loan before the 
end of its term.
This meant  Miss H had a need for a flexible  arrangement.  Sainsburys has told me that Miss H 
wouldve received a pro-rata refund of the PPI premium if the loan was cancelled early. But it hasnt 
been able to provide any evidence to support what its told me.
The policy document that Sainsburys says was in use at the time only provided a limited refund if the 
loan was cancelled early.  So in my view it wasnt flexible  enough for Miss H.
From what Ive seen and been told so far, on balance  Im not persuaded  that Miss H wouldve  
received a pro-rata refund of the PPI cost if shed ended her 2008 loan early and so cancelled the PPI 
cover. So in my view the PPI wasnt right for her.
I dont think Miss H would have bought the policy if Sainsburys had made it clear it wasnt suitable. 
So, I think Miss H has lost out because of what the business did wrong.
fair compensation  for the 2008 policy
Miss H borrowed extra to pay for the 2008 policy, so her loan was bigger than it shouldve  been. She 
paid more  than she shouldve each month and it cost her more to repay the loan than it would have 
done. So Miss H needs to get back the extra  shes paid.
Ref: DRN85896715So, Sainsburys should:
-Work out and pay Miss H the difference between what she paid each month on the
loan and what  she wouldve paid without PPI.  
-Work out and pay Miss H the difference between what it cost to pay off the loan and
what it would have cost to pay off the loan without PPI.
-Add simple  interest to the extra  amount Miss H paid from when she paid it until she
gets it back. The rate of interest is 8% a year.
-If Miss H made a successful claim  under the PPI policy,  Sainsburys can take off 
what she got for the claim from the amount it owes her.
-Sainsburys  can also take off any commission  refund  for the 2008 policy  which it has already  
paid from the amount  it owes Miss H.   
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  Sainsburys to take off tax from this interest. Sainsburys must  give 
Miss H a certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
my provisional  decision
The 2007 policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Sainsburys Bank plc) does not 
have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to Miss H.
But Bank of Scotland  plc does have to pay back to Miss H any commission and profit  share  it got that 
was more than 50% of the PPI premium for the 2007 policy.  I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont currently intend to award  any further compensation  in connection with the 2007 policy. 
The 2008 policy was mis-sold  and I intend  to direct Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Sainsburys Bank 
plc) to pay compensation  to Miss H in line with the instructions above.  
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8589671