K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, 
S.A. (Mapfre) didnt pay his travel insurance claim.  My references to Mapfre include its agents.
background
While Mr M was abroad he jumped  from a height  and broke bones in his foot. He needed 
hospital treatment  and claimed on his travel insurance. While Mapfre  was assessing  the 
claim Mr M sent it an email in August 2017  saying hed been  at a lake and his friend helped 
him get on the roof of the lunch area to see the sunset. Everyone then left and as he was 
there by himself he had to jump, he hurt his foot and his friends came back  to find him.
Mapfre declined the claim. The policy excluded:
Jumping from vehicles,  buildings or balconies
You climbing  on top of, or jumping from a vehicle or jumping from a building  or 
balcony, or climbing or moving from any external part of any building to another  (apart 
from stairs,  ramps or walkways) and falling regardless of the height, unless your life is 
in danger or you are attempting to save human life.
So Mapfre  said Mr Ms claim was excluded under the policy.
Mr M then told Mapfre he hadnt jumped from a building and that his English language hadnt  
been good at that time so he hadnt known how to explain what happened.  He said his 
English was now better and he wanted  to clarify  that his friend helped him onto a cover 
made of metal that was protecting them from the sun while  they were eating.  He also said 
when he was left alone he stayed there waiting for someone to come. But it was getting dark 
and with no phone, the cold and possibly wild animals he thought  his life would have been in 
danger if hed stayed. Mapfre didnt change its decision.
Mr M complained to us. He told us he didnt jump from any building.  In summary he told us 
he was on a place  that was a little bit elevated but was easy to access. And as he thought  
his life would  be in danger if he stayed  he had to leave and fell badly which caused  his 
injury. He said it wasnt fair for Mapfre to just rely on what he said happened when he called 
it. He wants Mapfre to pay the claim.
Initially our investigator said Mapfre fairly  declined  the claim.  It could reasonably  believe 
Mr Ms version of events before the claim was declined and Mr M hadnt  mentioned  that his 
life had been in danger before  the claim was declined.
Mr M said he'd been misunderstood and he hadnt realised the details he gave about what 
happened were  important. He said he was in a free access area by the mountains which  
was a flat area and he fell into a small concrete pathway while  making his way down from 
the mountains. He said he hadnt given different versions of the story but hed used terms 
like roof and jump  because his English wasnt so good at the time. He wanted  an 
ombudsmans decision
Before I made my decision I asked Mapfre to provide the recording of the call when Mr M 
told Mapfre about the accident.  In the call Mr M told Mapfre that he fell from a kind of high 
place. When Mapfre asked if it was a building Mr M said it wasnt but he was up in a weird  
place and when  (he) tried to get down (he) fell.
Ref: DRN88633852After our investigator listened to the call she told Mapfre she didnt think it could rely on the 
call to say Mr M was on a building and asked if it was relying on any other evidence
Mapfre referred to Mr Ms August 2017  email  and based on that information it tried to locate 
where the incident occurred. It sent photos  of where  it thought  the incident might  have  
happened which showed a high wooden structure  with a roof covering outside tables. Mapfre 
said under  the policy Mr M had to take reasonable precautions to avoid injury. In climbing 
onto the structure  he hadnt, so it could still fairly decline the claim.
We sent the photos to Mr M and asked if that was the location and how high the structure 
was. Mr M told us he fell from a different place, but the height  would be the same or less. 
We asked Mr M if he had any photos  of the structure/place where he jumped  from and 
whether he jumped from the kind of structure in the photos Mapfre  provided or something  
completely different. Mr M said he didnt have any photos and there had been a fire in the 
area since he was there so he had nothing to show us. He also said he didnt jump from that 
kind of structure, he was in a place completely flat and not dangerous.
Our investigator said Mr M hadnt  given Mapfre enough information about the incident and it 
didnt need to pay the claim
Mr M said he was disappointed that Mapfre was looking for another excuse not to pay him 
as it couldnt use the exclusion about jumping from buildings. He said he did take reasonable 
care as nothing happened  when he was climbing, everything happened when he decided to 
leave the area and as he feared for his life he wasnt thinking properly. He wants  an 
ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I don't uphold this complaint. Mapfre doesnt  need to pay the claim. Ill explain why.
I think its clear  from the evidence, which Ive summarised above, that Mr M has significantly 
changed the details of where and how his accident  happened. He told Mapfre  in the call that 
he wasnt in a building but up in a kind of high weird place and fell when  he tried to get 
down. He then told Mapfre in a later email that his friend helped  him get on the roof of the 
lunch area and he hurt his foot when he jumped. 
After Mapfre told him why it was declining the claim Mr M raised that hed been misunderstood 
as his English  hadnt been  good.  Ive listened  to his call with Mapfre.  I think there  was a slight  
language problem but Im satisfied he understood what the agent was saying.
Also, after Mapfre told Mr M why it declined the claim his email  said his English was now 
better and he wanted clarify that his friend  helped him onto a metal  cover which  was 
protecting them from the sun while  they were eating. On the evidence  in that email I think 
Mapfre reasonably  understood he was on a structure similar  to the one in the photos  it 
provided. As Mr M says he wasnt on that type of structure Im not going to make  any findings  
as to whether  or not he would have taken reasonable care in jumping  from such  a structure.
Ref: DRN88633853Later Mr M has described where he was as an elevated place and a flat free access  area 
by the mountains.  But hes not given any further  detail and when weve  asked him to provide 
photos hes told us that due to a fire the place where  the incident  happened has been  rebuilt  
so there  is nothing for us to see of where the accident happened.
I think Mapfre can reasonably understand that the version of events Mr M gave before he 
was told why the claim was declined is more  likely  than not to be the most accurate. As he 
referred to jumping from a roof it could  reasonably  understand  that the exclusion of jumping 
from a building  applied.  
Mr M only mentioned that he thought his life was in danger after Mapfre told him why it 
declined the claim. I think it would have reasonable for Mr M to have  given the full 
circumstances of what happened when he said he was clarifying events,  which was before 
his claim was declined.  So I think Mapfre acted reasonably in not taking the information 
Mr M later gave  into account.
Even if accepted  that due to a language  problem  Mr M wasnt able to give a full version of 
what happened before  the claim was declined, the details he gave  Mapfre to clarify the 
situation are significantly  different  to what he later said happened.  I think Mr M has given 
inconsistent accounts  of what happened for which theres no satisfactory  explanation.
So even if thought Mapfre couldnt rely on the jumping from a building  exclusion, I dont think 
Mr M has given  consistent evidence about how his accident happened which Mapfre  
reasonably needs to be able to assess his claim. Mapfre fairly declined the claim.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 December  2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8863385