K820x#14complaint
Mrs K complains that Flex Mortgages Limited  has harassed her to pay a debt which  is 
statute-barred. She also complains that she has been a victim of mortgage  fraud,  because  
the broker who sold her the loan was acting fraudulently.
background
The loan in question was taken out in 2004. Mrs K says a broker arranged the loan so she 
could buy a property.  It was for around  £20,000, over a term of 25 years,  secured by a 
second charge  on the property. The lender was Flex Investments Limited.  Mrs K also took 
out a first-charge  mortgage with another lender.
In 2006, Mrs K thought something  wasnt right. She says she realised shed been conned 
into taking out the loan,  so she asked Flex Investments for the loan agreement and 
application. She says it couldnt provide them,  and so she stopped  making payments. 
A few years later, Flex Investments Limited  went into liquidation. Flex Mortgages  Limited  
acquired Mrs Ks loan and others.  In August 2018, Mrs K received a letter from Flex 
Mortgages, saying  it intended to start possession proceedings. She wrote back, saying she 
didnt acknowledge  the debt but no payments  had been made to it for more  than 12 years,  
so it was statute-barred.
Flex Mortgages said Mrs K had made  payments within the last 12 years,  so it could still take 
action to recover the debt. It also said it had no choice but to apply to the court  for 
possession of the property, because Mrs K hadnt replied to its attempts to contact her.
Mrs K got in touch with us. Our investigator said she was too late to complain about what 
happened when  the loan was taken out nearly  15 years ago, so she couldnt look into that. 
But she found she could  consider whether Flex Mortgages was entitled to ask Mrs K for 
payment. She thought it could, and that it had treated Mrs K fairly.
Mrs K didnt accept that conclusion and asked for it to be reviewed. She still thought the loan 
wasnt legitimate as the original lender was acting fraudulently and wasnt regulated  so she 
had no-one to complain  to when she realised something was wrong  in 2006.
The investigator still felt we couldnt look at the sale of the loan, because the original lender 
wasnt covered by our rules until 2007.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This loan was taken  out nearly 15 years  ago, in 2004. Mrs K is right to say that the original 
lender, Flex Investments  Limited, wasnt regulated at that time. And, as the investigator said,  
it wasnt covered by our rules until later, in April 2007. Besides  that, it has dissolved and so 
no longer exists.
What this means is that this service has no power  to consider Mrs Ks complaint against this 
business  or Flex Mortgages  Limited, which took on her loan in 2010   about events which 
Ref: DRN89448322happened before  6 April 2007. So we cant look into her complaint about what  happened 
when the loan was taken  out.
Flex Mortgages is regulated, and I can consider Mrs Ks complaint about  what  it has done to 
recover the debt.  I agree  with the investigator  that it hasnt acted unfairly in the 
circumstances. No payments have  been  made to the loan for a number of years. Flex 
Mortgages records satisfy me that it has tried to contact Mrs K over the years to discuss 
payment, with little success. It stopped adding interest to the loan in 2016, and it said in its 
response to her complaint that it was still open  to agreeing a payment arrangement  with her 
rather than going  ahead  with possession proceedings.
Given the arrears on the loan, I consider  Flex Mortgages was reasonable in taking further 
action. I have noted Mrs Ks argument that it cant do this under the Limitation Act 1980.  The
Act does  set out a 12-year time limit, but that is from the last time a debtor acknowledges the 
debt and makes payments towards it. 
Flex Mortgages has provided statements  for Mrs Ks loan. They show  the last payment was 
received by direct debit  in March 2007   which is within the last 12 years.  So the debt is not 
time-barred by the Act.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 February  2019.
Janet Millington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8944832