K821x#15complaint
Mr L complains  that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc didnt cover  a claim on his caravan 
insurance policy.
background
Mr L made a claim on his policy after his caravan was damaged  in a storm. He provided an 
estimate for repairs. RSA accepted the claim and made a cash  payment to enable Mr L to 
have the repairs  done. 
Some months later Mr L complained that there was further damage on the other side of the 
caravan which  hadnt  been repaired.  RSA said this damage wasnt caused  by the storm and 
was due to wear and tear, which is not covered by his policy.  So it refused to cover his claim 
in respect of the additional damage.
Mr L disagreed and complained. He said there was no sign of wear  and tear. 
Our investigator didnt  think it was fair for RSA to refuse this claim.  After considering  the 
evidence, including  photographs, she said as RSA had relied on an exclusion in the policy  to 
refuse the claim,  it was for RSA to show this applied. And she didnt think it had done this.
RSA disagree and made further comments:
Mr Ls son carried out other repairs, and he would have noticed this damage if it had 
been present  at that time, as its very near the same area;
the panels are made from very thin material  that dents and marks easily.  If theses 
marks had occurred  more recently, they wouldnt necessarily  show signs of age;
The investigator accepted the contractors comment that the storm came from the 
East, which is why it affected  the offside of the caravan,  but went on to say the near 
side should also be covered as the storm had no set path  thats a clear 
contradiction.
Our investigator considered these points but didnt change her view.  She said it was for RSA 
to show the exclusion  applied. She didnt  think it was relevant that the damage hadnt  been 
noticed earlier  they key point was whether it was due to wear  and tear rather  than storm 
damage. The damage on both sides was very similar and so she couldnt  see why it would 
be due to wear and tear on one side rather than the storm damage  as accepted  by RSA  
on the other.
RSA still disagrees and has requested an ombudsmans  decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy provides cover for damage to the caravan caused by any insured cause. RSA 
will pay the cost of replacing or repairing the damaged item. Theres  no specific  definition  of 
what an insured cause is, but its not disputed that storm damage would be included.  
However, theres a list of exclusions that includes wear and tear. 
Ref: DRN86341842In the first instance  its for the policyholder to show an insured event has happened.  Mr L 
has shown there is damage, which is very similar  to the damage RSA has covered. As our 
investigator has said, if the insurer wishes to rely on an exclusion to decline a claim,  its then 
for the insurer to show that the exclusion applies. So Ive considered whether RSA has done 
this
RSA appointed someone to inspect the damage and has referred to comments  they made  
that it is of our opinion  that the damage  to near side panels are due to general wear and 
tear of unit over 5 years.  The panels  are made from a very thin material  that dents and 
marks easily. 
I agree  with the investigator that if the damage had been present for some  time Id expect it 
to show some signs of ageing  such as flaking  or discolouring.  But from the photographs 
Ive seen, this doesnt  seem  to be the case.  That suggests the dents are more  likely to be 
quite recent  rather than long-standing.
I appreciate RSA says that if the damage occurred after the initial repairs  there wouldnt be 
any signs of age. But its not clear to me how general wear  and tear could have caused 
dents like this within that short  period  of time.  
I cant be certain what caused the dents but they are very similar to the earlier damage, 
which RSA has accepted as storm damage. On balance,  based on the reasoning Ive set 
out, I dont  think RSA has shown the dents were due to wear and tear and so it wouldnt be 
fair to rely on the exclusion.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint  and direct  Royal  & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc 
to pay the claim in line with the remaining policy terms.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 March  2020.
Peter Whiteley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8634184