K820x#14Complaint
Mr N complains Taylor  Edwards  Financial  Management Ltd has charged him for his 
successful PPI claim when he said he did the work that led to the refund.
 
Background
Mr N asked Taylor Edwards to make a PPI claim on his behalf to his lender. He says that 
Taylor Edwards told him in October 2018  that PPI had been  found on one of his accounts. 
He says he had heard nothing and in November 2018 he had to ask it to ask the lender for a 
progress update on his claim.
He says that just a few days later he was contacted directly by the lender. He told the lender 
that he was being represented  and advised them to contact  Taylor Edwards. He later 
discovered that the lender  had told Taylor Edwards in November 2018 his complaint hadnt  
been upheld.
He says that the lender  wrote to Taylor Edwards on 17 November 2018 advising  that the 
claim hadnt been upheld. Mr N says that he then contacted the lender himself  and they 
agreed to reopen  his case. He said he answered  a number of questions, and on 6 December  
2018, the lender called him to say the claim was successful.
Mr N said that he was contacted by Taylor  Edwards on 13 December 2018 when he 
received an invoice for its fee. Hes unhappy  that hes being asked to pay a fee. He says that 
Taylor Edwards didnt  chase the lender for progress updates, despite telling him it had done 
so, and it hadnt sent any other correspondence, other  than the initial claim, to his lender.
Taylor Edwards said that it had carried out all the work that lead to the successful claim.  It 
said that it had contacted  the lender after Mr N said hed been contacted directly. It said it 
submitted a request for credit card start dates to the lender on 29 November 2018. It said it 
did this on a query spreadsheet , as the lender  doesnt take direct  calls.
It said that Mr N had called on three  occasions for an update  and it had told him it was still 
awaiting a response,  and this can take up to four weeks.
It said that on 13 December 2018  it received a response from the lender that the claim had 
been successful,  so it issued an invoice to Mr N.
In January 2019 Mr N made his complaint to The Legal Ombudsman. He had to contact  the 
Claims Management Ombudsman (a Financial Ombudsman service) following  a change in 
the regulation  of Claims Management Companies  (CMCs) in April 2019. One of our 
investigators looked into his complaint. She didnt uphold Mr Ns complaint  she felt that 
Taylor Edwards was entitled to charge the fee because it had started the claim for him. She 
also felt that it was likely that Taylor  Edwards had sent a request for further information to 
the lender.
Mr N was unhappy and asked for an ombudsman decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im not upholding this complaint, for 
Ref: DRN86824992broadly the same reasons  as our investigator. As this complaint was accepted for 
investigation at the Legal Ombudsman  my decision  follows  the Legal Ombudsmans 
scheme rules.
Its not disputed  that Mr N signed an agreement  with Taylor Edwards, and that in 
October 2018 it submitted the claim  on his behalf to his lender.
Mr N says that his lender  told him that following a complete search they have never 
received either the email Taylor  Edwards claim to have sent to chase progress, nor any 
other written correspondence  bar their initial query on our behalf.
Taylor Edwards said that it sent a request to the lender for further information via the query 
spreadsheet as xxx cannot be called. Im aware  that it is normal practice  for lenders  not to 
accept individual  requests from CMCs.
Whilst thats important, its not the main reason why Im not upholding this complaint. Taylor 
Edwards charged  a percentage success fee, not a fee based upon the amount of work it
did. This means that any work done on any unsuccessful  claims would be done for free. This 
is explained in the terms of engagement  Mr N signed  up to. Where  a claim was successful, 
Taylor Edwards fee may be more or less than the value of the work it actually did. This is 
the risk taken by all parties  in this type of agreement. Just because  its fee maybe  higher than 
the value of the work it did for Mr N doesnt  make the fee unjustified.
Im satisfied that it was the actions of Taylor  Edwards in instigating  the claim in October 2018 
that led to the successful  PPI award.  So Im satisfied that it is entitled  to charge Mr N the fee 
set out in the original agreement.
I know that Mr N feels  strongly that he shouldnt  have  to pay Taylor  Edwards the full amount 
because he did the work that led to the refund  he received   and he feels  that it wasnt  
entirely truthful when  he chased it for updates.  But as Ive explained above, the agreement 
he entered into was for a success fee, and this is what  hes been invoiced for.
My final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I dont  uphold Mr Ns complaint
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 February  2020.
Gordon Ramsay
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8682499