K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains on behalf of his stepson, Mr G that Argos Limited trading as Argos  Financial  
Services (Argos) shouldnt have  allowed  Mr G to take out an Argos Store  card in 2018. Mr F 
would like Argos to accept  it shouldnt  have given Mr G the card. And to write off the 
outstanding balance of £591.85
background
Mr F explained that his stepson has a number of disabilities that make it hard for him to 
manage money. He says in 2016  Mr G took out an Argos Store card which he was unable to 
sensibly manage.  As result the account had an outstanding balance  of £378.93 that Mr G 
was unable to pay. 
Mr F says he corresponded with Argos in 2016. He made them aware  of his stepsons 
circumstances. And on that occasion Argos wrote of the outstanding debt.
Mr F says he also contacted the credit reference agencies (CRAs) at the same time and 
agreed a form of words  to go on Mr Gs credit  file. This was a notice of correction advising 
that in the event of any credit applications  either  Mr F or Mr Gs mother  were  contacted. The 
notice also advised  of Mr Gs difficulties.
Mr F says that Mr G took out a further  store  card with Argos in 2018 which is the subject of 
this complaint. He doesnt feel that Argos made adequate checks  of its own records. Had it 
done so it would have realised the previous history. Also that there  was a notice of correction 
on Mr Gs credit file. He thinks  Argos should  have rejected  Mr Gs credit application.
He added that Argos appointment of a debt recovery agency (DRA) was unwarranted  and a 
form a harassment. The DRA sent letters to Mr G at various addresses which  caused  him a 
degree of embarrassment  and further  stress.
Argos said that all relevant checks were made when Mr G applied for a store card.  This 
included checking  for notices  of correction but there were none visible on Mr Gs credit file. 
Had it been so the application  would have been  declined.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. Whilst she sympathised with Mr Gs position  
she didnt find that Argos had done  anything  wrong.   She found the notice of correction had 
been removed  from Mr Gs credit  file in late 2017/early 2018. So it wasnt there for Argos  to 
take into account when Mr G made his application for a store card.
She didnt  think it was reasonable to expect  Argos to have  a system in place to check  details 
of all previous consumers.
Argos accepted  this view but Mr F on behalf  of Mr G didnt  and asked for an Ombudsmans 
final decision
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN86453142I can understand Mr Fs frustration on behalf  of his stepson. Mr F has given us 
comprehensive information about  exactly the same issue  Argos  issuing a store  card to Mr 
G that he couldnt manage   that Mr F dealt with in 2016.
On that occasion  Argos  wrote off Mr Gs outstanding  debt. And Mr F has shown he went  to 
considerable effort to contact a number of CRAs to ensure notices of correction were added  
to Mr Gs credit file to help prevent further credit being agreed.
So I can imagine Mr G wouldnt have expected to be dealing with the same  issue three years 
later.
Mr F has made  two points as to why Mr Gs application in 2018 should have been declined.  
Firstly he expected there to be a notice of correction on Mr Gs credit file that would have 
prevented the application  being accepted.  Secondly that Argos  should  have been aware of 
Mr Gs previous history from when he fell behind  with payments in 2016.
In terms of the notice  of correction as I understand it Argos  used two particular CRAs both 
of which  Mr F contacted to put a notice of correction on Mr Gs credit file. Mr F has told us 
that Mr G had the notice  of correction removed by one of these CRAs.  For the second  CRA 
I believe Mr F has accepted that, although a notice of correction was placed by that 
company, it was removed  at some point in 2027/2018. 
A notice  of correction in itself wouldnt necessarily mean a company would offer credit.  It 
would depend  on the details on the notice. But Argos has confirmed  that it checked Mr Gs 
credit file and there was no notice of correction. Had there been one it would have  declined  
Mr Gs application.
I understand Mr F has taken the removal of the notice of correction with the relevant CRA.  
And this has now been reinstated. But as there  seems to be no dispute that the notice of 
correction wasnt there  when Mr G made  his credit application. So Argos clearly didnt have 
that information to take into account at the time.
Mr Fs second  point is that Argos should have been  aware of Mr Gs history with the 
company. I agree  that would  have  been helpful. But Argos says it doesnt have a system to 
flag up details of previous consumers.  Given the potential numbers involved I can appreciate 
that might  be difficult. 
It has also made the point  that if it had such a system it would likely match personal details. 
So a change  of address  for example would mean that individuals  might not be picked up. 
And as I understand it Mr G used two different addresses for his two applications. So its 
unlikely had there been some sort of cross  matching of details in this particular situation its 
unlikely to have  picked up Mr Gs previous  account  history.
It is unfortunate that Mr G slipped  through the system. And whilst  I appreciate Mr Fs 
frustration particularly having  made  so much effort to ensure this didnt happen  after 2016 I 
dont believe  Argos has done anything wrong  here.
I think the main problem was the fact that the notice of correction on Mr Gs credit file wasnt 
there when  Mr G made his application. But as Argos isnt responsible  for removing that I 
dont think I can reasonably expect it to waive  Mr Gs outstanding debt as has been 
requested.
Ref: DRN86453143Nor, on the basis of the information  it had at the time,  can I reasonably ask Argos to say it 
made a mistake in agreeing the credit application  when it did.
Finally Mr F has made the point about correspondence going to the wrong  address. And the 
involvement of a DRA. 
I dont think Argos were  wrong to involve  a DRA  as I dont believe it was aware of Mr Gs 
issues at the time. However I have now seen a letter from the DRA  confirming that Argos  
has taken the debt back to manage it itself. So there shouldnt be a need for any more 
correspondence from the DRA.
Ive seen numerous emails about Mr Gs current  address.  So I do appreciate this has been 
an ongoing issue for some time.  But I understand this has now been  resolved. So hopefully  
any further correspondence will now go to the right address.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before  26  April 2020
Bridget Makins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8645314