K820x#14complaint
Miss C says Lloyds Bank PLC didnt do enough  to stop her money  being  sent to a scammer 
and that it caused long delays when trying to recover the funds.  
background
Miss C found a company who could source  accommodation for her. On 8 May 2018 she 
transferred them a £250 fee for finding  her accommodation in Bristol via telephone banking. 
Around 25 June  she realised they had instead found her accommodation  in Liverpool, not 
Bristol, and after further discussions the company refused  to refund her. Miss C felt as 
though she had been deliberately misled and that the company had scammed  her out of her 
£250. 
Miss Cs representative, Mr F, raised  a scam  complaint  with Lloyds, and they contacted the 
beneficiary bank  the following day to try and get a return of the funds. Unfortunately, at that 
time the beneficiary  bank responded to say Miss Cs funds  had already been  removed from 
the account. 
Due to an error by the Lloyds member of staff who logged  the complaint, Mr Fs phone 
number was taken  down incorrectly and they didnt receive updates  for almost two months. 
In recognition of this, Lloyds gave Miss C £100  for the lack of communication and £19 for 
any call costs incurred in chasing the matter  up. But Lloyds didnt agree theyd made  an 
error in allowing the £250  to be sent to the company so didnt offer to refund it. 
The complaint was referred  to us and our adjudicator felt it was reasonable for Lloyds to 
follow Miss Cs instruction to make  the transfer.  And he thought  they had done enough to try 
and recover the funds once they were made aware  of the scam.  He did agree Lloyds hadnt 
communicated enough with Miss C and her representative during the complaint and felt the 
£119 already awarded was reasonable in the circumstances. 
Because Miss C didnt  agree,  the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators' rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  what I consider to be good industry practice  at the 
time. 
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank  is expected  to process  payments 
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make, in accordance  with the Payment  
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions  of the customers  account. And I have 
taken that into account  when deciding  what is fair and reasonable in this case.
Ref: DRN80231992But that is not the end of the story:
The law recognises that a bank may be liable to its customer if it makes  a payment in 
circumstances where  it has reasonable grounds  (although not necessarily proof)  for 
believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate  the funds  of its 
customer (known as the Quincecare  duty).    
Regulated firms like Lloyds are also required to conduct their business with due skill, 
care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to the 
interests of its customers (Principle  6).  
And as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have  taken 
proactive steps  to: 
identify and assist  vulnerable consumers  and consumers in vulnerable  circumstances, 
including those  at risk of financial exploitation  (something recognised by the FCA in 
recent years and by the British Bankers Associations February  2016 report improving 
outcomes for customers in vulnerable  circumstances);  
look to identify and help prevent transactions - particularly unusual or out of character 
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam (something also 
recognised by the British Standards Institutes October 2017  Protecting Customers from 
Financial harm  as a result  of fraud  or financial abuse  Code of Practice , which a 
number of banks  and trade associations were involved in the development of); and
 
in relation to branch transactions  follow  the Banking Protocol when available.     
This means  that there are circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, where a 
bank should, in my opinion,  fairly and reasonably take additional steps, or make additional 
checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make  a payment 
altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.  
This is particularly so in light of the environment created by the increase in sophisticated  
fraud and scams in recent  years  - which banks are generally more familiar  with than the 
average customer. 
In this case, I need to decide  whether Lloyds acted  fairly and reasonably in its dealings  with 
Miss C when she made the payment of £250,  or whether it should have done more than it 
did. After carefully considering everything  available to me, I think it did act fairly and 
reasonably in the circumstances,  so I dont think it needs to refund the £250 to Miss C. Ill 
explain why in more  detail. 
Both Miss C and Lloyds  agree that Miss C authorised the payment to be sent. So, Lloyds 
had an obligation  to carry out Miss Cs instruction. But as explained above, there are some  
situations in which Lloyds should  reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances 
surrounding the transfer. For example, if it appeared to be suspicious or out of character for 
Miss C. 
Ive looked at Miss Cs statements leading up to the transfer to get a picture of her normal  
account activity. Due to an error when the payment was set up, the £250 was sent from her 
instant cash ISA instead of her current account.  Looking at the general account usage,  there  
are a number of transfers to other  internal  accounts for significantly larger amounts than the 
Ref: DRN80231993payment in question. The only remarkable thing about the £250 transfer is that it was to an 
external account.  But in the circumstances of this case, I dont think  that on its own means 
the payment was suspicious. So, I dont think Lloyds internal fraud system failed in its 
obligations when  it didnt flag the payment as suspicious, and I think it acted reasonably  in 
following Miss Cs instruction to make  the payment. 
Miss C set up the payment through telephone banking.  Ive listened to a recording of the call 
to see if there was anything said during it that could have indicated  the payment was being 
made as the result  of a scam. Having done so, I dont think  Miss C said anything  that 
suggested to the Lloyds  call handler that there was anything suspicious about  the payment 
or that it could have  been linked to a scam.  And as explained above, I dont think the 
payment itself was suspicious or out of character for Miss C in comparison to her normal  
account activity. So, on balance, I think it was reasonable for the call handler to process  the 
payment without asking  further questions. 
When Miss C realised  the company would not be refunding her, she raised a scam 
complaint with Lloyds  on 25 June 2018,  over six weeks after the payment was processed.  
Lloyds contacted the beneficiary bank the next day to request a refund of the fees. At the 
time, the beneficiary  bank responded explaining Miss Cs funds were no longer recoverable  
from the account. Its not clear why Lloyds didnt  request a return of the funds on 25 June 
when Miss C raised the complaint,  but due to the length of time between the payment being 
processed and the complaint being raised its unlikely it would have made  a difference if 
Lloyds had acted  more promptly. 
When our service asked the beneficiary bank for some more  information about the £250 
payment, it explained that it had not set up an official fraud investigation at the time. This 
likely meant they treated  it as a disagreement between  a buyer and a seller of goods instead 
of a scam.  This complaint  is focusing  on the actions of Lloyds, not the beneficiary  bank.  As 
explained previously, while Lloyds could  have acted quicker to request a return of the funds, 
I dont think this would have resulted in Miss Cs funds being returned to her. 
Lloyds acknowledged  that due to human  error, Miss C and Mr F didnt  receive updates about 
her claim for a few months. I understand this must  have been  frustrating  in an already 
stressful time for Miss C. In recognition of this, Lloyds paid Miss C £100 for any distress or 
inconvenience their error  caused her, plus £19 for any call costs she incurred in chasing 
them. And I think this is a fair way to resolve the issue.  Because of this, I dont  think  Lloyds 
needs to do anything further.
Its unfortunate Miss C has found  herself in this situation and I can appreciate  how frustrating 
it must  be. Having carefully considered everything  available to me, I think Lloyds acted 
reasonably when it followed Miss Cs instruction to make the transfer of £250, so I dont  think 
it needs to refund this to her. And I think the £119 its previously paid to her in recognition of 
the delays she experienced when making  the scam complaint is fair in the circumstances. 
Ref: DRN80231994my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 September 2020.
Rebecca Norris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8023199