K821x#15complaint
Miss V complains  that Uncle Buck Finance  LLP lent to her in an irresponsible  manner.
background
Miss V was given five loans by Uncle Buck between March 2015 and February 2016. The 
first loan was repayable  the following month. The remaining loans were repayable in three 
monthly instalments.  All of the loans have been fully repaid. A summary of Miss Vs 
borrowing from Uncle Buck is as follows;
Loan 
NumberBorrowing 
DateRepayment 
DateLoan 
Amount  
1 12/03/2015 31/03/2015 £  200
2 13/06/2015 30/06/2015 £  250
3 02/09/2015 30/09/2015 £  825
4 01/12/2015 31/12/2015 £  825
5 02/02/2016 27/02/2016 £  900
Miss Vs complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. He didnt think 
Uncle Buck  had been wrong to give the first two loans  to Miss V. But he didnt think  
Uncle Buck  should  have  agreed to lend the remaining loans.  So he asked Uncle Buck  to pay 
Miss V some  compensation.
Uncle Buck  didnt agree with that assessment but it did offer £250 compensation to Miss V. 
Miss V didnt accept  that offer. So, as the complaint  hasnt been resolved informally,  it has 
been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.  This is the last stage of our process. If 
Miss V accepts my decision  it is legally binding on both parties.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Uncle Buck  needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Miss V could repay  the loans in a sustainable manner. These  checks  could take into account 
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment  amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Uncle Buck should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These  factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
Ref: DRN82638172the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Uncle Buck  was required to establish 
whether Miss V could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments  were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the FCAs Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines 
sustainable as being without undue  difficulties and in particular the customer should be able 
to make repayments on time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments; as well as 
without having  to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  
or it ought fairly  and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make  their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Vs complaint.
Uncle Buck  did some  checks before it lent to Miss V. It asked her for details of her income, 
and her normal expenditure.  And it checked  her credit file before agreeing  some  of the 
loans. Ive seen  the results  of those checks and I will refer to what they showed later in this 
decision.
I think that the checks Uncle Buck did before agreeing the first two loans were proportionate. 
The amounts that Miss V needed to repay were small compared  with the disposable income  
shed declared.  Given  these repayment amounts, what  was apparent  about  Miss Vs 
circumstances at the time, and her borrowing history with the lender, I dont think it wouldve 
been proportionate for Uncle Buck to ask her for the amount of information that would be 
needed to show  the lending was unsustainable  before agreeing  the first two loans. 
The amount  that Miss V asked to borrow on loan 3 increased significantly compared with the 
first two loans. I think this should have caused  concerns  to Uncle  Buck. I can see that the 
income she declared also increased at that time, and Uncle Buck  has said that Miss V told it 
this was because  she was taking on more responsibility at work.  But I think  what  should 
have been of greater concern were the results that Uncle Buck received from its credit 
checks. Those checks showed that at that time Miss V was already borrowing from a 
number of other lenders. 
Ref: DRN82638173I think that this borrowing  behaviour should  have led Uncle  Buck to conclude  that it was most 
likely that Miss V was facing serious problems managing  her money  and that it would be 
unlikely she could repay any additional  borrowing in a sustainable manner. So I dont think, 
on the basis of the information it held, that it was reasonable for Uncle Buck  to give this loan 
to Miss V. 
And it doesnt seem that Miss Vs financial situation  improved much  over the rest of the time 
she was borrowing from Uncle Buck. Her dependence on other borrowing continued and 
was shown by the credit check Uncle  Buck  did before agreeing the fifth loan.  So I dont think 
it was reasonable  for Uncle Buck to give loans 4 or 5 to Miss V either.
So overall I dont  think Uncle  Buck should have given loans 3 to 5 to Miss V. Uncle Buck  
needs to pay Miss V some compensation.
putting things right
I dont think Uncle Buck should  have agreed to lend to Miss V after, and including, the loan 
that she took on 2 September  2015.  So for each  of those loans Uncle Buck  should;
Refund any interest and charges applied to the loans. 
Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*.
Remove any adverse  information recorded on Miss Vs credit  file in relation  to the loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Uncle Buck to take off tax from this interest. Uncle  Buck 
must give Miss V a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold part of Miss Vs complaint and direct  Uncle  Buck 
Finance LLP to put things  right as detailed above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss V to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 January 2020.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8263817