K820x#14complaint
S, a limited  company, complains that Newable RGF Limited did not set fair terms for its 
business loan and will not accept its offer of settlement.
background
S took a business loan from Newable in March 2016  with a term of 60 months. In March  
2019 S said it wanted to repay  the loan early.  It thought that the settlement figure quoted by 
Newable was too high. And it said that the interest  rate it had been paying and the original 
arrangement fee were  not fair.
Our investigator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that:
-Newable had applied interest of 14 per cent per annum  in line with the loan 
agreement. An arrangement fee of £800 had also been documented and paid at the 
start of the loan.
-There were  two months referred  to when there were problems taking payment - the 
first month in April 2016 when Newable had not set up the direct  debit - and then in 
August 2017 when  the payment from S was slightly late. Newable said it was not its 
policy to charge any further interest as a result.
-As a gesture of goodwill Newable had offered to accept a reduced settlement amount 
or to reduce the future interest rate to 12 per cent per annum. It had stopped 
charging interest from 27 March 2019 while the complaint  was being reviewed.
-He didnt think it was unreasonable  for Newable to mention in its final response that 
S had not been able to get alternative  funding  from a high street bank. He thought  
that this helped to establish the type of lender it was and the background to the 
interest rate set.
-This service is not the regulator  and we have no role in regulating  prices  or interest  
rates.
S did not agree. The director said that S was a small business that needed money at the 
time and had little option but to accept the terms from Newable. S now wanted to repay  the 
outstanding borrowing but the amount  quoted was still too high given what  it had already 
paid in interest. He indicated  he had been  bullied by Newable into accepting  the finance. The 
investigator has already  said to him that this is a new complaint point that would  need  to be 
taken up with Newable  first.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen a copy  of the loan application and loan agreement. These were signed  on behalf of 
S by the director. I think the key terms mentioned here are clear and that S committed to 
making payments  based on the interest rate agreed over 60 months.  And it has made those 
payments to date. So Im afraid I think that S accepted  the terms, including  paying the 
arrangement fee. I dont  have any basis to interfere in this commercial agreement  and so I 
think that S is reasonably bound by it.
I understand that the director expected that S would have made more progress in repaying 
the capital balance of the loan when it asked for a settlement  figure. And I think Newables 
Ref: DRN86693992offer to otherwise reduce the interest  rate in future made him question why it didnt do that 
any earlier.
Newable didnt have  to reduce the rate and it made the offer at its discretion. It also stopped 
charging interest from 27 March 2019 until as I understand it 7 June 2019. And it has been in 
discussion with S about a lower settlement figure  than Newable is actually entitled to 
receive. As the investigator said it is not charging  any additional interest  for those  months set 
out above when payments were slightly late but still received in the month due.
I dont have a basis to find that Newable  has made any mistake or has acted unreasonably. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 August 2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8669399