K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2003. Mr and Mrs P say Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold them the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ps case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Lloyds made  it clear that Mr and Mrs P didnt have to take out the PPI and they 
chose to take it out  although I can understand why they cant  remember  this. Mr P said 
he doesnt think he ticked a box to say he wanted  PPI on an application form. But he and 
Mrs P did sign an application form for the PPI, and a separate direct debit mandate,  so I 
think they did agree to buy it.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs P so it had to check  that the PPI was right 
for them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think it was. 
For example Mr P  who was the only person covered by the PPI  wasnt  affected by 
any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover and he and Mrs P seem to have had a 
need for the cover.   
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs P about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But they chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted  this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for them  if something  went  wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would 
have put them off taking out the cover. 
Which means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs P.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs P have  said - including  what Mr P said about  his 
employment. But from what  he says and the information on the mortgage  application,  Im 
satisfied he was eligible  for the PPI when it was sold. It was for Mr and Mrs P to decide if the 
policy remained suitable when  Mr P changed  jobs, as well as when he became self-
employed. This point  doesnt change my decision.
Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs P because:  
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs P about that. Because Lloyds didnt tell Mr 
and Mrs P, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
Ref: DRN81910762The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC doesnt have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs P.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mr and Mrs P any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 February  2019.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8191076