K820x#14complaint
Mr B says First Response  Finance  Ltd mis-sold him two payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
policies.
background
Mr B bought the policies when he took out loans in 2009  and 2011.  The loans were applied  
for over the phone and included an amount to pay for the PPI.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should  be upheld. First Response disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and provided some additional  evidence. So, the complaint was passed  
to me.
I issued a provisional decision explaining I didnt  think  the PPI had been mis-sold. Neither 
Mr B nor First Response  provided any additional  comments or evidence  for me to consider. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Bs case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold because:
During the sales calls and in the loan agreements the PPI was described as optional.  So, 
I think First Response made Mr B aware that he had a choice about buying  the PPI, and 
that he chose  to take it out.
First Response recommended the PPI to Mr B  and it seems to have been right for him 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time.
The cost of the policy was shown in the loan agreements  including the amount of the 
premium, the monthly and total cost. Although the interest charged wasnt  shown  
separately, I still think Mr B would  have understood how much the PPI would cost if he 
kept the policy for its full term. So, I dont think the missing  information wouldve made 
any difference to his decision to buy the policies.
Given how long the policies couldve paid out for, if Mr B made a successful claim, he 
couldve got back quite a bit more than he paid for them.
For the PPI sold in 2009, Mr B wouldve got back only a limited  refund of the PPI 
premium if he cancelled the policy early. I dont  know if First Response thought about 
this when it recommended the policy, or if it explained the situation clearly to Mr B. But I 
havent seen anything to suggest he thought  hed repay the loan early. So, I dont think 
this meant the policy wasnt right for him  or that better information about this wouldve 
stopped him buying  it.
For the PPI sold in 2011, Mr B wouldve got a proportionate refund if hed paid off the 
loan early and cancelled the PPI. So, he couldve cancelled the PPI without penalty.
Ref: DRN84562732Its possible First Response didnt point out the main things the policies didnt cover. But 
Mr B doesnt appear to have  been affected by any of those things.
But First Response has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr B because: 
First Response got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr B about  that. Because First Response  didnt tell 
Mr B, that was unfair.  
To put that right, First Response has paid back the amount of commission and profit  
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that is fair in this case.
Ive taken into account Mr Bs comments,  but these  points dont change my conclusion.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so First Response Finance Ltd does not have to pay back 
all of the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
But First Response Finance Ltd does have  to pay back  to Mr B any commission  and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2020.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8456273