K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H are unhappy  that Legal  & General Insurance Limited (L&G) declined their 
claim, under their buildings insurance  policy. Theyre also unhappy with the service received 
while the claim was being  investigated.
When I refer to L&G, Im also referring to any of their appointed  agents or representatives.
background
Part of the external rear wall collapsed at Mr and Mrs Hs house in March 2018. They 
submitted a claim to L&G and said they felt the recent bad weather had caused the wall to 
collapse.
L&G appointed one of their experts to deal with the claim. The expert originally arranged a 
video call with Mr H but, having seen photos of the collapsed wall, decided that a visit would 
be more appropriate.  The visit took place a little later than two weeks  after the claim had first 
been reported.
In between notifying L&G of the claim and the home visit by their expert,  Mr H arranged for 
local surveyors to visit the house  and give their opinion.  The findings were  provided to L&G 
to consider, alongside their own report. A few days later,  L&G declined the claim. They said 
that the wall had collapsed due to its age. They said it had reached the end of its useful life. 
As Mr and Mrs Hs policy excludes damage  due to gradual events / wear and tear, the claim 
wasnt covered.
Mr and Mrs H were unhappy  with this and complained to L&G.  They said that the reports  
theyd had done said the wall had collapsed because of the weather and should  be covered. 
They also said they were  unhappy with how L&G had handled the claim.  They felt the 
communication had been poor.  
L&G responded but didnt  change their decision to decline the claim. They said that, whilst 
there had been  gale force winds, heavy  rain and freezing conditions in the weeks prior to the 
wall collapsing, the reports didnt  say that was the main reason for the wall collapsing.  L&G 
said that the weather had merely contributed to the deterioration of the wall, but the damage  
had been happening gradually  over time. L&G did accept that the communication from them 
hadnt been to a standard they expected and offered Mr and Mrs H £100 in compensation.
Mr and Mrs H brought  their complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt uphold  it. He 
said there wasnt storm conditions around  the time the wall collapsed,  so the damage wasnt  
covered by the policy. He also said that the reports confirmed the damage had happened 
over time, and the recent  bad weather  had highlighted the wear  and tear of the wall. He said 
the compensation offered  by L&G was fair for the communication  issues.
As Mr and Mrs H didnt  agree its been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I wont be asking L&G to 
do anything. Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN86571572Firstly, Id like to explain that Im only deciding if L&G were reasonable in declining Mr and 
Mrs Hs claim based on the policy terms and conditions. I know  Mr H is also unhappy  with 
L&Gs handling of a claim from his neighbour following  damage  to his house  after Mr and 
Mrs Hs wall collapsed,  but that will need  to be a separate  complaint  and I wont be 
commenting on it here. 
Our approach in storm cases  is to ask three questions:
Was there a storm on or around the loss?
Is the nature of the damage consistent  with storm damage?  And
Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
Its only if we can answer  Yes to all three questions that we say the insurer is liable to pay 
the claim.  But in this case the answer isnt yes to all three, so Im not asking L&G to pay the 
claim.
Im satisfied that the answer to the first question  is yes. Mr and Mrs Hs policy  defines storm 
as:
We define storm to be strong winds of 41 knots / 47 mph or more, sometimes  accompanied 
by rain, hail or snow. Heavy or persistent rain alone  does not constitute storm unless the 
downpour is torrential (25mm  / 1inch or more  of rain over a one hour period, or a 
proportionate amount  over a shorter time). When assessing a claim, well take into account 
the condition of the property, because a well maintained building should withstand  all but the 
most severe  weather events. It is important  to remember  that you are responsible for 
maintaining your home in a good  state  of repair.
Our investigator didnt  think there had been  a storm. But I disagree. Ive checked the 
weather station closest to Mr and Mrs Hs house and it shows there  was a storm on or 
around the time the wall collapsed. The highest  wind gust reported was 52mph on              
14 March 2018,  which was six days prior to the wall collapsing. The storm is shown as a dry 
storm and the maximum rainfall  per day doesnt  fall within  the policy definition of storm. 
However, the maximum wind gust does meet the definition of storm in Mr and Mrs Hs policy.
The answer to the second  question is more difficult to determine.  Its possible that the storm 
conditions could have  led to the wall collapsing, so the nature of the damage could be 
consistent with storm damage. 
However, the answer to the third question is no. Mr and Mrs H have provided a couple  of 
reports. One states that the cement  render applied  to the wall is likely to have trapped  any 
moisture entering any cracks or imperfections, resulting in the structure being saturated. It 
then states that the recent bad weather will have increased the deterioration of the wall, 
expanded the trapped  moisture and increased the risk of collapse. The report says:
It is therefore my opinion that the most likely  cause  of the collapse was due to minor 
structural movement over time, exacerbated by the use of a cement render and that the 
collapse itself was brought on in this instance by a period of subzero temperatures.
The second  report  provided by Mr and Mrs H states the same reason for the wall collapsing. 
Ref: DRN86571573The report  provided  by L&G confirms that:
the material between the stones in the wall has crumbled to powder and falls apart to the 
touch. The material has broken down with age and is no longer offering any support to the 
stonework / rubble fill.
Im satisfied that all the reports provided confirm that the storm wasnt the main cause of 
damage to the wall and it has been happening over a period of time. The bad weather 
leading up to the wall collapsing  has only increased its deterioration. As damage that 
happens gradually over time isnt covered by Mr and Mrs Hs policy, Im satisfied L&G have 
acted fairly  when declining the claim.  
Mr and Mrs H are unhappy  with L&Gs handling of the claim and feel the communication  has 
been poor. Mr H is unhappy  that L&G sent an expert to assess the damage but didnt let    
Mr and Mrs H know this might happen. But Mr and Mrs Hs policy  booklet  does say that L&G 
might appoint someone on their behalf to consider the claim. In the Storms and Extreme 
Weather section of the policy  it says:
If you are claiming for storm  damage we will ask you to confirm  the date of the incident  and 
show us how the conditions at the time damaged your home.  We may appoint one of our 
specialists to inspect  your home or ask you to send us a report  by your contractor.
The policy booklet  does  go on to say that L&G will notify its policyholders  if an expert is to be 
appointed. And I cant see that they did this on this occasion. And some of their 
communication with Mr and Mrs H was poor. But I think £100 is a reasonable amount of 
compensation to offer.  
The claim was notified to L&G on 20 March 2018  and the claim was declined on                 
10 April 2018. I think thats a reasonable time for the claim to take and I wont be asking  L&G 
to do anything more.  
Ref: DRN86571574my final decision
I understand Legal & General Insurance Limited  has offered Mr and Mrs H £100.  I conclude 
thats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances so my final decision is that 
Legal & General Insurance Limited  should pay Mr and Mrs H £100 if they havent already 
done so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 January 2020. 
Kevin Parmenter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8657157