K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains that the vehicle he acquired  through a hire purchase agreement financed  by 
Black Horse  Limited was not of satisfactory  quality. He wants to reject the vehicle and end 
the agreement.
background
Mr F tells us that in October 2017 he acquired a new vehicle through  a dealer Ill call T. He 
says he immediately noticed alignment  problems  and had this confirmed by a local 
dealership. He says hes since  had dozens  of alignments done and has provided the 
printouts. But even after these repairs he said the vehicle always  goes out of alignment 
again after a few days. Mr F says hes been through three sets of tyres in less than 45,000  
miles due to uneven  wear and needing  to use the brakes excessively due to poor handling.
Black Horse  told us that Mr F had first complained in November 2017  about issues  with the 
wheel alignment  of the vehicle. It said that the vehicle had been inspected  by a company Ill 
refer to as A. It had found the steering wheel  slightly misaligned  - although the steering 
geometry was correct.  Black Horse said it refunded the cost of repairs of over £1,300. 
Following a later complaint by Mr F, it said had arranged for the vehicle to be inspected, in 
July 2018, by a company Ill refer to as D. It said D had found during a test drive there was 
a slight drift but no rectification work was required. It said that D had concluded that road 
imperfections such as potholes had affected  the vehicles steering/suspension geometry. 
Black Horse  said that the vehicle had covered over 25,000  miles since  supply and - in the 
absence of any mechanical evidence that a fault was present - it would not support the need  
for further  repairs.
Our adjudicator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. She said she thought 
any alignment issues which were  still present were probably due to driving style and wear 
and tear since supply.
Mr F didnt  agree and said he was sure there were underlying issues  with the vehicle. As its 
not been possible to resolve this complaint an ombudsman  has been asked to make the final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  that Mr F has had repeated concerns with this vehicle. I understand that when he 
acquired it he wouldnt have been anticipating  any problems. So I can accept his 
disappointment if the vehicle  hasnt  met his expectations.
Mr Fs hire purchase agreement is a regulated consumer credit  agreement and our service  is 
able to consider  complaints relating to it. Black  Horse  supplied the vehicle and its therefore  
responsible for a complaint about  the quality of the vehicle. Whilst I dont apply the law - 
directly - I do take it into account. And relevant law here includes the Consumer  Rights  Act of 
2015 (CRA).
Ref: DRN85045702The CRA requires  that in order  to conform to contract, goods  must be of satisfactory  quality 
at the point of supply.  This was a new vehicle when acquired by Mr F and as such  it should  
have been free from even minor defects. The information with which  Ive been provided 
shows that Mr F reported an issue with the alignment of the steering within a day of his 
taking the vehicle. And its fair to say that since then hes repeatedly  complained about the 
same issue.  Ive seen numerous  alignment  checks,  over a long period, together  with reports  
following various inspections and details of repairs.
Where evidence is unclear or contradictory  - as some of it is here - I make my decision on 
the balance of probabilities. That is I decide what is the most probable explanation to 
account for whats happened. Ive been provided  with a substantial  amount  of documentation 
and submissions. And whilst Ive read everything, if I dont mention a specific  item its not 
because Ive not taken it on board - its simply I dont think I need to refer to it separately  in  
explaining my reasons  for reaching my final decision.
After Mr Fs original  complaint several  alignment  checks were  carried  out. These  produced 
contradictory results with some tests  showing the vehicle to be fine and others  showing it out 
of alignment. An independent inspection  was arranged which was carried out by A in 
November 2017.  This report concluded  that the steering wheel was slightly  to the left but 
didnt have any detrimental effect  on the serviceability of the vehicle.
Following this, in December 2017, Mr F arranged for another garage firm, which Ill refer to 
as B, to inspect the vehicle. B reported  the geometry was out and the vehicle pulled left 
whilst steering right. Corrective  work was undertaken including shimming the rear axle. Mr F 
said he was willing to settle for things at this stage  as there was a major improvement in the 
vehicles handling.  I understand  Black Horse has refunded  the cost of this work to Mr F.
Unfortunately, this improvement doesnt  seem  to have lasted long and another  check 
showed the vehicle was once again  out of alignment. Mr F arranged  with B to have  the 
repair redone. But as B later said he was unable  to do this, Mr F arranged with another  
garage which Ill refer to as C, to have  the rear axle changed. C has told us that it carried  
out no diagnostic  work  - but simply did the work  it was asked to do.
It seems  this had no beneficial effect on the steering and Mr F once again raised a complaint 
with Black Horse. Another independent inspection was arranged and on 11 July 2018  a 
company Ill refer to as D carried out this inspection. 
It reported the vehicle was in a generally good  condition for its age, type, and mileage  which 
was recorded  at 25,994.  The inspector  stated  that hed formed  the following conclusions in 
response to the issues he was asked to comment upon:
Based on the age and mileage do you believe the vehicle was satisfactory at the point of 
sale and consummate  with its age and mileage? 
Due to the time elapsed,  mileage covered and alterations made since the point of sale,  I am 
unable to comment on the condition of the vehicle at the point of sale.
- In your opinion what is causing  the issues? 
It is my opinion  that driving  over road imperfections such as pot holes  has effected the
vehicles steering / suspension geometry.
Ref: DRN85045703- Your opinion on whether  these  faults would have been present or developing at the point of 
sale, are manufacturing  defects or are likely to be wear and tear or due to driver error.  
Taking into consideration the mileage that has been  covered,  and the time that has
elapsed since then? Due to the time elapsed, mileage covered and alterations made since  
the point of sale, I am unable to comment on the condition  of the vehicle at the point of sale.
- Could you please complete a test drive  and confirm the faults  are present and what would 
resolve them?
The issues  experienced during my test drive  were found to be of a very minor nature and 
therefore no rectification  work would be advised.
- Can you please confirm if the veering  is a characteristic  or is actually a fault? 
Only a very slight drift was experienced at the time of my test drive which was not found to 
be indicative  of a fault.
Since Ds report, I can see Mr Fs had further  checks done and in November  2018  the 
vehicle was again seen by C. At this stage  the mileage was recorded as 41,176.  C noted  
that the car was still pulling to the left but that all alignments were  showing in spec and 
there was no damage to the vehicle. It said it had advised Mr F that there  may be a possible 
defect in the chassis.
But more  recently, Mr F has supplied information  which shows that there is nothing wrong 
with the chassis.  Indeed  he says it shows there  is nothing wrong  with the vehicle  - other than 
for some unexplained  reason it still has this tendency  to pull slightly to one side. 
Mr F feels that this latest report  disproves any suggestion that his driving  style or any repairs  
hes had done  have affected the vehicle. And so he refers back  to the initial complaint he 
made and says this shows the alignment issues have been present  with the vehicle from the 
point of supply.
I think I can fairly summarise the information  that has been supplied as showing that the 
vehicle has had a slight tendency to drift since the time Mr F acquired it. I also conclude that 
this has not proved to be an impediment to the vehicle covering well above  average mileage 
since it was supplied. The last mileage figure  Ive seen, from 15 November  2018,  shows  the 
vehicle had by then covered 41,176  miles  in just over a year.
In my opinion, it is challenging to suggest that a vehicle which is able to achieve this level of 
mileage in such a period,  is not of satisfactory quality in terms of any issues that might  affect  
its performance.
As far as I can see only B identified the need for specific  work to be undertaken - including  
the shimming of the rear axle - which it went on to carry out. As the work B undertook 
doesnt appear to have  made any lasting difference - for better or for worse  - I can 
reasonably infer that it was probably  unnecessary and has not affected the issue about  
which Mr F is complaining.
Ref: DRN85045704This is supported by the opinions expressed  in the expert reports of A and D which both 
observed a slight tendency  to drift. But they didnt think this affected  the serviceability of the 
vehicle and didnt  recommend any need  for remedial action. This has since been confirmed 
by C which, in November  2018, reported  the vehicle to be still pulling to the left but the 
alignment to be in keeping with the required specification. C hypothesised  at the time that 
there might be a chassis defect - but this has now been  discounted.
I dont dispute  that Mr F might be sensitive to the vehicles slight  tendency  to drift. And each 
of us has our own driving characteristics  and preferences. Several experts have been unable 
to identify any specific cause of the tendency but theyve  also concluded the issue is of a 
minor nature and doesnt  require any remedial  action.  Nor is there  any information to say the 
reliability and/or safety of the vehicle has been  compromised.  
Based on the independent reports - and taking account of the extensive  mileage covered in 
a relatively short timescale - I dont think theres  sufficient information for me to conclude  that 
the vehicle was not of satisfactory quality  at the time of supply.
I accept my decision  will come as a disappointment  to Mr F but for the reasons given Im not 
upholding this complaint.
 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 October  2019.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8504570