K820x#14complaint
Miss M complains that Vanquis Bank Limited lent irresponsibly  when it approved credit limit 
increases for her credit  card. 
Miss M also complains about  the service she received when she called to discuss  her credit  
card and complain.  
background
Miss M applied for a Vanquis credit  card online in 2013. She told Vanquis  that she was 
employed and earned around £7,000 a year. Vanquis approved the application  and gave 
Miss M a credit card with a £250  limit. 
Vanquis increased Miss Ms credit from £250  to £1,000 in October 2015. In August 2016  
Vanquis increased the credit limit from £1,000 to £1,750. Vanquis approved the final limit 
increase in September 2017 and it went from £1,750 to £2,500.  
Miss Ms told us that during this period  she was only making minimum payments and had 
other credit issues she feels Vanquis shouldve  taken into account. Miss M had two defaults, 
one in 2013 and the other  in 2015,  as well as arrears on a loan she had. 
In 2018 Miss M contacted Vanquis and said she wanted to opt out of future credit limit 
increases. She later complained about the credit limit increases shed had since  opening the 
credit card in 2013. Vanquis looked at Miss Ms complaint but didnt agree  itd made an error 
when it increased  her credit limit and said it couldnt  find anything to show shed previously 
raised concerns  about financial difficulties. 
Miss M went on to refer her complaint  to this service and an investigator looked  at what had 
happened. She didnt  agree that Vanquis had lent irresponsibly and thought  it had provided 
good service. Miss M didnt accept the investigators view and asked to appeal,  so her 
complaints been  passed to me to make  a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Id like to begin by saying that Ive 
reviewed and considered  everything both Miss M and Vanquis have supplied  in reaching my 
decision. Ive been brief above as Miss M and Vanquis have  both provided  detailed 
submissions and the investigators  also explained what  happened.  Im not going to respond 
to each and every point  raised and will focus  on what  I think  are the key issues  here. But I 
want to assure Miss M and Vanquis  that Ive considered everything theyve said and all the 
information submitted.  
Miss Ms complaint falls broadly into two parts. The first is about Vanquis decisions  to 
increase Miss Ms credit limit in stages from £250  in 2013 to £2,500 in 2017.  The second is 
about the service  Miss M received when she contacted Vanquis to discuss  her account and 
complain. Ill start by looking  at the credit  limits. 
Theres no specific set of checks a lender has to complete when deciding  whether to 
approve credit. But lenders are required  to complete checks that are proportionate to the 
type of credit  being applied for to ensure the debt is sustainable for the customer. 
Ref: DRN86235482Vanquis has supplied  a detailed submission setting  out the checks it completed each time it 
looked at Miss Ms credit limit. While I appreciate Miss M feels Vanquis  lent irresponsibly 
when it approved credit limit increases, I think the checks  it completed  shows the decision to 
proceed was reasonable. Ill explain why. 
Miss M applied and was approved for a £250  limit in April 2013. Vanquis  didnt  increase  the 
credit limit until October  2015, around two and half years later.  I can see that between  these 
dates Miss M had two defaults and shes asked why Vanquis would approve the limit 
increases if it knew about them. Vanquis  has confirmed it did know about the defaults. But 
its a second chance lender. That means a limited level of adverse  credit isnt necessarily a 
barrier to increasing a credit limit. 
Vanquis says it looked at Miss Ms payment profile  and saw that whilst four payments had 
been made late there had been  no issues for over a year. In addition,  whilst Miss M had 
missed a payment  on a loan, shed gone  on to settle  the debt in July 2015. Vanquis has 
supplied systems evidence to show Miss Ms credit limit increase met its lending criteria.  And 
Im satisfied that it completed  proportionate checks so I havent found Vanquis made an 
error. 
Vanquis increased the credit limit from £1,000 to £1,750 in August 2016.  Its supplied 
evidence to show Miss Ms credit file was assessed  and the amount of money she owed  to 
other creditors had gone  down.  Miss M had also made her Vanquis  payments on time and 
maintained her account. Miss Ms defaults had been settled and no new ones had been 
incurred. Overall, I think Vanquis decision to approve the credit  limit increase  here was 
reasonable in light of what it knew  about  Miss M. 
The final increase was approved in September 2017. In the preceding year Miss M had gone 
over her credit limit six times. But when Vanquis  looked at her credit file it found  Miss M 
owed substantially less to other  creditors.  Looking  at Miss Ms credit file, it appears  she 
repaid a hire purchase agreement around  October  2016. In August 2017 Miss M made a 
payment of over £1,000 towards the outstanding balance. In addition, Miss Ms defaults had 
been cleared and the most recent  had happened over two years before. Taking everything 
Vanquis saw into account, I think its decision to increase  Miss Ms credit limit was 
reasonable. 
When Vanquis increased Miss Ms credit limit it wrote to her first. Ive seen systems 
evidence from Vanquis as well as details of the letters it sent. Vanquis told Miss M she didnt 
have to accept  the limit increases and I think it could reasonably have expected  her to say if 
she wanted to withdraw  her permission for future increases. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Miss M but for the reasons  Ive given above I havent found that 
Vanquis lent irresponsibly  in this case.  
Businesses should treat customers who are experiencing financial difficulties positively and 
sympathetically. But Id normally  expect to see someone raise their concerns with a lender to 
let it know what was happening. I know Miss M says she raised financial difficulties with 
Vanquis before 2018 but its contact  notes dont show any record of that. The investigator 
asked Miss M to provide evidence she contacted Vanquis to raise her concerns but nothing 
has been provided. The earliest  mention of financial  difficulties appears to have been in 
May 2018. I understand Miss M was going  through a really  difficult  time but I havent  found 
any evidence that she told Vanquis about that so it wasnt able to offer help.  
Ref: DRN86235483Vanquis wrote to Miss M in May 2018  and gave details of a new offer and potential increase 
to her credit limit, despite her earlier complaint. I agree that the letter  was poorly timed  but it 
wasnt an automated credit limit increase letter. It was an invitation  to upgrade Miss Ms 
existing account  and apply to increase her credit limit. The letter says any increase is subject 
to eligibility.  I appreciate  Miss M didnt  want to take Vanquis up on the offer and that the 
timing of the letter was unfortunate.  But I dont  think those issues  are sufficient to uphold  
Miss Ms complaint. 
Miss M has raised  concerns over the service she received from Vanquis.  Ive listened to 
Miss Ms calls with Vanquis from April and May 2018 and I can hear that things did become 
strained at times.  But I think  that reflects the nature  of the subjects Miss M was discussing. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Miss M but I havent  found she received poor service. 
Vanquis has also contacted Miss M to offer PIN reminders and other services connected to 
her credit card recently. Whilst  I appreciate  Miss M no longer has an outstanding balance 
she does have an open credit card. So I dont think its unreasonable  for Vanquis to write to 
her about  that facility.  
I can see that Miss M has been through a difficult time but I havent  found that Vanquis lent 
irresponsibly in this case. Im satisfied  it thought  about whether to increase Miss Ms credit  
limit each time before taking that step and that it contacted her to give her notice of what was 
happening. Ive not found that Miss M raised  her financial difficulties with Vanquis  before 
2018 and I think  the service  its provided has been  reasonable. Taking  everything  Ive seen 
into account Im satisfied Vanquis  dealt with Miss Ms complaint fairly so Im not telling it to 
take any further action.  
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 April 2019.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8623548