K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2006 with a 
credit card. Mr W says Bank of Scotland plc (BOS), trading as Sainsburys Bank, mis-sold 
him the PPI. For ease  of reference Ill refer to BOS as the business that sold the policy in the 
rest of this decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ws case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Mr W applied  for the credit card and PPI on line. Ive had a look at the credit agreement BOS  
then sent to Mr W to check,  sign and return.  I can see that Mr W has signed the agreement, 
selected PPI and signed separately to say he wanted  it. 
In the box Mr W signed  it said: 
I wish to purchase Credit Card Repayments  Cover. 
I understand that I am purchasing the product  ticked above on credit provided by you and 
that the terms relating to the credit for the products can be found in conditions 1 to 4 in this 
agreement.
Mr W was also sent a demands and needs  statement to check. This said that BOS  hadnt 
provided Mr W with a recommendation about  the PPI.
Mr W said BOS didnt make the optional nature of the policy  clear  to him. Having looked at 
the paperwork, I think it was clear  that Mr W didnt have to take out PPI to get the card.  He 
selected PPI, so I think it was added because he told BOS he wanted it. I cant  see that BOS 
helped Mr W complete  his application. So based  on what  Ive seen, I think BOS  made it 
clear that Mr W didnt  have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it out, although given 
how long ago the policy was sold, I can understand why he might not remember  this now.
Based on everything  Ive seen, I dont think the policy was recommended to Mr W so BOS 
didnt have to check if it was suitable  for him. But it did have to make sure 
Mr W got the information he needed  to decide if it was right for him and he wanted  to buy it.  
Its possible the information BOS gave Mr W about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve  
been. But I think he chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks  like he wanted this type of cover.  It 
looks like Mr W wouldve been eligible  for the policy and it doesnt appear he was affected by 
any of the likely main exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. So, I think  PPI wouldve been 
useful if Mr W lost his job or was too sick to work. It also looks  like the PPI was affordable.  
Mr W says he wouldve  got six months  at full pay and six months  at half pay through  his 
work if he couldnt work due to accident  or sickness. He also said he had a modest  amount 
of savings, compared to his income.  The policy wouldve paid out on top of his sick pay for 
Ref: DRN80088072up to 12 months if he couldnt work because of illness  or injury. It also wouldve paid out for 
up to 12 months for unemployment. It wouldve allowed him to use his savings  for other  
household expenditure,  at what might be a difficult time for him financially if he wasnt able to 
work. So, I think he couldve found the policy useful.  
Overall, I dont  think better information  about the PPI would have put Mr W off taking out the 
cover. 
Which means BOS doesnt  have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr W.
But BOS  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr W because:  
BOS got a high level of commission  and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr W about  that. Because  BOS didnt tell Mr W, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, BOS has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share  that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr W has said, but these points dont change  my conclusions.  
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr W.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Mr W any commission and profit share  it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8008807