K821x#15complaint
Mr N complains about the television he acquired  with finance from Caversham Finance 
Limited (CF).
background
Mr N says he thought  hed bought a brand new TV. But he says when it was delivered  there  
was no polystyrene supporting it, no instruction  manual,  no batteries and some connection 
cables were missing. And he says there  were  some scratches on the stand and no screen  
protection on the TV.
Mr N also says he later had to book a repair because the display  wasnt  working properly. 
And he says the engineer who attended told him his TV was an ex-display model. 
In addition Mr N says despite the engineer taking the TV away  for repair  its still freezing and 
the displays still distorted.  So, Mr N says he wants CF to provide  him with a new TV.
CF says the TV was delivered to Mr N on 11 January 2018. It says on 6 June 2018 an 
engineer inspected it and decided it needed a software update. And it says the engineers  
report suggests no fault was found  with the TV, so it was returned  to Mr N on 20 June.
CF also says the TV came into stock  on 16 December  2017. It says it was briefly on display 
in another store but had never been on any other customers agreement. It says the store  
advises that Mr N was aware  it was an ex-display model. And it says the first record it has of 
him expressing dissatisfaction about this was on 4 June  2018.
Our investigator thought Mr Ns complaint  should be upheld. He said CF should allow  Mr N 
to reject the TV and take it back from him. It should unwind the finance agreement and 
refund everything  hed paid towards it, including  any interest.  And it should remove  any 
record of the agreement from his credit  file.
CF disagreed with the investigators conclusions.  It said when the TV was sent away  for 
repair the engineers didnt  find any fault,  therefore a repair wasnt  attempted.  So, it said it 
believes its reasonable for the supplier to have the opportunity  to assess  it again.  And if a 
faults found, to attempt to repair it as long as it isnt due to customer misuse or accidental  
damage.
CF also said it remains  of the opinion that Mr N was aware the TV was an ex-display model 
when he acquired  it. It said in his initial complaint he implied that the TV arrived  with no 
battery, there were marks on the back of it, the instruction manual was missing  and the box 
had been resealed. So, it said based  on this information alone, it considers it more  likely 
than not Mr N was aware it was an ex-display model. And it said if he had concerns 
regarding it not being brand new, it believes he wouldve complained  a lot sooner.   
So, the matters  been referred  to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN84904842Ive decided to uphold Mr Ns complaint  and Ill explain why.
CF supplied Mr Ns TV under a finance  agreement. So, it was responsible for ensuring the 
TV was of satisfactory quality when  it was supplied.
I see the issue Mr N originally complained about involved the display freezing and becoming 
distorted. And I see although no fault was found by the engineers, a software update  was 
completed and it was hoped this would  resolve the issue. But I see Mr N says despite this 
work the same issues are recurring.
From what  Ive seen I think its more likely than not the issues  Mr Ns currently  experiencing 
are related  to the original problem he reported in June 2018.  And I wouldnt expect a new TV 
to develop a problem of this nature within a few months from new. So I think its likely  to 
have been present or developing when the TV was supplied to Mr N. 
Im also aware CFs previously been given an opportunity to remedy this issue,  but 
apparently without success. And in these  circumstances I think  its reasonable for Mr N to be 
able to reject  the TV at this stage.
In addition, I see Mr Ns finance agreement describes it as a new TV and hes clearly  stated 
he wasnt told it was an ex-display model. CF hasnt  been able to give us information 
confirming he was made aware of the true status  of the TV. And I dont accept the fact that 
Mr N didnt complain about  the features suggesting it was ex-display  until sometime later 
means he must have  been aware  of the true position when he acquired it. 
So, on balance, I think its more likely the TV was misrepresented to Mr N as brand new 
when it was actually  an ex-display model. And I think  this is a further reason why its fair for 
him to be able to reject  it at this stage.  
I also think its reasonable for CF to collect the TV from Mr N at its own expense; to unwind 
the finance agreement and refund everything  Mr Ns paid towards it, including  interest; and I 
think its also reasonable for me to require CF to remove any record of the agreement  from 
his credit file.
So, I uphold  Mr Ns complaint on this basis.
my final decision
I uphold Mr Ns complaint  against  Caversham Finance  Limited. It must allow Mr N to reject 
the TV and collect  it from him at its own expense.  It must unwind the finance agreement and 
refund everything  hes paid towards  it, including any interest. And it must remove  any record  
of the agreement from Mr Ns credit file.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 April 2019.
Ref: DRN84904843Robert Collinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8490484