K820x#14complaint
Ms A, who is represented by her husband, complains that Secure Trust Bank Plc mis-sold 
her a loan to buy a car and is overcharging  her after she voluntarily surrendered the car.
background
In March 2017 Ms A bought a new car funded  by a hire purchase  agreement with Secure. 
She had recently  started a new job which required her to travel and it came with a car 
allowance. Ms A had poor credit history  and the agreement carried an annual interest rate of 
33.5%.
A few months later she lost her job and was unable to meet the monthly  repayments.  She 
contacted Secure and said she wanted  to voluntarily surrender her car. She confirmed this in 
writing, but shortly after this she got another job and asked to set up a repayment plan. A 
few days later she changed her mind  as the new job wasnt as well paid. Secure explained 
how voluntary surrender  worked and told her she would  be responsible for the balance.
The car was collected on 19 December 2017  and sold at auction  for £9,419.  This was set 
against her account  leaving £13,983.74 to pay. The debt was passed  to Secures debt 
collection arm. 
Ms A complained, but this was rejected by Secure. The matter was brought to this service 
where it was considered  by one of our adjudicators who didnt recommend it be upheld.  He 
said the loan was made at a time when Ms A could afford it and her change of 
circumstances was unforeseen. He didnt think it had been mis-sold. 
He understood  Ms A felt aggrieved at having to pay for a car which  she no longer had, but 
she was told of the consequences of opting  for voluntary surrender. She had been  told the 
car would be sold and the proceeds would be taken off the outstanding  balance of the 
finance agreement. This left her liable  for the remaining balance.
He was satisfied  that Ms A understood how voluntary surrender worked before she decided  
to proceed with this option. He believed Secure had given Ms A a range of options to 
consider and she had chosen  voluntary surrender.
Mr A didnt agree and said that the agreement wasnt fair and meant  his wife ended  up 
paying a significant sum for the car which she no longer had. He suggested her exposure 
should be limited  to half of the debt.
my findings 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On reviewing this complaint I was concerned that Ms A found  herself  in a disadvantaged 
positon as a result of events. I asked the business  to let me know  what  the positon would be 
if Ms A had opted  for voluntary termination  rather than voluntary surrender. It calculated  that 
the shortfall would  be reduced to £10,332.44. However it added a note to the effect that it 
would be reluctant to agree to a retrospective voluntary termination.
Ref: DRN85037572It explained that it was careful not to give customers advice  on which option to choose.  It 
also acknowledged that it wasnt neutral and it sought to inform rather than advise, as it had 
done with Ms A. It recognised the significant difference in the settlement figures and it 
suggested it might be willing to enter into a discussion with Ms A on the basis  of a settlement 
along those lines.
It didnt believe it had done anything wrong and it would feel aggrieved if it executed Ms As 
instructions only for those  to be overturned with the benefit of hindsight. Ms A felt that her 
being responsible for a sum of £10,000 was unfair,  but I asked  our adjudicator  to seek  an 
informal resolution whereby I sought to achieve  agreement between  the parties that Ms A 
would owe £10,332.44.
Regrettably that didnt  work as Secure was concerned that a decision would be published 
that showed it had done something wrong. However, it reiterated that it was prepared  to 
consider reducing  the figure  after a decision was issued.
I have reflected on the arguments out forwards at great length and despite the sympathy I 
have for Ms A I have concluded  that Secure didnt  do anything wrong in the handling of her 
account. Ms A could  afford the finance arrangement, but regrettably after losing her job she 
found herself in a difficult situation. I can see that Secure endeavoured to assist and made 
her ware  of the options available to her. She chose to voluntarily surrender the car and I 
dont believe  it would  be right for me to undo  that decision.
However, I am reassured by the approach taken  by Secure to this complaint and it has 
indicated that it will seek to support Ms A in resolving the matter. In any event I doubt it is 
realistic for Secure to chase Ms A for the full sum unless she has funds of which I am 
unaware. The comments made by Secure show  it recognises it has an obligation to deal with 
Ms A positively and sympathetically in helping her resolve her financial difficulties. 
I understand Ms A wishes the debt to be reduced to £5,000 and while I am sympathetic to 
this suggestion  I cannot direct  Secure to agree to that proposal, but I am sure it will 
endeavour to engage  with her in a constructive manner.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept  or reject my decision before 
4 December 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8503757