K821x#15complaint
Mrs Ts complaint concerns the incorrect removal of the indexation option  from her whole of 
life policy, provided  by Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada  (U.K.) Limited.  
background
Mrs T took out her policy in 1991.  She opted  for it to be indexed,  meaning the cover and 
premiums would be automatically increased annually.  This worked as planned for the first 
10 years.  But unfortunately, due to an error on the part of Sun Life, the indexation was 
removed in 2001. Much later, in August 2018, it contacted Mrs T to explain what  had 
happened. 
At the point of the error  in 2001  Mrs T had been  paying £25.72  for cover  of £20,861.06. 
Sun Life explained that if the indexation  had continued she would now be paying  £41.72  for 
cover of £33,842.12.   
Sun Life offered  to reconstruct the policy  as if the missed indexation increases had been 
applied to the policy by adding an amount equivalent to the missed  premiums. This was the 
additional amount Mrs T would have paid if the indexation  had continued - £1,496.71. 
However, Sun Life felt that if Mrs T wanted  the level of cover  to increase she should pay half 
of this amount,  with it meeting  the cost of the other half. Alternatively, she could just keep the 
policy and level of cover  as it was. 
Mrs T didnt  think  it was fair that she should have to pay half the amount, so she referred the 
matter to this service.      
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After consultation  with both parties its been  agreed  that a fair compromise will be for the 
policy to be adjusted by Sun Life paying  its share  with Mrs T not having to make any 
payment. This means the premiums and sum assured will increase but by a smaller amount 
 effectively a mid-point between where  they were  and where  they wouldve been if the 
indexation had continued after 2001.  I understand this will result  in the policy  providing  cover 
of £ 27,351.59 for a monthly premium of £33.72. 
Importantly, Mrs T should be aware that the cover  will not be indexed going forward,  but the 
policy will remain  subject  to performance  reviews  as it has always  been, so she may still be 
required to pay a higher premium,  or accept a reduced sum assured, at some point in the 
future.   
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct 
Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.)  Limited to reconstruct Mrs Ts policy  to the 
compromise position as set out above.  
Ref: DRN89904902Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 November  2019.
James Harris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8990490