K821x#15complaint
Mr B says CashEuroNet UK LLC (trading  as QuickQuid) irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about six payday loans  QuickQuid provided to Mr B between March  2010 
and November 2011. Mr Bs lending history  is as follows:
loan date taken date repaid instalments amount repayment deferrals
1 15/03/2010 31/03/2010 1 £250 £309 -
2 08/04/2010 28/05/2010 1 £550 £660 1
3 03/06/2010 30/07/2010 1 £600 £735 1
4 06/08/2010 28/04/2011 1 £600 £735 5
5 07/05/2011 31/10/2011 1 £800 £980 5
6 03/11/2011 - 1 £950 £1,187.50 4
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Bs complaint in part and thought the loans from loan two 
onwards shouldnt have been  given. 
QuickQuid hasnt responded to the adjudicators view, so as the complaint hasnt been  
resolved, its been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending  including all of the relevant rules,  guidance  and good  
industry practice - on our website. 
QuickQuid needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly.  In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr B 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
Mr Bs income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that QuickQuid should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr B. These factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ref: DRN85409642There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Its important for me to start by saying that QuickQuid was required to establish  whether 
Mr B could sustainably repay  his loans  not just whether the loan payments were  affordable  
on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. They should also be able to make their repayments  without  having  to borrow  
further. It follows that a lender should  realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that 
a borrower wont be able to make  their repayments  sustainably if theyre  unlikely to be able 
to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Bs complaint.
Having thought about everything, I havent  seen enough to make me think  that QuickQuid 
shouldnt have lent the first loan to Mr B. I say this because  the repayment  amount of this 
loan was relatively modest  in relation to his reported monthly income, and it was reasonable 
for QuickQuid to rely on the information Mr B provided about his income this early in the 
lending relationship.
But I dont think that loans two to six shouldve  been lent to Mr B. Ill explain why.
It doesnt look as though  QuickQuid asked Mr B about his income again, after it initially 
gathered that information before lending for the first time. And loan two represented a 
significant portion  of Mr Bs income  which from the information provided was £1,300  per 
month.
The repayment amount for loan two was £660. So it was highly likely Mr B would struggle to 
repay this loan without  needing to borrow further  to cover the hole it left in his finances. This 
wasnt a sustainable  position and so QuickQuid shouldnt  have  lent this, nor the subsequent 
(larger) loans.
I think that Mr B lost out because QuickQuid continued to provide borrowing from loan two 
onwards. I say this because:
the loans from the second one onwards represented an increasingly large portion of 
Mr Bs income  varying  between 51% and 91%
there were virtually no gaps in lending; in the 598 days  between Mr B taking loan one 
and loan six, he didnt  owe it any money for only 33 days
the size of the loans, and their repayments,  increased as time went on.
Mr B deferred payment five times on the fourth loan,  as well as incurring two late 
payment fees  so it took him 265 days to repay  it instead of the planned 25 days.  
And he deferred payment five times on the fifth loan  so this one took him 177 days 
to repay,  instead of the planned 24 days.  The final loan wasnt repaid.
Ref: DRN85409643Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Mr Bs borrowing history  with QuickQuid, with a view 
to seeing if there was a point at which QuickQuid  should reasonably have seen that further 
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. Thats  to say, a point  at which  QuickQuid 
should have realised that it shouldnt have provided  any further loans  to Mr B.
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Bs case, I think  that this point  was reached by loan 
five. I say this because:
From  loan five onwards Mr B was provided  with a new loan within  nine days  of 
settling the previous  one. So QuickQuid ought  to have realised  it was more likely 
than not Mr B was having to borrow further  to cover the hole repaying his previous 
loan was leaving in his finances.  This in turn wouldve led it to realise that Mr Bs 
indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
Mr B wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed QuickQuid.  Loan  six 
was taken out around 20 months  after Mr Bs first. And it was for a larger amount. 
Mr B had paid large amounts of interest  to, in effect, service a debt to QuickQuid over 
an extended period.
So I think that QuickQuid  shouldve realised that the overall pattern of lending was 
unsustainable before  it lent the fifth loan to Mr B. And I think that Mr B lost out because 
QuickQuid continued  to provide borrowing from then on. I say this because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Bs indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the sheer number  of loans and deferrals was likely to have had negative implications 
on Mr Bs ability  to access mainstream  credit, and so kept him in the market  for these 
high-cost loans.
So Im upholding  the complaint about  loans two to six because the repayments for those  
loans took up a significant part of Mr Bs income. Additionally, I think QuickQuid shouldve  
realised that the overall pattern of lending was unsustainable from loan five onwards. So 
QuickQuid should  put things right.
putting things right  what QuickQuid  needs to do
If QuickQuid sold the outstanding  debt on loan 6 it should buy this back  if its able to do so 
and then take the following steps. If it isnt able to buy the debt back then it should liaise
with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
I require QuickQuid to:
a) add together the total of the repayments  made by Mr B towards interest, fees and charges 
on loans two to five (loans taken between 8 April 2010 and 7 May 2011 inclusive)
b) calculate 8% simple  interest on the individual  payments made by Mr B which were 
considered as part of A), calculated  from the date he originally made the payments to the 
date the complaint is settled.
c) remove  all interest, fees and charges from the balance on loan six and treat any 
repayments made by Mr B as though they had been repayments of the principal on loan six. 
Ref: DRN85409644From what  I can see Mr B repaid significantly  more  than £950 (the amount of the principal  
originally advanced)  so he made  overpayments. In this case  QuickQuid should add 8% 
simple interest on the overpayments,  from the date the overpayments  would have arisen, to 
the date the complaint is settled. 
d) refund the amounts calculated in a), b) and c)  the interest and charges  plus 8% simple 
interest on loans two to five and the overpayments plus 8% simple interest on loan six.
e) QuickQuid should remove any adverse information it has recorded  on Mr Bs credit file in 
relation to loans  two to four.
f) The overall pattern  of Mr Bs borrowing for loans five and six means  any information 
recorded about them is adverse, so QuickQuid should remove these loans entirely from 
Mr Bs credit  file. 
    If QuickQuid has sold any of the loans it should ask the debt purchaser to do the same.  
 HM Revenue & Customs requires QuickQuid to take off tax from this interest. QuickQuid must give 
Mr B a certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Bs complaint. CashEuroNet UK LLC 
should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 October  2019.
Sam Wade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8540964