K822xcomplaint
Mr J complains that Lloyds Bank  PLC closed his current account in error. 
background 
The background to this complaint, and my initial conclusions, were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 26 July 2019  a copy of which is attached and forms part of this final 
decision. 
In my provisional decision I explained  why I thought this complaint should be upheld  and 
what Lloyds should  do to put things  right. I invited both parties to send  me any additional 
information or comments they wished to make. 
We didnt hear back from Mr J. Lloyds recently  confirmed it accepted my provisional 
decision. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither part as provided any new information  or additional comments  for me to consider I 
see no reason to change the conclusions I reached in my provisional  decision dated 
26 July 2019.  For the reasons given above and in my provisional decision I uphold  this 
complaint. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and direct  Lloyds Bank  PLC to pay Mr J a total of 
£200 for the distress and inconvenience  caused plus costs  of £114 (less  any compensation 
already paid). 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 October  2019.
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN81390932Copy provisional decision 26 July 2019
complaint
Mr J complains that Lloyds Bank PLC closed his current account in error. 
background
Mr J had a current account with Lloyds. On 3 July 2018 Lloyds wrote to him because his account  was 
£4.58 overdrawn but he didnt have an overdraft facility. Lloyds letter said it would close his account 
in 60 days if the outstanding balance wasnt repaid. On 6 July 2018 £254.26 was paid into the 
account bring it back into credit. 
Due to an error, Lloyds  closed  Mr Js account on 7 September 2018. Mr J complained and Lloyds 
paid him £100 compensation plus £30 for call costs. Lloyds also paid £84 to cover costs Mr J incurred 
because some of his regular payments werent  paid. 
Mr J continued to complain  to Lloyds. He said that the issue had caused a lot of inconvenience and 
upset. Lloyds issued two further  responses but didnt  agree to increase  the settlement  it offered.  Mr J 
went on to refer his complaint to our service. 
The complaint was passed to an investigator to look at. She thought Lloyds had dealt with it fairly and 
the compensation it had paid was reasonable. Mr J didnt agree. Hes explained  that the problems he 
faced impacted existing mental health  issues and caused  an unreasonable amount of inconvenience 
to him during a difficult  period. The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their view and Mr J 
asked to appeal so his complaints been  passed to me to make a decision. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
All parties agree  that Lloyds shouldnt have closed Mr Js current account  on 
7 September 2018. Lloyds 3 July 2018 letter  says that if Mr J brought  his balance  back  into credit his 
account would remain open.  And he did that a few days later. 
I can see that in September 2018, shortly before  the account closed, there was a small overdrawn 
balance but that wasnt the reason Lloyds  closed the account. If Lloyds had wanted to close Mr Js 
account because he went overdrawn by £4.94 on 3 September 2018 it would have  needed to give 
him the relevant  notice. The account closed because of a mistake  by Lloyds. 
Lloyds paid Mr J £30 to cover his call costs. I can see from the complaint notes  that it also took 
reasonable steps  to cover  the additional  costs and charges he incurred as a result of regular 
payments being returned,  paying a total of £84. I need to decide whether  the £100 Lloyds paid Mr J 
for closing his current account in error is fair. 
Ive looked at Mr Js account statements and can see he had several regular payments leaving it each 
month. Its clear he used the account for everyday spending and bills. So I accept that the impact of 
having that facility withdrawn without notice would be upsetting  to anyone. Mr Js explained how 
upsetting this was and that he suffers with mental health issues. I appreciate Lloyds  wasnt aware  of 
that and because  of the nature of its mistake, even if it had been aware  the account would have  still 
closed. But I can understand how upsetting this was for Mr J. 
Ive also taken  into account that after Lloyds closed  his account Mr J would have had to contact 
several organisations to rearrange his regular payments. Some of those regular  payments were  for 
important bills he had to pay each month. In addition, Mr J received benefits  payments into the 
Ref: DRN81390933account so he would have  had to contact the DWP to rearrange how he received his payments. I think 
theres a fair amount of inconvenience here. And Mr J would have had to explain to the organisations  
affected what  had happened which  would  have added  to the situation.  
Taking everything Ive seen into account, I dont agree that the £100 settlement Lloyds paid for the 
error it made (above the costs it covered) is a fair way to resolve this complaint. I appreciate  Mr J will 
remain unhappy about what happened but I think a total payment of £200,  in addition to the costs, 
more fairly  reflects the impact of Lloyds error  on Mr J. So I intend to uphold  this complaint and tell 
Lloyds to increase the level of compensation.  
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I intend to uphold this complaint and direct Lloyds Bank PLC to pay Mr 
J a total of £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused plus costs of £114 (less  any 
compensation already  paid). 
Mr J and Lloyds Bank PLC have until 26 August  2019 to send me any further information comments 
for consideration. 
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8139093