K822xcomplaint
Mrs S complains about the quality of a car she got using  a conditional sale agreement  from 
Close Brothers Limited (Trading  as Close Brothers Motor  Finance). She also says the car 
wasnt serviced before she got it, despite the dealer telling  her it had been.
background 
I set out the background  to this complaint in my provisional decision, a copy  of which  is 
attached and forms part of this final decision.  I also explained why I proposed to uphold  the 
complaint and the settlement Close Brothers should  make to Mrs S.
I invited Mrs S and Close Brothers to let me have any final comments and evidence before  
making my final decision. Mrs S accepted  my provisional decision, but Close  Brothers did 
not. In summary,  Close Brothers said:
Mrs S use of the car wasnt impaired by the worn brake pads because the car 
managed to cover 2,000 miles when she first got it;
Mrs S car was first registered in 2010 and had covered 79,000 miles when  she 
acquired it. So, the parts on the vehicle  were not new and its completely viable that 
the 2,000 miles covered by Mrs S caused  them to deteriorate; and
Mrs S asked  for her case  to be passed to an ombudsman in March 2019, so its 
unfair to ask Close Brothers  to add 8% interest on some of the settlement, for the 
time its taken to investigate.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, whilst I realise this isnt 
the answer Close Brothers  were hoping for  Ive reached the same  overall  conclusions  as I 
did in my provisional decision, for the same reasons.
Mrs S impaired  use of the car
Within a few days  of Mrs S acquiring the car, she found that the handbrake needed to be 
repaired. And when  she discovered  that the brake  pads were severely worn in May 2018, 
she stopped driving  the car altogether. This was supported by the engineers  report in June 
2018, where Mrs S was told not to drive  the car. 
So, I think Mrs S had good reason not to drive the car from May 2018 until it was fixed in 
early July 2018. Because Mrs S didnt use the car in these months,  I still think she should be 
given a refund of the repayments  she made  during this time.
I have considered that Mrs S was able to drive the car for 2,000 miles in the first two months  
of having it. I still think  that any usage  Mrs S had of the car, was impaired because she had 
to take it the dealer for the handbrake repair and when he didnt fix it, she had to find another 
garage who would.  Also, Mrs S didnt have the same performance from the car as she 
should have had. I say this because  the air filter and the brake pads were  not checked as 
part of the service, which she thought had been carried  out by the dealer.
Ref: DRN83481682In all the circumstances, I still think Close Brothers should refund the April, May and June 
2018 repayments to Mrs S. Because, on balance, she couldnt make use of the car, or had 
impaired use of it, in those months.
the deterioration of the brake  pads
Close Brothers have said that the parts on the vehicle wouldnt have been new and the 
2,000 miles covered  by Mrs S, couldve caused the brake pads to deteriorate. From the 
evidence Ive seen,  I dont think the dealer serviced  the car properly,  prior to the sale.  I think 
brake pads  are normally checked  as part of a service, so should have been replaced  before 
Mrs S got the car.
And I dont  think Mrs S covering 2,000 miles would have deteriorated the brake  pads, to 
such an extent that they would  be described as severely worn, by the engineer  who carried  
out the inspection. The engineer also said that the faults with brake  pads should  have  been  
corrected before Mrs S got the car.
In all the circumstances, I dont think that Mrs S caused the brake pads to be severely  worn  
and that she wouldnt  have entered into the contract,  had she known that the car wasnt 
serviced properly. So, I still think Close Brothers should put Mrs S back in the position  she 
would have been in, had she not acquired the car.
The interest added on some parts of the settlement
I acknowledge that Mrs S case has taken some  time to resolve and I have considered  Close 
Brothers comments. But, I have investigated  Mrs S case and found that Close  Brothers 
should have done more  to resolve her concerns,  when she first raised her complaint. So, I 
think its fair Close Brothers should now pay added interest, on some parts of the settlement, 
where Mrs S has been without the use of the funds shes paid to them.
Having considered all the circumstances, I still think Close  Brothers should add 8% simple to 
the refund  of the April,  May and June  2018  repayments and the £900  deposit. This should 
be calculated from the date Mrs S paid made  these payments, to the date of settlement
my final decision
For these reasons, as well as those  set out in more detail in my provisional decision, my 
final decision  is that Close Brothers Limited (Trading  as Close  Brothers Motor  Finance).  
should:
1.refund  the April,  May and June  2018  repayments  made  by Mrs S under the 
conditional sale agreement.
2.refund  the £900 deposit  paid by Mrs S on 20 March 2018, 
3.refund  the £340 acceptance fee and the £10 title transfer fee paid by Mrs S on 20 
March 2018;
4.add interest at an annual rate of 8% simple on parts 1 and 2 of the settlement, from 
the date Mrs S paid made the payments, to the date of settlement; 
Ref: DRN834816835.deduct £1,248 from the total of these amounts; and
6.pay Mrs S £250 for the distress and inconvenience shes been caused.
Close Brothers must pay these amounts within 28 days  of the date on which  we tell them 
Mrs S accepts my final decision.  If they pay later than this, they must also pay interest on the 
settlement amount from the date of final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple.
If Close Brothers deducts tax from any interest they pay to Mrs S, they should provide  Mrs S 
with a tax deduction certificate  if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from the tax 
authorities if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 March  2020.
Sam Wedderburn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN83481684copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mrs S complains about the quality of a car she got using  a conditional sale agreement from Close 
Brothers Limited. She also says the car wasnt serviced  before she got it, despite the dealer telling her 
it had been.
background
In March 2018, Mrs S got a seven year old used car from a local dealer, which  she acquired through a 
conditional sale agreement  with Close Brothers. The car had covered around 79,000 miles and cost 
£6,900 when  Mrs S got it. This conditional sale agreement meant that Mrs S would become the owner 
of the car once all the repayments had been made. Mrs S says that the dealer told her that the car 
had been serviced and that this helped  in her decision  to get it.
A few days after having the car, Mrs S noticed that the cars handbrake was loose and says the 
problem nearly caused an accident. Mrs S tells us she took the car back to the dealer, but he was 
unable to fix the car straight away. Mrs S says her brother made  an arrangement with the dealer, 
whereby she could take it to a garage of her own choice  for repair  and the dealer would  pay for those 
repairs. The dealer also stamped the cars service  history book to show he had serviced it.
The garage  Mrs S chose,  repaired the handbrake. But, Ms S says the garage also noticed a noise 
and spotted that the cars filters needed  clearing.  Mrs S says this led her to question  if a service had 
taken place before the sale. After a couple of months, Mrs S says noticed some unexpected noises 
and that four engine management lights were showing on the dashboard. Mrs S told Close Brothers 
that shed like to reject the car and says she stopped driving it at this point. 
In June 2018,  Close Brothers  arranged for an engineer to inspect the car. The engineer said that he 
couldnt comment on the problems Mrs S had with the handbrake, as it had been repaired. He did find 
that the cars brake pads were worn and that it was the dealers responsibility to have them  repaired.  
The engineer also told Mrs S not to use the car. The engineer couldnt drive the car to look into Mrs 
Ss concerns  about the engine noise, but he didnt find any abnormal noise  when the car was 
stationary and warmed up.
In their final response to Mrs Ss complaint, Close Brothers  agreed to arrange  for the brake pads to be 
replaced, but didnt allow Mrs S to reject the car and end the finance agreement. Mrs S didnt  accept  
this and contacted our service. She says she didnt want to contact the dealer,  because  she had lost 
faith in him. However,  whilst the case was waiting  to be passed  to one of our investigators, Mrs S 
agreed for the brake pads  to be replaced, because  she needed the use of a car. In the following 
months, Mrs S also had problems with the cars battery and suspension. She arranged for these  
problems to be fixed  by a garage of her own choice.
Our investigator looked into what happened and in light of Mrs Ss further concerns, asked Close  
Brothers to arrange a second inspection by an engineer. In this inspection,  the engineer drove the 
car, but didnt  notice any abnormal engine  noise. The engineer noticed noise  coming from the front 
suspension, but couldnt  conclude if it was present when  Mrs S got the car.
In her conclusions, our investigator was satisfied that Close Brothers had arranged and paid for the 
repairs, identified by the engineer. She didnt find that the car was of unsatisfactory quality. The 
investigator said Close Brothers should pay Mrs S £200 for the distress and inconvenience she had 
experienced. She also said Close Brothers should refund the June 2018 repayment under  the finance 
agreement along with interest,  because she had no use of the car.
Mrs S disagreed and said Close Brothers should pay her more compensation because of how much 
she was inconvenienced. Close Brothers didnt accept the investigators conclusions and said theyd 
Ref: DRN83481685done enough  by arranging for the repair to the brakes. Close Brothers also said that the time Mrs S 
was without  a car, was because she refused to take it to the dealer.
The investigator didnt change  her conclusions,  so arranged for the case  to be passed to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
Quite some time has passed, since the investigator reached her conclusions  and the circumstances 
around this complaint have changed. Mrs S has told us that in April 2019,  the car was involved in an 
accident, where  it was written off by an insurer. The settlement Mrs S received was more  than the 
amount left to pay under her finance  agreement. So, after the balance was repaid to Close Brothers, 
Mrs S says she was left with £1,248.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, Im intending  to reach a different outcome  to the 
investigator. I think Close Brothers should refund Mrs S the deposit, the acceptance fee, the title 
transfer fee and refund some of the repayments shes made under  the agreement. Ill explain why.
the service before Mrs S got the car
The dealer has said that Mrs S was told a service  had been completed on the car before she got it. 
Close Brothers records show that the service was carried  out in August 2017,  around six months 
before Mrs S signed the conditional sale agreement. The first engineers inspection report says that 
the mileage at the time of the dealers service was 79,529. The conditional  sale agreement  says the 
mileage was 79,000 when Mrs S got the car. 
I think  the mileage  on the conditional sale agreement is an approximate  figure. But, its not too 
different from the mileage recorded at the time of the August 2017 service. In these circumstances, I 
think that its likely the car remained with the dealer in the six months before Mrs S agreed to take it. 
And the dealer  says it had travelled around 10 miles  during this time.  Brake pads are normally 
checked as part of a service. If they were inspected and changed as part of the August 2017 service, I 
dont think they would have  worn out to a significant extent, in the time the car was with the dealer.  
The first engineers inspection report concludes  that the car was not serviced  at the point sale. The 
engineer says that the air filter was severely contaminated, and the condition of the brakes  meant that 
the car was not safe to drive.  The report  goes  on to say that the oil may have been changed, but that 
wasnt a full service. The report concludes that these  faults should have been corrected before Mrs S 
got the car. In all the circumstances, I dont think the car was properly  serviced  before Mrs S entered  
into the conditional sale agreement. 
Mrs S says that she was told that a service would  be carried out before she collected it from the 
dealer. There  are no papers to show that this is what was agreed.  But Mrs S also says that she was 
told by the dealer that the parking sensor would be fixed, and the car would  be cleaned.  
Because Mrs S seems  satisfied that these  two things were done, Im persuaded  that the dealer told 
Mrs S that the car had been serviced. And I think the dealer stamped  the service  history book,  when 
Mrs S raised her concerns with him. So, I think the dealer tried to reiterate to Mrs S that a service  had 
taken place. But, from the evidence Ive seen  I dont think the dealer serviced the car properly, prior to 
the sale.
I have considered if what the dealer  said about the service led Mrs S into accepting the conditional 
sale agreement. Mrs S has told us that the dealer had the type of car she was looking for and that the 
dealer was local to her. I think Mrs S has been consistent  and credible  in what she has told us about 
the agreement to service and clean the car, and repair  the parking sensor. So, Im persuaded  that 
what the dealer  said to Mrs S about the service,  helped  her to decide to enter the finance  agreement. 
Ref: DRN83481686Section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 says that a finance provider is responsible for any 
antecedent negotiations carried out by the credit  broker. In Mrs Ss case, the dealer acted  as Close  
Brothers agent with her conditional sale agreement. 
I think,  on balance that Mrs S was given  incorrect information about the car because it was not 
serviced properly. And I dont think Mrs S would have entered the contract had she known that the car 
wasnt serviced properly. So, I think Close  Brothers should offer a remedy to Mrs S and this means 
they should  put Mrs S back in the position she wouldve been  in, had she not acquired the car.
However, Mrs S also says that there were problems  with the car which  meant it wasnt of satisfactory  
quality. So, I have considered this further.
the quality of the car supplied to Mrs S.
Mrs S entered  into a conditional sale agreement with Close Brothers, which allowed her to get the car. 
Under this type of agreement, Close Brothers are the owner of the car. The ownership is then 
transferred to the customer when  all the repayments have been made. This also means  that Close 
Brothers are responsible for dealing with complaints about the cars quality.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA)  is implied  into the agreement between Close  Brothers and Mrs 
S. The CRA says that goods  will be considered  of satisfactory  quality where they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person would  consider satisfactory,  taking into consideration  the description  of the 
goods, the price paid and any other relevant circumstances.  In complaints about  the quality  of a car, 
the price paid, the mileage  at the time of the sale and the cars history need to be taken into account.
In this case, the car supplied to Mrs S was a used car that had covered around 79,000 miles since it 
was first registered  in 2010. So, I think a reasonable person would have different expectations of it 
compared to a brand new car. But, Ive concluded on balance  that Mrs S was told the car had been 
serviced shortly  before she got it. So, I think she could have expected that the parts which  would be 
repaired or replaced as part of a service to be in good order.
Mrs S noticed  the cars  handbrake wasnt working properly a few days  after getting it and says she 
was nearly involved in an accident because of the fault. Theres conflicting evidence as to what  
happened when Mrs S highlighted  the fault with the dealer. The dealer says Mrs S was rude to him 
and didnt leave the car with him long enough for him repair it. Mrs S says she thought the dealer was 
rude to her, and left the car with him for a day, only for no work to be carried out, or no timescale  
given for when it would be ready.
Taking everything into consideration, I think its more likely than not that Mrs S left her car with the 
dealer and that there was a disagreement between them about when the repairs should  take place. 
A problem  with the handbrake  would have made the car unsafe and, on balance, the dealer likely  
wouldve acknowledged that something had to be done. It also seems  that the relationship between  
Mrs S and the dealer  had broken down. So, on balance, I think  its most likely that Mrs S was given 
permission to take the car elsewhere.
Ive also spoken to the mechanic who carried out the repairs to the handbrake  in March  2018. He 
says that this was a minor repair,  but has confirmed the handbrake wasnt holding correctly.  I think 
this should have  been  picked up by the dealer, had the car had been serviced  properly. Therefore, Im 
satisfied there was a fault with the handbrake that wouldve rendered the car of unsatisfactory quality.
Later, in May 2018,  Mrs S stopped driving the car altogether because she realised  that the brake  
pads were severally worn.  The car had been driven about 2,000  miles  in just over two months. So, I 
dont think a reasonable person would expect a set of brake pads to be severely worn, so soon after 
Ref: DRN83481687the car was serviced. The engineers report, completed in June 2018, confirmed that this problem was 
present at the point of sale and that Mrs S was right not to drive  the car.
Mrs S also had to replace the battery and I think this should be checked  as part a standard  service. I 
dont think Mrs S could have  expected to have replaced  the battery so soon  after being  told a service  
had been carried out.
Taking all this into account, I think its most likely that the car hadnt been serviced properly and that 
Mrs S had been misled.
I have considered what Mrs S has told us about the engine noise. I think the second engineers  report 
is more helpful than the first. It says that there is noise coming from the cars suspension and the 
engineer couldnt hear any abnormal engine  noise.  Mrs S says that the noises  she heard may have 
been coming  from the suspension all along. Also,  the mechanic  who repaired the suspension in 
September 2018, has told us that this kind of repair wouldnt be uncommon, for a car like Mrs S, 
considering the standard of the roads where she lives. On balance, I think  the noise  mentioned in the 
report was from the suspension. But, the engineer  and Mrs Ss mechanic say it was not unexpected, 
given the cars age and mileage. So, I dont think the problems with the suspension wouldve made 
the car of unsatisfactory  quality.
Having looked at all the evidence,  I dont  think the car was of satisfactory  quality when  Mrs S 
accepted the conditional  sale agreement. And this hasnt been disputed by any of the parties  
involved. 
The dealer says that the repair  to the handbrake resolved  the faults with Mrs S car and that the 
subsequent problems are down to wear and tear. Mrs S says the dealer had an opportunity to repair 
the car. But, even after she had it fixed elsewhere,  more problems were noticed, meaning  that it 
wasnt serviced properly as the dealer told her it had been. 
I think  the car had problems  with the handbrake when Mrs S got it. The brake  pads were  classed as 
severely worn in the first engineers  report  and Mrs S needed to change  the battery. So, I think  the 
cars condition was misrepresented to Mrs S and it did not meet the standard of satisfactory quality 
that a reasonable person would  expect.
In all the circumstances, I think Mrs S should have been allowed to reject the car when  she first 
approached the dealer  about  the handbrake and her concerns about the service. I dont think  the car 
was of satisfactory quality and after the repair attempt that was authorised by the dealer, it still didnt 
conform to the contract. In this scenario, the CRA  says that a consumer can request rejection of the 
goods. In all the circumstances, I think this remedy is fair. So, I think Close  Brothers should  treat the 
car as having been rejected by Mrs S. 
Close Brothers cannot take the car back, because it was written off by an insurer  and Mrs S repaid 
the finance by using most  of the settlement she received. So, I have considered the usage Mrs S had 
from the car and the deposit and fees she paid under  the conditional sale agreement.
the payments Mrs S made under the agreement
Close Brothers internal contact notes  and the first engineers inspection report show that the car 
covered around  250 miles from when Mrs S first told them shed like to reject it. The engineers report  
also recommended that Mrs S should not drive the car until the brakes  had been fixed. So, I dont  
think Mrs S had much use of the car from May 2018, until it was fixed in July 2018. 
Before Mrs S says she stopped driving the car in May 2018, it had covered around 2,000  miles. I have  
concluded that the car was of unsatisfactory quality, and I think  any usage Mrs S had from the car, 
from March to May 2018, was impaired by the parts that needed to be fixed. 
Ref: DRN83481688Also, Im persuaded  that Mrs S was initially reluctant to take the car back to the dealer  because  of her 
concerns that it hadnt been serviced properly.  So, I think it was fair for Mrs S to think  carefully about 
her options,  when Close  Brothers asked her to take it back to the dealer. Having considered 
everything, I dont think the time it took Mrs S to accept the repairs was unreasonable.
I think  the problems identified with the suspension  were a result of wear and tear and unrelated to the 
noise she had noted in May 2018. And I think Mrs S had full use of the car after it was repaired by the 
dealer. So, I dont think  Close  Brothers should refund  any repayments after the dealer made the 
repair in July 2018.
Having considered  everything, I think its fair that Mrs S receives a refund for some of the repayments 
she made under  the agreement.  I think Close Brothers should refund  the April,  May and June 2018 
repayments Mrs S made, because, on balance, she wasnt able to make use of the car in those 
months. Close Brothers should also add interest,  at an annual rate of 8% simple, to each amount from 
the date the repayment was made,  to the date of settlement.
In allowing Mrs S to reject  the car, I think Close Brothers should also refund the deposit she paid, the 
acceptance fee and the title transfer fee. Again,  Mrs S has been without  the use of the funds  from her 
deposit. So, Close Brothers should  also add interest, at an annual  rate of 8% simple,  to the deposit 
amount, from the date it was paid to the date of settlement.
the settlement Mrs S received from the insurer
Mrs S says that after she received a £4,899.36 settlement from an insurer, she repaid the balance of 
her conditional sale agreement and had the remainder of £1,248,  to use as she wished. I have 
considered the impact  of this, on allowing Mrs S to reject the car and the refunds Ive said Close 
Brothers should make.  
Under this conditional sale agreement, Close Brothers remained the owners of the car up until the 
balance was repaid. I think Close Brothers were still the owners when it was written off by the insurer. 
So, I think its fair that the full settlement given  for the value of the car, should have been passed to 
Close Brothers.
In all the circumstances, I think £1,248 should be deducted from the settlement amount Ive said 
Close Brothers should pay to Mrs S.
the distress and inconvenience caused  to Mrs S.
Mrs S had difficulty arranging a suitable time to have her car fixed, with the dealer in 2018 and was 
left without its use, when she felt the car was unsafe to drive. Mrs S also had to make trips to and 
from different garages  for around  four months. So, I think Mrs S experienced distress and 
inconvenience. In these circumstances, I think its fair that Close Brothers make a payment to Mrs S. 
So, I think Close Brothers  should pay Mrs S £250 for the distress and inconvenience she 
experienced.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, but subject to any further comments or evidence I receive from Mrs S 
or Close Brothers by 21 February 2020 my provisional  decision is that Close  Brothers Limited  should: 
7.refund the April,  May and June 2018 repayments made by Mrs S under the conditional sale 
agreement.
8.refund the £900 deposit  paid by Mrs S on 20 March 2018, 
Ref: DRN834816899.refund the £340 acceptance fee and the £10 title transfer fee paid by Mrs S on 20 March 
2018;
10.add interest at an annual rate of 8% simple on parts 1 and 2 of the settlement, from the date 
Mrs S paid made the payments, to the date of settlement;  
11.deduct  £1,248 from the total of these amounts;  and
12.pay Mrs S £250  for the distress and inconvenience  shes  been caused.
Close Brothers must pay these amounts  within  28 days of the date on which we tell them  Mrs S 
accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this, they must also pay interest on the settlement 
amount from the date of final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
If Close Brothers deducts tax from any interest they pay to Mrs S, they should provide her with a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one. This is so she can reclaim the tax from the tax authorities if 
appropriate.
Sam Wedderburn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8348168