K821x#15Complaint
Mrs Y complains that Tesco Personal Finance  PLC (Tesco Bank), unfairly  dealt with a claim 
she made under section  75 of the Consumer  Credit Act (CCA) 1974.
Background
In June 2013 Mrs Y was contacted by a company, Ill refer to it as M, which supplied and 
installed solar panel systems. Mrs Y decided to go ahead with the purchase  of the solar 
panel system and paid a deposit to M using her Tesco Bank credit card.  The remaining 
outstanding balance was paid via a 10 year fixed sum loan arranged by M. Mrs Y says that 
she was promised that the system would make  substantial savings on her energy bills and 
pay for itself over an 8 year period through the feed-in-tariff (FIT) payments. However, this 
hasnt happened.
In May 2017, Mrs Y made a claim under section 75 (s75) of the CCA,  via her 
representative. She said that the promises made by M amounted  to misrepresentations.
In July 2017 Tesco Bank issued its final response letter  saying that it didnt have enough 
information to consider  whether Mrs Y had a valid claim  or not and on this basis it wouldnt 
be upholding her complaint. It asked  Mrs Y to provide it with:
a copy of the MSC certificate  provided when the solar panel system was installed,
copies of all FIT statements from installation  to date; and,
proof of how the remaining balance for the panels had been paid.
When it didnt receive  this, Tesco Bank didnt take the s75 claim any further.
Unhappy with the response Mrs Y referred  her complaint to this service.  In April 2018  our 
service provided Tesco  Bank  with the information it had requested in its final response letter.  
We asked it if it wanted  to investigate the s75 claim itself or would prefer our service  to. 
Tesco Bank said it wanted to investigate the s75 claim.
In February 2019,  our service contacted Tesco Bank  for an update  on the s75 claim. It said it 
had made  efforts to contact Mrs Ys representative to discuss the information it had provided 
but hadnt received a response. It provided emails it said it had sent about this. 
Over the following months our service made a number of requests to Tesco Bank  to clarify 
what further information it needed  to assess Mrs Ys claim.
In November 2019 Tesco Bank  replied  to say it had asked for, but not received, the 
following:
confirmation that Mrs Y hadnt pursued  a s75 with the business  that had provided the 
loan for the remaining  balance  of the solar  panel system; and,
an up to date letter of authority from Mrs Ys representative.
One of our investigators  confirmed to Tesco Bank that a separate  s75 claim against the loan 
provider hadnt  been made. She also said that she intended to issue her view on the 
complaint as Tesco Bank hadnt made a decision on the s75 claim. Our investigator 
subsequently issued her view.
Ref: DRN80161642She felt that the benefits of the solar  panels  had been misrepresented  to Mrs Y. To put 
things right she recommended  that Tesco Bank  should work out the estimated benefits  that 
Mrs Y would receive from her solar panels.  It should  then take this figure  away  from the total 
amount that she had paid and refund any overpayments with 8% simple interest.
Mrs Y, via her representative,  accepted our investigators view of the complaint.
Tesco didnt.  In summary it said:
our service should only be considering whether Tesco Bank acted fairly and 
reasonably up until the date of its final response  letter, July 2017,
it wasnt in a position to give Mrs Y an answer  on her s75 claim as it didnt have 
sufficient information to do so; and,
as it hadnt  given an answer on Mrs Ys s75 claim there  was no complaint about this 
for our service  to consider.
An agreement couldnt be reached. Therefore,  the complaint has been passed to me for 
review.
Prior to issuing my final decision, the investigator wrote to Tesco  Bank on my behalf  to 
explain that I was minded  to award  £100  for trouble  and upset as I wasnt satisfied with how 
it had dealt with the underlying s75 claim.
Tesco Bank didnt  reply.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
Im required  to determine this complaint on the basis of what  I consider to be fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. When considering what  is fair and reasonable, I am 
required to take into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and 
standards, and codes  of practice;  and, where appropriate, what  I consider to have  been  
good industry practice at the relevant time.
In this case the relevant law includes  s75 of the CCA, which provides protection  for 
consumers for goods or services bought using credit. S75 states:
If the debtor  under  a debtor-creditor-supplier  agreement falling within  section 12(b)  or (c) 
has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against the supplier in 
respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a like claim against  the 
creditor, who, with the supplier,  shall accordingly be jointly and severally liable to the debtor.
As Mrs Y paid part of the agreement through her credit card, Tesco  Bank agrees that s75 
applies to this transaction. This means that Mrs Y could  claim against  Tesco  Bank  the 
creditor  for any misrepresentation or breach  of the contract by the supplier in the same 
way she could have  claimed against  the supplier. So, Ive taken s75 into account  when  
deciding what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the case.
Ref: DRN80161643The FCA principles apply  to all authorised firms including  Tesco Bank. Of particular 
relevance to this complaint is:
Principle 6
A firm must pay due regard to the interest of its customers  and treat them fairly
For clarity,  the complaint that we are dealing with is Tesco Banks  decision  not to uphold Mrs 
Ys claim  under s75 as it didnt believe it had sufficient information to. So, I have also 
considered whether Tesco  Bank  treated Mrs Y fairly in dealing  with this s75 claim. If I decide 
that Tesco Bank didnt deal with the claim fairly, I will then go on to consider the underlying 
s75 claim for misrepresentation  of the benefits from the solar panels.
Was there enough information for Tesco Bank to have considered the s75 claim?
Tesco Bank has said that this service  should only consider whether it dealt with Mrs Ys s75 
claim when  it originally  issued its final response  in July 2017, not whether any further  
information that it was later provided with should  have enabled it to consider the claim.  And 
on that basis, it has said there isnt a complaint  for our service to consider and it hasnt given 
Mrs Y an answer to her claim.
When the s75 claim was initially made  Mrs Ys representative set out its reasons as to why it 
felt the benefits  of the solar panels had been misrepresented  that she had been  led to 
believe that the FIT payments would cover  the cost of the system within 8 years.  It also 
provided further information including Ms estimated returns from the solar panel system,  Ms 
invoice, the MCS  certificate, FIT statements from 5 January 2015 to 9 January 2016, a copy  
of The Renewable Energy Consumer Code non-compliance panel  hearing and some of Ms 
marketing material.
Tesco Bank said it required further  information to consider Mrs Ys claim further. This 
information was:
a copy of the MSC certificate,
copies of all FIT statements from installation  to date; and,
proof of how the remaining balance was paid.
I am unclear as to why Tesco Bank asked for a copy of the MSC certificate  when a copy had 
been provided within the initial s75 claim.
Tesco Bank has said that it requested this information a number of occasions. When  it didnt 
receive a response, it took no further  action.
Mrs Ys representative has provided  this service with an email it says it sent to Tesco  Bank 
following the final response letter. Attached to this email  it says were a further  copy of the 
MCS certificate, FIT statements from 8 January 2015 to 3 July 2017,  confirmation that a loan 
had been taken out pay the remaining balance of the solar panels and that a s75 claim 
hadnt been made against the loan provider.
Notwithstanding the email  Ive discussed above, this service has also provided Tesco Bank  
with the information it has asked for on a number  of occasions since April 2018 and it has 
still not given Mrs Y an answer  on her claim.
Ref: DRN80161644In its response to our investigators view Tesco Bank has said that it couldnt have 
considered Mrs Ys claim until it had confirmation that a duplicate  claim wasnt being made 
against the loan provider.  This was because it wanted to ensure that Mrs Y wouldnt be 
compensated twice   by Tesco Bank  and by the loan provider, if it found that the benefits of 
the solar panels  had been misrepresented to her.
Whilst I understand why Tesco Bank may have  chosen not to pay any redress  to Mrs Y until 
it had confirmation  that a further claim hadnt been  made against the loan provider, Im of the 
view that it had enough information to consider  s75 claim  whether it accepted that M had 
misrepresented the benefits of the solar panels  to her.
Although I accept that Tesco  Bank  may not have  had all the information it wouldve liked,  I 
nevertheless consider  that it had sufficient  information to investigate and consider Mrs Ys 
claim.
Having taken account of the available evidence, on balance I do not think  Tesco  Bank acted 
fairly and reasonably when it requested further information before it said it could consider 
Mrs Ys claim.
Was there a misrepresentation?
When Mrs Y made her claim  in May 2017, she said there were a number  of oral and written 
misrepresentations made that induced her to enter into the contract. These included  that the 
system would significantly  reduce her electricity bills and that the system  would  pay for itself 
with 8 years  by way of the FIT income.
Instead, Mrs Y has said there  has been  no significant savings made on her household bills 
and the system isnt paying for itself.
Mrs Y has been consistent with her recollection of events of what  she was told and subject 
to considering the other information  she was given at the time I have no reason to doubt her 
evidence.
Ive considered the marketing literature that was supplied when the claim was made in May 
2017. This says:
Solar Power Systems  For Your Home Reduce  your Energy  bills by 60% plus now
We are offering a self funded Solar PV System fully installed and guaranteed  for just £100!*
This appears  to guarantee  the amount of savings that can be achieved as a minimum of 
60%, and this is contrary to what Mrs Y says she has experienced. It also refers to the solar  
panel system as being self funded  which, in my view, suggests that the system will pay for 
itself. Importantly, this doesnt provide any evidence that would undermine what  Mrs Y says 
she was told. Instead, it supports her version of events.
Mrs Y paid £8,755  for the system and has said that the salesperson  told her that the FIT 
income from the system would mean that it would pay for itself in 8 years.  But based on the 
FIT statements Ive been provided it would take nearly 19 years for the system to pay for 
itself. Im of the view that it was the misrepresentations made by the salesperson for M, of 
the savings that could  be made with the system  and that it would pay for itself in 8 years, 
which induced Mrs Y to enter  into the contract.
Ref: DRN80161645Ive also taken into account the actions  taken by the Renewable Energy Consumer Code 
(RECC) against M. My understanding is that the RECC  administers the renewable energy 
consumer Code and ensures that its members comply with the Code.
The RECC investigated Ms conduct.  In September 2014, and later in November 2015, it 
determined that M was in breach of a number of sections of the code including, but not 
limited to, sections 5.2 and 5.4. These two sections relate to essentially requiring members 
not to provide false or misleading information  to consumers and providing clear and accurate 
information about the cost and benefits of the product sold.
Mrs Y has also provided a statement made by Citizens Advice Bureau (CAB) to the RECC 
about M in September 2015. CAB carried out analysis on 292 cases where  consumers had 
contacted it for advice  about M.
This statement raised a number of issues with Ms conduct, including  but not limited  to, 
misleading marketing  claims where consumers  were told that the solar panels  were free of 
that the FIT payments would  comfortably  cover the loan repayments on their finance  deals. 
Whilst I accept  that what happened  in respect  of the cases the RECC and CAB looked at 
may not have necessarily  happened in Mrs Ys case, the findings do suggest  that there were 
conduct concerns  in the areas that related to Mrs Ys complaint and at around  the time that 
she was sold her solar panel  system.
Ive also considered other documents that M wouldve presented as part of its sales  process.  
Although I cannot  say for certain that they were used in the case of Mrs Y, and therefore  
conclude that she would  have relied on them when entering into the contract  with M, these 
documents refer to the self-funding aspect of the solar panel systems and went so far as to 
say that a customer would never  pay a penny again for their electricity.
Taking all the above into account, I consider that the benefits of the solar panel system were  
misrepresented to Mrs Y, and it was these misrepresentations that induced her to enter  into 
the contract.
Fair compensation 
I consider that there was a misrepresentation on the part of M and Mrs Y wouldnt have 
entered into the contract but for this misrepresentation. 
The role of this service is to help settle disputes between  consumer and businesses  
providing financial services fairly  and reasonably  with minimum formality. In cases  like this 
one, determining fair compensation isnt an exact science. My role is to arrive  at a fair and 
reasonable outcome taking account of the particular  circumstances. 
Ive considered whether it would be fair and reasonable  to require Tesco  Bank to arrange  for 
the removal of the solar  panels from Mrs Ys home and refund all payments made,  including 
the loan with the other provider, and compensatory interest. However, here I dont think it 
would be fair or proportionate to require  the removal of the solar panels from her home. 
Mrs Y was led to believe the solar  panel  system would  be self-funding and pay for itself.  M 
arranged a fixed sum loan agreement for 10 years to pay the remaining balance  for the solar 
panel system. 
Ref: DRN80161646As I understand it, Mrs Y has now settled the loan that was arranged by M to pay the 
balance of her solar panels  system.
Taking the above into account, Im of the view that Mrs Y would have understood that this 
would mean  the solar  panel system would pay for itself, and therefore be self-funding,  over 
10 years.  So, I think the fair outcome here is to put Mrs Y in a position  where  the system is 
self-funding over the term of the fixed sum loan agreement  10 years.  By keeping  the solar 
panels Im satisfied that Mrs Y will likely benefit  from lower electricity bills and FIT payments 
going forward.
In its simplest terms this means Tesco Bank should  calculate the potential  savings and 
income to Mrs Y over the 10 year term of the loan. It should then calculate how much Mrs Y 
has had to pay towards the solar panel  system
To put things right, it is my view that Tesco Bank  should use all available  FIT statements  to 
calculate how many  kWh have been  generated  by her solar panels.  It should then use the 
FIT scheme from then to calculate the potential  savings and income to Mrs Y. According to 
the MSC certificate, her solar panel  system was installed in August 2013.  At that time the 
FIT scheme paid a FIT of 14.90p per kWh and an Export tariff of 4.64p per kWh. 
The investigator thought that Tesco Bank  should  use a self-consumption  rate of 37% and a 
default electricity price of 15p per kWh to work out any electricity  savings.
The Government assumed a self-consumption rate of 50% and this is the percentage that is 
used by Mrs Ys energy  provider. The Energy Savings Trust website  had previously set out a 
table that showed the potential savings under various scenarios depending on the 
consumers lifestyle rather than a specific percentage.
What is clear is that self-consumption is impacted  by the period of time that someone is in 
their home and able to use, or self-consume,  the electricity that their solar  panels are 
generating. It is self-evident that determining an exact figure  over the period of the loan is 
difficult. My role is to determine fair compensation and arrive at an outcome that is fair and 
reasonable overall. And in cases of this nature that isnt an exact  science.
Taking the above into account Im satisfied  that using a self-consumption rate of 37% is fair 
and reasonable in this case.  Im of the opinion  that this takes into account the evidence Ive 
discussed above and will also take into account changing consumer occupancy habits over 
the lifetime of the solar panel system. Once  the loan has been repaid, as it has in this case, 
Im satisfied that it is highly likely that Mrs Y will benefit from the solar panel system  as a 
result of a reduction in her electricity bills because of the electricity generated by the panels  
and the FIT payments.
Im satisfied a default electricity price of 15p per kWh is fair.
In practice this means Tesco  Bank  should  take the following steps to resolve this complaint:
1.allow Mrs Y to keep the solar  panels,
2.estimate the potential  savings and income  to Mrs Y from the panels  over the 10 year 
term of the loan. Where  possible  it should  use Mrs Ys electricity bills and FIT 
statements to do this,
3.calculate how much  Mrs Y has paid towards the solar panels including  any deposit  
paid and all payments towards  the loan arranged by M,
Ref: DRN801616474.it should minus the figure is 2. From  the figure in 3. And pay Mrs Y the difference;  
and,
5.add 8% simple interest  to the figure in 4. from the date the payments were  made  to 
the date of settlement.
I also think that the way Tesco Bank has dealt with the claim has caused Mrs Y trouble and 
upset. To recognise this, Ill make an award of £100. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Mrs Ys complaint should  be upheld. In full and final settlement of it, 
Tesco Personal Finance PLC must:
1.allow Mrs Y to keep the solar  panels,
2.estimate the potential  savings and income  to Mrs Y from the panels  over the 10 year 
term of the loan. Where  possible  it should  use Mrs Ys electricity bills and FIT 
statements to do this,
3.calculate how much  Mrs Y has paid towards the solar panels including  any deposit  
paid and all payments towards  the loan arranged by M,
4.it should minus the figure is 2. From  the figure in 3. And pay Mrs Y the difference,
5.add 8% simple interest* to the figure  in 4. from the date the payments were  made  to 
the date of settlement; and,
6.pay Mrs Y £100 for the trouble and upset caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs Y to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 April 2020.
Michael Fisher
ombudsman
*If Tesco Personal Finance PLC considers that it is required by HM Revenue  & Customs to 
take off income  tax from that interest,  it should tell Mrs Y how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mrs Y a certificate showing this, if she asks for one, so she can claim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs.
Ref: DRN8016164