K821x#15complaint
Mr J and Mrs B are unhappy how AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) has considered their travel
insurance claim.
background
In September  2018, Mr J and Mrs B went on a cruise. They were due to be away  for seven
days. Within the first few days, Mrs B's handbag and its contents were stolen including  her
passport. Unable to continue their cruise without the passport, Mr J and Mrs B had to make
arrangements to get an emergency travel document.
In order to do so, they disembarked  and travelled  by train to the British Embassy in the
nearest city and stayed  a night in a hotel.  Mrs B was issued with an emergency travel
document, however it was only valid for 24 hours.  Mr J and Mrs B said they had no
alternative but to cut their holiday short and buy new flights to return to the UK.
On their return home, they contacted  AXA to make a claim under their joint travel insurance
policy which  AXA accepted. In November 2018, AXA paid just over £590 to settle  the claim.
AXA said the settlement  included  the cost of the stolen personal  items and money,  the cost
of Mrs B's emergency  travel document, the time left on her passport and £100  towards  the
additional travel  and accommodation costs.
Mr J and Mrs B were  unhappy that AXA was only offering £100 for the additional expenses
they paid to get the emergency  travel document. They said they spent in excess  of £800  for
travel, accommodation and buying  new return flights to the UK. AXA said the policy limit for
additional costs  associated with the replacement of passports and travel  documents  is £100
and this is why they hadn't  paid Mr J and Mrs B any more than this.
Mr J and Mrs B also complained that they were  unable  to make a claim for having to cut their
holiday short  - this is known as curtailment. In response, AXA said Mr J and Mrs B's
circumstances do not meet  the policy definition of curtailment  so they declined this part of
the claim.
Unhappy with AXA's response, Mr J and Mrs B brought the complaint  to our service.  Our
investigator didnt  uphold the complaint as they thought AXA had dealt  with the complaint
fairly and in line with the policy terms. Mr J and Mrs B disagreed so the matter has
been referred to me for a decision.
My provisional decision was issued in October  2019  and said:
We will pay you up to the Replacement Passport and Travel  Documents limit shown  in
the schedule of benefits for reasonable additional  travel and accommodation expenses
necessarily incurred outside your home area to obtain a replacement of your passport
(known as an emergency travel document)  or visa which has been lost or stolen outside your
home area. This includes  reasonable  additional  travel and accommodation  expenses
incurred because you were unable to board the public transport on which you were booked
to return the United Kingdom or continue your trip as a result of the accidental loss of, theft
or damage  to your passport and/or visa.
Mr J and Mrs Bs policy schedule  shows the limit which applies for this section is £100.  AXA
said because it was only Mrs Bs passport which was stolen,  only she is able to claim under
Ref: DRN88934892this section of the policy.  I appreciate that this is the intention of the policy  term.
However given they were  travelling together, Im satisfied it was reasonable for Mr J to
accompany Mrs B as she made arrangements to get an emergency travel document.  They
jointly incurred additional expenses. As Mr J is a person whose name appears on the
certificate of insurance, I think it would  be fair for AXA to pay the policy  limit of £100  Mr J as
he clearly incurred additional expenses related to the replacement  of Mrs Bs passport.
I appreciate Mr J and Mrs B believe the £100 is too low given the additional travel  and
accommodation costs  they incurred. However  this is the limit and I am satisfied its set out
clearly in the terms of the policy. I understand AXA has said they have already paid £100 for
Mrs B, and, as indicated above,  I think it would be fair and reasonable in the circumstances
for them to also pay £100  towards Mr Js costs.
Lastly, I have considered  the policy terms concerning curtailment. It says a claim for this part
of the policy  can be made  in five specified  circumstances.  In summary this includes
death/injury, jury service, redundancy, armed forces obligations or at the request of the
police due to serious  damage to a persons home. Im satisfied Mr J and Mrs B had to cut
their holiday  short due to the theft of Mrs Bs passport and the fact that the replacement
obtained was only sufficient for 24 hours.  These circumstances  are not one of the five
reasons specified  by the wording of the policy for curtailment. So they werent covered for
the curtailment  of their trip and AXA was reasonably entitled to decline their claim for this.
Mr J and Mrs B also bought cruise cover  as part of their insurance policy.  I have considered
the terms for this cover and similarly  there arent any specified circumstances where a claim
for curtailment can be made  for the circumstances Mr J and Mrs B found themselves in.
response to my provisional  decision
Both parties  were invited  to comment on my findings. Mr J and Mrs B didnt respond.  AXA 
accepted my provisional decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I've reached the same 
conclusions as set out in my provisional  decision and for the same  reasons.
my final decision
Ive decided to uphold Mr J and Mrs Bs complaint and I require AXA Insurance  UK Plc to:
-pay the policy limit of £100 to cover the additional costs  incurred by Mr J for the
replacement of Mrs Bs travel document; and
-pay 8% simple interest on the above  award from the date the claim was settled to the
date of payment.
If AXA Insurance UK Plc considers that it's required by HM Revenue & Customs  (HMRC) to 
take off income  tax from the interest,  it should tell Mr J how much  it's taken off. It should also 
give Mr J a certificate showing  this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HMRC, 
if appropriate.
Ref: DRN88934893Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 January 2020.
Simona Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8893489