K821x#15Complaint
Mr R complains that he was given unsuitable advice  by a Registered  Individual (Mr S) of 
Quilter Financial Planning  Solutions Limited  to switch his existing pensions to a Self-Invested 
Personal Pension (SIPP)  and make investments in the shares of two unlisted  companies. 
Mr R says Mr S told him the investments  were  solid and would give a very good return  
(about a ten-fold return)  and that Mr S told him he had invested  personally. Mr R says he 
has since found out that Mr Ss business partner  was the director  of one of the companies 
he invested in. And he has lost all the money he invested in the two companies. He believes 
he should never have been  advised to switch  from his existing pensions and invest  in shares 
of the two companies, as they were  high risk investments and he had no investment 
experience, and no savings or investments other  than his pensions.  
Background
This complaint relates to events in or around early 2010. Mr R says he had previously 
received advice from Mr S on his mortgage. Mr R says Mr S contacted  him, and said he 
wanted to give Mr R advice on his pensions. At this time Mr S was a registered  individual  of 
Quilter Financial Planning  Solutions Limited  (which was called Positive Solutions at the time,  
and I have referred to it as such in my decision) and he was listed on the Financial Services 
Authority (FSA) Register as holding  the CF30 controlled function  at Positive Solutions. Mr S 
traded as Real Wealth Management,  which was a trading style of Positive Solutions. Mr R 
says, when he and Mr S met to discuss his pensions, Mr S presented him with a business 
card (which  Mr R has provided us with a copy of) and said he was under the umbrella of 
Positive Solutions, which gave Mr R says gave him some reassurance. 
Mr R says he was advised by Mr S to switch four personal pensions into a SIPP and then to 
make investments in two unlisted companies  - Daval International Limited and Lightstep  
Limited. The SIPP was opened in January 2010.  The SIPP application from was sent to the 
SIPP operator by Mr S. The application  was sent with a covering letter, signed by Mr S, on 
Positive Solutions headed paper.  Mr Ss details were recorded in the Financial Advisor 
section of the application form, including  Positive Solutions FSA number and Mr Ss Positive 
Solutions email address.  The application form also confirmed that Mr S would be making 
investment decisions  on Mr Rs SIPP. 
On 24 February 2010, four payments from the provider of Mr Rs personal pensions  were 
received into the SIPP, totalling around  £35,300 (a tax credit of around  £1,930  was also later 
paid into the SIPP). On 3 March 2010 Mr Rs SIPP purchased £10,260.00  of shares  in 
Daval, and on 10 March  2010 Mr Rs SIPP purchased £23,200 of shares in Lightstep. These  
shares currently have no realisable value.
At the time of the events subject to complaint the business model followed by Positive  
Solutions was that it was an independent financial adviser firm authorised by the FSA, which 
gave advice through registered individuals. The registered individuals were  self-employed 
agents of Positive  Solutions, not employees.  Nor were the registered individuals appointed 
representatives under s39 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000  (FSMA).
Mr R complained to Positive  Solutions  about the advice he had received. In response, 
Positive Solutions said it considered that Mr S was acting independently from it at the time of 
the acts complained about. It also said that, in any event, it did not authorise Mr S to carry 
out such acts.
Ref: DRN86716422Our investigator concluded Mr S had given advice  to Mr R, that Positive Solutions was 
responsible for the advice, and that Mr Rs complaint should be upheld. 
On Positive Solutions  responsibility the investigator  said, in summary:
He was satisfied  that Mr S did advise Mr R to switch his pensions  into a SIPP,  and to 
invest in the shares.
So he was satisfied  Mr S carried out the regulated activities of advising on and 
making arrangements for somebody  to buy or sell or subscribe for a security or 
relevant investment. 
The picture  in terms of what Mr S was authorised to do by Positive Solutions at the 
time - is incomplete (for example,  the SIPP operator was included  on a list of 
approved providers dating from 2013, but no list for 2010 has been provided).  But, 
taking all of the available  evidence into account, there was not enough  to say that Mr 
S was acting with Positive Solutions actual  authority.
However, taking all of the available evidence  into account, he was satisfied that, in 
the circumstances of this complaint,  Positive Solutions did represent to Mr R that    
Mr S had its authority  to give the advice subject  to complaint.
He was also satisfied  that Mr R reasonably relied on those representations. So 
Positive Solutions gave apparent or ostensible authority. 
He was satisfied  it is fair to hold Positive Solutions responsible for the acts subject to 
complaint, in the circumstances.
He also considered Positive Solutions  could be held vicariously  liable for the acts 
subject to complaint.  
Finally, he considered that if the advice wasnt suitable, then (subject to the 
recognised defences), Positive Solutions was responsible in damages  to Mr R under 
the statutory cause of action provided by section 150 FSMA. So section 150 FSMA 
provided an alternative route by which Positive  Solutions  is responsible for the acts 
complained of.
For all these reasons, the investigator concluded Mr Rs complaint  was one we could 
consider against  Positive Solutions. 
In terms of what was fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint, the 
investigator said: 
Suitable advice  needed to take account  of both the pension  switches and the 
proposed investments.
He hadnt  seen anything that would indicate Mr R was an experienced investor or 
that he could afford  to take significant risk with his pension provision. 
Instead, the opposite appears  to have been true  Mr R appears to have had very 
limited investment experience and didnt have  any other pensions.
Ref: DRN86716423The shares Mr R invested in were unlisted, high risk and speculative. The two 
companies were newly formed, had no track  record, and there was a possibility both 
would fail, and his investments would be lost. Mr S knew (or ought to have known) 
this. 
So Mr S should  have concluded  the switches to the SIPP  were  not suitable,  and 
should have advised  Mr R on that basis.
He was satisfied  that, had Mr S given suitable advice, Mr R would not have switched 
his pensions to the SIPP and made the investments into the shares.
Positive Solutions did not respond to the view. We recently told it an ombudsman would 
likely be making a decision, and invited it to make any further submissions it wanted me to 
take into account. In response,  Positive Solutions said:  
It didnt provide authority to Mr S in respect  of these  investments. Mr S wasnt  
authorised to provide advice on single company shares either through Positive 
Solutions or the FCA. 
It had no business  relationship with any of the entities involved 
It received no remuneration in respect  of the investments.  
Positive Solutions has made no other  submissions. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Jurisdiction
The basis  for deciding jurisdiction:
I must decide whether we have jurisdiction  to consider this complaint  on the basis  of our 
jurisdiction rules (referred to as the DISP rules), including the relevant law they are based  on 
or incorporate, based on the relevant facts of the complaint which  I must decide  on the 
balance of probability when in dispute.   
I cannot decide the issue on the basis of what I consider  to be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. That is the basis on which the merits of complaint will be determined  if we 
have jurisdiction to consider it.
The compulsory jurisdiction
The Financial Ombudsman  Service can consider  a complaint under its compulsory 
jurisdiction if that complaint relates  to an act or omission by a firm in the carrying  on of one 
or more  listed activities, including regulated activities (DISP2.3.1R). Positive Solutions is a 
firm under our rules. 
Ref: DRN86716424As DISP 2.3.3G explains, complaints about acts or omissions include those in respect of 
activities for which the firm  is responsible (including business  of any appointed 
representative or agent for which the firm  has accepted  responsibility).
So there are two questions to be determined before I can decide whether  this complaint can 
be considered  under  our compulsory jurisdiction:  
1.Were the acts about which Mr R complains done in the carrying on of a regulated  
activity?
2.Was the principal firm, Positive Solutions responsible for those acts?  
Were the acts about  which  Mr R complains  done  in the carrying on of a regulated 
activity?
A personal  pension is an investment specified  in the Regulated Activities Order (RAO). So 
advice to switch  a personal pension to a SIPP is regulated investment advice  as per Article  
53 of the RAO. Shares  are also specified investments. So advice to invest in the shares is 
also regulated  investment  advice. And arranging  deals in the personal pensions,  SIPP  and 
shares is regulated  as per Article 25 of the RAO. 
Like the investigator, I am satisfied Mr S advised Mr R to switch his existing  personal  
pensions into a SIPP, to invest  in the shares  of the two companies, and made arrangements 
for these  things to happen.
I acknowledge there is not the sort of documentation you might  generally expect to see 
where advice has been  given, such as a suitability report. However, it doesnt follow that 
advice was not given.
It is Mr Rs recollection  that he was advised  by Mr S. And I think that recollection is plausible. 
Mr R had little investment experience, and I think it unlikely that he would have thought of 
switching his existing  pensions to invest in unlisted shares unless the idea was put to him. I 
also think it unlikely he would have  gone  ahead and made the switches, and investments, 
without a recommendation from Mr S  an individual Mr R had previously received financial 
advice from. 
Mr S was also named  as the financial advisor  on the SIPP  application form, and a box was 
ticked on that form to say Mr S would  be making  investment  decisions  for the SIPP, on      
Mr Rs behalf. The application was also sent to the SIPP operator by Mr S. 
Taking all of this into account,  Im satisfied that Mr S carried  out the regulated  activities of 
advising on and making arrangements for somebody to buy or sell or subscribe for a security  
or relevant investment.  
Was the principal firm, Positive  Solutions,  responsible  for those acts?  
Actual authority
Like the investigator, I do not think there is sufficient evidence to conclude Mr S was acting 
with Positive Solutions actual authority  when  carrying  out the acts subject  to complaint. 
Ref: DRN86716425An agent  is required to act in the interests  of the principal. It seems  Mr S is likely  to have 
breached those terms in this case. It is difficult to see that giving advice to set up a SIPP with 
a provider it isnt clear was approved by Positive Solutions at the time and switch  pensions 
to it in order to invest  in a non-approved investment, where no commission  or fee was 
passed on to Positive  Solutions,  was acting in the interests of the principal, Positive 
Solutions.
It is therefore my view that Mr S was not acting  within the actual authority given to him in 
relation to the acts subject to complaint. 
That is not however the end of the matter.   There is also apparent (or ostensible) authority 
to consider. 
Apparent authority
In an agency relationship,  a principal may limit the actual  authority of his agent.  But if the 
agent acts outside of that actual authority, a principal may still be liable to third parties for the 
agents acts if those acts were within the agents  apparent authority. This is the case  even if 
the agent was acting  fraudulently and in furtherance  of his own interest  provided the agent 
is acting within his apparent authority. 
This type of authority  was described by Diplock LJ in Freeman  & Lockyer v Buckhurst 
Properties (Mangal)  Ltd [1964] 2 QB 480:
An "apparent" or "ostensible" authorityis a legal relationship between  the principal and the 
contractor created by a representation, made by the principal  to the contractor, intended to be 
and in fact acted  upon  by the contractor,  that the agent has authority to enter on behalf of the 
principal into a contract of a kind within the scope of the "apparent"  authority, so as to render 
the principal  liable  to perform any obligations imposed upon him by such contract.  To the 
relationship so created  the agent is a stranger. He need  not be (although he generally  is) 
aware of the existence of the representation but he must not purport to make the agreement 
as principal himself. The representation, when acted upon by the contractor by entering into a 
contract with the agent, operates as an estoppel, preventing the principal from asserting that 
he is not bound by the contract. It is irrelevant whether the agent had actual authority to enter 
into the contract.
In ordinary business dealings the contractor at the time of entering into the contract  can in the 
nature of things hardly ever rely on the "actual" authority of the agent.  His information  as to 
the authority must be derived  either  from the principal  or from the agent  or from both, for they 
alone know what the agents  actual authority  is. All that the contractor can know is what they 
tell him, which  may or may not be true. In the ultimate analysis he relies either upon the 
representation of the principal, that is, apparent  authority, or upon  the representation of the 
agent, that is, warranty of authority...
Although Diplock  LJ referred to contractors,  the law on apparent  authority applies to any 
third party dealing with the agents  of a principal  including consumers like Mr R.
What kinds of representation are capable of giving  rise to apparent authority?
Apparent authority cannot arise on the basis of representations made  by the agent  alone. 
For apparent authority  to operate there must  be a representation by the principal that the 
agent has its authority  to act. As Diplock  LJ said in Freeman, 
Ref: DRN86716426The representation  which  creates "apparent" authority may take a variety  of forms of which  
the commonest is representation by conduct,  that is, by permitting the agent to act in some 
way in the conduct of the principals business  with other persons. By so doing  the principal 
represents to anyone who becomes aware  that the agent is so acting  that the agent  has 
authority to enter on behalf of the principal into contracts with other persons of the kind which 
an agent so acting in the conduct of his principals business has usually  "actual" authority to 
enter into.
In Martin v Britannia Life Ltd [1999]12 WLUK 726, Parker J quoted the relevant principle as 
stated in Article  74 in Bowstead and Reynolds on Agency  16th edition:
Where  a person,  by words  or conduct,  represents or permits it to be represented that another  
person has authority to act on his behalf  he is bound by the acts of that other person with 
respect to anyone  dealing with him as an agent on the faith of any such  representation, to the 
same extent as if such other person had the authority that he was represented to have,  even 
though he had no such actual authority. 
In the more recent case of Anderson v Sense Network [2018] EWHC 2834 Comm, Jacobs J 
endorsed Parker Js approach:
As far as apparent  authority  is concerned,  it is clear  from the decision in Martin  (in particular  
paragraph 5.3.3) that, in order to establish apparent authority, it is necessary  for the claimants 
to establish a representation  made by Sense  [the alleged principal],  which was intended  to be 
acted on and which was in fact acted on by the claimants, that MFSS  [the alleged agent] was 
authorised by Sense  to give advice  in connection with the scheme
I also agree with Sense that there  is nothing in the "status" disclosure  i.e. the compulsory 
wording relating to the status of MFSS and Sense  appearing at the foot of the stationery and 
elsewhere  which can be read as containing any relevant representation as to MFSSs 
authority to do what they were doing  in this case: i.e. running the scheme  and advising in 
relation to it. The "status" disclosure did no more than identify the regulatory status of MFSS 
and Sense and the relationship between them. I did not consider that the Claimants had 
provided any persuasive reason as to how the statements on which they relied  relating to 
"status disclosure"  could  lead to the conclusion  that MFSS was authorised to provide advice 
on the scheme that was being promoted. In my view, a case of ostensible authority requires  
much more than an assertion that Sense conferred  a "badge of respectability" on MFSS. As 
Martin shows, it requires a representation  that there was authority to give advice of the type 
that was giventhe  relevant question is whether the firm has knowingly or even  unwittingly 
led a customer to believe  that an appointed representative or other agent is authorised to 
conduct business on its behalf  of a type that he is not in fact authorised to conduct.  
Nor is there any analogy with the facts or conclusions  in Martin. That case  was not concerned  
with any representation  alleged to arise from "status" disclosure. In Martin , the representation 
by the principal that the agent was a financial adviser acting for an insurance company was 
regarded as a sufficient representation that the adviser could advise on matters (the mortgage 
in that case) which were ancillary  to insurance products.  In the present case, there is nothing  
in the "status disclosure" which contains any representation that MFSS  or its financial 
advisers could operate or advise in connection  with a deposit  scheme  that MFSS  was 
running.
The representation may be general  in character. In Armagas Ltd v Mundogas  SA [1985] 
UKHL 11, Lord Keith said:
Ref: DRN86716427In the commonly encountered case, the ostensible authority is general in character, arising 
when the principal  has placed  the agent in a position which in the outside world is generally 
regarded as carrying authority to enter into transactions of the kind in question. Ostensible  
general authority may also arise where the agent has had a course of dealing with a particular  
contractor and the principal  has acquiesced in this course of dealing  and honoured 
transactions arising out of it.
Must the third party rely on the representation?
The principals representation  that its agent  has its authority to act on its behalf  will only fix 
the principal with liability to the third party (here Mr R) if the third party  relied on that 
representation.
In Anderson, Jacobs  J summarised the approach to be taken  as to whether or not there is 
sufficient evidence of reliance on the representation as follows:
a relevant  ingredient of a case based on apparent authority is reliance  on the faith of the 
representation alleged: see Bowstead  and Reynolds on Agency 21st edition, paragraph [8-
010] and [8-024]; Martin  paragraph 5.3.3. In Martin, Jonathan Parker J. held that the relevant  
representation in that case (namely that the adviser  was authorised to give financial advice 
concerning a remortgage of the property) was acted on by the plaintiffs in that each of them 
proceeded throughout on the footing that in giving  advice [the adviser]  was acting in every 
respect as the agent of [the alleged principal] with authority from [the alleged principal]  so to 
act.
On the particular facts  of that case, Jacobs J placed  weight on the fact the majority of the 
claimants had never heard of the defendant, Sense Network, and that those who had heard 
of it made  their decision to invest in the relevant scheme before they saw the stationery 
which they later said contained the representation on which they relied.
As the case law makes clear,  whether  or not a claimant has relied on a representation  is 
dependent on the circumstances  of that individual  case. 
Here, I must consider whether, on the facts of this individual  case:
Positive Solutions made a representation to Mr R that Mr S had Positive  Solutions  
authority to act on its behalf in carrying out the activities he now complains about,  
and
Mr R relied  on that representation in entering  into the transactions he now complains 
about.
Having considered the law in this area,  including Lord Keiths comments  in Armagas , so far 
as representations are concerned I need  to decide  whether  Positive Solutions placed  Mr S in 
a position which would  objectively generally  be regarded as carrying its authority to enter  
into transactions such as setting up of the SIPP to switch  existing pensions  to it in order  to 
invest in the shares.  Put another  way, did Positive Solutions knowingly  or even unwittingly 
 lead Mr R to believe that Mr S was authorised  to conduct business  on its behalf of the type 
featuring in this complaint?
Ref: DRN86716428I also need to decide whether Mr R relied on any representation Positive Solutions made. 
Having considered Parker  Js comments in Martin, if Mr R proceeded throughout on the 
footing that in giving advice Mr S was acting  in every respect as the agent of Positive 
Solutions with authority  from Positive  Solutions  so to act, then this suggests I should 
conclude that Mr R relied on Positive  Solutions representation.
Did Positive Solutions represent to Mr R that Mr S had the relevant authority?
Taking all of the information I have been  provided  with into account,  I am satisfied that, in the 
circumstances of this complaint, Positive  Solutions  did represent to Mr R that Mr S had its 
authority to carry out the acts subject  to complaint.
Mr S advised Mr R, and arranged for Mr R, to switch his four existing pensions  to a SIPP, 
and make investments.  These activities were provided for in Positive  Solutions  procedures. 
None of these  activities were in themselves novel or exceptional  or unexpected for an IFA 
firm. These  are activities that fall within the class of activities that IFAs are usually authorised  
to do.  
Any restrictions on the authority to give certain types  advice would not have been visible to 
Mr R. So for example he would not know that Mr S should only recommend  approved  
investments, and should present the advice in certain ways.
Positive Solutions placed Mr S in a position which would, in the outside world, generally be 
regarded as having authority to carry out the acts Mr R complains about. Positive Solutions 
authorised Mr S to give investment advice on its behalf. Positive Solutions arranged for Mr S 
to appear on the FSA register in respect  of Positive  Solutions. And Mr S was approved to 
carry on the controlled function  CF30 at the time of the disputed  advice.
Positive Solutions held itself out as an independent  financial  adviser  that gave advice and 
offered products from the whole  of the market  after assessing a clients needs. No 
information was provided to clients  or potential clients about the agent being authorised in 
relation to approved products only.  
Positive Solutions provided Mr S with Positive Solutions business  stationery. Furthermore,    
Mr R was provided with a business  card and a Positive Solutions email address, which he 
used when communicating with Mr S. 
Positive Solutions name and FSA details were used to set up the SIPP.  Whilst it is my 
understanding that Mr S completed  these forms (or at least submitted the completed forms 
to the SIPP  operator)  not Positive  Solutions  it was Positive Solutions that had put him in 
the position to do this.
It was also in Positive Solutions interest for the general public, including  Mr R, to understand 
that it was taking responsibility for the advice given by its financial advisers. I am satisfied 
that Positive Solutions  intended Mr R to act on its representation  that Mr S was its financial 
adviser. I do not see how Positive  Solutions could have carried  out its business activities  at 
all if the general public had not treated registered individuals  like Mr S as having authority to 
give investment advice on behalf  of Positive  Solutions.
Did Mr R rely on Positive Solutions representation? 
Ref: DRN86716429Mr S advised Mr R to set up a SIPP and to switch his existing personal pensions to it. Mr S 
also advised on the merits of buying  the shares within the SIPP. Mr R has said he 
understood Mr S to be acting as Positive  Solutions adviser when  he gave that advice   and 
that he was reassured by this. 
The SIPP application was completed  with Mr S referred to as acting for Positive Solutions. 
And the application  was sent to the SIPP operator by Mr S using Positive Solutions headed 
paper.
In these circumstances, it was reasonable for Mr R to think that he was getting financial 
advice from someone who was regulated to give such advice. Mr S wasnt  regulated to give 
advice on his own behalf, and the FSA register showed that he was only allowed to give 
such advice on Positive Solutions behalf.
I also think that it is very unlikely Mr R would have followed Mr Ss advice had he been  
aware he didnt  have the authority to act.
It is the case Mr S did not confirm the advice in a suitability report  or similar, making  it clear  
the advice was from Positive  Solutions.   It is however my view that the absence of these 
documents does  not clearly establish  the capacity in which  the advice was given. 
I cannot see that there is evidence that Mr R knew or should reasonably have  known that   
Mr S was not acting  for Positive  Solutions  in accordance with its general representation 
that Mr S had its authority to act for it as it financial  adviser  - in every respect in relation to 
the setting up of the SIPP, the pension switches and the investments in the shares. 
In my view the evidence does indicate  that Mr R proceeded on the basis  that Mr S was 
acting in every respect as the agent  of Positive  Solutions with authority from Positive 
Solutions so to act.
Is it just for Positive  Solutions to be required to bear any losses caused by Mr S?
The courts have taken into account  whether it is just to require a principal to bear a loss 
caused by the wrongdoing  of his agent.  I have  considered whether it is just to hold Positive  
Solutions responsible  for any detriment Mr R has suffered as result of the advice he received 
from Mr S. Here, I think it is just to hold Positive Solutions responsible for the consequences 
of its putting Mr S in the position where  Mr R could suffer loss as a result of his actions. In 
particular, I note:
Positive Solutions was in a position  to monitor Mr Ss behaviour. 
Positive Solutions did not tell Mr R it had put any of the limits on his authority that it 
says are relevant  here.
Positive Solutions agency agreement acknowledges  that it will be held responsible 
for the wrongs  of its agents and includes and requires the agent to provide it with an 
indemnity in respect of any losses etc it suffers as result of such  wrongs.
So overall I consider  that it is just for Positive  Solutions to be required to bear any losses  
caused by any wrongdoing done  by Mr S whilst carrying on the a controlled function 
assigned to him by Positive Solutions.
Ref: DRN867164210Vicarious liability
The investigator took the view Positive Solutions  could also be held vicariously liable for the 
acts subject to complaint.  However, I have not considered this point here, as I am satisfied 
Positive Solutions is responsible for the acts subject  to complaint by virtue of apparent 
authority. 
Statutory responsibility under section 150 FSMA
The investigator also said in his view that section 150 FSMA provided an alternative route by 
which Positive Solutions is responsible. I have not reviewed  this point here either  again 
because my decision is Positive Solutions is responsible for the acts subject to complaint by 
virtue of apparent  authority.
As I have concluded the complaint is one I can consider, I will go on to consider the merits of 
it. 
My findings  as to the merits  of the complaint  
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, like the investigator,  I 
consider Mr R was given unsuitable advice   and that, if he had not been given that 
unsuitable advice,  Mr R would not have switched  from his existing personal pensions  to the 
SIPP, and invested  in the shares. 
At the time of advice  Mr M had a modest  income,  no other pensions other than the ones 
involved here, and no other savings.  Mr S could not therefore afford to take significant risk 
with his pension  provision. He also had very little investment experience.  So the advice  that 
he move  his existing pensions to a SIPP was clearly unsuitable.   
The two share  investments Mr R was advised to make in his SIPP were in unlisted 
companies with a limited  track record  so they were high risk and speculative.  There was a 
possibility both would fail, and his investments would be lost. They were clearly not a 
suitable home for the entire pension of an inexperienced investor with a modest income and 
no other savings. 
I therefore think Mr S should have  concluded  the switches  to the SIPP  to invest in the shares 
were not suitable,  and that it was not therefore  fair and reasonable for Mr S to advise Mr R to 
make the switches and investments. 
It seems  it was Mr S who approached Mr R  Mr R was not proactively looking to do 
anything with his pensions. So Im satisfied that, had Mr S not advised Mr R to switch  out of 
his existing pensions,  Mr R would  have kept those  pensions.  
Fair compensation
My aim is that Mr R should be put as closely  as possible into the position  he would probably 
now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
What should Positive  Solutions do?
Ref: DRN867164211Positive Solutions should calculate fair compensation  by comparing the current position  to 
the position Mr R would  be in if he had not switched from his existing pensions. In summary,  
Positive Solutions should:
1.Calculate the loss Mr R has suffered as a result of making the switches.
2.Take ownership of the shares  held in the SIPP if possible.
3.Pay compensation for the loss into Mr Rs pension. If that is not possible pay 
compensation for the loss to Mr R direct.  In either case the payment should take into 
account necessary  adjustments set out below.
4.Pay £500 for the trouble and upset caused.
5.Pay Mr Rs SIPP fees for the next five years, in the event he is not now able to close 
his SIPP
Ill explain  how Positive Solutions should carry out the calculation  set out at 1-3 above  in 
further detail below:
1.Calculate the loss Mr R has suffered as a result of making the switches
To do this, Positive Solutions should  work  out the likely value of Mr Rs pensions as at the 
date of this decision, had he left them where they were instead of switching to the SIPP.  
Positive Solutions should ask Mr Ss former pension provider to calculate  the current  
notional transfer  value had he not switched his pensions. If there are any difficulties in 
obtaining a notional valuation then a benchmark  of 50% of the FTSE UK Private Investors 
Income Total Return index and 50% of the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate 
bonds as published by the Bank of England should  be used to calculate  the value. That is 
likely to be a reasonable proxy  for the type of return that could have been achieved if the 
pensions had not been switched.
The notional transfer value should be compared  to the transfer  value of the SIPP at the date 
of this decision and this will show the loss Mr S has suffered. 
2.Take ownership of the shares
Ideally, the illiquid assets  the shares - could be removed from the SIPP.  Mr R would then 
be able to close the SIPP, if he wishes, and avoid paying further  fees for the SIPP. For 
calculating compensation, Positive Solutions  should  agree an amount with the SIPP operator 
as a commercial value for the shares.  It should then pay the sum agreed plus any costs  and 
take ownership of the shares.
If Positive Solutions is able to purchase  the shares then the price  paid to purchase the 
holding/s should  be allowed for in the current transfer value (because it will have been paid 
into the SIPP to secure  the holding/s).
Ref: DRN867164212If Positive Solutions is unable, or if there are any difficulties in buying  the shares, it should 
give them  a nil value for the purposes  of calculating compensation. Provided  Mr R is 
compensated in full Positive Solutions  may ask Mr R to provide an undertaking to account to 
it for the net amount of any payment the SIPP may receive from the shares.  That 
undertaking should allow for the effect  of any tax and charges on the amount Mr R may 
receive from the investment and any eventual sums he would be able to access from the 
SIPP. Positive Solutions will need  to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking.
3.Pay compensation to Mr R for loss he has suffered calculated  in (1). 
Since the loss Mr R has suffered is within his pension it is right that I try to restore the value 
of his pension  provision if that is possible. So if possible  the compensation for the loss 
should be paid into the pension. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension if it 
would conflict with any existing protection or allowance. Payment into the pension  should 
allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. This may mean the compensation 
should be increased to cover  the charges and reduced to notionally allow for the income tax 
relief Mr R could  claim. The notional allowance should be calculated  using Mr Rs marginal 
rate of tax.
On the other hand, Mr R may not be able to pay the compensation  into a pension.  If so 
compensation for the loss should  be paid to Mr R direct.  But had it been possible to pay the 
compensation into the pension, it would have provided a taxable income. Therefore, the 
compensation for the loss paid to Mr R should  be reduced to notionally allow  for any income 
tax that would otherwise have been paid. The notional allowance  should be calculated  using 
Mr Rs marginal rate of tax in retirement. For example, if Mr R is likely to be a basic rate 
taxpayer in retirement, the notional allowance  would equate  to a reduction in the total 
amount equivalent  to the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr R would  have been  able to 
take a tax free lump  sum, the notional  allowance should be applied to 75% of the total 
amount.
4.Pay £500 for the trouble and upset caused.
Mr R has been caused some distress and inconvenience  by the loss of his pension benefits. 
This is money Mr R cannot afford to lose and its loss has clearly caused  him significant 
distress. I consider  that a payment of £500  is appropriate to compensate  for that distress.
5.SIPP fees
If Mr R is unable to close his SIPP once  compensation has been paid, Positive Solutions 
should pay an amount into the SIPP equivalent to five years worth of the fees (based on the 
most recent years fees) that will be payable  on the SIPP. I say this because Mr R would not 
be in the SIPP but for the unsuitable advice. So it would not be fair for him to have to pay 
fees to keep it open. And I am satisfied five years  will allow sufficient time for things to be 
sorted out with the shares, and the SIPP to be closed.
interest
Ref: DRN867164213The compensation must be paid as set out above within  28 days of the date Positive 
Solutions receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Interest must be added  
to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final 
decision to the date of settlement if the compensation is not paid within  28 days. 
My final decision  
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Quilter  Financial Planning Solutions Limited 
should pay the amount calculated as set out above.
Quilter Financial Planning  Solutions Limited  should provide details of its calculation  to Mr R 
in a clear,  simple format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2021.
John Pattinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8671642