K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain about  the way Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc (RSA) has 
handled a claim  they made under their home insurance.
background
Mr and Mrs H have their home contents  insurance  with RSA. In October  2018  Mr and Mrs H 
made a claim for damage to two of their living room chairs. RSA accepted the claim but said 
it wouldnt cover  a third undamaged chair that was part of the living room set. RSA said this 
was because Mr and Mrs H hadnt taken the optional extension  of matching item cover.
Mr and Mrs H complained  and said they thought their policy  included  matching set cover  
when they first took it out around 16 years before. RSA said it had sent a renewal letter  in 
May 2018 that showed matching item cover wasnt included. And it said having checked  with 
the previous underwriter of the insurance that this wasnt  included either. Mr and Mrs H 
responded to say they may have overlooked their post from RSA or it may have been lost.
Mr and Mrs H also said RSAs claim handlers provided poor service and caused 
unnecessary delays. RSA reviewed  how its claims handlers had looked  into the claim and 
apologised for mistakes they made.  It said the chairs werent correctly  validated which  led to 
unnecessary delays. So it offered £100  to Mr and Mrs H for the inconvenience.
 
Our investigator looked into what happened. She said the terms of Mr and Mrs Hs policy  
didnt include matching sets so she felt RSA had settled the claim fairly.  But she considered  
that Mr and Mrs H said they didnt know this optional cover  was available. She said it wasnt  
drawn to their attention when the underwriter of the policy changed, and she thought theyd 
have taken it if it was. 
So she asked RSA to reconsider  the claim as if they had the matching set cover,  deducting 
any additional premiums  they wouldve paid. The investigator also considered  RSAs  offer of 
£100 for poor customer service and said this was fair.
RSA disagreed and said matching set cover  had never been included under  Mr and Mrs Hs 
policy. So even though the underwriter  of the insurance had changed, they hadnt lost any 
aspect of cover. It also provided renewal documents that it said were sent to Mr and Mrs H 
that it said showed the optional cover was clearly  offered and not taken. 
Because RSA didnt  agree, the complaint was passed to me for an ombudsmans  decision. I 
issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 16 July 2019 explaining why I wasnt 
intending to uphold this complaint and I explained  Id consider any further  evidence  before 
issuing my final decision. Ive summarised  my reasons  below.
Its not in dispute that Mr and Mrs Hs policy  doesnt cover matching sets,  nor is it 
disputed that they didnt  pay for the additional optional cover  that RSA offered. 
So, having  carefully read the terms of the policy, I was satisfied RSA handled the 
claim fairly. And I thought it was reasonable for RSA to not provide  a replacement 
suite as this wasnt covered by the policy they had.
Ref: DRN84287942ICOBS 2.2.2 says that when  RSA communicates with its customers, it must ensure 
that its information is clear, fair and not misleading.  Our investigator had discussed 
whether RSA gave  clear  information about the optional covers  it provided within  a 
renewal document  and how she felt this impacted Mr and Mrs H. But in this case  
Mr and Mrs H had told us they overlooked  their renewal documents  and letters  from 
RSA. So I didnt  think I needed to make a finding  about  whether the information  RSA 
provided was clear or not. This was because I was satisfied this information  wouldnt 
have changed   Mr and Mrs Hs decision as they told us they didnt  read their letters  
from RSA anyway.
I also considered the customer  service  RSAs agents provided.  RSA apologised and 
acknowledged its mistakes caused unnecessary delays, and that it didnt provide call 
backs when it shouldve. I said I could  appreciate the frustration  this wouldve caused 
but I thought the overall cause  of the delay  was the ongoing dispute about matching 
sets. And because I thought RSA handled the claim fairly I concluded the offer it 
made was fair and reasonable.
Mr and Mrs H also said their policy was mis-sold from inception. As this isnt a 
complaint I could consider against  RSA I said they should contact the business that 
sold the insurance if they want to pursue this.
Neither RSA nor Mr and Mrs H responded to my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
As Ive been  given  nothing new to consider, I see no reason to depart from my provisional  
decision. So I havent changed my mind and Im not asking RSA to do anything further. 
my final decision
For the above reasons Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 September 2019. 
Jack Baldry
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8428794