K820x#14complaint
Ms complaint is about a claim it made on its Euler Hermes trade credit insurance  policy.
Mr H, on behalf of M, says Euler Hermes should pay Ms solicitors  fees in bringing a claim 
against a debtor.
background
M had the benefit  of a trade credit insurance  policy. The policy  provided  cover for insured 
debts and debt collection services for undisputed  debts owed to policyholders. 
M made a claim  on the policy for a debt of £146,000 owed  to it by one of its debtors. 
Euler Hermes  noted the debt was disputed. Although the policy  didnt provide cover  for 
disputed debts, Euler Hermes offered to place it with one of its panel firms of solicitors to 
consider and pursue on the basis that their costs  would be collected from a successful claim. 
There was a delay  in the panel firm contacting  M. When they did it became apparent that the 
claim needed Scottish lawyers to be appointed  so the panel firm offered to appoint  a Scottish 
solicitor for M. But Mr H said M would  prefer to use its own solicitors. Mr H did this and 
continued with the claim  against Ms debtor without any further involvement with 
Euler Hermes  or the panel firm. 
M eventually settled its claim for £114,000  but incurred legal fees of £30,000. Mr H says 
Euler Hermes  should pay its legal fees because M had the freedom to choose its own 
solicitors at the point  at which  it referred the claim to them. On the other  hand,  Euler Hermes 
say they dont cover legal costs for disputed  debts and although they offered  to do so 
through their own panel solicitors, that didnt mean they were prepared  to cover Ms own 
solicitors fees. In addition, Euler Hermes say they had no control over the litigation or legal 
fees M incurred so it would be unreasonable to now require  them  to cover  these.
Our investigator considered Ms complaint and concluded that it shouldnt  be upheld.  Mr H, 
on behalf of M, doesnt agree so the matter has been passed to me to determine. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  Ms 
complaint should  be upheld.  Ill explain why.
The starting point  is the policy terms. They only provide trade  credit  insurance cover where 
debts to policyholders  are undisputed.  In this case Ive seen correspondence from Ms 
debtor which  disputes the debt M was claiming.  Because of this Euler  Hermes wasnt 
obliged to offer M any cover in respect of recovering the debt. That said, I can see that it did 
offer help in the form of its own panel  solicitor. Its not uncommon for panel solicitors  to act 
for insurers on fixed rates or even conditional fee arrangements which means they recover 
any costs they incur from the other  party if theyre  successful.  I dont know  what  
Euler Hermes  charging arrangements were with its panel firm, but I assume it offered M this 
service because it wasnt going to cost a considerable amount. And what Euler  Hermes  have  
said about the panel firm collecting costs from the other party makes me think this was a 
conditional (no win no fee) arrangement. I know that Mr H wasnt happy  with the time it took 
the panel firm to contact  him and that theyd need to appoint  alternative solicitors in Scotland  
to act for M, but I dont  think this means M is entitled to the costs of its own solicitor.
Ref: DRN84478392Mr H feels Euler  Hermes  should cover Ms costs because M wouldve had the freedom to 
choose their own solicitor at the point that proceedings were necessary,  but I dont agree. 
This wasnt a legal expenses insurance  policy. Rather it was a trade  credit  insurance policy.  
One of the things that type of policy covers is insured  debts, subject to its terms and 
conditions. It also offers debt collection services  for undisputed debts. But that doesnt mean 
its a pure legal expenses insurance  policy. Because of this I dont think  freedom for 
policyholders to choose their own solicitors applies in the same way. And even if it did, wed 
expect a policyholders solicitors  to work  with insurers  to agree costs and next steps in the 
litigation as matters unfold. In this case Mr H incurred legal costs independently of 
Euler Hermes  and without further reference  to it. So, I dont think its fair for Euler  to pay 
anything in respect of the costs M incurred. 
my final decision
I dont uphold Ms complaint against  Euler Hermes SA/NV.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H on behalf  of 
M to accept or reject my decision  before 24 January 2020.
Lle Hussein-Venn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8447839