K820x#14complaint
Mr C has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC will not refund any of the commission  it received 
from his mortgage  payment  protection premiums (MPPI) for the policy that he took out in 
2001 to cover his mortgage. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint. Ill explain  why.
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA), 
issued some rules about how businesses should deal with complaints about  MMPPI.
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit share  from the 
MMPPI policy  more  than 50% of the MMPPI premium  and it didnt tell the consumer, then 
that could create an unfair relationship  between  the parties. So to put that right, the FCA said 
that businesses  should pay back the amount  of commission and profit  share that was more 
than 50% of the MMPPI premium. 
But these  rules and the Supreme Court judgment relate to the unfair relationship  provisions 
in the Consumer Credit  Act 1974. The unfair relationship provisions were added to the 
Consumer Credit Act in 2006  and came  into force on 6 April 2007. For these provisions to 
apply to credit agreements taken out before this date, the credit agreement would still need  
to be running on 6 April 2008 and it would  still need  to be covered by the Consumer  Credit  
Act on this date.
On 31st October  2004 the regulation of mortgages by the FCA began   and mortgages were 
no longer covered by the Consumer Credit Act. But it was possible for mortgages  taken  out 
before this date to become regulated, if a change was made to the mortgage   such as a 
further advance  or interest rate switch. Different  lenders took different  approaches to this. 
Mr C took out his mortgage  in 2001.  From  the information Lloyds has provided, Mr C took 
out a further advance in 2006. Lloyds has told us the entire mortgage became regulated at 
that point. Based on what we have seen and what  we know about how Lloyds arranged this 
further borrowing, Im satisfied that Mr Cs mortgage did become regulated.
As Mr Cs mortgage became regulated  before 6 April 2008  it was no longer  under the scope 
of the Consumer Credit  Act or the FCAs relevant rules and guidance. So Lloyds doesnt 
need to refund any of the commission Mr C paid for the MMPPI they had with his mortgage.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 March 2019.
Ref: DRN80640072Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8064007