K820x#14complaint
Mr M says Northern  Bank Limited (Northern Bank) mis-sold him a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr M bought  the policy in 2000 at the same time as taking out a loan. He applied  for the loan 
and PPI policy in branch.   
The loan was repayable over a 3-year term. The monthly loan repayment was variable,  but 
the repayment was initially £167.91.  At the outset, the PPI cost an additional £20.72 making 
the total monthly repayment £188.63. The policy didnt attract interest  and could be 
cancelled by either party without penalty. 
The policy provided  cover  for accident, sickness, unemployment and life subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  Mr Ms monthly loan repayment for the 
remaining term of the loan in the event of a successful disability claim and for up to 12 
months in the event  of unemployment. 
Theres some dispute about  Mr Ms employment status at the time. In the PPI questionnaire, 
he told us he was a self-employed joiner who was not entitled  to sick pay. However, 
Northern Bank provided evidence to us which it says showed Mr M was employed as a 
joiner. Mr M told us he didnt have any other means of meeting his loan repayments if he 
was unable to work,  but he said his wife would have  been able to help him if needed. 
I understand Mr M had back problems  in around  1991 that was treated with over-the-counter 
painkillers. Mr M also told us that he thought his job was a high-risk  occupation that would 
have stopped him from being able to make a claim on the PPI policy.  
Northern Bank has sent us screenshots to show that the loan account was closed  in July 
2002. I understand Mr M had cancelled the PPI policy in February 2002
Mr Ms representative made lengthy and substantial representations.I will not restate them  
all here, but I have read and considered them all carefully. In summary,  Mr Ms 
representative says:
Northern Bank failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  APP 3, it should be presumed  Mr M wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr Ms 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Northern Bank should 
have told Mr M about the poor value; 
Ref: DRN89824572The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Northern Bank should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr M and the 
impact they would have had on his chances of making a claim;
The information Mr M received was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue;
Our adjudicator initially said the complaint should be upheld.  However, after considering 
further representations from Northern Bank, our adjudicator  then didnt uphold  the complaint. 
Both parties  have seen  and provided  their responses to the adjudicators opinions. Mr M 
disagreed with the adjudicators second  opinion for several reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ms. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding this complaint
This sale took place  in 2000 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated in January 2005.  So, the FSAs  (and FCAs) overarching  Principles for Businesses 
and insurance  conduct  rules  (ICOB and ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint, nor is the 
FCAs Perimeter guidance  (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2002. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC code, which  set out minimum standards of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
Ref: DRN89824573The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Northern Bank, selling insurance  at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for  Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Northern Bank at the time.  So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI code  and 
these other  publications into account when deciding, what  is in my opinion,  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Ms case.  
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost  duty of good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Northern Bank was required to take into account the provisions  in DISP App 3 as if they 
were guidance  when considering this complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If Northern Bank gave advice, whether it advised  Mr M with reasonable care and skill 
 in particular,  whether the policy was appropriate or suitable for him given his 
needs and circumstances. 
Ref: DRN89824574-Whether Northern Bank  gave  Mr M sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to 
enable Mr M to make an informed choice about whether to take out the policy, 
including drawing  to his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading 
way  the main  provisions  of the policy and significant limitations and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr M, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr M suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr M and 
Northern Bank, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint.  Ive set out my reasoning  
below. 
did Mr M know he had a choice?
Northern Bank had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional.  
Northern Bank hasnt been able to provide me with any of the documentation  that was 
completed at the point  of sale. Thats not surprising given the cover was sold more  than 20 
years ago. I wouldnt expect either  party to keep documentation for such a long time.  
However, Northern Bank has given  me some  sample application forms it says are the same 
as would have  been completed  when Mr M applied for his loan. 
I can see that it was argued  on Mr Ms behalf  that the PPI was included as part of a package 
with his loan. Mr M told us he couldnt  remember  how PPI was sold to him, so its not 
immediately clear to me how he would  recall the cover being sold as a package.  But for the 
avoidance of doubt and having considered the sample loan application,  I can see that Mr M 
would have had to indicate  on that form that he wanted a PPI policy.  There were two equally 
prominent boxes  to tick  one to say he wanted  cover and another  to say he did not. If the 
cover was part of a package, I dont think Mr M would have reasonably thought  hed have to 
agree to it. 
In addition to that, Ive been provided  with a sample loan quotation. Im satisfied Mr M was 
most likely provided with a similar  document. From that, I can see the PPI policy is described 
as something giving Mr M the option to cover his monthly  repayments.  The cost of the PPI 
was set out separately to the loan repayment and I think  it would have been clear  that the 
PPI was a separate financial product. I think the person selling the cover would have also set 
that out. 
I can also see that the premiums were  debited from Mr Ms current account separately  and 
on a different date to the loan repayment. So if the cover had been sold as part of a 
package, I think  Mr M would have wanted  to know what those transactions  were  for at an 
early stage. The evidence  Ive seen doesnt  suggest that Mr M queried those payments. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr M knew  the policy was 
separate to his main loan and was optional. Im satisfied he agreed  to take it out without 
undue pressure. 
did Northern Bank  provide advice?
Ref: DRN89824575Northern Bank says it advised Mr M to buy the PPI. Mr M says it didnt. Ive treated this as 
an advised sale because  I think Mr M would have reasonably thought Northern Bank  
recommended this cover to him after taking account  of his financial circumstances. I think  his 
finances would have been discussed  at some length  during the appointment between  the 
parties. 
This means  Northern Bank had to advise Mr M with reasonable  care and skill, in particular 
whether the policy  was appropriate or suitable  given his needs and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps Northern Bank took to establish whether the policy was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr M. It seems Mr M cant remember clearly  what happened  and there 
is no record of what the adviser discussed  in relation to the policy. This is unsurprising  in 
respect of a sale during a meeting. The adviser  had some limited information  about Mr Ms 
financial circumstances, but there  is no specific evidence to show  the adviser took steps to 
establish whether  Mr M would have been caught by the significant exclusions  and limitations 
which might  have meant the policy did not fully meet his needs.  For example, there  is 
nothing to suggest Northern Bank considered whether Mr M had any pre-existing medical 
conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Northern Bank did all it should 
have done to determine whether the policy was suitable for Mr M given his circumstances. 
So Im not persuaded Northern Bank advised with reasonable care and skill.
That doesnt  mean I can automatically uphold the complaint  because  I must also consider 
whether the policy  was ultimately suitable.  Before I can establish how suitable the policy  
was, I have to look at the work Mr M was most  likely doing at the point of sale.  I said above 
that Mr M told us that he was self-employed, and his representatives reiterated that point 
after our adjudicator made further enquiries. However, Northern Bank  provided  us with 
evidence from the point of sale that indicated Mr M was permanently employed  and had 
been working for his employer for over 10 years. Ive also seen entries  from his current  
account showing wages  of a similar  amount  being paid at a regular interval.  Thats 
something Id be more likely to associate  with being employed. On balance,  I think  Mr M was 
most likely an employee. And given  his length  of service, I think he was probably  entitled to 
some sick pay and redundancy  pay. 
With that in mind, while Im not persuaded Northern Bank did all it should have done to make 
sure the policy  was suitable, I do think its more likely than not that the policy  was ultimately  
suitable. In reaching  that conclusion Ive made the following findings:
-Mr M met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Mr M most likely had a need  for the policy. As I said above,  I think Mr M would  have 
been entitled to some sick pay. But if hed made a claim  on the PPI policy, he would 
have been able to claim for the entire lifetime of the loan,  which was up to three 
years. I dont think his sick pay would  have lasted for that long. So it seems likely the 
PPI would have  lasted for longer  than his benefits from work. Similarly, I dont think 
Mr Ms redundancy entitlement would have  lasted  for longer than the 12 months he 
could have claimed PPI for if he was out of work. I appreciate Mr M said his wife 
would have been able to help him if he ran into trouble repaying his loan. I dont 
doubt it would have been his wifes  intention  to assist in such  circumstances. But 
Ref: DRN89824576theres no guarantee that help would  have been available to Mr M as and when he 
needed it. It seems likely that Mr Ms ability to continue to meet his loan repayments 
would have been put under strain  if he was not working for an extended period of 
time.
-Having taken account of the information  Northern Bank provided from Mr Ms current  
account from around the point of sale, Im satisfied  the monthly cost of the policy  
appears to have been affordable for Mr M. 
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable.  I appreciate Mr M 
told us that hed had back problems in around  1991,  he hadnt taken any time off 
work because of this condition. And its not clear to me whether he had consulted a 
medical professional  about it given that the condition  was not treated  with prescribed 
medication. I dont think hed have reasonably thought hed need to take time off 
work because of a back problem which  occurred  nine years earlier.  Whilst Mr M says 
his work  was high  risk, there was nothing about  his employment or occupation 
which would have  made it difficult to claim. There were  also no additional restrictions 
on cover  for mental health or back problems.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Northern  Bank gave Mr M sufficient  
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable him to understand what 
Northern Bank was recommending and make an informed decision about  whether to follow  
that advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr M was given a broad description of what the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect his repayments if Mr M was 
unable to work through accident,  sickness and disability) and of the approximate costs.  I 
think the likely costs  would have been set out on a loan quotation  document  that would have  
been given to Mr M at the point of sale. And I think its most likely that cost would have been 
reiterated during  the parties meeting. Overall,  I think its unlikely Mr M would have taken out 
the policy without  any sense of what the policy was for and of how much the premium might  
be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Northern  Bank gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit or about the exclusions or limitations  before Mr 
M agreed to take out the policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr M Im not persuaded Northern 
Bank did enough to present information  about the policy it was recommending  in a way that 
was fair and reasonable to Mr M. Im not persuaded  Northern  Bank  gave Mr M all of the 
information he needed about the policy to make an informed decision about whether  to 
follow the recommendation  and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
Ref: DRN89824577In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Ms representative has raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like this. Ive considered  
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr Ms representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr M about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance to him. 
Im not persuaded by the representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost  good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr M has suggested. And taking  into account  the law, industry  codes and standards  of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Northern Bank ought to have  done  either. 
What effect did Northern Banks  shortcomings have on Mr M? To what extent  did Mr 
M suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Northern  Bank didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  to Mr 
M. So I have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude  he 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Mr M 
would have still taken  out the policy, had Northern Bank done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded Northern Bank  took the steps it should  have done to establish  
whether the policy  it recommended was suitable,  I have found  that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for him.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr M has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if Northern Bank  had explained things 
properly, Mr M would have acted differently, or whether he would have taken out the policy 
in any event.
Mr M says he wouldnt have  taken it out and believes  I should presume this to be the case  
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr M had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when Northern  Bank advised  him that there  was a 
Ref: DRN89824578suitable product  that would protect  Mr Ms payments in the event he was unable to work 
because of accident, sickness and unemployment, he concluded he wanted that product. 
But he made that decision based on incomplete  information, meaning what  he thought he 
was getting is not exactly  what he got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr Ms circumstances at the 
time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him.
As Ive also already explained, the information Mr M was given about the cost was probably  
clear. But the information  about other  aspects  of the policy, such  as the benefits, limitations 
and exclusions wasnt as clear as it should have  been.  
In addition, Im not persuaded  Northern  Bank  made clear exactly  what Mr M would get back 
in return in the event he made a successful claim. But I think  its unlikely his expectations 
about what the policy would pay in the event of a claim (an amount  sufficient  to meet  the 
loan repayments) were  significantly  different to what the policy actually  did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr M thought  he had bought  and 
what he actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to any condition, injury, illness,  disease, sickness  
or related condition,  whether diagnosed or not, which  Mr M knew about  at the start 
date or for which he had arranged to see a doctor  about or received treatment for 
during the 12 months before the start date and which  returned  within  12 months  of 
the start date; 
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr M 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr M be unable  to 
do his normal work,  which included any other  work that the insurer thought he was 
or may reasonably become qualified for in view of his training, education and ability.  
He couldnt undertake  any other work, including temporary work.
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr M pause for thought  and may well have caused  him to conclude the policy  wasnt  as 
good as he thought and he might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the cover,  
when coupled with the other shortcomings  in this sale,  might have dissuaded some 
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr M from taking out the policy. 
But the evidence  about Mr Ms circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the policy wasnt  
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable. He was eligible for its benefits and it provided cover that, 
despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  should the insured risks have  
become a reality.  Mr M stated he had a medical  condition some time before  the policy was 
taken out and if that condition was ongoing, the policy wouldnt have provided cover  had he 
needed to take time off because of it. But I dont think better information about this exclusion 
would have put him off agreeing to it. I say this because Mr M had not taken any time off 
work because of this condition. His condition had been treated with over-the-counter 
medication and I havent  seen  evidence  to suggest  he had been referred to a specialist. With 
all of those things in mind, I think its likely Mr M would have thought  hed need  to take time 
off work because of his back trouble.  And I havent seen any evidence to suggest  he 
wouldve been caught by any of the other  significant  exclusions. So I still think he had some  
good reasons  to take the policy  out.
Ref: DRN89824579The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr M would have 
expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some  evidence to 
support that claim.
If Mr M had known  he could only claim for disability  if he was not only unable  to do his job or 
to do any other work which in the insurers view he might reasonably become qualified  for, it 
might have played into his thinking  about what he would do. And I accept it may have given 
him pause for thought   although  given his circumstances,  on balance, I still think he would  
have been interested in taking out the cover  
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr M would still have taken  out the policy. The policy was suitable, was sufficiently 
close to what its likely  he thought he was getting and provided benefits that would help to 
manage the consequences  were  Mr M made redundant,  or unable to work through accident  
or disability.  In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not Mr M would have taken  
out the policy in any event  notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr Ms representatives say the rules about  how to handle PPI complaints (DISP  App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr M would  not have  bought  the PPI unless, in the particular circumstances of the 
complaint, there is evidence to rebut  the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr Ms 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  he found  
himself in as result  of the sale was the same position he would have been in had the breach 
or significant failings  not occurred. 
Mr M believes the presumption may only be rebutted  when the flaws in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr M in the position he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
Ref: DRN898245710That is because,  while I accept it is possible that he would not have taken out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that he would still have 
taken out the PPI had he been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy he was buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude Northern Bank  should  pay Mr M compensation, as that would  
put him in a better position than he would have been in if everything  had happened as it 
should have done. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Ms representative says a court might take if it were 
to find Northern Bank had been  in breach of its duty of utmost  good faith. But this doesnt 
persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr M in a better  position than if everything had happened as it should 
have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 March  2021.
Nicola Bowes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8982457