K821x#15Complaint
Miss D has complained that Indigo Michael  Limited  (trading as Safety Net Credit (SNC))
shouldnt have lent to her as she could not afford it. Miss D has also stated  she was
struggling financially  and believes SNC  wouldve been aware  of this from looking at her bank
statements.
Background
I issued my provisional decision on 14 August 2020  saying that Miss Ds complaint should 
be upheld, in part. I invited SNC  and Miss D to provide any further  comments  or evidence for 
me to consider.
A copy of the provisional decision including my provisional findings follow  this and form part 
of this final decision:
What I said in my provisional decision:
Miss D approached SNC for a Safety Net facility in September 2016. This was a running
credit account where a consumer could either request funds up to their credit  limit, or funds
would be deposited  into their bank account once their account  balance fell below a safety
net amount  of the customers choosing. To be clear, this facility was not a payday loan.
Miss D was initially given  a facility with a £370  credit  limit on 14 September 2016. This was
increased a further  seven  times as detailed  below.
Date of Credit Limit 
IncreaseCredit Limit
21/10/2016 £400
17/03/2017 £470
29/04/2017 £480
20/05/2017 £510
21/06/2017 £530
19/05/2018 £550
16/06/2018 £560
Miss D made her final drawdown on her facility on 27 July 2018 and based  on the 
information SNC provided as of March 2019 an outstanding balance remained.
In SNCs response to Miss Ds complaint  it didnt  believe  it had done anything wrong in
either giving Miss D the facility or any of the credit  limit increases.  So overall, SNC didnt
think it had done  anything wrong.
One of our adjudicators looked  at Miss Ds complaint. He thought the checks SNC carried
out before  granting this facility brought  information  to light that should have reasonably
raised concerns  for SNC about lending to Miss D. He believed  such  information  about
Miss Ds circumstances  suggested that she was struggling to repay  existing creditors  and
her financial  circumstances were  already difficult.  As a result, he didnt think  SNC  should
have granted  the facility to Miss D.
Miss D appears to have  agreed with our adjudicators findings.
Ref: DRN82549432However, SNC didnt  agree and it said it was unsure how wed calculated Miss Ds
expenditure. It stated  that transactions it could see for say holidays, entertainment and fast
food were considered  as disposable expenditure.
SNC also stated that it couldnt see that the number of drawdowns or the way the credit
facility had been used by Miss D was of concern as the facility is meant to be used
incrementally and not as a one-off payday loan. Additionally, it has said that it doesnt
believe Miss D had an unusually large  amount of credit,  in relation to her overdraft  and credit
cards based  on her approximate salary.
As no agreement could be reached  the complaint has been passed  to me for a final
decision.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time the credit  facility was
granted.
And having thought about this, Im intending to partially upholding Miss Ds complaint and
Ive explained  why below.
Relevant regulations in place at the time Miss D was given her Safety Net facility
At the time SNC provided Miss D with her credit facility it was under the regulation of the
Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA).  And the relevant regulatory rules in place were set out
in the Consumer Credit  Sourcebook (CONC)  section of the FCA Handbook of rules and
guidance.
Section 5.2.1(2) of CONC set out what a lender needed to do before agreeing to give a
consumer a loan of this type.  And it says a firm had to consider;
the potential for the commitments under  the regulated credit agreement to adversely impact
the customers financial situation as well as the ability  of the customer  to make  repayments
as they fall due over the life of the regulated credit agreement,  or for such  an agreement
which is an open-end agreement (like Miss Ms Safety Net facility), to make payments within
a reasonable period.
CONC 5.2 also includes guidance on the sorts of things a lender needs  to bear in mind when
considering its obligations  under CONC 5.2.1. Section  5.2.4(2) says;
a firm should consider  what  is appropriate  in any particular circumstances dependent on, for
example, the type and amount of credit  being  sought and the potential  risks to the customer.
The risk of credit not being sustainable directly  relates to the amount of credit  granted and
the total charge for credit relative to the customers financial  situation.
Additionally, CONC 5.3 contains further  guidance on what a lender should bear in mind
when thinking  about affordability. CONC 5.3.1(1) says;
In making  the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R
Ref: DRN82549433(1), a firm should take into account more  than assessing the customers ability  to repay the
credit.
Section 5.3.1(2) of CONC goes  on to say;
The creditworthiness  assessment and the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R
(1) should include the firm taking reasonable steps  to assess  the customers  ability to meet
repayments under a regulated credit  agreement in a sustainable manner  without the
customer incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse consequences.
Ive carefully considered  all of this when thinking  about whether SNC did what it needed to
before agreeing to Miss Ds Safety Net facility. To be clear,  Miss D was given an open-
ended credit facility. Miss D didnt need to repay all of what she borrowed plus the interest
due when she next got paid. Instead, there was an expectation that shed repay what  she
had borrowed plus the interest due within a reasonable period of time. CONC doesnt  set out
what a reasonable  period of time is. So, I do think its important to note that a reasonable
period of time will always be dependent on the circumstances of the individual case.  But at
the start of the credit facility the minimum payment Miss D wouldve been  expected  to make
was around £20 per month.
SNC says that it reviewed  Miss Ds bank transaction data for the 90 days prior to the credit
facility being approved. And having done  so, it was satisfied that Miss D wasnt having
trouble meeting her existing commitments. Therefore, it believed it was likely she would be
able to afford the payments she was committed to making.
SNC also carried out credit checks before the credit facility was provided, and it has
provided us with the results.  In my view, the credit check  results  ought to have been of some
concern to SNC.
At the time of the facility being approved SNC was aware that Miss D was not insolvent.
However, the results  do suggest that Miss D may have been overextended  on her existing
forms of credit. Additionally, SNC wouldve  also been aware  that Miss D had taken out 33
short-term loans within the last four years. While I note that none of these loans were taken
out immediately  before Miss D applied for this credit facility, they do suggest  that Miss D had
a history of taking out multiple short-term loans,  over an extended period of time.
In the three months leading up to the credit facility  application, Miss Ds bank statements
also demonstrate  that each month she had an increased amount of money leaving her
account which left her with even  less disposable income.
SNC has said that Miss D had an average  monthly income of £1,484.48. I think this is fairly
similar to what  Ive seen from the bank statements. SNC has also stated that it believed
Miss D had around £537 in monthly  disposable income at the time of her application.
Because of when  SNC started  to review Miss Ds account it isnt in a position  to provide a full
calendar month of data for June  2016.  In light of this, there may be further expenditures in
the month of June  that werent apparent or accounted for based on the limited  information
SNC had at the time.  Ive considered this and taken it into account.
However, when looking  at the full statement data for July and August 2016, I can account  for
Miss D having a monthly average expenditure between £800 - £900 a month for normal
living costs  (like mobile phone, university payments, petrol, car tax, monthly subscriptions,
Ref: DRN82549434loans and credit card payments). On top of this there are a significant number of transactions
for expenditure on things like food, cash withdrawals and other costs such, restaurants and
bars.
Firstly, I think SNC did carry out proportionate  checks before the facility was approved,  after
all it had carried out a review of Miss Ds bank statements, so it had a fairly clear idea of her
financial position.
Based on the information that SNC had available to it, I dont think it was wrong to have
given Miss D the credit facility in September 2016 based  on her regular monthly
commitments. So I think it is it was reasonable to believe  Miss D could afford to meet at least
the minimum repayment she was committed to making of around £20, in a sustainable
manner.
However, after the facility was approved  SNC needed to review and monitor  how Miss D
used it, as set out in the Consumer Credit  Sourcebook (CONC)  section of the FCA
Handbook of rules and guidance. The relevant  section is CONC 6.7.2, which  says:
A firm must monitor a customers repayment  record and take appropriate  action
where there  are signs of actual or possible repayment difficulties.
SNC has said that it reassessed affordability  on a weekly basis  throughout the life of
Miss Ds credit facility, following the initial assessment. SNC has said that it found Miss Ds
usage of the account was as it expected. It has also said that it wasnt  concerned  by the
amount of other  credit Miss D had available to her, like credit cards and her overdraft.
A loan that is affordable at the outset doesnt  necessarily mean the loan repayments
continued to be sustainable for Miss D. By monitoring the SafetyNet facility  SNC shouldve
be able to more  easily identify when Miss D wasnt able to sustainably make  her
repayments.
In order to see whether  I think  it was fair to allow  Miss D to continue to drawdown, Ive
considered the relationship between when repayments were made to SNC, the value of
those payments and then when Miss D returned  for further borrowing. After all, if Miss D was
drawing down similar sums within  days of SNC  taking a payment from her account this ought
to have indicated  that SNC taking the full payment from Miss Ds account  was causing her to
once again borrow  the funds that SNC had just taken.
Based on the information available to SNC, Im satisfied it wouldve been  aware  Miss D was
having financial difficulties  by 28 March 2017.  By that point, Miss D had had an ongoing
borrowing relationship  with SNC for around  six months and had her credit  limit had been
increased to £470.
By then there was an established pattern in the manner  that Miss D was using the facility.
For the first two months  of having the facility, it appeared that Miss D would repay  the
balance, and then around 9 or 10 days later shed  return  for further borrowing. Over the
course of a week or so, shed make  multiple  drawdowns to take her back  up to her credit
limit. Then when Miss D was paid on her salary,  the full outstanding balance was taken from
her bank account.
After Miss D cleared the balance in full on 25 November 2016, she came back  within  a week
for further  borrowing  and again,  she took a number of drawdowns  back  up to her credit
Ref: DRN82549435limit. And she then made  a partial  repayment on 17 December 2016. But on the same day
she returned and borrowed  the maximum amount she could. Before clearing the balance  in
full on 22 December 2016.
And for January through to March  2017  a similar  pattern remained. At the end of the months
shed repay  in full what she owed before returning  within a week  or so to borrow back  up to
her credit limit. In my view, this pattern was now firmly established by March  2017. It is clear,
and wouldve been clear to SNC that by then Miss D wasnt repaying  the facility  in the
manner that it expected   in that she was repaying the balance in full  rather than over a
period of time. In my view,  Miss D was using the facility as if it was a payday  loan.
To be clear, I am not saying that the facility  was a payday loan, but rather the manner  in
which Miss D was using the facility  was akin to the type of behaviour  that is commonly  seen
when people  are trapped  in a cycle  of short-term lending. Where  they have to borrow  again
soon after making  repayment in order to fill the hole in their finances that was caused  by
making repayment.
Equally, SNC had access to her bank statements  during  this period, and I think  the bank
statements support  the fact Miss D was likely having financial difficulties. It seems around
this time that Miss D changed jobs  but her income  remained broadly similar  at around
£1,400 per month. And looking  at her regular outgoings (loans,  credit  cards,  phone  bill, car
insurance) these continued  to be around £1,000.
So SNC may have  believed, that Miss D had around £400 disposable income each month  
but in reality, Miss D didnt have this much  as the above figure doesnt include food  which
was at least a couple  of hundred each  month.  So, I dont think  SNC  could  believe that 
Miss D could sustainably  repay any borrowing after 28 March  2017. Especially, as Ive 
mentioned above,  as Miss D would likely borrow the full amount of credit  and then repay it 
the following  month when she got paid. By this point Miss Ds credit limit was £470   so with 
the interest that SNC  could  charge  Miss D wasnt able to take on that borrowing.
I think SNC ought to have  realised Miss Ds circumstances hadnt improved since  taking out
the credit  facility and that it was more likely than not Miss D was having to borrow further to
cover the hole repaying her previous drawdowns were leaving in her finances.
In my view, Miss Ds account activity shouldve been  enough  for SNC to have proactively
contacted her to arrange smaller  repayments as permitted by the agreement  and in line with
what it would  take for the facility to be cleared within a reasonable period, rather than
continue taking the full account  balance on a regular basis. After  all, I dont consider it fair,
reasonable and proportionate to on the one hand argue that the facility  was affordable
because it could be repaid within a reasonable period of time when SNC  didnt collect
payments on this basis.
When considering  all of the information  SNC  had available to it about Miss Ds
circumstances along with the payments SNC was collecting each month, I think by 
28 March 2017,  it was clear that the facility  had become unsustainable. So simply  collecting  
the full outstanding balance on the account and then allowing Miss D to once again borrow 
the funds that had been recently collected  was detrimental to her financial situation. 
Additionally, SNC increased her credit  limit on a further five occasions.  This meant that it 
would default  to taking even larger payments from Miss Ds account thus leaving a greater 
hole in her finances.
Ref: DRN82549436Overall, I think SNC shouldve withdrawn the credit facility from 28 March  2017 and shouldnt
have allowed Miss D to continue using it from this date. So I think  Miss D has lost out as a
result of SNCs actions because it continued  to allow her to use the facility when there were
signs that it was no longer  sustainable for her.
My findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
SNC didnt  raise any new points after receiving my provisional decision. Miss D appears to 
have accepted the provisional decision, but she did tell us that she had repaid  the 
outstanding balance on her facility, in full on 5 September 2020. 
As neither SNC or Miss D provided  any new comments or evidence  which  in my view affect  
the outcome,  Ive therefore reached  the same  conclusions I reached in my provisional 
decision. That SNC shouldve prevented Miss D from taking any new drawdowns on the 
facility from 28 March  2017. Ive explained  below what SNC needs  to do to put things  right.  
Putting things  right
Miss D says shes  now repaid her balance in full, so when working out the redress  for Miss D 
SNC will need to confirm this is the case. If so, then it will mean SNC is not able to make any 
deductions from the refund. 
But in case an outstanding balance does remain and to make  sure the redress is calculated  
correctly, If SNC has sold the outstanding debt it should try and buy this back  if it is able to 
do so and then take the following steps. If SNC isnt able to buy the debt back then it should 
liaise with the new debt owner to achieve  the results outlined  below:
A)Remove all unpaid  interest, fees and charges from the account  relating to any 
drawdowns taken  from 28 March 2017.
B)Treat all payments Miss D has made towards  her account since 28 March 2017  as
though they had been repayments towards  the outstanding principal balance.
C)If at any point Miss D would have been  in credit on her account or has repaid enough
to clear the outstanding balance, SNC will need to refund any overpayments with 8%
simple interest* calculated  on these payments, from the date they would have arisen,
to the date the refund is made.
D) If after carrying out the above, an outstanding balance remains than SNC and 
Miss D should try and come to mutually agreeable repayment plan. But Id remind 
SNC obligation to treat Miss D fairly.
E)Remove any adverse  credit file innformation recorded on Miss Ds credit file about 
hte facility from 28 March 2017.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires SNC to deduct  tax from this interest. SNC should  give
Miss D a certificate showing how much tax SNC  deducted, if she asks for one.
Ref: DRN82549437My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above and in my provisional decision, I uphold Miss Ds 
complaint, in part.
Indigo Michael Limited should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 October  2020.
Robert Walker 
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8254943