K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains about Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limiteds response to his request for 
information about his policies. 
In short,  hes unhappy that Aviva failed  to respond in time and provided information  that was 
inaccurate, incomplete, and misleading.   
 
background
One of our investigators  considered the complaint but didnt think  it should be upheld. In 
summary he said:
It wasnt our role to consider whether (or not) Aviva  had failed its obligations under 
the General Data  Protection Regulation  (GDPR).  The Information Commissioners 
Office (ICO) was better suited to consider that complaint.
Mr H wrote letters to Aviva dated  August, September and October 2018. 
Whilst Aviva said it hadnt received Mr Hs August 2018 letter it should have 
responded to his September and October  2018 letters. 
Our service wrote to Aviva in November 2018, and then of its own accord,  it wrote  to 
Mr H apologising for having overlooked his request and the inconvenience caused. 
Aviva  provided Mr H information about  his current  policies, and directed him to 
correspondence dated November 2017,  in respect of his surrendered  policies. 
Although Aviva  provided the information requested to Mr H, it perhaps could have 
done things differently, by providing the actual letter dated November 2017.  
Our role isnt to punish a business when it has made an error. Its for us to put the 
consumer in the position he or she wouldve been in if there was no error. In this 
case Mr H received  the information that he was asking for.  
Mr H disagreed with the investigators conclusions and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
He maintained his position that the response  was inaccurate, incomplete and misleading.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the adjudicators  conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint.  On the face of the evidence,  and on balance, despite  
what Mr H says Im not persuaded that the business has behaved unreasonably.  
If Aviva had received  the first letter dated  August 2018 addressed to its Group CEO  which 
it says it didnt receive  I think it would  have responded  to Mr Hs request sooner. Im 
unable to say that Aviva  received the letter and deliberately ignored it. 
I think the first opportunity  Aviva had to respond  to the request was in September  2018. But 
because of a human  error, it failed to respond to this letter  and a subsequent  letter  dated 
October 2018. Aviva has apologised  to Mr H for this oversight.       
In hindsight, perhaps Aviva could  have done  things differently.  But Im satisfied in the main it 
provided the information sought by Mr H. Im unable  to say that Aviva was wrong, in its 
response dated November 2018,  to only refer to the correspondence dated  November  2017,  
Ref: DRN83705652in relation to policies that have been  surrendered, even though it provided information 
relating to the policy number, policy type, and previous surrender values. Aviva also 
provided the current values of the remaining active policies, including one that had been 
surrendered during that time. So I dont think its actions are unreasonable,  even though Mr H 
remains dissatisfied. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, aside from the apology that Aviva has already 
provided, Im not going to ask it to do any more.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2019.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8370565