K820x#14complaint
Mrs P is complaining about  the way that Wren Kitchens Limited  sold and arranged a fixed  
sum loan agreement she took out to buy a kitchen. 
Mrs P is represented by her husband  Mr P  in this complaint. Mr P has also been  
represented by a solicitor  firm. But for ease of reference I shall refer to any comments that 
Mr P and the solicitor  made as being made  by Mrs P.
background
In July 2018 Mrs P visited a Wren  store to discuss ordering  a new kitchen. Two further 
meetings took place  discussing the kitchen that was to be supplied.  And in September 2018  
Mrs P ordered a new kitchen to be supplied and installed by Wren.  The work to install  the 
kitchen was scheduled to start on 8 October 2018  and paid for by a loan which Wren 
arranged in its capacity  as a credit  broker.  The loan was to run for five years  and was 
interest free. Under the terms  of the loan agreement, the finance provider  who I shall refer 
to as B  wouldnt activate  the agreement and pay Wren for the kitchen until it was 
satisfactorily installed. 
Mrs P is unhappy with the way Wren  arranged  the finance  in particular she says that she 
wasnt given enough  time to review and consider the loan agreement she was entering into. 
And she says that the salesman didnt explain any of the key features of the loan. She says 
that the meeting lasted eight minutes and it was very rushed.
Mrs P says that Wren  didnt ask her to sign the agreement and she says she wasnt given a 
copy of the loan agreement either during the meeting or afterwards. She also said she 
wasnt asked to initial the parts of the contract  in respect  to the fitting  of the kitchen.
After the agreement was entered  into, B emailed a copy of the loan agreements to Mrs P. 
But Mrs P says that it sent the documents to the wrong email  address, so she thinks  another  
person would have received them. And she holds Wren responsible  for this for not recording 
the correct email address.
Mrs P was unhappy with the way the kitchen was fitted. And she said that it took 76 days for 
Wren to satisfactorily install the kitchen and she says they went  51 days without water. She 
also says she was fraudulently enticed  into signing a certificate  of satisfaction by one of 
Wrens fitters  during this time. Following this, B activated the finance  agreement,  which she 
says shouldnt have  happened. She says she was subsequently required to cancel the loan 
agreement due to breaches of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) regulatory rules.
Mrs P says that Wren  didnt respond to her complaint so she referred it to this service.
Our investigator didnt  uphold this complaint. She said that we could only consider Wrens 
actions as a credit broker. She was satisfied that Wrens agent  did take Mrs P through the 
paperwork before  she signed it. She said the loan documentation set out the type of 
agreement Mrs P was entering into as well as its cost and length.  The investigator also said 
Mrs P had signed the loan agreement to say she agreed with all of the terms, and she was 
satisfied from looking at the agreement that Mrs P had signed it in all of the relevant places. 
The investigator said Mrs P had made three  previous  visits to Wren and she was satisfied 
that it was likely Mrs P did want to take out the loan to pay for the kitchen. She also said she 
Ref: DRN85138182hadnt seen anything to show that Mrs P had lost out due to entering into the finance 
agreement as it was interest free.
Mrs P didnt agree with the investigators opinion and asked for an ombudsman to review it. 
In summary  she raised the following points:
She maintains  Wrens agent fraudulently  triggered the loan agreement.
Wren sent the policy documents  to a false email  address and shes concerned  another 
person has received  these documents.
She said no affordability checks were carried out and she wasnt  involved in the 
signatory process. She said she was aware  the loan was interest  free, but she didnt 
realise it was payable over five years.  She said the only information  she was given was 
that she could  repay  the loan without penalty.  She reiterated that she only spent eight 
minutes with the salesman to complete the documentation.
She says Wren said they werent regulated  by the FCA so it said it wasnt  liable for what  
had gone wrong.
The complaints now been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
what I can look at in this complaint
This services role is to look at specific complaints and look to put things right where we feel 
somethings gone wrong. But we dont have the power to look at every complaint that we 
receive.
Mrs P has also complained about  the actions of the finance provider. But this has been 
considered in a separate complaint. So Ive not commented on anything  the finance  provider 
has done in this decision.
Our powers to consider  complaints are set out in the Financial  Services and Markets Act 
2000 (FSMA) and in rules,  known as the Dispute Resolution Rules (DISP) written by the 
FCA in accordance with the powers it derives  from FSMA.  These form part of the FCA 
Handbook.
DISP 2.3.1 sets out what complaints this service  can and cant look at, which are as follows:
regulated activities
payment services
lending money  secured  by a charge on land 
lending money
paying money by a plastic card
providing ancillary banking services  
or any ancillary activities carried on in connection with the activities  listed above.
Wren effectively worked in two capacities in this matter  the supply/installation of the 
kitchen and also as a credit broker to arrange  the finance.  Acting  as a credit broker is listed  
Ref: DRN85138183as a regulated  activity,  but the supply/installation  of a kitchen isnt. So I can only consider 
Wrens actions as a credit  broker in this complaint.
sale of the finance
As the credit broker, it was Wrens  responsibility  to arrange the finance and explain the key 
features of the finance to Mrs P. Ive had consideration for the rules for credit  brokers and 
pre-contract disclosures in CONC. 
Im satisfied that Mrs P chose to pay for the kitchen on finance  and I dont think this is in 
dispute. But she says Wren didnt take the time to go through the finance  with her and she 
said that she only spent  eight minutes with the salesman.
Ive taken Mrs Ps comments into account,  but I havent seen anything  to show Wren  treated 
her unfairly or thats shes lost out as a result  of anything Wren  did. I think the majority  of the 
concerns shes raised are in regards to Bs actions and Wrens actions in relation to the 
supply/fitting of the kitchen. And, as I said above,  Im not considering anything B did in this 
decision.
Mrs P says she only spent eight minutes  with the salesman and that he rushed the sales  
process. But Im satisfied that she understood the finance agreement  she entered into. And I 
dont think the evidence supports her assertions that he only spent eight minutes  with the 
salesman. 
I can see the loan documents were sent to her around 28 minutes  after the meeting was 
scheduled to have started. I understand that these are automatically sent as soon as the 
finance application is submitted. So, it seems to me that Mrs P did spend a fair length  of time 
with the salesman. And, on balance, Im satisfied that the salesman would have explained 
the key features of the finance during that time. Ive also not seen enough for me to say that 
Mrs P didnt understand what she was signing.
Ben, even  if Wren hadnt explained the finance agreement appropriately, Mrs P doesnt 
appear to have lost out as a result  of any poor or lack of explanation so I dont think its fair 
and reasonable to make an award in any event. The loan is interest free, shes told us she 
had enough money to buy the kitchen outright on the day and there  are no financial charges 
or penalties  for her to pay it off early.
I note Mrs P has said that she didnt realise  she was entering  into a five year finance  
agreement as she thought it was payable  over four years. But I think its most likely  that the 
term of the loan would have been discussed  with her as part of the application and the 
length of loan agreed accordingly. I can also see that the finance agreement  she signed 
explained that the loan consisted of 60 monthly payments. So, on balance,  Im satisfied that 
Mrs P was aware of the loan term when she signed  the loan agreement.
Mrs P says she wasnt asked to sign the finance agreement or initial  anywhere and that she 
wasnt given a copy of the finance  agreement.  But I can see that she electronically signed  
the finance agreement.  And Im satisfied that Mrs P would have done  this after Wren asked 
her to do so. There was also no requirement  for her to initial  certain parts  of the agreement. 
Also, I wouldnt have expected Wren  to give her a copy of the finance  agreement as B sent 
these electronically.
Ref: DRN85138184I note Mrs P is concerned  the finance  documents  were emailed to an incorrect  email  
address. The documents were sent by B to the email address Wren provided  as Mrs Ps 
contact address. I understand that the application was completed through  an electronic 
portal where  Wren would input the information  for Mrs P. So Wren would have inputted the 
email address it was given by Mrs P.
Theres no dispute that the documents  were sent to a wrong email address. I accept its 
possible Wren may have  not put down  the email address as given by Mrs P, but Im also 
conscious she was using her husbands work  email  address as the contact address. So I 
think its equally possible Mrs P gave Wren the wrong address. Ultimately, I dont think Ive 
seen enough to say that this was down to anything Wren did wrong. But, even if thats not 
the case, I havent seen anything to show that Mrs P has lost out as a result of this.
activation of the finance  agreement
Mrs P says that she was asked to sign the completion satisfaction certificate  under  false  
pretences. And she says that Wren  fraudulently triggered the loan agreement. As I said 
above, Im unable to comment  on the actions of Wrens fitters as that relates to the supply 
and fitting of the kitchen. Mrs P was signing to say whether she considered the kitchen to be 
fitted to a satisfactory standard  or not  i.e. it wasnt  part of the finance  application.  So I dont 
think Wren was acting as a credit broker in asking her to sign this certificate. 
Wren subsequently  sent a copy of the completion  certificate to B in its role as Bs agent. But 
I cant hold it liable  for B activating the finance based on this certificate as it was Bs decision 
to do so.
customer service
I havent seen  anything to show that Wren  treated Mrs P unfairly in carrying out its credit 
broking activities. I note shes said that one of Wrens managers said that it wasnt regulated  
by the FCA. I understand a copy of this call recording isnt available any longer. So I dont 
know for certain what was said in this call and under what context Wren said it wasnt  
regulated. But, as I said above,  the supplying and fitting of the kitchen was unregulated.  And 
this was the main  activity  Wren was doing which is what I think  Wren might have been 
referring to. So, while  Wren was regulated  for credit broking, Im not persuaded that it acted 
unreasonably in this respect. I also havent  seen  anything  to show  that Mrs P has lost out as 
a result of this. 
summary
Ultimately, while I acknowledge that Mrs P feels strongly about whats  happened, I dont 
think Ive seen enough to show that Wren  acted  unfairly in the way it carried out its credit 
broking activities. And were unable to consider her complaint about the way it supplied  and 
fitted her kitchen.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 June 2020.
Ref: DRN85138185Guy Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8513818