K820x#14complaint
Mrs C is unhappy with the way Victor Millwell Insurance Agency Ltd (trading  as Comfort 
Insurance) has dealt  with her and the renewal of her motor home insurance. 
background
Mrs C is unhappy with the way Comfort, her broker, has dealt with her. She says it made 
errors when  renewing  her motor home insurance in July 2018 and later in February  2019  it 
told her insurer required  an expensive tracker  to be fitted to her motor home. Shes unhappy 
with the way a call handler dealt with her and says she was refused insurance with another 
insurer because of her husbands  age. Thats discriminatory. 
Comfort said in its final response that it had dealt with the renewal  of Mrs Cs policy in 2018  
and had subsequently contacted her to advise that the insurer had decided that the policy  
required her motor home to be fitted with a tracker  device. It accepted that mistakes  had 
been made when  the policy was renewed  in July 2018 but it had been  able to renew it with 
the insurer without  the need for a tracker. Itd called her in February 2019 - well before the 
next renewal in July 2019 - to ensure she had plenty  of time to arrange for a tracker to be 
fitted or to look for alternate insurance.  Its call handler hadnt been  aggressive or dictatorial 
as suggested  and had explained  that an alternative insurer  wouldnt be able to offer cover 
due to Mrs Cs husbands age. Thats a condition of the cover set by that insurer.  But there 
are other insurance providers on the market who Comfort doesnt deal with who may be able 
to provide cover. It hadnt refused to give cover;  its just that Mrs C and her husband  dont 
meet that insurers underwriting  criteria.
Our investigator felt that this complaint shouldnt be upheld. He said in summary:
Hed listened to Comforts call with Mrs C on 21 February 2019  and didnt  think the 
handler was aggressive or dictatorial. She merely relayed the criteria set out by the 
current insurer and an alternate insurer so that nothing would come as a surprise  to 
Mrs C when the renewal came up in July 2019.
Mrs C was told if she wanted  to renew  with her current  insurer  shed need to fit a 
tracker to her motor home. She didnt  want to do this and Comfort  told her it wouldnt 
be able to arrange cover with an alternative  insurer it dealt with because  of her 
husbands age. Mrs C accepted  shed have  to find alternative cover elsewhere. 
Mrs C was told her current  insurer had no age limits, unlike the alternative insurer,  
but it would  require a tracker to be fitted. Comfort was relying  on the criteria set down 
by its partner insurers and it hasnt discriminated against Mrs Cs husband as it 
doesnt underwrite the policies. Mrs C hasnt been  refused cover.  And Comfort 
wouldnt be expected  to tell her of any other  insurers who might offer cover as it 
didnt deal with them.
Mrs C has provided other instances  where she says Comfort didnt provide a good 
service. But these  must be referred to Comfort in the first instance and they cant be 
dealt with in this complaint.
Mrs C remains  unhappy and has asked  for an ombudsman review.  Shes  repeated what 
shes said previously and still considers she has been refused cover  as she didnt have a 
tracker fitted and on the grounds of her husbands age. 
Ref: DRN80329832my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators conclusions for the same reasons.
Although Comfort made errors in arranging the 2018  renewal the insurer agreed to provide 
cover even though  Mrs C didnt have a tracker on her motor home. 
It was then reasonable for Comfort to tell Mrs C that when the policy next renewed in July 
2019 her current insurer  would require a tracker  to be fitted. It did so in a call in February 
2019. I think the call handler provided the information about this in a fair way and also 
mentioned that if no tracker was fitted  another insurer Comfort  dealt with wouldnt give cover  
as Mrs Cs husbands age fell outside  its underwriting criteria. I think  this call was dealt  with 
appropriately and I dont agree that the call handler  was aggressive or dictatorial as Mrs C 
has suggested.
This information was provided to let Mrs C know what  might  happen on renewal and wasnt 
a refusal of insurance  cover.  It simply made  her aware of the two insurers  underwriting  
criteria and effectively warned her she would have  to seek cover from an alternative  insurer  
in July 2019 if she didnt comply with either  of those two insurers underwriting criteria.  I think 
this was an entirely reasonable approach for Comfort to take.
Comfort provided information to Mrs C from the two insurers  it partnered  with and apart from 
making the general statement  that other insurers in the market may be able to provide her 
with cover,  I dont think Comfort had any obligation to find Mrs C another  insurer  to provide a 
quote or cover for her.
I dont think there has been a refusal of cover  or any age discrimination by Comfort as Mrs C 
suggests.
Finally, and as the investigator has said, if Mrs C has any new issues  she wants to complain 
about she must contact  Comfort about  them in the first instance. I cannot deal with them  in 
this complaint.
Overall, although I recognise  Mrs Cs strength of feeling and frustration,  I dont see any 
compelling reason  to change the proposed outcome in this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 August 2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN8032983