K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain  that Elderbridge Limited hasnt treated them fairly when theyre been 
in financial difficulties repaying a second charge  over their property. They  want matters put 
right and for Mrs K not to be liable  for the debt if anything happens to Mr K.
background
Mr and Mrs K had a second charge over their property with Elderbridge  taken out in 2008.  
Mr K was made  redundant in 2015.  The property was sold and Elderbridge  wasnt  paid in 
full; it was still owed  £69,000 (the shortfall  debt). Mr and Mrs K werent  happy  that 
Elderbridge had accepted  a repayment plan of £1 a month to clear the shortfall debt as there 
was no long term plan to repay. They  wanted  to avoid going bankrupt. 
Mr K was also unhappy that Mrs K had been added as a borrower to the loan  he said that 
hed been forced to do this and he didnt want her to be liable for the debt if something 
happened to him. Mr K said sending letters to him and Mrs K separately  was unfair, was 
concerned about  the contacts made by Elderbridge and the information on his credit file.
Mr and Mrs K complained to Elderbridge. It said that the complaint about the inclusion of
Mrs K under the second  charge had been made  too late as more  than six years had
passed, but said that it had nothing to do with that event. Elderbridge confirmed that
Mrs K was jointly and severally  liable  for the loan as she signed the credit agreement. It
said that repayment plans had to be affordable  and would  be reviewed to ensure this
remained the case.
Mr and Mrs K complained to us. The investigators  view was that the complaint  about the 
inclusion of Mrs K under the second  charge couldnt  be considered by this service as there 
were no exceptional  circumstances  that prevented the complaint being brought  in time. I 
later issued a final decision confirming this position  and this issue  is no longer part of this 
complaint.
The investigator explained that when  Mrs K was included in the agreement, she became 
liable for the whole debt and this was set out within the document  she signed. He didnt think 
that it was unfair for Elderbridge to hold Mrs K to the terms of the agreement,  but noted it 
should work with her about a repayment plan. This meant that if Mr K died, Mrs K still would 
be responsible  for the debt, but her circumstances at the time would be considered  by 
Elderbridge. 
The investigator also said that the shortfall debt was owed by Mr and Mrs K and no interest 
was being charged. £1 a month was affordable for Mr and Mrs K in his view and the plan 
would be reviewed every year. He didnt think Elderbridge had to do more  or comment on 
the advice Mr and Mrs K had received from third parties. While Elderbridge wasnt  willing to 
write off the debt,  the investigator noted  that it wasnt required to do so and wasnt  requiring 
Mr and Mrs K to declare  themselves bankrupt. 
The investigator commented that sending  letters to joint borrowers  separately  wasnt  unfair 
as both were liable for the debt and there  would be minimum contact in the future as a 
repayment plan was agreed (if payments continued  to be made).  He pointed  out that credit 
records dealt with individuals, not specific addresses, and said it wasnt  unreasonable for the 
failure to pay a secured loan to be recorded, even though after the sale of the property, the 
debt was now unsecured as the debt was secured  when Mr and Mrs K got into arrears.
Ref: DRN80609812Mr and Mrs K disagreed. They said that they were disgusted and wed taken  too long. Mr K 
also said that hed recently received texts from Elderbridge  about  the debt. The investigator 
didnt change his view and said that there was no evidence Elderbridge had been  involved 
with the taking out of the second charge in relation to Mrs Ks inclusion or its timing. He 
confirmed that he had asked Elderbridge to stop the texts but it said that it hadnt sent one 
since November 2019 (and had checked  that its systems  wouldnt send any). The 
investigator asked for evidence of the texts  Mr K had said hed recently received. Mr K asked 
for an ombudsmans  view and said that it wasnt for him to prove  his complaint and he was 
withholding evidence.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I am aware that Mr and Mrs K have a 
number of complaints  with this service, but Im only dealing with the complaints arising after 
the property was sold  Mrs Ks liability for the whole debt, the repayment plan for
the shortfall debt,  Elderbridges refusal  to write off the debt to allow  Mr and Mrs K to
avoid bankruptcy,  the information  within the credit records and the letters sent by
Elderbridge.
Mrs K did sign the second charge, and its fair and reasonable to expect consumers to read 
important documents  that they sign. The document did make it clear that by signing Mrs K 
would be jointly and severally liable for the debt with Mr K. This means  that Elderbridge is 
able to ask either to pay the debt in full, regardless of whether one or both die. I cant say 
that this is unfair or unreasonable, particularly as theres  no evidence before me that 
Elderbridge forced Mrs K to sign or controlled  the timing  there was a broker  involved, but 
Elderbridge isnt responsible for the actions of the broker.
Lenders are required to treat those in financial difficulties fairly, and those facing a shortfall 
debt are likely to be in financial difficulties. I can see though from the evidence available that 
Elderbridge has frozen  interest and considered Mr and Mrs Ks financial circumstances. £1 a 
month is affordable  and serves a valuable purpose  in ensuring that the debt remains  
enforceable if Mr and Mrs Ks financial position  improves in the future. This service  would 
expect Elderbridge to review the position in the future and understand Mr and Mrs Ks 
financial circumstances, but we wouldnt expect a lender  to write off a debt to which  its 
legally entitled  so a consumer wouldnt decide to declare themselves bankrupt.
I dont think that its unfair or unreasonable for a lender to send letters separately or jointly to 
borrowers in Mr and Mrs Ks position.  Lenders do need to stay in contact to stay up to date 
about the current financial position and to keep borrowers informed about their debts. Mr K 
has complained  about texts  he has received but the evidence available to me doesnt 
support his position. It is for complainants to supply  evidence to support their complaint and I 
havent seen any inappropriate  texts from Elderbridge, and none  since November 2019 
(which was a payment  link). I note that Elderbridge has checked that its systems arent 
sending inappropriate  texts and this is fair and reasonable.
I also dont see anything  wrong in noting  addresses in credit  records  and there should be no 
effect on the future occupants of those address if unconnected to Mr and Mrs K. Lenders are 
required to accurately report credit issues to the credit reference  agencies and Elderbridge  
was correct to state that Mr and Mrs K failed to pay a secured loan in full  the loan was 
secured when Mr and Mrs K got into arrears.
Ref: DRN80609813my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to accept or reject my 
decision before  8 May 2020.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8060981