K820x#14complaint
Mrs G has complained that Scottish Equitable  Plc, trading as Aegon  (Scottish Equitable), 
declined her claim under a mortgage  protection policy  for total and permanent  disability. 
background
Mrs G worked  for the police and was diagnosed with dilated cardiomyopathy in 2013.  Before 
diagnosis, shed been working  in a non-operational  role and stayed doing this until 2017. 
In the time since her diagnosis, Mrs G was referred to the occupational  health  (OH)  
department and assessed by the forces  medical advisor. By 2017, Mrs G says her health  
had declined  and this was noticed by her manager. So she discussed  this with Dr S, Mrs Gs 
consultant cardiologist,  who in turn spoke  to Dr W, also Mrs Gs consultant cardiologist. In 
March 2017, Dr S then wrote to Mrs G to confirm,
We also discussed your job, and he would happily support medical retirement  for 
you if this is what you would like to pursue.
The police OH doctor made a referral to its selected medical practitioner (SMP) in April 2017  
and asked the SMP whether medical  retirement should be considered. In the referral, it 
confirmed that Mrs G works 30 hours a week over 4 days and that she was medically 
incapable of increasing those hours but also financially unable  to decrease those hours. 
In July 2017, Dr W sent a report for the SMPs consideration. In the report, Dr W explained 
about Mrs Gs condition  and went on to say,
Stress related issues do seem to be playing an important part in her 
symptomatology. Most  people in this situation can undertake normal working duties  
from the cardiac standpoint. We would advise avoidance of strenuous  exertion but 
most light to moderate duties would seem reasonable.  Stress  related issues are a 
separate discussion, which you would  need to consider  independently.
Following an assessment by the SMP in August 2017, the SMP concluded that on the 
balance of probabilities, her dilated cardio  myopathy  is likely to meet the criteria for 
permanent disablement as defined by the Police  Pension Regulations. And Mrs G was 
medically retired in October  2017as  a result.
However, the SMP report  also confirmed that there are a number of things Mrs G was able 
to do including  walk for a mile or 30 minutes  on flat surfaces, reach, kneel, drive, use IT 
equipment and phones and noted that her memory  and concentration are good.  It also said,
At present things  appear  to be stable and in her current situation, she can undertake  
the normal duties  from the cardiac  standpoint.  However the advice is to avoid 
strenuous exertion but light to moderate  duties would seem  reasonable.

Stress symptoms are felt to be playing a large  part in her overall  presentation and the 
advice is for her to avoid  strenuous exertion and limit herself to light and moderate  
duties.
It also suggested that accommodation on part-time, sedentary office based duties could 
remedy or reduce  the impact of Mrs Gs condition  on her work. 
Ref: DRN89270962The pro forma part of the report asked the SMP to confirm if Mrs G satisfied  HMRCs severe 
ill health condition  (SIHC) test set out below. Parts  of the confirmation  statement were 
completed by the SMP. 
As a result of her ill health or infirmity, the officer is unable to continue  in her current 
job and is unlikely to be capable of taking on any other paid work  in any capacity,  
otherwise than to an insignificant  extent  before 'State Pension  Age
Insignificant extent means, for example,  that the person could undertake  voluntary 
work or unpaid word  where out of pocket expenses  are reimbursed  or small amounts 
of travelling or subsistence payments are made.  Any paid work  should be 
insignificant, for example  it should be infrequent or only for a few days  during the 
year and the payment must be small in amount, not just as a proportion of the pay or 
salary they are earning in their current job.
Mrs G made  a claim under  her mortgage  protection policy.  But it was turned down because  
Scottish Equitable  said she didnt  meet  the policy definition of incapacity. The relevant 
requirement for a successful claim to be made under the policy is set out below.
This benefit will be payable if [Mrs G] is permanently and irreversibly disabled  and 
unable to carry out any occupation*. There must also be no reasonable likelihood  of 
there ever being any improvement sufficient to enable  a return  to any occupation* of 
any kind at all, despite optimal medical  treatment, including rehabilitation, because of 
a total and permanent disability lasting  for a continuous period of six months (which 
is the 'survival period' for this benefit).
Any Occupation The Life Assured must be Permanently and Irreversibly disabled  
from carrying out any occupation and there must  be no reasonable prospect of there  
ever being  any improvement sufficient to enable a return to any occupation  of any 
kind at all despite optimal appropriate medical  and rehabilitation  intervention. This 
disability must have already existed for a continuous  period of six months.
Scottish Equitable  says this definition is based  on Mrs Gs lack of ability  to work  in any 
capacity, totally and permanently throughout life with no prospect of improvement. And it 
thought, based on the medical reports provided,  that Mrs G would be in a position to 
undertake alternative  work for which she is qualified including office based legal, security 
and advisory work. It accepted that its decision differs from how the police have viewed it but 
explained it assesses  claims  in line with the policy terms and this doesnt  look at work life 
balance.
Scottish Equitable  also referred to the fact that Dr S confirmed  there  was no evidence  of 
deterioration in Mrs Gs condition when last reviewed in October  2017.  Dr S had said 
Symptomatically there appears to be no change and examination was unremarkable.  
Unhappy with the outcome, Mrs G brought a complaint to this service. She set out a detailed  
background and confirmed  that the SMP  had said she satisfied HMRCs SIHC test. She also 
said the work the SMP  had said she could  do mirrors that which she was doing  in the police 
and yet she was medically retired from that role. So she doesnt  see how she could work in 
other roles, as suggested. She also feels the marketing  statement at the end of the email 
from Scottish Equitable  in response to her complaint contradicts the position  it has taken in 
her claim. This is because the statement refers to family being the top priority for women and 
Ref: DRN89270963the importance of having  protection plans in place in case  something happens. Mrs G says 
she has put a financial protection  plan in place and yet Scottish Equitable  wont take into 
account her work life balance when assessing  her claim. 
Our investigator looked into matters but she thought Scottish Equitable had declined Mrs Gs 
claim in line with the terms and conditions of her policy and evidence  available to it. So she 
didnt uphold  Mrs Gs complaint.
As well as being unhappy with the decline of her claim itself, Mrs G says she was advised to 
make a claim under the total and permanent disability cover  rather than critical illness. She 
asks if this was appropriate as shes had her claim for critical illness accepted  elsewhere.  
Our investigator also looked into this concern. She listened to the call when Mrs G initially 
rang to make a claim and noted that the claims assessor went  through  basic details with her 
and indicated itd be highly unlikely that shed meet the definitions of cardiomyopathy  in the 
policy conditions for a critical illness claim. She didnt feel Mrs G was advised  not to pursue 
this but thought the claims assessor was managing her expectations about the likelihood of 
success to try to avoid unreasonable disappointment in going through  a claim.
Our investigator went onto explain that another insurer paying her claim wouldnt impact the 
decision of Scottish Equitable to decline her claim or how we look at the complaint. This is 
because we consider each  case on its own merits and each insurer  will have different policy 
conditions which need to be met before a claim will be paid. 
Mrs G didnt agree and raised a number of issues in response. She says Dr S and Dr W 
have the greatest knowledge of her medical conditions and both advise its inappropriate for 
her to find any employment. She feels were saying she should go against their advice.  
Mrs G also explains  that doing the things listed by the SMP  in a work  place  was detrimental 
to her home life. She wasnt able to function  with day to day living and was having to sleep 
when getting home  from work due to the impact working had on her body and health. She 
says she wasnt able to function as a mother adequately or experience  any normal home life.
In June 2018, Mrs G arranged for Dr S to write  a letter about her ability  to work. Dr S said,
due to recent deterioration in her health  previous  letters  have been  done by [Dr W] 
to [the police] supporting the retirement from the Constabulary on medical grounds. 
She has been medically retired  as permanently disabled from any occupation 
whether this is with the Constabulary or at any other  job. It would be inappropriate for 
her to find employment at this stage in her cardiac  condition with her current  
symptoms hence  the supporting document from [Dr W] to [the police] stating that she 
should be medically retired as permanently disabled  and I am in agreement 
completely with this. Other potential occupations  with [the police] were considered 
but it was felt that any occupation or job would be inappropriate  hence the medical  
retirement. 
Our investigator confirmed that she isnt suggesting  Mrs G should  seek employment. 
Instead, shes considered whether Scottish Equitable declined Mrs Gs claim in line with the 
terms and conditions of her policy and evidence presented.  She also sent Dr S recent letter 
to Scottish  Equitable  but it explained that it didnt feel the letter is new information.
Ref: DRN89270964The matter  was then passed to me for a decision. It was then noted that the SMP had failed 
to delete the appropriate  wording to confirm whether Mrs G does/does not satisfy HMRCs 
SIHC test. So our service  got in touch  with the SMP to clarify  this and she confirmed that her 
assessment of whether Mrs G satisfied the SIHC  test was that she does not satisfy this test.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where theres a dispute about  what 
happened, Ive based my decision on what I thinks more likely to have happened  in light of 
the evidence.
Although a number  of issues  have been raised,  this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
Having done this, I have to tell Mrs G that I dont uphold her complaint against Scottish 
Equitable. I think the investigator has reached the right outcome here and has explained 
matters clearly so theres little I feel I can usefully add to what has already been  said.  I would 
just make the following points.
I appreciate Mrs G has said it was difficult to maintain her personal life. And I havent 
disregarded Mrs Gs comment about Scottish Equitables  marketing statement. But my role 
here is to look at whether Scottish  Equitable  has applied the policy terms fairly. Having done 
so, I think it acted reasonably in declining Mrs Gs claim. Ill explain why. 
I understand what Mrs G has said about  the decision to retire her on medical  grounds  not 
being made lightly by the police. And I have no doubt this is true. Having read the SMPs 
report and enclosures  referred to in it, its clear the decision was made  following a detailed 
consultation and taking into account  the opinions of Mrs Gs treating  consultants,  medical 
records and OH records. I also accept Mrs Gs comment that she wasnt physically fit 
enough to carry  out the duties of a police officer. Her medical notes  all support this and I can 
see shed been  in a non-operational role for the police even before her diagnosis. 
However, having said all of the above, what is important here is that the purpose of this 
policy is to cover Mrs G if she found  herself  in a position where, due to total and permanent 
disablement, she is unable to perform  any job. 
The reason  why Mrs G couldnt continue working in a desk  based  role at the police service is 
because of the impact  it was having  on her personal  life. I can also see that the medical 
notes suggest  that stress is a contributing factor in this matter  exacerbating her symptoms. 
So I think Scottish Equitable acted  reasonably  in deciding  that this wasnt  because  Mrs G 
had reached a point in her health  where she was no longer able to continue performing in 
her role in the police or in another  desk based  role. 
So whilst I think the medical  evidence supports her medical retirement from the police 
service, I dont  agree theres enough to say that she wasnt able to perform any job. 
The medical records, including those made  by Dr S and Dr W, as well as the SMPs report 
demonstrate that Mrs G was able to perform a number of functions appropriate to a desk  
based role, involving light to moderate duties.  This cant  be ignored. Nor do I think  its 
overcome by the polices decision to medically retire her. In fact, the SMPs  report   upon  
Ref: DRN89270965which the police based their decision to retire Mrs G  confirms that Mrs G doesnt  satisfy  
the SIHC  test. So the SMP didnt agree, at the time of assessment, that Mrs G was unlikely 
to be capable of taking on any other  paid work  in any capacity, otherwise than to an 
insignificant extent before State Pension  Age.
I also think its important to recognise  that Mrs G was working 30 hours over 4 days  each 
week for the police. The OH notes suggest she wasnt able to reduce her hours  due to 
financial constraints. Whilst I understand this might have been a factor, I think there was 
scope for the hours to be reduced  and/or spread  over additional days in a desk  based role  
with the police or not - to lessen the impact of Mrs Gs condition on her home life.
I know this isnt what Mrs G wants to hear and I want to assure  her Ive carefully considered  
this matter. But, having done so, Im satisfied that Scottish Equitable declined Mrs Gs claim 
in accordance with the terms of the policy.
Finally, while  seeking  the SMPs confirmation  about  this statement, Mrs G has said that the 
SMP wasnt commenting on anything other than her role in the police. And has said shes  
unhappy that Scottish Equitable didnt  ask for information  from her treating consultant 
cardiologists, Dr S and Dr W, although  it asked  her to sign release  forms to obtain it. I think 
its important to note that the SMP  didnt  decline to complete the statement about whether 
Mrs G met the SIHC test. She completed the statement to confirm  that Mrs G doesnt meet 
that test (at the point the report was completed  in August 2017). I also dont agree that 
Scottish Equitable  needed to ask for further  information from Mrs Gs consultants.  Mrs G has 
made a claim on this policy and its for her to prove  she satisfies the conditions in the policy.  
Based on the evidence  Scottish Equitable has seen  which  includes Mrs Gs OH records, 
SMPs report  and medical records  with letters from both Dr S and Dr W  it doesnt feel 
she meets  the relevant conditions in the policy. And I dont think itd be reasonable to 
suggest that it didnt have  enough evidence to make  this decision. Even so, Scottish 
Equitable has confirmed itd consider a claim from Mrs G if new information was provided to 
show any change or deterioration  in Mrs Gs health.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is I dont uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 May 2019.
Rebecca Ellis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8927096