K821x#15complaint
Mrs C complains about Tesco Personal  Finance PLCs refusal to give her the refund she has 
requested.
background
In July 2017 Mrs Cs daughter  with Mrs Cs permission used her mothers credit card 
supplied by Tesco PF to book an appointment with a government body. Mrs Cs daughter  
thought she had booked this appointment directly  with the government  body, she had not. 
Rather, unknown to her, she had actually booked  the appointment via a third party  who I 
shall call P. 
After receiving Mrs Cs payment P booked the appointment with the government  body on 
Mrs Cs behalf. It appears that Ps website whether through design  or chance, at first glance  
at least, could have been mistaken for the government agencys website. This is because 
both P and the government agency  had very similar  names and due to the services P 
offered. There was no need  for Mrs C to have used  P the appointment could  just have been 
booked directly with the government  body.  Without realising who she was agreeing to pay, 
Mrs C paid P £153 to book the appointment. 
However, later on Mrs C decided to cancel the appointment. She contacted the government 
body for a refund. After  some to and fro the government body explained  what had happened. 
It charges £128 for the type of appointment that Mrs C had wanted. It had refunded  the £128 
to P as that is where  the payment to it had come  from. It also explained that P charges £25 
as an administrative charge to book the appointment, which  is why Mrs C had ended  up 
paying £153 for an appointment that costs £128.
Mrs C could not get a refund from P. When she contacted it, she got no response.  
Therefore, because she had paid by credit card Mrs C asked Tesco PF for a refund.
Tesco PF looked at two routes for getting  Mrs Cs money back. 
First Tesco  PF looked to see if it could  carry out a chargeback. Chargeback  is a process 
which allows  customers to ask for a transaction to be reversed if there is a problem with 
goods or services  that they have paid for. The finance company has to raise the chargeback 
on behalf of its customer.  A customer though has no automatic right to require a financial 
business to raise a chargeback. Nonetheless  Tesco  PF was willing  to do this. The rules for 
chargebacks are not set by Tesco PF, but by an international  organisation which  facilitates 
payments between different banks in the same and different countries. But under  these  
chargeback rules Mrs C had left it too late to ask Tesco  PF to help her. As a result,  it was out 
of time to raise the chargeback on her behalf.  Tesco PF has no leeway to alter these rules.
Next, Tesco  PF thought about whether it could raise a claim under  section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974  (section75). The general effect of section 75 is that if a 
consumer has a claim for misrepresentation or breach of contract  against the supplier he 
can also bring that claim against  the finance  provider  who financed  the contract with the 
supplier provided certain conditions are met. However, when Tesco PF got down  to the
nitty-gritty of the complaint it decided it couldnt use this provision to help Mrs C. It said this 
for two reasons, it had not seen the terms of the contract between Mrs C and P on that basis 
it did not know if there had been  a misrepresentation or a breach of contract it just could not 
Ref: DRN86420372tell. Further, it pointed  out from its perspective  the supplier here was actually the government 
agency. It, the government agency,  was going  to have  an appointment with Mrs C. But 
Mrs C had not paid the government agency,  shed paid P. This is a difficulty  for Mrs C it 
thought because for section 75 to come into play there needs to be a particular  type of 
relationship in place between Mrs C, Tesco PF and the supplier. This relationship is known 
as a debtor-creditor-supplier relationship. However,  it seemed to Tesco  PF there was no 
relevant debtor-creditor-supplier relationship here, because of the payment to P.
Dissatisfied with this response Mrs C came to our service.
One of our investigators  looked into Mrs Cs complaint. He recommended  that Mrs Cs 
complaint should  be upheld  in part. He made  this recommendation because he concluded  
that section 75 was relevant law in relation to this complaint. He had to take account  of 
relevant law when  deciding what was fair and reasonable. Our investigator considered that 
there was a valid debtor-creditor-supplier  arrangement in place between  Mrs C, Tesco PF 
and P. This was because Mrs C had contracted with P to make an appointment for her with 
the government  agency. Moreover, she had paid P directly for this service.  So, it was indeed 
the supplier for the purposes  of the debtor-creditor-supplier relationship needed under 
section 75.
Further, our investigator thought that the terms and conditions that had been on Ps website 
in July 2017 had been incorporated into the contract. The terms and conditions indicated that 
if the government  agency gave a refund, it P would in turn, give a refund to its customer. But 
although the government agency has refunded  Mrs Cs money to P, P had not passed on 
this refund to Mrs C. Our investigator thought this was a breach of contract. On that basis he 
thought it was fair and reasonable to recommend that Tesco PF refund £128 to Mrs C, to put 
this right.
That said,  our investigator  also thought  that the terms and conditions  made  it clear  that P 
was able to keep its administration charge even in these circumstances. Moreover, P had 
carried out the service  it was paid for, that is to book the appointment. For all of these 
reasons our investigator  did not recommend that Tesco PF had to refund  the £25.
It appeared that Mrs C accepted this recommendation. However, she did suggest the 
government body was at fault too as she thought it should have refunded the £128  to her 
and cut out the middleman, P. She indicated this would have been the right approach  as her 
stance is that P had acted in bad faith.
Tesco PF rejected our investigators recommendation. In short,  in didnt agree that the 
contract could be construed in the way our investigator read it. Accordingly,  Tesco  PF asked 
that an ombudsman  review Mrs Cs complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail  than the parties 
and Ive done so using  my own words. Im not going  to respond to every  single  point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Ref: DRN86420373Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal  nature  of our service  as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres  something Ive not mentioned,  it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every  individual  argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
Mrs C has expressed  dissatisfaction with the actions of the government agency.  It is not a 
party to this complaint.  I have no power  to make  any findings about it or tell it to do anything.  
So, whilst I appreciate Mrs C holds it to blame for some extent, I am going  to make no 
further comment on this point as it will get us nowhere.
Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider  is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Both parties  agree that Mrs C paid P £153, that the third party agency  refunded  £128  of that 
£153 to P and that P did not pass that refund on to Mrs C. Mrs Cs position  is that she is 
entitled to that refund, Tesco PF says she categorically is not. So, Ive thought  about  is there  
any reason why Tesco ought to fairly  and reasonably give Mrs C her money back since  P 
has declined  to do so.
When I think about what is fair and reasonable I take account of relevant law. I think section 
75 is relevant law here as it covers  contracts paid for by credit  cards such  as this one.
I think its important to set out my role here. In considering a complaint about a financial 
services provider, Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party  might  have under 
section 75. Rather,  in deciding whats a fair way to resolve Mrs Cs complaint, I have to take 
account of relevant law, amongst other  things.  Section 75 is relevant law, as I have already 
said. Therefore, Ive taken  it into account.  But that doesnt mean Im obliged to reach the 
same outcome as, for example, a court might reach if Mrs C pursued a claim for 
misrepresentation or breach of contract. Our service is an informal alternative to the courts.
Section 75 says, amongst other things, that in certain circumstances if the debtor has, in 
relation to a transaction  financed by a credit  agreement, any claim against the supplier in 
respect of a misrepresentation or a breach of contract, then she has a like claim against the 
credit provider.
One of the prerequisites for raising a claim under section 75 is that there  needs  to be a valid 
debtor-creditor-supplier relationship. Earlier in this complaint Tesco PFs stance was there 
was no such relationship here. It appears now though that Tesco  PF has accepted  there is a 
valid debtor-creditor-supplier relationship. However, just in case I am mistaken,  and Tesco 
PF is still arguing this point, Ill deal with it. The end supplier was the government  agency 
thats what Tesco PF is or at least was previously relying on, but I think that is not the point. 
Using finance provided by Tesco PF, Mrs C paid P to provide a service,  i.e. to book the 
appointment. That being so I think the parties have the type of debtor-creditor-supplier 
relationship which gives Mrs C the protection of section 75. It makes  no difference that 
ultimately it was the government agency  not P that was going to have the appointment with 
Mrs C. It follows  that I think  I can move  on to looking at misrepresentation and breach of 
contract.
I realise that Mrs C seems to have very strong feelings about the behaviour  of P. However, I 
can make  no findings  against P, again  this is because I have no jurisdiction to cover Ps 
behaviour. That said, I can look at whether it misrepresented  itself thereby making Mrs C 
Ref: DRN86420374enter into the contract with it. Some businesses do deliberately set out to pass  themselves 
off as government  agencies in order to benefit financially from the confusion they cause, I 
have no doubt  that Mrs C did think she was dealing first hand with the government agency, 
but why did she think this? Ive taken a look at the Ps website  and in particular its homepage 
as at July 2017.  Ive focused on the homepage as this is the page that Mrs Cs daughter was 
most likely to have seen. I do find it suggestive that P chose to use a name which  is very 
similar to the name  of the government agency.  However, on the homepage albeit at the very 
bottom of it, P did say:
We are not affiliated  with [name of government agency] from which similar information is 
available at gov.uk.  We are an independent service provider 
That information about who P was, was on the homepage it was not hidden away  in small 
print on some other  page  on the website which Mrs Cs daughter might not have reasonably 
been expected to scroll to. Its a fine line, but, on balance,  given that P did disclose its status, 
fairly prominently that is on its homepage, I dont think it is fair or reasonable to find that it 
misrepresented itself. It follows I dont agree that Tesco PF must put things  right because P 
misrepresented itself.
Next I looked  at breach of contract. We dont  have a copy  of the contract between Mrs C and 
P. But we do have a copy  of the terms and conditions which  were  on the website at the 
relevant time. I am satisfied that these were incorporated into the contract. 
In summary  the terms and conditions say no refunds will be given after receiving an 
appointment reference. But the clause goes on to say this is only because  the government 
agency does not refund booking fees after this point therefore we are unable to return this 
fee. The clear implication  of this, I find, is that if the government  agency does give a refund, 
as it did here, then the booking fee will be refunded by P. Tesco  PF seems  to reject this 
reasoning as it seems  it is relying only on the first part of the sentence that talks about no 
refunds being  given  after the booking reference is allocated.  But I think  the clause is meant 
to be read and understood in its entirety.
Further I am, taking account of relevant  law, I think this clause  is capable  of having different  
meanings and I am permitted to give the reading that is most favourable to the consumer. 
That is the meaning I have preferred above.  
For all of these reasons, it follows that since P did not refund Mrs C it has not kept to the 
terms of the contract. That being so, I find it is fair and reasonable that Tesco PF must 
refund Mrs C £128 plus interest.
I dont agree that Tesco PF must  also refund the £25. Much as Mrs C suggests that P was a 
rogue trader,  it did book  the appointment for her for which it charged the administration  fee. 
That being  the case, I find I have  no proper basis for saying Tesco  PF must refund this 
money too.
For completeness I looked at chargeback.  Im satisfied  that Mrs C was out of time to ask 
Tesco PF to do the chargeback.  Even  if she had been in time it is unlikely she would have 
got back any more  than I am awarding  now, so I dont see that Mrs C has lost out. And even 
if she had lost out due to no chargeback being raised, which  she has not, that would not be 
something that Tesco PF was responsible for, as it did not cause her to miss the chargeback 
deadline.
Ref: DRN86420375Finally, I would like to take this opportunity to apologise to both parties for how long it has 
taken this service to reach this stage. I thank both Mrs C and Tesco PF for their patience.
my final decision
My final decision is that Tesco Personal Finance PLC must  give Mrs C a refund of £128  plus 
interest on that refund at the rate of 8% simple  per year. The interest to run from the date of 
payment until the date of settlement
If it considers it is legally required to deduct  income  tax from that interest, it must send a tax 
deduction certificate with the payment so that Mrs C can reclaim the tax if she is able to.
Mrs C should refer back to Tesco PF if she is unsure of the approach it has taken and both 
parties should contact  HM Revenue & Customs  if they want  to know more about the tax 
treatment of this portion  of the compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 July 2021 .
Joyce Gordon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8642037