K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold  him a monthly premium payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr M applied  for a credit card in 2001.  He was sold the PPI in connection with this credit 
card during  a postal  application.
The PPI cost 78p per £100 of the monthly  outstanding balance. It wouldve paid 10% of the 
monthly outstanding  balance  for up to 12 months  if Mr M was off work sick or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mr Ms complaint should be upheld.
Mr M didnt  agree with our adjudicator and the complaint  has now come  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ms case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ms complaint.
Ive started by looking at whether or not Mr M was eligible for the policy  at the time of the 
sale. Based  on Mr Ms age and circumstances  at the time of the sale,  Im satisfied he would 
have been eligible.
BoS had to make it clear  to Mr M that the PPI was optional and needed his consent before it 
could be applied to the account. Mr M says the policy was added without his knowledge, that 
he didnt ask for it and that it wasnt made  clear  to him that the policy was optional.
I cant know for sure what took place  during  the sale. So Ive thought about what BoS and  
Mr M have  told us and considered the documents from the time of the sale to help me 
decide what is more  likely  to have happened.
In particular, Ive seen a copy of the application  form.  This had a separate  section for PPI. 
This section  shows that Mr M would  have been given a choice about whether or not to take 
PPI. If Mr M wanted PPI he would have  needed  to sign separately  for it. And I note that Mr M 
did sign separately for PPI. From  what I can see, if Mr M hadnt signed for PPI then it 
wouldnt have been added to the account.
So while I appreciate what Mr M has told us, I think its more  likely that the PPI was 
presented as optional and that Mr M chose to take it out.
From the evidence available, it doesnt  look like BoS advised Mr M to take PPI. This means 
BoS didnt have to check if the policy was suitable  for Mr M. So for example, they didnt need  
to take into account  Mr Ms existing  repayment  provisions when they sold the PPI to him.
Ref: DRN86673252But BoS did have  to give Mr M clear information  about the policy  at the time of the sale  in 
particular, about  the costs,  benefits  and main  exclusions/restrictions  in the policy  - so that he 
could make an informed  decision  about whether or not to take the PPI out. 
I dont think BoS gave Mr M all the information  as they shouldve. This in itself doesnt mean 
that the policy was mis-sold as I have to go on and consider whether better information 
about the policy would have put Mr M off taking  it out. 
And I dont  think better information about  the policy would have put Mr M off taking it out. I 
say this because:
-Mr M says he wouldve received six months full sick pay followed by six months half  
pay from his employer if he was off work sick. But the policy  wouldve paid out in 
addition to this. It would have been particularly helpful to Mr M when  his employee 
sick pay was reduced to half. It would  also have paid out if he lost his job in addition 
to any redundancy  pay he may have been  entitled to. Mr M chose to take PPI and so 
it seems that he wanted PPI despite  knowing what his existing repayment provisions 
were.
-Mr M didnt appear to have been affected  by the more restrictive terms in the policy 
which wouldve made it more difficult for him to make a successful  claim under  the 
policy.
-I havent seen  evidence which suggests  the policy wasnt affordable for Mr M at the 
time it was taken out.
-Mr M wouldnt have lost out financially if he wanted to cancel the policy early.
It follows that I dont think BoS mis-sold Mr M this PPI policy.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint against Bank  of Scotland  plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2019.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8667325