K821x#15complaint
Mr Z has complained Santander  UK plc is holding him liable  for the expenditure on credit 
cards he didnt apply  for in 2016  and 2017.
background
After applying for a loan with his bank, Mr Z was told his credit record  showed  a number of 
loans and credit cards.  Hed never  applied for these. Three of those credit cards  were with 
Santander. Mr Z also reported what had happened  to the police.
Santander had received  credit card applications online in Mr Zs name in both July 2016  and 
September 2017. Theyd assessed  these, given cards (for both Mr Z and his wife)  and 
granted credit limits. The joint bank account was quoted on the application. Mr Z also held a 
joint account with his wife at Santander. This account had been  opened  in October  2014  and 
both Mr Z and his wife, Ms A, held debit  cards for the account. Mr Z said he didnt know this 
account was still active.
By the time Mr Z complained to Santander,  there were arrears  on the credit cards. 
Santander felt this was a civil dispute  and noted  initially Mr Z hadnt thought it was his wife 
and only realised this later.  Theyd also seen that a good deal of the expenditure was for the 
home Mr Z and his family  were intending  to move into. Only one payment on one of the 
credit card accounts was made using Mr Zs credit  card. This was a payment to refurbish  this 
home.
Santander felt theyd done  nothing  wrong  in expecting Mr Z to repay this debt. Mr Z knew he 
hadnt applied  for the credit cards so brought his complaint to the ombudsman service (along 
with other  complaints).
Our investigator reviewed  the evidence. This included the applications, statements for the 
credit cards and Mr Zs joint current account.  She felt overall the evidence pointed  to Mr Z 
having made the credit card applications. She noted though it was Ms As telephone number 
and email address  on the applications.  She was also aware the expenditure on the card had 
been for the kind of things which Mr Z may have benefitted from.
Taking all this into consideration,  she didnt think it would  be fair to ask Santander to not hold 
Mr Z liable for repayment. 
Mr Z disagreed with this outcome and asked an ombudsman  to review his complaint.
I completed a provisional decision on 6 April 2020. I believed  Mr Z hadnt applied  for the 
credit cards so asked Santander  to remove any data about these from his credit  record.
Santander believed  they couldnt amend  Mr Zs credit record  until the three debts  were  paid. 
These now totalled around  £9.500.
Mr Z accepted this outcome but wanted  to make  sure Santander  informed any third-party  
company debt-collecting on their behalf to be told he wasnt  liable for the debt as well.
I now have all I need to complete  my final decision.
Ref: DRN84830772my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done  so, Ive reached  the same  
conclusion as my provisional decision whilst taking into account  what Santander has said.  Ill 
explain further.
There are a number of key aspects  to this complaint. Did Mr Z apply for the credit cards? Did 
he benefit from the spending? And whether this expenditure has now been repaid?
credit card applications
There is no dispute that the application  was made in Mr Zs name with him as the primary 
cardholder. However  the personal details  including phone number and email address  
belonged to Ms A. That doesnt  alone  mean  Mr Z was unaware of the credit  cards.  Hes 
confirmed he knew of one credit card but had thought the account had been closed because  
his wife had told him so. 
He could have  deliberately made the application using his wifes personal  details. However  
looking at the other  loans  Mr Z has also complained  about, it seems clear  there  is a pattern 
of loans and credit cards being taken out without his knowledge. 
Our investigator has also talked to Ms A about these credit cards and others. Shes admitted 
she took out these  cards  and used them. Theres also evidence that Ms A wrote to other 
lenders to confirm  this.
I agree  its most likely these credit  cards were taken  out by his wife, based on what  I know  
about Mr Zs other complaints and the evidence from Ms A.
how were the credit  cards used?
In her view of 6 March 2020, our investigator showed the credit cards were  spent on normal 
household shopping, as well as cash withdrawals  and payments for house  refurbishment.  
Im aware  because of the other cases we are considering  that Mr Z knew about the work 
being carried out.
Ms A has confirmed a lot of the money went to refurbish another  property (which has since 
been sold) as well as on buying  household items.
Payments to the credit card accounts were  made  online. Whilst these were done  using 
Mr Zs online banking, it looks as if these  were funded by Ms As sole account  (also with 
Santander).
Theres no doubt this credit card, along with others, would have resulted in quite a deal of 
paperwork. Mr Z has told us that his wife managed the family finances and that, in itself,  isnt 
an unusual arrangement. But for Ms A to have hidden all this activity  from Mr Z would have 
meant quite a lot of subterfuge. Its difficult to imagine this wouldnt have been noticed by 
Mr Z. I appreciate hes told us that he believed his wife earned more than him which 
explained why there was the money  available that resulted from these loans and credit 
cards. Im surprised though he didnt wonder how all the work being done  to the house was 
being paid for. But from what  Ive seen,  Ms A also managed to keep her actual job secret  
from Mr Z so perhaps this is not too surprising.
Ref: DRN84830773Ms A has also confirmed shes taken steps to repay her debts. I know shes  made 
arrangements with other companies where  she took out loans to repay the debts still 
outstanding. Shes told us she is repaying  the credit card debt through  Santanders debt 
recovery agent. Ive seen details of her standing orders  to two different debt recovery  agents 
paying Santanders debt. Santander  was able to confirm more than £9,500 remains  to be 
repaid for the three credit card debts.  
I understand from conversations with both Mr Z and Ms A that what  has happened has had a 
devastating impact on their relationship and their family.
Based on what we know, I believe Mr Z didnt apply  for the credit cards. As Santander has 
no contractual agreement with him, they cant place information about  the credit  cards on 
Mr Zs credit record. All data about  these agreements will need to be removed. Santander  
has said the debts  need to be settled  first but the key issue  here is Mr Z didnt apply for the 
credit cards. Therefore Santander  has no authority from him to lodge  any data on his credit 
record.
Ive also noted  Santander was aware of this situation some time ago. They know  
arrangements are in place  to repay  the debt and that Mr Z disputed hed taken out the 
agreements. Im appreciate they think this is a civil dispute and I dont think Mr Z disputes 
this either.  However  they must have realised that if Mr Z hadnt taken out the credit  cards,  
then they couldnt ask him to repay them.
I may have  come  to another conclusion if Ms A hadnt admitted shed made these  
applications and is now repaying the debt. Shes  aware  Santander may take action against 
her if the debt stops being repaid. As Mr Z has pointed  out, as he didnt apply for these 
cards, they must also let any debt-recovery company they use be aware that they must stop 
chasing him for the debt.
Overall I think  its fair and reasonable Santander  pay Mr Z compensation for the time theyve 
left information   including defaults   on his credit record when they shouldnt  have. I believe 
£200 is a fair amount.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my provisional decision is to instruct  Santander UK plc, to:
stop pursuing Mr Z for the debts  relating  to these credit cards;
remove all data from Mr Zs credit record about the credit cards taken out by his wife; 
and
pay Mr Z £200  compensation for the trouble caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 June  2020.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8483077