K820x#14complaint
Mr N complains that Everyday Lending Limited  (ELL) lent to him in an irresponsible  
manner.
background
Mr N was given two loans  by ELL. In June 2015  he borrowed £1,500 to be repaid in 24 
monthly instalments.  And in June  2016 he borrowed £5,293.59 to be repaid in 36 monthly  
instalments. Mr N used part of his borrowing on the second loan to repay  the outstanding 
balance on his previous loan. At the time he made his complaint to ELL a balance  remained 
outstanding on the final loan. 
Mr Ns complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. Although she though that 
ELL should have  done  better  checks before agreeing the loans, she didnt think better  
checks would have  suggested that the loans werent sustainably  affordable.  So she didnt 
think ELL had been wrong to give the loans to Mr N. She didnt think  the complaint should  be 
upheld.
Mr N didnt agree with that assessment.  So, as the complaint hasnt  been  resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.  This is the last stage of our 
process.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our approach  to 
unaffordable/irresponsible lending  complaints  on our website and Ive kept this in mind while 
deciding Mr Ns complaint.
The rules  and regulations at the time ELL gave this loan to Mr N required  it to carry out a 
reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether he could afford to repay what he owed 
in a sustainable manner. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability 
assessment or affordability  check.
The checks  had to be borrower focused   so ELL had to think about whether repaying the 
credit sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr N. In practice this 
meant that ELL had to ensure that making the repayments wouldnt cause Mr N undue  
difficulty or adverse  consequences.  In other  words,  it wasnt enough for ELL to simply think  
about the likelihood of it getting its money  back,  it had to consider the impact of any 
repayments on Mr N. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes  a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon  a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking.  
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have  
been more thorough:
Ref: DRN88801832the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any repayments to credit from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet higher repayments from a particular  level of income); 
the longer  the period  of time a borrower  will be indebted for (reflecting  the fact 
that the total cost of the credit  is likely to be greater and the customer is required 
to make repayments for an extended  period). 
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed  a proportionate check 
shouldve been  for a given application  including  (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of 
this in mind when thinking about  whether ELL did what it needed to before  agreeing  to lend 
to Mr N.
Both times Mr N was entering into a significant  commitment  with ELL. He would need to 
make monthly repayments  for a period of two or three years.  So I would expect  that ELL 
would want to gather some detailed information about Mr Ns financial circumstances before 
it agreed to lend to him. 
ELL has given us details of the information  it gathered from Mr N before it agreed the loans. 
It asked him for details  of his income  and verified this by asking him for copies of his 
payslips. Mr N provided details of his rent costs and ELL then used some statistical data to 
estimate Mr Ns other expenditure. It checked Mr Ns credit file and gathered information 
about his outstanding debts. And it asked  Mr N for a copy of his bank statements  Mr N 
provided ELL with bank  statements going  back around two months  before each loan.
I would normally have  a degree of concern that the lender had used a statistical  estimate  of 
Mr Ns expenditure. Its checks needed to be specific  to Mr Ns circumstances rather  than 
those of an average  consumer. But ELL supported that assessment by asking Mr N for 
copies of his bank statements. I dont know in what depth ELL assessed those bank 
statements but I can see some annotations  suggesting at least  some of the information  was 
considered.
Given the circumstances of these loans I think that the checks ELL did were proportionate. 
But simply doing those  checks isnt always enough. A lender also needs to react 
appropriately to the information shown by the checks. So Ive looked at the information that 
ELL gathered to assess whether  it was reasonable for the lender to conclude the loans were 
sustainably affordable for Mr N.
First I should note that the information  a consumer might see, when they request  a copy  of 
their credit file, might be very different to that seen by a lender. A lender might  only see a 
small portion of the credit file, or some data might be missing or anonymised,  or the data 
might not be up to date.  And whilst bank statements are useful evidence  of what  has 
happened with a  consumers finances in the past, a lender  needs to be concerned  about  
what will happen in the future. So it might reasonably discount any expenditure on loans that 
have been repaid, but it should of course  consider any future liabilities  that are already 
known.
I dont think the checks  ELL did before the first loan suggested any great  concerns that Mr N 
wouldnt be able to repay that loan sustainably. The amount Mr N needed to pay each month 
Ref: DRN88801833was relatively small compared  to the income he was receiving. And although ELL could see 
other ongoing credit commitments these were not at a level where it might suggest  Mr N 
wouldnt be able to take on the additional  monthly  cost of this loan. So I dont think ELL was 
wrong to give the first loan to Mr N.
I think ELL should have  been more concerned about what it saw from its checks  at the time 
of the second  loan.  Mr N was using this loan to, in part, refinance his borrowing from the 
year before.  It doesnt  seem that hed had any great problems  repaying that loan but the 
amount he would need to pay each month on the new loan was significantly higher.
The assessment of Mr Ns outstanding  credit  showed that he had a significant level of credit 
commitments outstanding. Servicing these debts  would have made it impossible for Mr N to 
sustainably repay  any new borrowing. But Mr N assured  ELL that he would be using its 
lending to repay some of that debt. I think it was reasonable for ELL to rely on what Mr N 
had said and so discount some of his debt repayment when considering whether Mr N could 
afford to repay this loan.
So I dont  think the bank statements show any clear evidence that Mr N would be unlikely to 
be able to repay this lending  in a sustainable manner. As before I think  it would have been 
reasonable for ELL to conclude that the loan would be sustainably  affordable  for Mr N based 
on what it could see on his bank  statements,  and considering what hed said about his 
ongoing credit  commitments. So I dont think ELL was wrong  to give this loan to Mr N either.
I appreciate that my decision will be disappointing for Mr N. But I think the checks  the lender 
did were proportionate, and they suggested  that Mr N would be able to repay the loans in a 
sustainable manner.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold the complaint or make  any award against 
Everyday Lending  Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 September  2020.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8880183