K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains about a default  applied to his Bank of Scotland  plc account.  Its affecting his 
credit rating and he wants to get a mortgage.
background
Mr C said he took out a loan when he was 18. He suffered  ill health  a few years  later and 
was struggling to repay the loan. So he asked Bank  of Scotland if he could adjust his 
payments. Mr C said he was told hed need to miss his payments before that could happen.
Mr C continued to pay a smaller amount each month.  But he didnt  realise Bank of Scotland  
had applied  a default against his account. Hed never received any letters  about it. And the 
default is now stopping  him from getting  a mortgage.  So he wants  it removing.
Bank of Scotland said it was satisfied itd followed its debt recovery  procedures  correctly. Itd 
sent the default letter on 1 May 2015.  And the formal demand  letter  had been sent on 
2 June. Mr C said he wasnt living at the address it had on file. But his father was. And mail 
was being passed to Mr C. Bank of Scotland it didnt know why he hadnt received them.
Mr C wasnt satisfied with Bank of Scotlands  response. So he contacted our service and our 
adjudicator looked into the matter. She could see Bank of Scotland had assessed Mr Cs 
financial situation in April 2015. And itd concluded a fixed  payment plan wasnt suitable  in 
the circumstances. But she felt the bank  had responded sympathetically by cancelling any 
future interest charges. Our adjudicator could see Mr C had spoken to the bank  so she felt 
he shouldve  been aware of the default.  And she didnt think  itd made an error.
Mr C didnt agree. He didnt get the letters. And hed been  advised to default  on the loan so a 
payment plan could  be considered. So hes asked for an ombudsmans  final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr Cs frustration. He became unwell and was unable to work.  So he 
couldnt meet his loan repayments.  And he thought hed agreed a reduced payment plan 
with Bank  of Scotland. So Ive looked at everything  Mr C and Bank of Scotland  have said to 
see whats happened.
Mr C took out the loan in August 2012.  He made the monthly repayments until March 2015. 
But Mr C was then unable  to pay the full amount. When  Mr C spoke to Bank of Scotland  in 
April 2015 they carried out a review  of his income  and expenditure. But Mr Cs outgoings  
were a lot more than his current income. And it wasnt possible to refinance the loan.
Mr C says he was advised to default on his loan repayments so a payment plan could  be set 
up. He was unable to work at the time due to illness. But he continued  to make reduced 
payments with the help of his family and friends.  I realise Mr C thought the reduced  payment 
plan meant  his credit rating wouldnt be affected. And unfortunately I cant be sure what was 
discussed when  Mr C met with Bank of Scotland. But the bank has a responsibility to report 
how an account is being managed to the credit  reference agencies. And it reported a default 
when Mr C was no longer able to make  his full monthly payment of £212.88.
Ref: DRN87960602However I can see Mr C agreed to pay £50 each  month (and for a period £100) and as a 
result Bank of Scotland  didnt take any further  action to recover  its debt. And I think  that was 
the right approach. It was aware  of Mr Cs health circumstances. And the financial difficulties 
it was causing.  And it agreed to receive  a reduced payment and suspended interest charges 
on the loan. So I think the bank has responded sympathetically to Mr Cs circumstances.  
When the outstanding balance was passed  to a third party  Mr C was concerned it would 
affect his credit rating. But he was told that wasnt the case. According to the banks case 
notes Mr C was told the default was registered because of delinquency  he was behind on 
his contracted  payments  not because itd been transferred to a third party.
I realise Mr C says he was told he wouldnt get a default if he made  the monthly payment. 
But theres nothing  on the banks records to confirm this. As Ive already explained Bank of 
Scotland has to tell the credit agencies  if a customer falls behind  on their payments. 
Bank of Scotland wrote to Mr C in May 2015  to say the account was in arrears. And the 
default was registered in May 2015  when the first full monthly  payment was missed. A formal  
demand for repayment  was sent the following month. Mr C said he wasnt  living at the 
address the bank had on file. But his father was receiving his mail for him.
The banks records show Mr C called on 19 May 2015 to say hed received a letter  saying he 
was in arrears. But he was told not to worry as he had a payment schedule  in place. And I 
can see Mr C called  again on 9 June 2015 to discuss the default  letter  and the formal 
demand letter from the collections department. So although  a reduced payment plan was in 
place I think Mr C shouldve reasonably been  aware his account  was in arrears.  And a 
default would be registered to reflect that he was behind on his payments.
Although the bank  hasnt retained  copies  of the actual letters Ive seen copies of the sort of 
letters it wouldve sent. And Ive confirmed from the bank records when the letters were 
posted. So Ive no reason  to believe the letters werent sent to Mr C. I cant say why Mr C 
didnt receive the letters  from Bank of Scotland. But the banks records  do show  hed call to 
discuss the situation at the time they were sent.
Its to Mr Cs credit hes been able to continue payments to reduce the debt. And I do 
appreciate how difficult  this mustve been  for him. But the role of this service  is to see if Bank 
of Scotland has made a mistake. And I cant really say it has. The default was correctly 
registered in 2015 when  Mr C fell behind  on his monthly loan repayments. And I think  the 
bank followed its procedures correctly  in writing to Mr C at the address it had on file to 
explain the situation. So I wont be asking Bank of Scotland to remove  the default.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 September 2019.
Andrew Mason
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8796060