K820x#14complaint
Mr Z complains that due to an error on Interactive Brokers (UK) Ltds (IB) platform, he was 
unable to open certain trades. This caused his account to be unbalanced  and, consequently, 
caused him a financial  loss. 
background
Mr Z had an account with IB. He has explained  that he uses a hedging strategy to trade. 
On 5 February 2018, Mr Z used IBs Application  Programming Interface (API) to open the 
following five short trades on the CBOE Volatility Index (VIX) Futures market:
16:01:56  VIX 21 March 18
16:02:41  VIX 21 March 18
16:02:58  VIX 18 April 18
16:03:05  VIX 18 July 18
16:05:36  VIX 18 April 18
At around 16:05  (US Eastern Time), his API tried to place corresponding long trades to 
hedge these positions  but instead IB didnt execute the trades and returned an error  
message that said GOT  EXCEEDED. The API tried a number of times to open these trades 
but these werent  successful. 
At 16:15 the market he was trading on closed, and reopened at 16:30. By which  point the 
prices of the trades  he tried to place  earlier  had changed considerably. 
Mr Z complained to IB. He explained  that between 16:05 and 16:15, his inability to hedge his 
trades caused him a loss of over $13,000.  He asked IB to compensate him. IB didnt think it 
had done anything wrong, so Mr Z brought his complaint to this service. 
An investigator looked into the complaint, and didnt  think it should be upheld  so Mr Z asked 
an ombudsman to decide the matter.  
I asked IB for some additional  information  about the error message Mr Z received. 
In response, IB explained: 
The error message  related to trading limits  which were imposed by regulation. It 
said that when these trading limits are reached  a manual review and approval is 
required so the limit can be increased. It explained that on 5 February  2018  IBs 
credit limit at the CBOE Futures  Exchange was reached. 
It said this limit was imposed by Article 15(4) of Commission  Delegated Regulation 
(EU) 2017/589 which required IB to: 
set market and credit  risk limits  that are based on its capital base, its clearing 
arrangements, its trading  strategy, its risk tolerance, experience  and certain 
variables, such as the length of time the investment  firm has been  engaged in 
algorithmic trading and its reliance  on third party vendors. The investment firm shall 
adjust those market  and credit risk limits to account  for the changing  impact  of the 
orders on the relevant  market due to different price and liquidity levels  
Ref: DRN86771752It said that the above regulation requires  that IB make a commercial  decision about 
the amount of risk it is willing to be exposed to. IB does  this automatically and relies 
on clients to notify it if they have  been prevented from trading by the limits. IB said 
that industry practice in the listed futures  and options business is to set the limits [] 
significantly below the maximum  credit exposure the firm would  theoretically  be able 
to absorb and modify  them  on an as and when basis in response  to customer 
demand.
It said it couldnt control when that trading limit was reached, but IB did provide 24 
hour assistance to resolve these sorts of issues. It said that although Mr Z had time 
he didnt make any contact with IB when his long orders  werent executed. It said that 
if he had done,  the issue couldve been resolved  after he received the first error 
message when the CBOE would still have been open. 
IB said its terms limited its liability for any losses  resulting from the interruption of 
services as result of its compliance  with regulatory  rules.  And it said that its terms 
made it clear that customers  agree to notify  IB UK by telephone as soon as 
reasonably possible  after the customer has become aware, or should have become 
aware, that they have failed to receive an accurate confirmation  of an execution or 
cancellation, has received a confirmation that is not consistent  with the customers  
order, or has received  a confirmation or other  information reflecting inaccurate 
orders, trades, securities, options or futures positions or transaction history. 
I wrote  to Mr Z following  these responses  and explained that, given he didnt take any action 
when his orders werent executed, I didnt consider he had taken sufficient action to mitigate  
his losses. I also wasnt persuaded that the trades he had said he wanted  to place wouldve 
hedged his existing trades anyway.  I said that by the time he experienced the error  in 
executing his trades, he was already long 7 contracts and short 3  and he had been 
attempting to open three more long positions.  As a consequence,  I didnt think  it would be 
fair to compensate him for the financial  losses he experienced. 
Mr Z replied with substantial points. In short, he explained:
He used a delta hedge strategy  which meant  that the delta of the portfolio is 
controlled. He said that near-term futures have a higher  delta exposure  because 
they are more sensitive  to the spot movement than the long-term  ones. So Mr Z 
explained that near-term futures will require several long-term futures to hedge. He 
said it was therefore incorrect  to assume  that in order  to hedge his trades, he needed  
equal long and short positions. 
Although he had 3 short trades,  he needed substantially more  than 3 contracts of 
long-term futures to hedge. This was why he had attempted  to place  3 additional long 
trades. 
He said his strategy involved buy and selling intraday,  and wouldnt hold contracts on 
a longer term basis. 
He said that by 16.30 when the markets reopened and IB was no longer experiencing 
the same  credit  issue, the price of the instrument had moved significantly. He gave 
an example of one contract that had gone  from 19.85 to 24.725 between 16.05 and 
16.15. He said that a long contract at 16.05  wasnt the same as a long contract  at 
16.30. 
He didnt agree that it was reasonable to say that if he had called IB when the trades 
werent executed  they couldve resolved it for him. He explained that the errors 
occurred around  4.05 and the markets were due to close  ten minutes later.  He said 
Ref: DRN86771753that it wasnt likely that his call would be answered  immediately, nor that an 
immediate decision would  be made to offer him a price and execute his failed orders, 
because IBs UK office had already closed by then as it was 9pm in the UK. So Mr Z 
said it was likely that his telephone call wouldnt have been  answered before the 
closure of the markets  ten minutes  later, and as a consequence it wouldnt have 
made a difference whether he called or not. 
Even if he had been able to speak to someone promptly, the prices  were so volatile 
that he had already  suffered a significant loss by not being  able to execute his trades  
at 16.05. So he said even a few minutes  later, his trading  position had become 
completely different. 
Mr Z also said that he suffered from a disability which prevented  him from taking 
immediate actions.  
Mr Z concluded by saying that in his view, IB should compensate  his loss of $13,695.80. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think this case is finely balanced,  and Ive given the issues very careful consideration. I 
have reviewed all the information again, and taken account of Mr Zs detailed submissions.  
The key question is whether, by failing  to execute  Mr Zs orders  at the time as a result  of the 
credit limit it had set, IB treated Mr Z unfairly and caused him a financial  loss. 
Whilst it isnt my role to comment  on how IB manages its risk, or the way in which it makes 
certain commercial decisions (for example setting a credit limit with an exchange at a 
particular level), I have looked  at the terms of its agreement with Mr Z to determine  whether 
he was treated unfairly. 
Section 3 of the terms which Mr Z agreed  to when he opened his account with IB explain 
that:
Unless otherwise  directed by Customer, IB UK and its Affiliates have  the discretion to select  
the marketplace to which  to route any Customer order. To the extent that IB UK or any of its 
Affiliates provide  execution service for Customer, it shall provide best execution in 
accordance with Applicable Regulations.  
When addressing  the possibility  that not every Customer order will be executed at the best 
posted price, the terms set out the possible circumstances which might mean an order is 
executed at a different price:
a)neither IB UK nor its Affiliates may have access to every  market at which a particular 
product may trade; 
b)other orders may trade ahead of a Customers  order and exhaust available  volume at 
a posted price; 
c)exchanges or market  makers may fail to honour their posted prices;  
d)exchanges may re-route  customer orders out of automated  execution  systems for 
manual handling (in which case,  execution or representation of Customers  order  
may be substantially delayed; 
Ref: DRN86771754e)exchange Rules or decisions or systems  delays or failures may prevent Customers  
order from being executed, may case a delay in the execution  of Customers  order or 
may cause Customers order not to be executed  at the best posted price.  
In relation to order execution,  the terms explain that IB UK and its Affiliates shall act as 
agent on Customers behalf, unless otherwise confirmed. However, IB UK and its Affiliates 
are authorized to execute Customer orders as principal. IB UK may utilize another executing  
broker, including an affiliate or a non-affiliated third party, to execute Customer orders. Such 
executing brokers shall have the benefit  of all of IB UKs rights and remedies and limitations  
on liability  under  this Agreement. IB UK or its Affiliates may decline any customer order,  at 
any time, in their respective sole discretion. 
Im satisfied the terms therefore  make it clear that there is a risk that orders  may not be 
executed by IB, as a result  of a variety of reasons  which do include things like order 
volumes or rules relating  to particular exchanges.  And given the evidence IB has provided, 
Im satisfied, in the particular circumstances of Mr Zs case, the reason his trades werent 
executed was as result of a process IB had in place to comply with relevant regulations.  
Those same regulations  require IB to have a system in place when its pre-trade controls  
block specific orders which it nevertheless wants to submit. So Ive considered what  those 
were in Mr Zs case. 
The terms of Mr Zs account make clear (section 8) that Mr Z was required to notify IB UK 
by telephone [] or by e-mail as soon as possible after becoming  aware  that he hadnt 
received confirmation  of the execution of an order.  So in the case of Mr Z, IBs system  
allowed him to telephone  or email it when  the trades werent  executed. 
This means  that when Mr Z saw that his orders hadnt been executed, he ought to have 
taken action to mitigate  the risk in relation to his overall trading strategy. I appreciate that 
Mr Zs trading strategy required  certain trades to be placed in order to manage his risk  and 
these are the trades that werent executed as a result of the error he received during what 
was a particularly  volatile trading environment. But when this happened,  at the very least,  
Mr Z ought to have called  IB in order to understand  why it had been  unable to execute his 
trades. I would also have expected him to send an urgent email explaining his situation and 
what had just happened. 
IB has explained that in the circumstances,  had Mr Z called  in, it wouldve been able to 
manually override the system and place the trades  Mr Z had been trying  to place. 
Mr Z has made  a number of points  about  how quickly IB wouldve been able to answer his 
query, or address his call. 
Im unable to comment or make a finding  on that  because the fact is Mr Z took no action to 
mitigate his situation  or manage his risk. He simply let his API continue  trying to execute  the 
same trades without contacting IB to understand why they werent being executed. He didnt 
try to call or email.  I think its possible that by contacting IB at the time,  Mr Z mightve been 
able to execute the trades he wanted  to execute  and therefore avoid most,  if not all, the 
trading losses he suffered. 
In any event, given  what Ive said above,  Im satisfied IB didnt do anything wrong by having 
a particular credit limit on the market Mr Z was trading on. I understand Mr Z feels very 
Ref: DRN86771755strongly about his complaint and the losses he has suffered, but Im satisfied its not a loss 
that I can fairly and reasonably ask IB to compensate  him for. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Zs complaint. 
I appreciate Mr Z will be disappointed by my conclusions. My final decision, however, 
represents the last stage  of this services dispute  resolution procedure. Mr Z doesnt have to 
accept my decision, and if he doesnt  do so, he will be free to pursue legal action against 
Interactive Brokers (UK) Ltd. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 July 2019.
Alessandro Pulzone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8677175