K820x#14complaint
Mr S has complained that Acromas Insurance Company Limited  turned down a claim on his 
breakdown repair (parts and garage)  insurance policy.
Mr S policy is branded in the name  of a well-known motoring organisation. But as Acromas 
provides the cover its responsible for claims against the policy.  So for ease Ill refer to the 
actions of the motoring organisation as being  those of Acromas.
background
Mr S car broke-down and he asked  Acromas to repair it under the terms of his policy. 
Acromas asked an independent engineer to inspect the car. After  receiving  the engineers 
report Acromas  said Mr S claim wasn't covered. It said that was because it thought the cars 
fault had developed before Mr S had bought his policy. 
Mr S didn't  think that was fair and brought his complaint  to us. I issued a provisional  decision 
on 20 February 2020. For ease Ive copied  my provisional findings below. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, its likely I won't uphold  
it. 
Mr Ss policy  says that it will cover sudden and unexpected mechanical and electrical 
failures. But it says it doesn't cover the cost of repair if the fault existed before cover began. 
The independent engineer who examined  Mr Ss car said that it had suffered from long-term  
deterioration of clutch components including  the dual-mass flywheel. He said that the wear 
wasnt considered  a sudden mechanical failure but was the result of long-term wear and 
tear. And as Mr S had only taken  out his policy about three  weeks  before his car 
broke-down, I think its likely that the fault had already developed before Mr S had bought his 
policy, as it seem unlikely  that the sort of damage  the engineer described could be done  in 
three weeks.
Mr S noted  that one of our investigators  initially recommended that we should uphold  his 
complaint and asked  how a second investigator could come to a different conclusion.  But we 
come to our conclusions based  on what we feel is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint. And that can mean that different  decision makers can apply 
different weight to the same evidence. That is one investigator might  think  that some 
evidence is more important than another investigator. And that's what happened in this case.  
When our second investigator  reviewed  the complaint he noted that we had expert  evidence  
that said that the fault to Mr Ss car wasn't  sudden and would have happened before the 
policys start date. And that investigator gave more weight to the engineering  evidence than 
the first investigator had. Having done so, he concluded that it was fair and reasonable for 
Acromas to be led by the expert engineering evidence and to refuse to pay Mr S claim. And 
having reviewed  that evidence  myself I agree with his conclusions.   
I'll add that while  weve  been considering  this complaint Acromas  has provided more  
evidence from a second engineer. That engineer  agreed with the first engineer that the 
failure of the clutch components wasnt sudden or unexpected. He added that the wear  to 
the dual-mass  flywheel was such that the car would have been making a noise and would 
Ref: DRN88085982have produced vibration that would  have been  noticeable to anyone who drove the car, 
regardless of whether or not they had mechanical  knowledge. 
Mr S said he hadn't noticed any noise coming  from the car and wasn't aware of any faults 
before it broke-down. But given the engineering  evidence from two engineers  Im satisfied, 
on balance, that he most  likely would have heard the noise and if not he certainly would 
have been able to feel the vibration. So I think its more likely than not he knew  the car had a 
fault even if he didn't  know  what  that fault was. And I think  this would have  been  apparent  at 
the time Mr S bought  his policy.  It follows  that Im satisfied Acromas  can rely on the 
exclusion that the fault already existed  to turn down the claim.
developments
Acromas accepted my provisional decision.  Mr S didn't provide any further comments.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I'm not going to uphold it. 
As neither Mr S nor Acromas  has objected to my provisional findings I see no reason to 
change them.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision  I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 April 2020.
Joe Scott 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN8808598