K821x#15complaint
Mr Bs complaint is about the suitability of the advice he was given by Greystone Financial 
Services Limited (Greystone) to transfer out his defined  benefit Occupational Pension 
Scheme (OPS) into a personal pension plan.
Mr B has several complaints relating to his pension against Greystone. These  complaints 
involve the transfer out of Mr Bs personal  pension into Self-Invested Personal Pensions  
(SIPPs) on the subsequent advice of Greystone in January  2004,  and to make subsequent 
investments with the SIPPs.  These  are the subject of separate complaints. The only issue  
addressed in this decision  is the complaint about  the suitability of advice given by Greystone 
about the transfer from his OPS in 2002/ 2003  to a personal pension  plan.
background
The circumstances of this complaint were  set out in my provisional decision of 27 September 
2019. A copy of that is attached and forms part of this final decision.
In short,  I upheld Mr Bs complaint on the grounds  that with a critical yield calculated as 
being 9.89%,  I considered that it was unlikely the value  of the retirement  benefits  would be 
improved by transferring  from Mr Bs OPS. I was satisfied the transfer wouldve presented 
significant risks above what Mr B was willing to take.  I considered  the transfer could not 
reasonably be seen as meeting Mr Bs risk profile of low to medium  attitude to risk.
In terms of redress, I recommended Greystone should undertake a redress  calculation in line 
with the regulators  pension review guidance  as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority 
in October 2017.  And I also awarded Mr B £500 to reflect the trouble  and upset he suffered 
as a result  of the effect this advice has had on his retirement planning.
I invited both parties to tell me of anything else they wanted me to consider before I finalised 
my decision.  Both parties accepted my findings. However, Greystone expressed some  
concern about  Mr B being put in a better position as a result of redress  that may be awarded 
in respect of his other complaints.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Mr B nor Greystone has provided any fresh evidence  in response to my 
provisional decision, I find no basis to depart from my earlier conclusions.
As noted above,  whilst  Greystone have accepted my provisional decision,  it expressed 
concern about  Mr B being put in a better position as a result of redress  that may be awarded 
in other  (related)  complaints. As noted  above,  these complaints are being dealt with 
separately and no final decision has been made in respect of these cases. Greystones 
concerns will, of course, be taken into account  before  any determination is made  in these 
cases. In this particular case, for the reasons set out in my provisional  decision, Im satisfied 
the correct redress  has been reached.
Ref: DRN86838042putting things  right  what Greystone needs  to do
Greystone should  undertake a redress calculation  in line with the regulators pension  review 
guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in October 2017. 
This calculation should  be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most 
recent financial assumptions published. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this 
should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate  provider promptly  following receipt of 
notification of Mr Bs acceptance  of the final decision which will follow.
Greystone may wish to contact the Department  for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain 
Mr Bs contribution history  to the State Earnings Related Pension  Scheme  (SERPS  or S2P). 
These details should then be used  to include a SERPS  adjustment  in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving  the occupational scheme  on Mr Bs SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
Such a calculation using the regulators pension review guidance will involve  establishing 
any past and future  loss. The past loss will involve comparing  the actual tax-free cash and 
net income payments Mr B received from his SIPPs with the notional  tax-free cash and net 
income Mr B could have  had from his OPS if hed retired from that same date, from the date 
those payments began  up to the date of this decision. Each tranche of SIPP payments will 
need to be adjusted so that they reflect the proportion of the total payments made into the 
SIPP which derived from the OPS  transfer. More information about this is below.
The future loss would usually involve comparing those funds Mr B still has in his pension  
today (again proportioned  for the transfer received from the OPS) with the notional value of 
the future  income  he would now have been receiving from his OPS.  But as noted above the 
advice to transfer out of his personal  pension into SIPPs on the subsequent  advice  of 
Greystone in January 2004, and to make subsequent investments with the SIPPs, are the 
subject of separate complaints. So in order to place a value on Mr Bs personal pension  for 
calculation purposes  that is independent of the subsequent advice to transfer  to SIPPs  and 
make further  investments,  a fair value should be determined by increasing the actual value 
transferred out of the personal pension in January 2004 up to the present day using the 
following benchmark:
-For half the investment: FTSE UK Private Investors Income  Total Return Index;  
-For the other half: average rate from fixed rate bonds.
This will allow the loss that has been suffered as a result of the transfer to be determined 
separately from the loss that resulted from the way Mr Bs SIPP plans  were  invested 
(including the fact that additional contributions were later placed into the SIPP).
When using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Greystone should use the monthly 
average rate for the fixed rate bonds with 12 to 17 months  maturity  as published by the Bank 
of England. The rate for each month  is that shown as at the end of the previous month. 
Apply those  rates to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Why is this benchmark  suitable?
The average rate for the fixed  rate bonds  would be a fair measure  for someone who 
wanted to achieve  a reasonable  return  without  risk to his capital.
Ref: DRN86838043The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices  
with different asset classes,  mainly UK equities  and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some  risk to get a higher return.
I consider that Mr Bs risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared  
to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50  
combination would reasonably put Mr B into that position. It does not mean  that Mr B 
would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some  kind of 
index tracker investment.  Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that 
broadly reflects  the sort of return Mr B could have obtained from investments suited 
to his objective and risk attitude.
This benchmark should be used to calculate two fair values over the period from January 
2004 to the date of my final decision:
1.For the total value  of Mr Bs pension, taking into account all the further contributions 
subsequently made,  and all the withdrawals of tax-free cash  and gross income.
2.For the value  which  was transferred out of the personal pension in January  2004, as 
this relates to the original sum transferred  from the OPS. 
At each  point Mr B drew down further  tranches  of tax-free cash or income,  the total fair value 
in 1) must be compared with the value relating to the OPS transfer in 2). This should be used 
to calculate the proportion  of the total tax-free  cash and gross income withdrawals which  
derive from the OPS  transfer. Those proportioned  payments  are what should  be deducted to 
enable the fair value  in 2) to be calculated up to the date of my final decision.
The net amount  of those proportioned  tax-free  cash and income withdrawals  are, in turn, 
what should be used  in determining the past loss above. 
If the above redress calculation demonstrates  a loss, the compensation should if possible be 
paid into Mr Bs pension  plan. The payment should  allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief.  The compensation  shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing  protection or allowance.
If a payment  into the pension isnt possible or has protection  or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr B as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow  for 
income tax that would otherwise have  been paid if Mr B had been able to enjoy the higher 
income from the OPS  in future. 25% of the loss would be tax-free  and 75% would have been 
taxed according to his likely income  tax rate in retirement. Given the significant level of 
income the OPS  would have provided I consider its a reasonable assumption that Mr B 
would have been paying 40% income tax on the extra pension benefits  represented  by this 
loss. So making  a notional deduction of 30% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Mr B may consider hes able to demonstrate that a part of the lost pension benefits might  
have been taxed at the lower rate of 20%. To the extent that this affects the result  (because 
the total compensation may exceed £150,000 and Greystone is not obliged to pay Mr B 
more compensation  than £150,000), I would expect Greystone to consider appropriate 
evidence provided  by Mr B as to his marginal tax rate on this lost income. 
The compensation resulting from the loss assessment must where possible be paid to Mr B 
within 90 days of the date Greystone receives  notification of his acceptance of my final 
decision  which will be issued following this provisional decision. Further interest  must  be 
added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my 
Ref: DRN86838044final decision  to the date of settlement for any time,  in excess of 90 days,  that it takes to pay 
him this compensation.
Its possible that data gathering  for a SERPS  adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes  beyond  the 90 day period allowed for settlement above   and so any 
period of time where  the only outstanding  item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
I appreciate that Mr B has suffered a number of serious health conditions  since  the advice 
was given. Whilst I acknowledge that dealing with these  matters has come  at a difficult time 
for Mr B, I agree with the amount  awarded  by the adjudicator of £500 is fair in terms of the 
distress and inconvenience caused to him as a result of the effect  this advice has had on his 
retirement planning. This payment of £500  does, in any case, form part of the maximum  
£150,000 binding award I can make.
Where I uphold  a complaint, I can award  fair compensation to be paid by a financial 
business of up to £150,000, plus any interest  and/or costs that I think  are appropriate. If I 
think that fair compensation is more than £150,000,  I may recommend that the business 
pays the balance.
my final decision
My decision  is that I order Greystone Financial Service  Limited  to pay Mr B the amount 
produced by that calculation set out above  along with the payment of £500  for the distress  
and inconvenience  caused  up to a maximum of £150,000. I also award interest  at 8% per 
year simple  from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in 
excess of 90 days, that it takes to pay him this compensation  subject to the further 
condition above.
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation is more 
than £150,000, I will recommend that Greystone Financial  Services  Limited pays  Mr B the 
balance including  the interest  as set out above on that balance.  
This recommendation will not be part of my determination or award in the final decision.  
Greystone Financial Services Limited doesnt  have to do what  I recommend. Its unlikely that 
Mr B can accept  my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr B may want  to get 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept this decision.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 31 January 2020.
Yolande McLeod
ombudsman
Ref: DRN86838045COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr Bs complaint is about the suitability of the advice he was given by Greystone Financial Services 
Limited (Greystone) to transfer out of a defined benefit pension scheme into a person pension plan.
Mr B first raised  a complaint  with Greystone in 2003, which was shortly after the transfer. He has 
raised several complaints  over the years  and ultimately brought this complaint  to our service in 2015. 
Greystone responded in full via this service  in 2018.
Mr B has several  complaints relating to his pension  against Greystone.  The only issue addressed  in 
this decision is the complaint about the suitability  of advice given by Greystone about the transfer 
from his defined benefit  pension scheme in 2002/ 2003 to a personal pension  plan.
background
Mr B was made redundant from his employment with a business Ill refer to as C in 2001 and 
became a self-employed consultant  for C in that year. He was entitled to deferred pension with C 
under an Occupational Pension  Scheme  (OPS) of £45,572 per annum  (as well £4,327 per annum  as 
a result of a transfer from a previous scheme) at the normal retirement  age of 62. He was also entitled 
to a tax free cash lump  sum of £90,610. The pension was index  linked and a revaluation  up to age 62 
was yet to be added  to these figures. Alternatively, he could take a total transfer value  of £701,797 
(quoted in February  2002).
Mr B first contacted Greystone in early 2002 to discuss the transfer of his OPS. He was initially  
seeking to set up a Self-Invested Personal  Pension (SIPP).
On 22 April 2002, Greystones adviser  (the adviser) emailed Mr B comparing  the OPS  benefits with 
those resulting from a transfer.  He said a transfer  was suitable if Mr B was prepared  to accept  a 
moderate level of investment risk. Having previously  noted  Mr B to be cautious at a meeting  held in 
March 2002, he commented  that due to Mr Bs wish for a secure pension,  he (Mr B) should stay in 
the OPS.
Mr B emailed the adviser in May 2002 indicating he was still interested in transferring from the OPS. 
The adviser  revised his recommendation to transfer  although  a formal  suitability report was yet to be 
provided  the discharge form for the OPS was signed that month. But the transfer value reduced,  
and over the course of several  months Mr B was seeking explanation for this reduction.  An upward 
adjustment was subsequently made to £687,736.
In an email dated 18 September  2002, Mr B told the adviser he still hadnt made  up his mind as to 
whether to transfer. But at a subsequent  meeting with the adviser  on 8 October, it was noted that Mr 
B had decided to transfer for reasons of control of his pension fund, improved death benefits and 
flexibility of income levels.
In summary, other  meeting notes and analysis  documents prepared during the period 2002, made the 
following observations:
Mr B held deferred  benefits in his OPS relating to fifteen years service;
This was a final salary (defined benefit) index-linked occupational pension; 
He was in his mid-fifties  and had normal retirement date of 62 which he wouldve reached in 
mid-2008. And in the transfer  analysis, it was estimated the revalued  pension could be 
£59,180 at this time (2008);
On death before retirement the OPS provided  a widows/ widowers pension  of 50% of GMP 
[Guaranteed Minimum Pension] together with a lump sum of the cash at the date of death  
less the corresponding capital value  of the widows/  widowers GMP... And on death after 
retirement the OPS provided a widows/ widowers pension of 50% and a guarantee that if 
Ref: DRN86838046death occurs  within a five-year  year period, the unpaid instalments would be paid as an 
additional spouses pension or, at the discretion of the Trustees, a lump sum.;
The transfer analysis carried out by Greystone stated The annual  growth rate required [the 
critical yield] under the personal  pension to match existing scheme pension  benefits  is 
9.89%. This was to the OPSs normal  retirement age of 62;
As at June 2002, a net worth statement  showed that Mr B had various shares and 
investments totalling  £75,744, a cash deposit of £3,000 and jointly owned  property valued at 
£340,000.
A fact find was completed and signed by Mr B in April 2002. In response to pre-populated  answers,  
Mr B said he wanted to retire  early  and that he would be happy to accept a lower  pension to achieve 
this. The fact find went  on to note that in respect of Lump Sum Death Benefits Mr B had very little 
life assurance cover  and his dependants could  do with extra sums if this could be arranged. A 
handwritten note by Mr B indicated  that dependents referred  to his wife only.
 
In terms of risk, the fact find noted that Mr B didnt  mind a reasonable  degree of risk in the hope the 
benefits could be higher in retirement. Further, in the sections regarding his attitude to risk, Mr B 
opted for Low and Medium risk. Under the section entitled Priorities, Mr B listed his number 1 
priority as being the security  of my pension  fund. This was followed  by a tax-free lump sum at 
retirement, provision for a spouses pension and a lump sum benefit  upon his death before  retirement. 
He marked  The ability  to retire early as N/A.
In December 2002, Mr B was advised by Greystone  to transfer his OPS to a personal pension. The 
transfer was confirmed  in January 2003. On transfer, the adviser noted that Mr Bs pension funds 
were invested  cautiously  with the split agreed at 30% With Profits, 50% Reserve and 20% Fixed 
Interest.
Within a few days of the transfer, Mr B contacted Greystone. He wanted to reverse the transfer under 
a cooling off period. But he was told by Greystone that if he cancelled this wouldnt mean  he could 
transfer back  into his OPS because this was dependent on the (OPS)  Trustees discretion.
The adviser  wrote to Mr B on 11 February 2003 with a letter covering both Greystones advice and 
addressing Mr Bs concerns  about the transfer.  He confirmed, in his (the advisers) view, the transfer 
was the right course of action for Mr B. Following this letter, Mr B indicated  he was still considering  
whether to try to return to the OPS.  But he confirmed to Greystone  on 21 February, he was 
proceeding with the personal pension  contract. 
The adviser  noted in January 2004, that Mr Bs funds increased by about  5.10% in value  from an 
invested amount  of £681,327 which he said had increased to £716,058 by 15 January  2004.  This is 
when the switch  from the personal  pension to two SIPPs, took place. Subsequently, as noted  above,  
Mr Bs made several complaints to Greystone  over the years.  In respect of the advice he received 
about the OPS transfer to a personal pension, Mr B he didnt think the transfer was suitable for his 
needs.
 
In its response to Mr Bs complaint about the suitability  of transfer  from the OPS, Greystone  said the 
advice it gave  was suitable  based on his particular  circumstances and his low to medium risk profile. 
In summary, Greystone made  the following points:
The file from the time (2002/ 2003) demonstrates that following  lengthy discussions  with Mr B, 
it was clear he expressed a strong preference for greater control, flexibility and the 
opportunity for greater growth,  as well as potentially more favourable spousal benefits;
From the outset Mr B was keen to establish a SIPP (not just transferring  into a personal 
pension). This indicates how strongly he felt about taking control and having  greater input into 
his financial situation in preparing for his retirement;
Mr B was a sophisticated, engaged and experienced investor  he clearly did not simply  
follow the advisers advice given he took the time to thoroughly discuss with the adviser the 
transfer and to question the advantages and risks;
Ref: DRN86838047Mr B was made aware there were risks associated with the search  for greater potential  
rewards. And he understood this and was prepared to accept this.
One of our adjudicators  looked  at this complaint. He concluded  it should be upheld for the following  
reasons:
With a critical yield calculated as being 9.89%, he didnt think  the likely the value of the 
retirement benefits would  be improved by transferring.  And potentially there could have been 
very significant negative effects  to Mr Bs pension  fund;
He didnt  think the advice Mr B was given adequately explained the risk the transfer involved. 
The OPS  provided a guaranteed escalating  pension  for life, whereas the drawdown pension 
figures were based  on the maximum withdrawal allowed.  And based on such a level of 
income being  taken,  there would  be a significant risk, depending on investment return and 
longevity, the fund could be exhausted;
Mr B had limited  other savings to fall back on so the pension represented  his main source of 
income during retirement;
The transfer could not reasonably be seen as meeting Mr Bs risk profile of low to medium 
attitude to risk.
Our adjudicator recommended  to identify the loss that has been suffered  as a result of the advice to 
transfer, Greystone should  undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension review 
guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in October  2017. He also recommended an 
additional sum should  be paid to Mr B of £500 to reflect the trouble and upset hes suffered as a result 
of the effect this advice has had on his retirement planning.
Mr B agreed  with the adjudicators view. Greystone maintained the advice was suitable.  So the matter 
has been passed to me for a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, Im intending  to uphold the complaint for similar  
overall reasons to the adjudicator, but Ive made a slight  change  to how compensation should be 
calculated. Ill explain why.
Mr B had 15 years service  accrued in his OPS. This is significant. His OPS  was an important benefit  
and one which he shouldnt have given up without good reason. From  the transfer summary produced  
by Greystone, his OPS  wouldve provided a significant annual income,  along  with a tax free lump sum 
benefit.
But Greystones illustrations showed that Mr Bs personal pension needed to grow by at least  by 
9.89% to match the same  benefit as his OPS.  This level of growth is a clear indicator of the valuable 
benefits that were being given up. From  the earlier  notes of the Greystone adviser it seems he (the 
adviser) agreed these valuable benefits shouldnt be given  up in Mr Bs case. This changed however, 
when Mr B indicated he wanted more flexibility in how he drew his benefits and for increased death  
benefits to provide for his wife.
Like the adjudicator, Im not aware of any official guidance given by the regulator with regard  to viable 
rates of growth at that time (2002). However,  there are published  discount rates  used for pension 
review loss calculation purposes  which  I think can be used  to give an indication of what rates of 
growth may have been  considered reasonably achievable. Based on the transfer dates and term to 
retirement the rate was 5.9%.
I also note the growth rates used in Greystones illustrations were 5% and 9%. But these  were just 
illustrations and as noted in the analysis form It is important to note that the 5.0% and 9.0%  annual 
growth rate illustrations do not represent the higher and lower limits  of what is achievable since this 
will depend on the actual  future performance of the chosen investment medium. And in a letter  that 
Ref: DRN86838048followed in February 2003, the adviser noted that the cash flow model confirmed that Mr B needed 
investment growth of between 6% and 8% per annum  for the fund to meet his income needs  whilst 
protecting his capital.
So the critical yield of 9.89%  required on transfer was above the highest of the rates used in 
illustrations at the time as well as being what was likely  to be reasonably achievable  as measured 
against the regulators discount  rates. In this context, Im satisfied the transfer wouldve  presented 
significant risks above what Mr B was willing to take.
I say this because although  the adviser said Mr Bs risk profile was low to medium, which he said 
supported the advice to transfer,  elsewhere the same adviser categorised Mr B as cautious. This is 
further evidenced  by Mr B contacting the business within a few days of the transfer seeking  to reverse 
it. As noted by the advisers response in February 2003, Mr B was concerned  about  investment 
risk and the current bad press surrounding pensions in general.  This to me shows that Mr B had a 
fairly low tolerance for risk. Therefore, in my view, although Mr B may have been willing  to accept  
some risks, Im not persuaded he appreciated or was willing to accept  the higher degree  of risk 
involved in transferring  when the critical  yield was this (9.89%)  high. 
Further, in my view,  the objectives Mr B was seeking to achieve didnt justify the risks involved.  I dont 
think the new plan offered  significantly more death benefits than the OPS. I note from the initial 
discussions recorded on 21 April 2002, the adviser  said one of the main  advantages of the OPS was 
it had good widows  benefits. And I can see in a memo from the adviser dated  8 May 2002 he says if 
Mr B is worried about providing for his wife he can take out some life cover. [Mr B] said that he had 
researched this and the cost were approx. £3,000 per annum.
Whilst I accept the sum quoted  for the life cover was relatively high, this needs to be balanced against 
the benefits Mr B was proposing to give up. The loss in his own pension that would result if the 
performance of the personal pension,  didnt  achieve the critical yield shown  above could also have 
been substantial. In my view, this was the most relevant issue to Mr B given that hed marked the 
security of his pension  fund as his number  one priority, and this should  have been highlighted to him 
throughout by the adviser.
The other  objective  Mr B wanted was more flexibility in how he drew his pension. I know Mr B has 
made use of the drawdown facilities now available  to him  his OPS had no such option. But whilst a 
personal pension did offer more flexibility in terms of the drawing down facilities, I dont think this, in 
itself, was sufficient reason to transfer from his final salary pension  scheme. This is because  he was 
giving up the safety of a guaranteed income, which unlike the drawdown  didnt carry the risk of being 
exhausted due to longevity and/ or investment performance. This should  be set against the growth  
rates noted by his adviser needed to maintain his (Mr Bs) standard of living of between 6% and 8%. 
Which did not seem  reasonably achievable based on Mr Bs risk profile.
So in my view the transfer presented a significant risk. Given the critical yield of 9.89% there was an 
appreciable risk that the benefits  payable from the personal pension was likely  to be less than if Mr B 
stayed in his former OPS. Although it was recorded that Mr B accepted a low to medium  degree of 
risk in return for higher  returns,  he also said quite clearly  in the fact find that securing his pension fund 
was a number 1 priority for him.
I can see the risks in regards for the need for growth to be maintained at a particular  rate, were  
highlighted to Mr B prior to the transfer.  But he relied on Greystones advice. Whilst  Mr B may have 
had some understanding of investments, theres no suggestion he was a pensions expert. And its 
clear from his correspondence with the business before  and after the transfer, that he placed  a lot of 
reliance on the advice provided  to him by Greystones  adviser.
In summary, Im satisfied  the transfer presented  a significant risk above what  Mr B shouldve  been 
recommended to take given his particular  appetite for risk. Accordingly,  I dont think Greystone 
shouldve advised  Mr B to transfer his OPS. And Im not satisfied that transferring  away from the OPS  
was suitable or in Mr Bs best interests. I think his number  one objective   to ensure the security of his 
Ref: DRN86838049pension fund  could have  been achieved  by staying  in his OPS.  The figures provided for the critical 
yield necessary to match  the OPS benefits demonstrate how valuable the benefits were. And I think if 
Mr B had been made aware of the scale of the benefits he was giving up by transferring,  its likely he 
wouldve kept his OPS.
putting things right
My provisional  decision  is that Im intending to uphold the complaint, and that a fair and reasonable 
outcome would be for Greystone to put Mr B, as far as possible,  into the position he would  now be in 
but for the unsuitable advice. In my final decision, I will be making the following recommendation.
Greystone must undertake  a redress calculation  in line with the regulators pension review guidance  
as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in October 2017.  
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most  recent 
financial assumptions  published. In accordance with the regulators expectations,  this should  be 
undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider  promptly following  receipt of notification  of Mr Bs 
acceptance of the final decision which  will follow.
Greystone may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Bs 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme  (SERPS or S2P).  These details 
should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which  will take into account 
the impact of leaving  the occupational scheme on Mr Bs SERPS/S2P entitlement.
Such a calculation using the regulators pension  review  guidance will involve establishing  any past 
and future  loss. The past loss will involve comparing the actual tax-free cash and net income 
payments Mr B received  from his SIPPs with the notional tax-free  cash and net income Mr B could 
have had from his OPS  if hed retired from that same date, from the date those payments began  up to 
the date of this decision.  Each  tranche  of SIPP payments will need  to be adjusted so that they reflect 
the proportion of the total payments made into the SIPP  which derived  from the OPS transfer. More 
information about this is below.
The future loss would usually involve  comparing  those funds Mr B still has in his pension today  (again 
proportioned for the transfer received from the OPS) with the notional  value of the future income he 
would now have been receiving from his OPS. But as noted above the advice to transfer out of his 
personal pension into SIPPs on the subsequent advice of Greystone in January 2004,  and to make  
subsequent investments with the SIPPs,  are the subject of separate complaints. So in order to place a 
value on Mr Bs personal pension  for calculation purposes that is independent of the subsequent 
advice to transfer to SIPPs and make  further investments,  a fair value  should be determined by 
increasing the actual value transferred out of the personal  pension  in January 2004 up to the present 
day using the following benchmark:
-For half the investment: FTSE  UK Private Investors Income  Total Return  Index; 
-For the other half: average rate from fixed rate bonds.
This will allow the loss that has been suffered as a result  of the transfer to be determined separately 
from the loss that resulted from the way Mr Bs SIPP  plans were  invested (including  the fact that 
additional contributions were  later placed  into the SIPP).
When using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Greystone should use the monthly  average rate 
for the fixed rate bonds  with 12 to 17 months maturity as published by the Bank of England. The rate 
for each month  is that shown as at the end of the previous month.  Apply those  rates to the investment 
on an annually compounded basis.
Why is this benchmark suitable?
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure  for someone who wanted 
to achieve a reasonable  return  without risk to his capital.
Ref: DRN868380410The FTSE  UK Private Investors Income total return  index  (prior to 1 March 2017,  the FTSE 
WMA Stock Market  Income total return index)  is made up of a range of indices with different 
asset classes, mainly UK equities  and government bonds.  Its a fair measure for someone 
who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
I consider that Mr Bs risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared to take a 
small level of risk to attain  his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 combination would 
reasonably put Mr B into that position. It does  not mean  that Mr B would  have invested 50% 
of his money in a fixed rate bond  and 50% in some kind of index tracker investment. Rather, I 
consider this a reasonable  compromise that broadly  reflects the sort of return Mr B could have  
obtained from investments  suited to his objective and risk attitude.
This benchmark should be used to calculate two fair values over the period from January  2004 to the 
date of my final decision:
1.For the total value of Mr Bs pension, taking into account all the further contributions 
subsequently made, and all the withdrawals of tax-free cash  and gross income.
2.For the value which was transferred  out of the personal pension  in January 2004, as this 
relates to the original  sum transferred from the OPS.  
At each point Mr B drew down further tranches  of tax-free cash  or income,  the total fair value in 1) 
must be compared with the value relating to the OPS transfer in 2). This should  be used to calculate  
the proportion of the total tax-free cash and gross  income  withdrawals which  derive from the OPS  
transfer. Those proportioned payments are what should  be deducted to enable the fair value in 2) to 
be calculated up to the date of my final decision.
The net amount of those proportioned tax-free cash and income withdrawals  are, in turn, what should 
be used in determining  the past loss above. 
If the above  redress  calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should  if possible be paid into 
Mr Bs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. 
The compensation  shouldnt  be paid into the pension  plan if it would  conflict  with any existing 
protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection  or allowance implications,  it should be 
paid directly to Mr B as a lump sum after making  a notional deduction to allow  for income tax that 
would otherwise have been paid if Mr B had been able to enjoy the higher income from the OPS in 
future. 25% of the loss would be tax-free and 75% would have been  taxed according to his likely 
income tax rate in retirement. Given the significant level of income the OPS would  have provided  I 
consider its a reasonable  assumption that Mr B would  have been paying 40% income tax on the extra  
pension benefits  represented by this loss. So making a notional deduction of 30% overall from the 
loss adequately  reflects  this. 
Mr B may consider  hes able to demonstrate that a part of the lost pension  benefits  might have  been 
taxed at the lower rate of 20%.  To the extent that this affects the result  (because the total 
compensation may exceed £150,000 and Greystone is not obliged  to pay Mr B more compensation 
than £150,000), I would expect Greystone to consider appropriate evidence provided  by Mr B as to 
his marginal tax rate on this lost income. 
The compensation  resulting  from the loss assessment must where  possible be paid to Mr B within 90 
days of the date Greystone  receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision  which will be 
issued following this provisional  decision.  Further interest must be added to the compensation  amount 
at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement for any 
time, in excess  of 90 days, that it takes to pay him this compensation.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean  that the actual time taken to 
settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any period of time where 
Ref: DRN868380411the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data from DWP may be added to the 
90 day period in which  interest  wont apply.
I appreciate that Mr B has suffered a number of serious  health conditions  since the advice was given. 
Whilst I acknowledge that dealing  with these matters  has come at a difficult  time for Mr B, I agree with 
the amount awarded by the adjudicator of £500 is fair in terms of the distress  and inconvenience  
caused to him as a result of the effect this advice has had on his retirement  planning. This payment of 
£500 does, in any case, form part of the maximum  £150,000 binding award  I can make.
my provisional  decision
Where I uphold  a complaint,  I can award  fair compensation to be paid by a financial business  of up to 
£150,000, plus any interest and/or costs that I think are appropriate. If I think that fair compensation  is 
more than £150,000, I may recommend that the business pays the balance.
Provisional decision and award: I intend to uphold the complaint. I think that fair compensation 
should be calculated  as set out above. My decision is that Greystone Financial Service Limited should 
pay Mr B the amount produced by that calculation along with the payment of £500 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused   up to a maximum of £150,000. I also award interest at 8% per year simple 
from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess  of 90 days, that it 
takes to pay him this compensation  subject to the further condition above.
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation is more  than 
£150,000, I will recommend that Greystone Financial Services Limited  pays  Mr B the balance 
including the interest as set out above on that balance. 
This recommendation will not be part of my determination or award in the final decision.  Greystone 
Financial Services  Limited doesnt have to do what I recommend. Its unlikely  that Mr B can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr B may want  to get independent legal advice before 
deciding whether  to accept this decision.  
Yolande McLeod
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8683804