K821x#15complaint
Mrs Gs complaint is about a fee for mortgage  advice from Mortgage  Advice  Bureau  Limited  
(MAB). The fee was not payable at the time of the advice because she took out a life 
assurance policy alongside the mortgage,  but MAB has now asked for the money because 
she cancelled the policy.
background
In 2016 Mrs G approached MAB for assistance in re-mortgaging and transferring equity in 
her former marital  home.  Alongside the mortgage, MAB sold Mrs G a life assurance policy. It 
didnt charge Mrs G a fee for the mortgage advice because she took out the life policy. This 
was because it received  commission  from that sale. As long as Mrs G kept the policy going 
for four years, she didnt  have to pay for the mortgage advice. Mrs G signed an 
Arrangement Fee Deferment 1 form, which  explained  this arrangement.  Mrs G says it was 
just one of many forms she was asked  to sign and nothing about this arrangement  was 
explained to her.
A fact find document was completed before advice was given to Mrs G. It detailed  the 
mortgage Mrs G was to be recommended; one with a high-street  lender with a fixed interest 
rate product  linked to it for two years. The fees detailed alongside  this mortgage showed a 
procuration fee of £353.60  and an application  fee of £195.00.
MAB then issued a recommendation  report for the life policy. In the appendix attached  to it, it 
stated the adviser  had provided a copy of the arrangement fee deferment Mrs G signed. It 
gave no details of the content  of the document.
Two mortgage recommendation reports were also produced  for Mrs G. These detailed the 
discussions with Mrs G and her needs  and requirements. They  included  an explanation of 
why a shorter term was selected. This being  because Mrs G didnt want  to tie herself into 
anything for any longer  in case her circumstances changed again and she would need/want  
to look at moving home. There is no mention  of the fee waiver arrangement in these 
documents.
The arrangement fee deferment form, in summary,  documented:
A fee of 1% of the loan amount was payable on completion of the loan;
£195 of the 1% fee was payable  on completion of the loan application;
Payment of the remainder of the 1% fee would be deferred  if life assurance policies were  
arranged;
The deferred part of the fee would be waived altogether if 48 monthly  premium  payments 
were made to any life assurance policies taken;
If 48 monthly premiums were not made  to the life assurance policies, part or all of the 
commission for those policies would be reclaimed by the life assurance  provider.  As 
such, the lesser  of the amount of reclaimed commission or the outstanding 1% fee (less 
arrangement fee paid) would become immediately payable to MAB;
Interest on the debt would be charged  from the date it became payable  to the date it was 
paid at 4% above a named high-street  banks base rate. 
Mrs G signed the document on 6 September 2016.
Ref: DRN85914422The mortgage key facts document Mrs G received at the time of the sale confirmed  the 
lender would pay MAB £495.60 in cash or benefits if the re-mortgage completed. Section 8 
of this document also detailed:
8. What  fees must you pay?Fee Amount
Fees payable to [lender]
You pay:
Funds Transfer Fee. This fee is payable when your mortgage completes.  This fee is not refundable.
Account Fee. A Mortgage Account Fee for the provision and general administration of your mortgage.  This 
fee can be paid on completion or deferred until the end of your mortgage. If you defer the payment  this fee 
will not increase. This fee is payable when your mortgage completes.  This fee is not refundable.£35.00
£225.00
Other Fees
Legal Fee which is payable  to your conveyancer  when your mortgage  completes. The amount shown here is 
an estimate for the work carried  out by the conveyancer  for [lender]  for looking into the legal  title. The total 
charge to yourself  will be higher as it will also include  work for yourself alone. This fee is not refundable.  The 
figure quoted  here is an estimate  total costs of the legal  work may be higher.
Broker Application Fee which is payable to DB Roberts Mortgage Services Ltd during the application process. 
This fee is not refundable.
You may have to pay other taxes or costs in addition to any fees shown here.£184.75
£195.00
The total fee is up to 1% (less any amounts already  charged), a proportion of which  may be deferred subject 
to the conditions laid out in the Arrangement Fee Deferment form
Following the mortgage  completing, MAB  sent Mrs G a letter enclosing her completion  
statement. It said:
If you have arranged any protection or insurance policies with us, please ensure you read 
and understand  the contents of the Fee Waiver  Agreement and retain this for your records. 
Please note that part of your fee may have  been waived subject to Clause 4 of the 
Agreement.
It doesnt appear a further copy of the agreement was enclosed with the letter.
In early 2018 Mrs Gs financial situation deteriorated  and she needed to reduce her 
outgoings. She cancelled the life policy and replaced it with a cheaper  one. MAB  wrote to 
Mrs G and informed her, as she had cancelled the policy, she owed it £845. This amounted 
to 1% of the mortgage advance less the £195 application fee Mrs G had already paid.
Mrs G complained to MAB  about its demand for payment.  She said she hadnt been  aware  
she was tied in for 48 months, she thought  it was only 12 months.  She explained that at the 
time of the advice  she was going  through a very difficult marriage breakdown  and feels it 
wasnt made clear enough  she was tied into the policy for 48 months.  
MAB didnt  uphold her complaint about the agreement not being fully explained.  It said 
Mrs G had signed the form, which detailed the agreement  she was entering  into. MAB  was 
satisfied the agreement clearly documented the agreement and the remainder of the 
mortgage advice  fee would only be waived  if she kept the life policy in force for 48 months. It 
said it would  expect clients to read any documents it gave them  before signing.
Ref: DRN85914423However, MAB also confirmed it had received  some  commission for the sale of Mrs Gs 
policy - £381.68  and so reduced the amount  it requested  from her to £463.32 (£845 less 
the commission received  for the life policy).
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint and recommended  the fee was waived. 
Following the adjudicator  issuing his view on the complaint MAB asked the adviser for his 
comments about the complaint. He said the fee deferment structure would have initially been  
outlined to the customer in the original fact find appointment. He would then have 
re-confirmed it in the mortgage  sign up appointment when the actual forms were signed. He 
would have then confirmed it again when  the protection appointment was carried out. It was 
said this was the standard procedure when the agreement was used. 
MAB didnt  accept the adjudicators view.  It highlighted  the advisers comments  on how he 
would usually explain the fee deferment  arrangement. It pointed  out Mrs Gs comments 
showed she knew there was some  form of tie-in. It also said Mrs G was reminded about  
reading and understanding the terms and conditions when she received the completion 
letter. It also highlighted the last box in the key facts document, detailed above,  stating  fees 
up to 1% of the advance  amount could  be charged.
In summary,  MAB said in this case there was enough evidence  to show  Mrs G should  
reasonably have been aware of the fee deferment  and the fee before, during and after the 
sale. As such, it didnt  consider the complaint should  be upheld.
The adjudicator remained of the view the complaint  should be upheld. Again  MAB didnt 
agree. It provided further documentation,  which included a checklist  completed by the 
adviser which said The amount of your professional fees and when they would be charged  
were clearly explained to the client. Mrs G signed this document  alongside the adviser and it 
was dated 6 September 2016.  In addition a consent/authority form was enclosed, again 
signed by Mrs G on 6 September  2016. MAB said it was concerned about  the assessment  of 
the case because  it thought it hadnt  been looked at on the evidence, but rather a previous 
ombudsmans decision had dictated  the stance  taken.
In relation to Mrs Gs statement that the fee agreement was buried  in a pile of documents  for 
her to sign, MAB said it could show there wasnt a pile of documents. It attached two 
documents, which it said were the only ones Mrs G was asked to sign alongside the fee 
agreement. It considers  the wording of the fee agreement  is clear and Mrs G should  
reasonably have been aware of the terms and conditions of it. 
MAB then went on to consider what Mrs Gs options were in 2016. It concluded these were: 
1.Pay the fee in full.
2.Defer  the fee/possibly avoid it altogether by taking protection policies and signing  the 
waiver agreement.
3.Seek advice elsewhere.
MAB didnt  comment further  on what its conclusions were in relation  to Mrs Gs options. 
However, it said Mrs G would have clearly been aware of the fee deferment. MABs further 
comments and additional information again didnt change the adjudicators  view of the 
complaint. 
Ref: DRN85914424I considered this complaint and issued my provisional decision on 14 May 2019. In that 
document I explained  my conclusions and reasons for reaching them.  Below is an excerpt  of 
my provisional decision.
I think the evidence  indicates that the fee waiver agreement was discussed  with Mrs G 
before the advice  process started. However, I am not persuaded given her recollections she 
entirely understood it and retained knowledge  of its key features. I would also question 
signing up a consumer to such  an arrangement  before it has been  decided what they 
needed and required. There is the distinct possibility a consumer could feel they didnt have 
the choice of declining a recommendation for life cover because they had signed to agree to 
the commission from any such  policy covering the cost of all the advice being given.
Beyond that I have concerns about  the information  contained in the key features information. 
The last section of the fees section of the document (above) should, I assume, be titled  as 
fees payable to MAB. However, it doesnt  say that. Based on what  the document says, I 
think it would  be reasonable a consumer  would expect all of the fees to be deducted from 
the 1% charge, rather than just the application  fee. Whilst that isnt what  the fee waiver  
agreement says, it would at the very least cause confusion over what was payable to the 
broker.
In this particular  case I am also concerned Mrs G wasnt sure about what her future held. 
Due to this, she asked  for a two year fixed interest rate on the mortgage, rather than a longer 
term. Where a consumer is concerned about  being  tied in to an interest rate because there 
have been significant changes to their lives and there might  be more, I would question  the 
how it could be considered sensible to then tie that consumer into a fee waiver  agreement 
they may not be able to maintain.
Mortgage broker fees are set in various  different ways and MAB is not alone in setting the 
fees based on a percentage of the mortgage advance  arranged. However, that was not an 
inconsiderable amount  on a mortgage  of over £100,000. There are brokers  who would have 
given mortgage  advice for a fixed fee of considerably less than the 1% came to in this case.  
It is clear Mrs G wanted to keep costs as low as possible. So I think  it likely if she was given 
the option of avoiding paying any fee at all, she would have taken that option. However, as I 
have said above,  what she understood the arrangement was and what the consequences of 
not abiding by it were, is debatable. 
I am not convinced Mrs G fully understood what she was signing up to or the consequences 
of breaking the agreement. In addition,  I am not persuaded even suggesting a consumer 
who is uncertain about what her future will look like should sign up for a four-year 
agreement, when she didnt feel she was able to commit to that length of time on a fixed 
interest rate, was appropriate.  
Overall, I am satisfied this complaint should be upheld as I dont consider Mrs G understood 
or was suited to the agreement she was signed up to. As such, I have to consider what 
appropriate redress is. 
When considering  redress we aim to place a consumer in the same position they would have 
been in had the error or omission on the part of the business not occurred. I am satisfied 
Mrs G wouldnt  have signed up to the fee waiver agreement tying her in for four years or 
chosen to pay fees of over £1,000 for advice. I think  she would have sought advice 
Ref: DRN85914425elsewhere. That said, I think it likely Mrs G would still have sought  advice from a broker,  so 
she would  still have  paid a fee of some description for the service she required.
Based on the cases I have seen involving broker advice, there is a huge range of potential 
fees Mrs G could have  been charged, calculated in different ways. The fixed  fee 
arrangements I have seen  range from £200,  plus arrangement fee, upwards. I cant  know  for 
certain which broker Mrs G would have  sought  help from and exactly  what  she would have 
paid. I think it reasonable  she would have  shopped  around, so its likely she would have paid 
at least £200.
Provisionally, I would be inclined to say it is not unreasonable for MAB to receive a fee for 
the mortgage advice, but it should be reduced  to £200 (not including the arrangement fee). 
However, in this case I also think that sum should also be waived in the circumstances. 
As I said above, I am not satisfied Mrs G understood the agreement she had entered into. 
Her own submissions show she was surprised when she received a demand for over £800  
from MAB  after cancelling the life assurance  policy. Given she did this at a time when her 
finances had deteriorated considerably because she was no longer receiving child support 
from her ex-husband,  receipt of a demand for money would have been very worrying  and, 
from her submissions, upsetting. I think MAB should waive the amount Mrs G would have 
paid out for broker support of her mortgage  arrangements in compensation of the worry and 
upset the situation caused her.
Both Mrs G and MAB  acknowledged receipt  of the provisional decision. Mrs G had nothing  
further to add. MAB said the evidence doesnt match the decision and my conclusions  were 
not ones that could  be reached by a reasonable person. It didnt expand on why it thought 
this. It stated there was nothing wrong  with the advice. It commented  Mrs G had claimed the 
policy was no longer affordable because she was no longer receiving child maintenance, but 
that income hadnt been used in the calculations because it wasnt being  paid under  a court  
order.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments from the outset, including MABs  
recent submissions,  to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. 
Whilst MAB  has said my conclusions dont match with the evidence available,  it hasnt 
explained why it believes this. Having reconsidered  all of the evidence again, I am still 
satisfied Mrs G didnt understand the fee waiver  agreement  shed  entered into. Nor was it 
appropriate to tie her into an arrangement for longer than she had confidence her 
circumstances would  remain  financially stable. Had she understood the arrangement 
recommended to her, I consider it more likely than not she would have sought out advice on 
a fixed fee basis  with no tie-ins, so the fee it could charge should be reduced appropriately.
I also consider the business caused Mrs G upset and worry, when it demanded settlement of 
a not inconsiderable  broker fee. I remain persuaded MAB should waive the remainder broker  
fee to compensate her for the effect  its error  had on Mrs G.
Ref: DRN85914426my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and order  Mortgage  Advice  Bureau  Limited  to 
waive the mortgage broking fee. Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am 
required to ask Mrs G to accept or reject  my decision before 21 July 2019. 
Derry Baxter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8591442