K822xcomplaint
Miss M complains that she was given unsuitable investment advice by Futurity Financial 
Services Limited (the business), to surrender  her existing  investment bond and invest  in a 
new one. 
In summary  she says:
She was given no clear explanation. 
She wasnt provided with a suitability report, or key features document (KFD) and 
wasnt advised about the 2% set-up  fees.  She feels  this was just a fee generating 
exercise with no clear benefit to her. 
She wasnt advised that she would incur a tax liability, only that she wouldnt be 
penalised for cashing in her investment.  
She was later advised to take out a £15,000  pension fund to try and avoid paying an 
estimated tax liability of £18,978.  
background 
In my provisional decision of 21 January 2019,  a copy  of which  is attached and forms part of 
this, my final decision, I said I was minded to uphold  the complaint.  In summary, I said:  
The new bond  appears to be the same, other  than the risk factor,  which doesnt appear to be 
suitable. So its possible it was a churn   that is advice to change to a similar product that 
provides no clear benefit to the customer but allows the business to earn commission   
which is primarily what Miss M has suggested the adviser did. 
Im conscious not all cases,  where  there is advice to change  to a similar  investment, involve 
churning. An adviser can have good reasons for advising a change even into a similar 
investment. But in this instance, the old bond matched her objectives and so there needed to 
be strong reasons  for the recommending surrender and reinvestment, given the additional  
charges. Im not persuaded that there were such reasons to recommend encashing the bond 
and despite what  the business  says I dont think the advice to reinvest in a new bond  was 
suitable in light of the overall circumstances.
By way of redress I said:
The business should compare the value of her existing bond at the date of surrender, with 
the nominal value of her old bond at that time, if she had not surrendered it. This value may 
include any market value  adjustments,  annual  and terminal bonuses  which  would have been 
applied to her bond.  If the value of her old bond  would have been  higher, the business  
should pay the difference between the two sums, and add 8% simple interest per annum to 
this amount from the date of surrender of her new bond to the date of settlement of this 
complaint. 
Futurity Financial Services Limited  should  also pay: 
The reasonable cost of advice  to reinvest her money, subject to the production of an 
invoice. 
Pay any outstanding tax remaining after Miss M has invested  £15,000  into her 
pension. 
£250 compensation for any trouble and upset caused. 
Ref: DRN83847972The business responded and accepted  my provisional decision.  
Miss M also responded  and provided evidence of what she says is the actual tax liability. In 
summary she said:
The Certificate of Chargeable Gain (CCG)   when the bond was encashed  shows  a 
gain of £79,822 and of these, £15,965 in tax, paid in January 2018. 
The tax calculation for the year 2017-18 shows she had to pay £22,544 by January 
2019 which she paid.  
The actual tax calculation shows  that she had to pay 40% tax on the £79,822 which  
is £31,928. 
Her accountant explained that paying £15,000  into a pension  fund that she doesnt 
need or want wouldnt have prevented her from having to pay this amount in tax.
Having considered the additional evidence, I thought the business should pay the following 
redress:
The reasonable cost of advice  to reinvest her money, subject to the production of an 
invoice. 
The tax liability paid by Miss M as a result of encashing the bond,  subject  to the 
production of proof of liability and payment. 
£250 compensation for any trouble and upset caused.
I gave the business an opportunity to respond  and in summary it said:
It maintained that at no time did Miss M say she was receiving more income, had she 
done so it wouldnt  have advised her to fully encash the bond. 
Based  on the information the advice  was suitable. It was only after the tax liability  
that she mentioned  the extra income. Its not fair the business  is now liable. 
If she hadnt encashed her bond she wouldnt have  been able to take the £14,000  out 
which she didnt reinvest and has the benefit of. 
Miss M should be under a duty to mitigate  her loss. And putting £15,000 into a 
pension wouldnt have  disadvantaged her. It was a viable option for her without an 
adverse effect  on her. 
Whilst Miss M has a choice, its not fair that shes chosen to make  her position worse, 
when the pension option was open to her and still probably is. The business  
shouldnt have  to pay for this now. 
It has given a list of cases, where  the consumers  were  required to mitigate their loss. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter  has been passed to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I still uphold this complaint. And having considered the responses to my 
provisional decision, I still think the business is responsible for the outstanding tax liability  
incurred by Miss M, as evidenced by her CCG, as a result of its advice to encash  the bond.   
Ref: DRN83847973Otherwise Ive covered  the points I consider to be relevant to my decision and therefore I 
dont feel it necessary to go over the points again.  
It seems  clear  that Miss M incurred a large tax liability at the point of surrender that she 
wouldnt have otherwise incurred at that time. Im satisfied that Miss M would have kept her 
bond otherwise.  
Ive always maintained that the business was responsible for the tax liability. I also said in 
light of the business' point, that Miss M had a duty to mitigate  the tax liability  by putting  
money into a pension scheme.  But this was only if there was a viable option for reducing  the 
tax liability without any adverse effect on her. 
I note Miss M sought advice from her accountant  and decided against paying  into a pension  
plan that she didnt need or want, or gifting the money. I also note that she was advised she 
would have to pay the tax even if she paid into a pension.  In  the circumstances I dont think 
I can blame Miss M for choosing to pay the tax liability, after getting  advice from her 
accountant. Im persuaded that shes acted reasonably. 
In the circumstances the liability  is still with the business, and despite what  it says,  I think it 
should pay the full amount on the CCG.  I dont think the business  is entitled to offset any 
amount that Miss M might have  been able to pay towards a pension plan.    
It would be unusual for us to make a deduction for failing to mitigate  in the circumstances, 
unless perhaps  the original money  was in a pension, and thats where  wed expect it to go 
back to. 
Im not persuaded to ask the business  to pay £31,928 because I cant  safely  say that Miss M 
might not have been liable to pay some tax in future, and its not possible to know what her 
future financial circumstances  are likely to be. 
I note the other cases the business has referred to, but ombudsmen  are not automatically 
bound by the decisions of other ombudsmen and cases  have to be decided  on their own 
facts. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, and in my provisional  decision,  my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint.  
I instruct Futurity Financial Services Limited to compare the value of Miss Ms existing bond 
at the date of surrender, with the nominal value of her old bond  at that time, if she had not 
surrendered it. This value  may include any market value adjustments, annual  and terminal  
bonuses which would  have been applied to her bond. If the value of her old bond would 
have been higher, the business should  pay the difference  between  the two sums, and add 
8% simple  interest per annum to this amount from the date of surrender of her new bond to 
the date of settlement of this complaint. 
Futurity Financial Services Limited  should  also pay: 
The reasonable cost of advice  to reinvest her money, subject to the production of an 
invoice. 
Ref: DRN83847974The tax liability paid by Miss M, as set out in the CCG, as a result of encashing the 
bond, subject  to the production of proof  of liability and payment. 
£250 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 April 2019.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN83847975COPY  OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Miss M complains that she was given  unsuitable investment advice by Futurity Financial Services 
Limited (the business), to surrender her existing  investment bond and invest in a new one. 
In summary she says:
She was given no clear explanation. 
She wasnt provided with a suitability  report, or key features document (KFD) and wasnt 
advised about  the 2% set-up fees.  She feels this was just a fee generating  exercise with no 
clear benefit  to her. 
She wasnt advised that she would incur a tax liability,  only that she wouldnt be penalised  for 
cashing in her investment.   
She was later advised  to take out a £15,000 pension fund to try and avoid paying an 
estimated tax liability of £18,978.  
background
In early 2018, Miss M was advised to surrender her existing investment bond and invest with a 
different provider. It was recorded that Miss M received £19,980 pension income a year, plus 5% from 
her investment bond. 
The business  says no other income  details were provided or recorded  but some time was spent 
discussing Miss Ms existing bond  and its performance over the last five years. And that she asked if 
there were any better products out there, with a view to better returns  and charges  to research  the 
market to see if you could possibly get a better return on your investment.  
The business  rejected the complaint. In summary  it said:
Miss M signed the documentation  confirming her income details, which allowed  a significant 
increase before tax would  be due.  
The suitability  report confirmed that she was provided  the KFD and illustration, and told 
please ensure you have read the documents carefully. 
The suitability  report made clear the details of the fees charged.  In the remuneration section it 
said: Our firm will receive initial  commission of £6,000. Our firm will also receive a 1% fund 
based renewal  per annum. 
The KFD and the Adviser Fee Authorisation  (AFA) which Miss M signed repeated the 
information regarding fees and charges.    
It has found no evidence that Miss M was ill-advised or that she wasnt given the correct  
documentation. 
It wasnt aware of any additional income  and was only able to advise on the available 
information. Therefore  its not liable  for the additional tax liability. 
If Miss M wasnt sure about anything or didnt understand  the process she was free to ask the 
business for clarification.  
It was only after she invested in the new bond and received a chargeable  event certificate 
(CES) from her old bond  provider that a meeting was arranged in February  2018, and only at 
this point did she disclose an additional income  of £20,635. 
Had the business known  about this, before advising  her to encash her existing  bond, she 
would have  been  advised about  the consequences of the full encashment  of the bond.  
Its accountant confirmed that the approximate tax due would  be £18,978 and advised  Miss M 
to either donate £15,000 to charity or contribute £15,000 into her pension in order to reduce 
her tax liability.    
Ref: DRN83847976It confirmed that whilst  she has sufficient pension provision and is no longer working,  any 
individual can continue to contribute to a pension and receive tax relief at their marginal  rate 
of tax up to the age of 75.  
One of our investigators considered the complaint  but thought  it should be upheld.  In summary she 
said: 
The business failed  to meet its responsibility to recommend a suitable product.  
The adviser  had a responsibility to explain  the advantages and disadvantages of cashing in 
the existing bond and taking out another, but didnt  fulfil this. 
If Miss M had been advised properly she was unlikely to have surrendered her existing bond.   
The recommendation doesnt appear to be in Miss Ms best interests.  
oAlthough there  wasnt  an exit fee there was a 2% set-up fee, and tax liability.
oThere were  no guarantees that the recommendation  was likely to perform  better. 
oThe recommendation was unsuitable because it involved Miss M taking  a greater risk. 
The adviser  had a duty to establish Miss Ms correct circumstances before giving advice and 
so is now liable to cover Miss Ms tax liability. 
To put Miss M in the position she would have been, but for the unsuitable advice the business 
should:
oCompare the surrender  value of the new bond with how much the old bond would 
have been worth, if there is a loss pay the difference.
oPay any tax that Miss M incurred.
oRefund the set-up fee charged. 
oPay for the cost of financial advice  subject to the production of an invoice.
oPay £150  compensation  for trouble  and upset.  
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review.  
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Having done so, subject  to any further submissions provisionally Im minded to uphold  this complaint.  
Im not satisfied the advice was reasonable  in the circumstances. 
This was a recommendation to cancel  an existing investment and re-invest the proceeds in a different 
product, and so the adviser had a clear  responsibility to actively consider and explain  the potential  
advantages and any disadvantages  of doing this which  I dont think  was done.  In other words  Im not 
persuaded that Miss M was given  sufficient  information that explained the risks involved.
The new bond appears to be the same, other than the risk factor, which doesnt appear to be suitable. 
So its possible it was a churn  that is advice to change to a similar product  that provides no clear 
benefit to the customer but allows the business to earn commission  which is primarily what  Miss M 
has suggested the adviser did. 
Im conscious  not all cases, where there is advice  to change to a similar investment, involve churning. 
An adviser can have good reasons for advising a change even  into a similar investment. But in this 
instance, the old bond matched her objectives and so there needed  to be strong reasons  for 
recommending surrender  and reinvestment,  given the additional charges. Im not persuaded  that 
there were such  reasons  to recommend encashing  the bond and despite what the business says I 
dont think the advice to reinvest in a new bond was suitable in light of the overall circumstances. 
If after meeting with the adviser Miss M was unhappy with the performance of her bond,  the advisor 
should have explored other more cost effective  options  including changing  the investment mix before 
Ref: DRN83847977recommending the surrender of this bond. Even if the new bond was likely to potentially perform 
better, Ive seen no evidence that she was likely  to recoup her costs. 
Its not clear whats happened in relation to the recording of Miss Ms income.  Despite what the 
business says I think its unlikely she was aware  of the incorrect sum in the documents. In the 
circumstances I think the business is responsible for the tax liability, but I also think Miss M has a duty 
to take reasonable steps to reduce the outstanding amount. I understand that shes happy  to 
contribute £15,000 to her pension  plan as a way of mitigating the liability.   
In the circumstances the business hasnt persuaded me that its advice would  have been any different 
even if it had been aware her income was higher.
Im mindful of Miss Ms comments, but despite what she says, on balance I think its more likely (than 
not) the suitability  report, KFD and illustration  were provided to her. I note Miss M is adamant she 
didnt receive any of these documents and I may be wrong about this. But I think  its unlikely that not 
one single one of these  documents would have been provided to her. Im also satisfied that a number 
of these documents including the KFD and the suitability report made  clear  the commission and 
annual fees. But given the redress Im going to propose I dont think this issue matters in the overall 
scheme of things.  
On the face of the evidence, I cant safely say that Miss M should have been advised to move the 
funds within her bond  or surrender it or reinvest the money in an equally-suitable product with better  
investment potential. Nor can I safely say what  she would have done, if given appropriate advice. 
In the circumstances I think compensation should be based on the value of her old bond if she had 
kept it, until the date she chooses to surrender the new bond. The compensation should also include 
any tax that Miss M might be liable to pay after investing £15,000 in her pension, and the reasonable 
cost of advice about her options moving  forward.  
  
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, subject to any further submissions I provisionally  uphold  this 
complaint. 
I instruct Futurity Financial Services Limited to compare the value of her existing bond at the date of 
surrender, with the nominal value of her old bond at that time, if she had not surrendered  it. This value  
may include any market  value adjustments, annual  and terminal bonuses which  would have been 
applied to her bond. If the value of her old bond  would have been higher, the business  should  pay the 
difference between the two sums,  and add 8% simple interest per annum to this amount from the date 
of surrender of her new bond to the date of settlement  of this complaint. 
Futurity Financial Services Limited should also pay: 
The reasonable cost of advice to reinvest her money, subject to the production of an invoice. 
Pay any outstanding tax remaining after Miss M has invested £15,000 into her pension.  
£250  compensation for any trouble and upset caused. 
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8384797