K820x#14complaint
In summary  Mrs E believes  that ReAssure Limited  mis-sold her a whole of life and critical 
illness policy. She believed she was being  sold a savings plan and is unhappy that she will 
receive half the amount she has paid in. 
background
Mrs E was sold a whole of life and critical illness policy in 1993. The sum assured on death 
was £60,000 and £50,000 in the event of her being diagnosed with a critical illness.  The 
personal illustration from the time of the sale shows a 25 year term and a monthly  premium  
of £30.
ReAssure recorded  details of Mrs Es financial  circumstances  on a fact find document. She 
was 30, married and had some cash savings. Her 1, 2 and 3 objectives were  recorded as 
protection with saving  shown as number 4.
When the term of the policy came  to an end, Mrs E realised  that the value of the policy 
wasnt what she was expecting. So she complained to ReAssure.  It looked  into her concerns 
and told her that it had looked at the suitability of the plan and didnt think it had been 
mis-sold. Mrs E disagreed.
One of our investigators  looked into Mrs Es concerns. She explained why she didnt think 
ReAssure had done anything wrong. As Mrs E didnt agree the case has been passed to me 
for review.
I issued my provisional decision explaining why I wasnt upholding the complaint on 
11 February 2019. In response Mrs E said she wasnt happy  with the decision and thought  it 
was unfair.  She didnt  provide any new evidence  or arguments. ReAssure said it had nothing 
further to add. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I remain  of the opinion 
that Mrs Es complaint  shouldnt be upheld. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
The crux of Mrs Es complaint is that she thought  she had taken out a savings plan rather 
than life cover. And together with the value of the policy being about half of what she has 
paid in, she thinks the policy was mis-sold to her. 
It doesnt appear to be in dispute that ReAssure advised Mrs E to take out the policy.  So it 
needed to take reasonable steps  to ensure that the policy was suitable  for her. 
Mrs Es policy was sold over 25 years ago. I accept  that what  she has said is her honest  
recollection of what she wanted to do and what she was told at the time of the sale.  But I 
also need to take into account  the other evidence available to me, including any 
documentation from the time of the sale. And given the length of time thats elapsed since 
the policy was sold, I also have to take into account  the possibility that Mrs E may not 
accurately remember what was discussed and agreed when the policy  was sold.
Ref: DRN89704842As Ive summarised above, ReAssure completed  a fact find document  recording information  
about Mrs E. The scanned copy it has provided  isnt very good quality. But it is possible to 
make out some information  on it. And it looks like Mrs E signed  the fact find form which 
suggests to me that she is likely to have reviewed and confirmed what was recorded on it.
It does appear that Mrs Es priority  objectives were protection in the event of death, disability 
and critical illness. I cant  see details of any other  life cover  Mrs E had at that time.  It does 
look like she had a mortgage  of approximately £52,000. This is a similar amount to the sum 
assured for the critical illness cover, so its possible that it was intended  to provide cover for 
that. And although  Mrs E strongly  believes  taking  out a savings plan was her objective,  Im 
persuaded that the fact find completed  at the time of the sale,  shows  that protection  was a 
priority for her. 
I dont think in this case that the recommendation of a whole of life policy with critical illness 
cover was wrong to meet Mrs Es protection objectives. I say this because the premium of 
£30 a month seems  to have been affordable for her. And although I cant see any evidence  
from the time of the sale that Mrs Es attitude  to investment risk was discussed, from what 
shes told us; Im satisfied that she was willing  to accept  some  investment risk. It also seems  
from what little we know of her circumstances that she could afford to take some  risk with the 
contributions she made into the policy.
The objective of these types of policies is to build up an investment pot to help protect 
against the need for future premium rises. So as the policy does contain have an investment 
element to it, I can understand why Mrs E may have thought it was a savings plan.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  my decision is not to uphold  Mrs Es complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 March  2019.
Simon Dibble
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8970484