K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains Barclays Bank UK PLC has unfairly  closed  his account and recorded a
CIFAS marker  against  his name. He would like his account to be re-instated, the marker to
be removed, a full investigation and to be compensated.
background
Mr S was issued with a notice to close his personal account in September  2018.  The same
notice was also sent in relation to his business accounts  which  are the subject of a
separate complaint. The closure of the account was with immediate effect.
When Mr S complained, Barclays did not uphold his complaint. It said it had acted in
accordance with the terms  and conditions of the account in not giving any notice. It said it
would not be reversing its decision.  What  it didnt say, in its final response to Mr S, was that
it had also recorded  a fraud marker against him.
Mr S then brought  his complaint to this service  where our investigator looked into matters for
him. He told this service  he had lost approximately £6 million  as a result of the closure of his
personal account and wanted  to be compensated accordingly.
Our investigator thought Barclays had acted fairly and was correct in recorded the fraud
marker  so he said he wouldnt ask it to do anymore. Mr S made some further
submissions and asked  for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint   and having done  so, I arrived at a 
different conclusion than the investigator.
I have explained  this to Barclays and to Mr S and have invited submissions back  from both.  
Both parties  have now responded.  Barclays accepted my findings  but Mr S has not.  He  
thinks his account  was closed unfairly and he also feels he has evidenced  his loss of 
earnings in sufficient detail for me to make an award.
Ive looked again at what he has sent to this service  and Ive given further thought to his 
submissions.  I am afraid they do not change my decision  which  I have set out below.
account closure
My role does not allow me to interfere  with a business decision. Barclays has decided it no
longer wants Mr S as a customer. I can ensure it has followed its process in a fair way  but
I cannot ask for that decision to be reversed.
So, the account terms and conditions allow for Barclays to close Mr Ss account with
immediate effect  if it feels  certain conditions  are met. I cant see that it was unfair or
unreasonable in the process  so do not uphold this part of the complaint.
CIFAS
The bar for recording a CIFAS marker is a high one. At the time of the recording, Barclays
Ref: DRN82412592needs to have satisfied the following:
 That there  are reasonable grounds to believe that a Fraud or Financial Crime has
been committed or attempted;
 That the evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member
could confidently report the conduct of the Subject to the police
I cant see that it could  satisfy either.
Having been contacted  by two different parties  about transfers  made into Mr Ss account,  it
did not carry out an investigation  - nor did it speak to Mr S to ask for his version of events. It
simply made  the decision to close his accounts and record the marker.
I think it acted unfairly and unreasonably in doing so. Accordingly, this part of the complaint
is upheld.
Compensation
In the circumstances of the case, I do not think it is fair or reasonable to award
compensation.
Mr S acknowledges this service has limitations  with the level of award  and he also submits
this may be a head of damage  which he will pursue through other  channels.
For my part, I dont  think he has sufficiently  evidenced his losses and therefore make  no
award.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part.
Barclays Bank UK PLC should remove the CIFAS marker recorded against Mr S with
immediate effect.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 August 2020.
Shazia Ahmed
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8241259