K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a credit 
card in 2003. Miss W says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Ws case.
Having done so, Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
When selling  the PPI, Barclays had to make  it clear to Miss W that she had a choice about it. 
But Miss W says she wasnt  told the PPI was optional and didnt know it had been added  to 
her account.
Barclays says the PPI and credit  card were sold over the phone. It hasnt been able to send 
us a recording of the call. But it has sent us a copy of the script  it says was used in these  
types of calls at the time. And the script instructs the advisor to refer to the PPI as optional, 
to explain the cost and benefit  of the PPI and to ask the customer whether they would like to 
apply for the PPI.
Based on the evidence  I have, I think its likely  this script was largely followed in Miss Ws 
call with Barclays. And so I think Barclays did make it clear to Miss W that she had a choice  
about the PPI. And that she chose  to take the PPI, knowing  she didnt have to.
Barclays says it recommended the PPI to Miss W, so it had to check  that it was right for her. 
And, based on what Ive seen of Miss Ws circumstances at the time, I think  that it was. For 
example, she doesnt appear to have been  affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on 
the PPI cover. The policy couldve paid out for longer than shes  told us she wouldve  been 
entitled to sick pay. And it wouldve meant  she didnt  need to rely on her savings or her 
family to make  her repayments if she wasnt earning.
As well as checking it was right for her, Barclays had to give Miss W clear information  about 
the PPI. Its possible the information it gave her wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been.  But, for 
the same  reasons I think it was right for her, it seems like the PPI would have  been  useful for 
Miss W if something  went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont  think  better 
information about the PPI would have put Miss W off taking it out.
Ref: DRN86109042my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 June 2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8610904