K822xcomplaint
Mr G complains about five loans he took out with Western Circle Limited, trading as
Cashfloat, (WCL). Mr G says that WCL shouldnt have  given  him the loans because  they
were unaffordable.
background 
Mr G was given five loans  by WCL between December 2016 and December 2017. Each of
the loans was repayable by between two to four monthly instalments. All of the loans were
repaid before the due date. A summary of Mr Gs borrowing from WCL is as follows:
Loan 
NumberBorrowing 
DateRepayment 
DateLoan 
Amount 
1 15/12/2016 22/12/2016 £ 400
2 29/12/2016 29/03/2017 £ 500
3 2/06/2017 30/08/2017 £ 700
4 3/09/2017 1/12/2017 £ 500
5 8/12/2017 20/12/2017 £300
Mr G said that he was in a lot of financial  trouble when he borrowed the loans  from WCL. He
had up to eleven other payday loans at the same time which meant that the loans were
unaffordable. He said that his credit  report would have shown other debt repayments  and
problems including  late payments.
WCL said in its final response  letter that it had considered  Mr Gs income and expenditure,
credit scoring from the credit reference  agencies and the level of Mr Gs monthly credit
commitments. It said that Mr Gs income left him with sufficient money to cover the agreed
repayments without  jeopardising his existing  credit commitments and living  expenses.
WCL provided this service with more  information about its assessment process. It said it
tests a consumers  monthly  outgoings against  statistical data. If this results in higher 
expense figures than those provided by the consumer, it uses  the higher figures in its
affordability assessment.  As an example of this, it had increased Mr Gs stated  food
expenditure from £70 to £140. It also verifies the figure for monthly credit commitments using
up-to-date information received from credit reference agencies. It calculates an up-to-date
monthly repayment figure for each  credit item. It said that its credit  report showed  that Mr G
had total outstanding credit of £1,553 relating to short term loans and instalment credit. It
said that in the context  of a monthly  net income of around £3,750,  this didnt appear to be
excessive. In total, it estimated that Mr G was required to pay minimum total monthly
repayments of approximately £430  on his outstanding credit  balances.
WCL also noted that Mr Gs recent  credit  was well-maintained. He had no new defaults
registered on his account within the previous  36 months. He also had no debt management
plans, bankruptcies, or individual voluntary arrangements registered on his record.
our adjudicators view
The adjudicator didnt think the checks on any of the loans were suitable. She noted that
when Mr G applied for Loan  1 that hed told WCL that his monthly expenditure was around
Ref: DRN82808522£1,250. And hed said that he didnt have any loan repayments or other  credit  commitments.
But WCL had said that its credit checks showed that Mr G had outstanding credit
commitments of around £1,550. So she said that it would have been reasonable for WCL to
carry out a full review  of Mr Gs circumstances  to ensure that the information he was
providing was accurate,  and that he could  sustainably meet his repayments. The adjudicator
said that it wouldve  been reasonable to carry out a full review  of Mr Gs financial
circumstances for all the loans. She said that if WCL had carried out sufficient checks, she
thought it was unlikely that it would have agreed  to offer Mr G any of the loans. She could
see that he was spending large  amounts on gambling platforms  before the first two loans,
and that his living costs and financial commitments would have left him with insufficient
disposable income for Loans 3 to 5. So she recommended  that WCL should:
- Refund  all interest and charges that Mr G paid on all the loans;
- Pay interest of 8% simple a year on all refunds from the date of payment  to the
date of settlement*;
- Remove any negative information  about all the loans from Mr Gs credit  file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires WCL to take off tax from this interest. WCL must give
Mr G a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
WCL disagreed that a full review was required. It said that other adjudicators (on other
complaints) had acknowledged that fewer  checks were required in the earlier stages of a
loan cycle. This was particularly so in the current scenario, where Mr Gs income was much
higher than average, and the loan repayments were less than 7% of his net monthly  income
(for 4 out of the 5 loans). But it had carried out a number of checks in any event. It had
carried out an independent verification check of Mr Gs net salary, a residence  and
employment status check, a credit check including real-time data, a full affordability  check,  a
statistical check of living costs and identity checks.
WCL noted that the adjudicators reasoning for the need for a full review was that
Mr G didnt include any credit repayments  in his expenses (for the first loans in the cycle),
whereas its credit report showed short  term credit outstanding of £1,553.  But it said that the
short term credit  figure included all categories  of credit such as bank overdrafts (which do
not require repayment), telephone contracts  (which may be included in utilities),  credit cards
(purchases) and hire purchase balances (which can be included  under travel).
WCL also said that the total credit balance was small enough, relative to Mr Gs monthly
income, that any monthly repayments could have  been included in his regular living costs.
And, even  if Mr G would  have had to pay the entire short term credit outstanding in one go,
he still would  have  had sufficient disposable income  to pay his regular living  costs  and make
the repayments on his loans from WCL.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr G 
and to WCL on 11 March  2019. I summarise  my findings:
Id noted that WCL had referred to other adjudicators assessments on other complaints. But
each complaint at this service is assessed  on its own merits and it wasnt  always  appropriate 
to compare the outcomes of other complaints without a detailed  understanding of the 
detailed facts of each complaint.
Ref: DRN82808523I explained that WCL was required to lend responsibly. It needed to make checks  to make 
sure Mr G could afford to repay the loans  before  it lent to him. Those checks needed  to be 
proportionate to things such as the amount Mr G was borrowing, the length of the agreement  
and his lending  history. But there was no set list of checks  WCL had to do.
The Financial Conduct Authority was the regulator at the time Mr G borrowed from WCL. Its
regulations require lenders to take reasonable steps to assess the customers ability to
meet repayments under  a regulated credit  agreement  in a sustainable manner without the
customer incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse consequences.
The regulations define sustainable  as being able to make repayments  without undue
difficulty, and that this means borrowers should  be able to make  their repayments on time
and out of their income and savings without  having to borrow  to meet these repayments.
Loans 1 to 4
Loan 1 was repayable by two monthly instalments of around  £247 and Loans 2 to 4 were
repayable by four monthly instalments  with a highest  instalment of £278.07.
Id thought about whether  WCLs  checks were  proportionate before Loans  1 to 4. WCL told
us that before lending to Mr G, it had asked him about his income and outgoings. Before
Loans 1 to 4, Mr G had declared a monthly income of £3,750 and living  costs  of £1,250.The
outgoings consisted of rent, utilities, travel and food. WCL told this service  that it had
increased Mr Gs declared outgoings to reflect  statistical  data where appropriate. I could see
that the loan repayment  amounts for Loans 1 to 4 were  relatively  modest compared to
Mr Gs declared  disposable income.
WCLs records also showed  that Mr G hadnt declared any credit commitments or loan
repayments before Loans 1 to 4. But Id noted that WCL  had told us about  a credit check it
had carried out, and that this showed  that Mr G had short term credit  outstanding  totalling
£1,553. It had estimated that he would  be paying  monthly credit  repayments of £430. Id 
thought WCL  might  have  been concerned about Mr G omitting  short term credit 
commitments of this amount in his declaration to it of his outgoings.
Id also thought that WCL would be aware  that when a lender carries  out a credit check, the
information it sees doesnt usually provide the same  level of detail that a consumers credit
report will and it wasnt necessarily up to date. A lender might only see a small portion of a 
borrowers credit file, or some data might  be missing or anonymised. I was also aware  that 
not all payday  and short term lenders report to the same credit reference agencies.  So, it 
was possible that not all of Mr Gs loans might  have been identified  by WCLs credit  check.
Id also noted  that WCL  had only referred to the results of one credit check in its response to
this service, although it had said that it had carried out a credit check before each loan. Id
considered the credit  commitments referred  to in that credit  check below.
WCL had told us that it had performed a number  of assessment checks  including  a credit  
check. Id thought it was reasonable for WCL to have  relied  on the information  Mr G had 
declared to it about his income and living costs  for Loans 1 to 4, and noted that WCL had 
increased Mr Gs living  costs to reflect statistical data. But Id thought WCL should have 
been concerned  about  the results  of its credit check especially  as Mr G hadnt  declared any 
credit commitments  to it before Loans  1 to 4. And in view of the amount of Mr Gs short  term 
credit commitments  shown in WCLs credit check, Id thought WCL should have been on 
notice that it was unlikely Mr Gs financial situation was as good as he was declaring. Id 
Ref: DRN82808524noted that WCL had estimated an amount for Mr Gs credit  repayments. But Id thought  it 
needed to do more here. Id thought WCL should have additionally asked him some very 
specific questions about what  its credit check showed before all these loans. I couldnt see 
that it had done this.
Loan 5
Mr G took out Loan 5 a week after hed repaid Loan  4. The loan was repayable  by three
monthly instalments  of around £141.  Mr G had declared a monthly  income of £3,750 and
outgoings of £1,690. The stated outgoings included for the first time credit  commitments
totalling £600.
But by this time and even  though there had been  no repayment  issues  with Loans  1 to 4, Id
thought that Mr Gs borrowing history might  have suggested to WCL that Mr G was using 
short term loans as a supplement to his normal income, rather  than using them to meet a
temporary one-off  problem, and that his finances were likely to be under some  pressure. Id
thought WCL  also ought to have  been concerned as to why a person with an apparently high
level of disposable  income was coming  back to it for a fifth loan. So Id thought it may have 
been proportionate at this time for WCL to have independently  reviewed the true state  of 
Mr Gs finances. It couldve done this in a number  of ways. It couldve asked for evidence of 
Mr Gs income  and expenditure such as payslips and bills or it couldve looked  at things like 
his bank statements. I couldnt see that it had done this.
Although I didnt think the checks WCL did on all the loans were sufficient, that in itself
didnt mean  that Mr Gs complaint should  succeed.  I also needed to see whether what I
considered to be proportionate  checks would have shown WCL that Mr G couldnt 
sustainably afford the loans.
Loan 1
As Id said above,  I would have expected WCL to ask Mr G some questions  about what  its
credit check  showed, whilst  taking  account  of Mr Gs declared  disposable  income of £2,500.
So Id tried to find out more about  this by looking  at Mr Gs credit  report and his bank
statements for the month prior to the loan, to see what better checks  would have suggested
to WCL. Id noted from these documents that Mr G had received three  instalment loans and 
a payday loan from other lenders totalling  £3,270 which would have required repayment
around the same time as WCLs loan.  But I could  see that the monthly repayments to be 
made around the same time as Loan 1 totalled  around £1,300.  Taking account of these  and 
Mr Gs declared  disposable income,  it still appeared that Mr G would have  been  able to 
sustainably repay  the repayments on Loan 1. So I didnt think that carrying out better checks 
wouldve uncovered  anything that wouldve stopped WCL  from giving the loan to Mr G. So, I 
didnt intend to uphold Mr Gs complaint about Loan 1.
Loan 2
Id again looked at Mr Gs credit  report and his bank statements for the month prior to
Loan 2, to see what better checks would have suggested to WCL. Id noted  that Mr Gs
outstanding short term loans totalled £3,070 which would have required repayment around
the same  time as WCLs  loan. But I could see that the monthly repayments totalled around
£1,100. Taking  these  and Mr Gs declared disposable income  of £2,500  into account, it still
appeared that Mr G would have been  able to sustainably repay the repayments  on Loan  2. 
So I didnt think that carrying out better checks wouldve uncovered anything that wouldve
Ref: DRN82808525stopped WCL  from giving the loan to Mr G. So, I didnt  intend to uphold  Mr Gs complaint
about Loan 2.
Loan 3
Id again looked at Mr Gs credit  report and his bank statements for the month prior to the
loan, to see what better checks would have suggested to WCL. Id noted that Mr G had no
outstanding short term loans which would have required repayment around the same  time as
WCLs loan. So I didnt  think that carrying out better checks wouldve uncovered anything
that wouldve  stopped WCL from giving Loan  3 to Mr G. So, I didnt intend  to uphold
Mr Gs complaint about Loan 3.
Loan 4
Id again looked at Mr Gs credit  report and his bank statements for the month prior to the
loan, to see what better checks would have suggested to WCL. Id noted that Mr Gs
outstanding short term loans totalled £4,248 which would have required repayment around
the same  time as WCLs  loan. But I could see that the monthly repayments totalled around
£1,461. Taking  these  and Mr Gs declared disposable income  of £2,500  into account, it still
appeared that Mr G would have been  able to sustainably repay the repayments  on Loan  4. 
So I didnt think that carrying out better checks wouldve uncovered anything that wouldve
stopped WCL  from giving Loan 4 to Mr G. So, I didnt  intend to uphold  Mr Gs complaint
about Loan 4.
Loan 5
As Id said above,  by the time of Loan 5, Id thought WCL  should have been independently
checking what Mr G was earning and spending  each month.  So Id tried to do this by
looking at Mr Gs credit report and bank  statements in the month before this loan to see what
better checks would  have shown WCL. The bank statements  might  not have shown WCL
everything it wouldve  seen by carrying out proportionate checks. But I thought that the bank
statements were the best indication  of Mr Gs ability to afford the loan at the time it was
approved. So I didnt think it was unreasonable to rely on these.
Id checked Mr Gs credit report and I could see that he had at least  15 short  term loans
outstanding when he took out Loan  5. The monthly repayments totalled over £3,000  and 
would have had to be repaid around the same time as Loan  5. Mr Gs bank statements for 
the month before Loan 5 showed his income  was around £3,900 and his normal  living  costs 
and regular financial commitments were over £2,000.  WCL would also have become aware 
that Mr G appeared  to be gambling heavily with gambling expenditure of around  £2,000.  
Mr Gs living  costs, his spending  on gambling  and his needed  to borrow to fund his gambling 
I thought made it clear  that any new borrowing was unlikely to be repaid sustainably. So 
overall, if WCL had carried out what I considered to be proportionate checks  before Loan 5, 
Id thought it was likely that it would have concluded that Loan 5 wasnt sustainable.
So, I thought if WCL had done  what I considered to be proportionate checks, it would have 
seen the problems with Mr Gs financial situation. And so, as a responsible  lender, I didnt 
think it would  have  agreed to lend Loan 5 to him. So, I thought that WCL needed to pay Mr G 
some compensation relating to Loan 5.
Subject to any further representations by Mr G or WCL my provisional decision was that 
Ref: DRN82808526I intended to uphold this complaint in part. I intended  to order  Western  Circle Limited, trading 
as Cashfloat,  to:
1. Refund all interest and charges that Mr G paid on Loan 5
2. Pay interest of 8% simple* a year on all refunds  from the date of payment to the date
    of settlement;
3. Remove any adverse  information about Loan  5 from Mr Gs credit  file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires WCL to take off tax from this interest. WCL must give
Mr G a certificate showing how much tax it had taken off if he asks for one.
Mr G responded to my provisional decision to say he had nothing  to add.
WCL hasnt provided  a response  to my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that Mr G and WCL have given me nothing further to consider, I see no reason to 
depart from the conclusions I reached  in my provisional decision. It follows that I uphold  part 
of the complaint and require WCL to pay Mr G some compensation as set out below.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of this 
complaint, I order Western Circle Limited, trading as Cashfloat,  to:
1. Refund all interest and charges that Mr G paid on Loan 5
2. Pay interest of 8% simple* a year on all refunds  from the date of payment to the date
    of settlement;
3. Remove any adverse  information about Loan  5 from Mr Gs credit  file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires WCL to take off tax from this interest. WCL must give
Mr G a certificate showing how much tax it had taken off if he asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 May 2019.
Roslyn Rawson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8280852