K821x#15complaint
Mrs E complains Zenith  Insurance plc incorrectly turned down a claim she made  on her
mechanical breakdown  insurance policy.
Mrs E is represented by Mr E, for ease Ive referred to Mrs E throughout.
background
Mrs E called Zenith as her car wouldnt start. She was asked  to take it to one of Zeniths 
repairing garages to diagnose the fault. The repairing garage said there was a fault with the 
timing chain which had caused damage to the engine.  
Zenith arranged for an independent engineer to inspect the car. The independent  engineer 
said the timing chain had stretched which had caused the fault. Because  of this Zenith  said 
the car hadnt  suffered  a mechanical breakdown as defined in the policy.  Zenith said this 
was because the timing  chain  had stretched through normal  use and the policy  didnt cover  
wear and tear for cars over five years  old or with more  than 60,000 miles. 
Mrs E disagreed and brought her complaint here.  She said because her claim has been  
rejected shes incurred additional  costs  and provided copies of her bank statements showing 
costs for public transport.  Mrs E also added that when she got the car back it hadnt  been 
repaired properly and she had to take out a bank loan to pay for the repair. Because of this 
Mrs E asked Zenith to cover her additional costs from April until September.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 21 December  2018  where  I said:
Mrs Es car broke down in April and she got it back  around the middle  of June. As this 
complaint is only looking  at whether Zenith  should cover the claim I havent considered the 
quality of the repairs here. If my final decision is along similar lines, Mrs E can then complain 
to Zenith  about the quality of the repairs if shed like to. 
The terms and conditions  of the policy define  breakdown as Sudden and unexpected failure 
of a Component  arising from any permanent mechanical or electrical defect, (for a reason 
other than Wear and Tear, normal deterioration  or negligence)  causing a sudden  stoppage  
of its function, necessitating  immediate repair or replacement of the component  before 
normal operation  can be resumed. 
The independent engineers report says the timing chain has worn/stretched which  caused  it 
to jump resulting  in further damage to the engine. From the information provided  there  isnt 
anything which shows this wasnt a sudden and unexpected failure as defined  by the policy.  I 
say this because  at the point the timing  chain jumped Im satisfied it had a sudden  and 
unexpected failure  causing a stoppage  of its function and needed replacing before normal  
operation can be resumed. The question here is whether this was the result of wear  and 
tear.
The policy says Wear and Tear means  damage  to components which  have reached the end 
of their normal effective working lives because of gradual reduction in operating  
performance. The independent engineers report says there was no evidence of misuse  or 
driver neglect. Mrs E provided the service record showing the car had been serviced 
regularly and in line with the manufacturers guidelines. 
Ref: DRN81522652Zenith said because  the timing chain had stretched it must have reached the end of its 
working life. Zenith hasnt  said what the normal working life of a timing chain is. While this 
chain may have stretched causing  it to fail, Im not persuaded its fair to rely on this term if 
the part has failed  prematurely. The manufacturers  guidelines dont say what  the normal 
working life of a timing  chain is or recommend  changing it on a car of similar  age and 
mileage to Mrs Es. Because of this Im not persuaded this timing chain has reached the end 
of the normal  working life of a timing chain.  Im therefore satisfied its fair and reasonable for 
Zenith to cover  the claim. 
As Zenith rejected Mrs Es claim  she paid the repairing garage £2,057.46 for the repairs.  
Zenith should pay Mrs E this amount minus any excesses, in line with the policy terms. 
While Mrs E hasnt  been without the money,  she has taken a bank loan to cover the repair  
and the interest  on the loan is similar to the interest we normally ask a business to pay when 
someone has been without that money.  Zenith should therefore  add 8% interest  simple  per 
year to this amount  from the date Mrs E paid for the repair until the date it pays the claim.
I understand it must be frustrating and inconvenient when your car breaks down and youre 
not able to use it while its repaired.  This isnt something thats Zeniths fault and I also 
havent seen anything to show the repairs took longer than they should. So I dont think its 
fair for Zenith to cover Mrs Es costs for the time her car was in for repair.  Also as Ive not 
considered the quality  of the repairs I havent considered any additional costs Mrs E incurred 
after she got the car back.
As Im persuaded Zenith should have paid Mrs Es claim and she needed to take a bank 
loan to cover  the repair costs, I accept Zenith  has caused Mrs E distress  and inconvenience. 
To put this right Zenith should pay Mrs E £250 for the distress and inconvenience  shes 
suffered by them incorrectly declining her claim.
Zenith hasnt responded to the provisional decision. Mrs E has responded to say she 
accepts the decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my decision remains  the 
same.
As Mrs E has accepted  the decision and Zenith hasnt responded, I see no reason to change 
my findings.  
Ref: DRN81522653my final decision
For the reasons  explained above I uphold this complaint and require Zenith  Insurance  plc to:
pay Mrs E £2,057.46 for the repairs to her car, in line with any limits  and excesses on 
the policy, and add interest  at the rate of 8% simple per year to this amount from the 
date Mrs E paid for the repairs until the date the claim is paid1. 
pay £250 for the  distress and inconvenience they caused her
Zenith should do this within 28 days of us telling it Mrs Es accepted  my decision.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 February  2019.
Alex Newman
ombudsman
1 If Zenith Insurance plc considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mrs E how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs E a certificate 
showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  & Customs if 
appropriate.  
Ref: DRN8152265