K820x#14complaint
Mrs S says Bank of Scotland  plc (BoS) trading as Halifax mis-sold  her a mortgage  payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mrs S took out a PPI policy with a mortgage  in 1994. She paid a monthly amount for the 
policy.  
Our adjudicator didnt  think we should uphold the complaint. Mrs S disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs S case.  Having  done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mrs S complaint.  Ill explain why.
BoS shouldve  made  it clear the PPI was optional. And it shouldve got Mrs S agreement to 
buy it. Mrs S says it wasnt made  clear  to her that the PPI was optional.
I think its likely that BoS sold the PPI to Mrs S. But Mrs S and BoS havent been able to 
provide much detail  about what was said in any meetings that took place between  them.  And 
there isnt much paperwork about  the sale of the PPI either. Thats understandable given  the 
time that has passed. But it means I dont know exactly what  was discussed. 
So Ive thought carefully about what Mrs S and BoS have said. And Ive also used what I 
know about BoS sales processes to help me make  my decision.  Having done this, I dont 
have enough to say that its likely  BoS told Mrs S that she needed  to buy a PPI policy  to start 
a mortgage. Overall I think its more likely that BoS made Mrs S aware that she had a choice 
about buying the PPI, and that she chose to take it.
BoS recommended the PPI to Mrs S, so it shouldve made sure it was right for her. Mrs S 
says she didnt want the policy as she wouldve received good amount of sick pay from her 
employer. 
Mrs S mortgage was a significant, long-term, financial commitment.  If Mrs S couldnt work  
for a long period of time she may have  found this difficult to pay. As the mortgage was 
secured on her home,  Mrs S couldve potentially lost her property  if she fell into financial 
difficulties.
The PPI wouldve paid Mrs S mortgage payment if she couldnt work due to illness,  or she 
lost her job. The payment  wouldve been in addition to any employer, or unemployment 
benefits, she might have received if this happened. It couldve provided a payment for up to 
12 months per claim. 
Ive seen nothing  to suggest  Mrs S couldnt  afford to make  the monthly payments for the PPI 
at the time of sale. And she doesnt  appear to have been affected  by any of the main things 
Ref: DRN81414762the policy didnt  cover such as pre-existing medical conditions.  I can also see that Miss S 
has claimed on the policy. So overall  the PPI seems  to have been right for her based on 
what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time.
Ive considered the information provided at the time of sale.  Its possible the information BoS 
gave Mrs S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. But as I said earlier,  based  
on what I know about Mrs S circumstances, it looks like the policy  couldve been  useful to 
her. So I dont think better information  wouldve stopped her buying  it. And I dont think 
Mrs S lost out due to anything that BoS mightve done wrong.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs S complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs S to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 March  2019.
Andy Burlinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8141476