K820x#14complaint
Miss A says Financial Insurance  Company  Limited  (FICL) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy that covered a store card.  
Miss A was sold the store  card in a department  store   but FICL has taken responsibility for 
this complaint, so Ill refer to FICL in my decision to keep things simple. 
background
This complaint is about a store card PPI policy Miss A took out in 2001.  It was added  to her 
account when  she applied for the card in store.  
Our adjudicator upheld  the compliant, but FICL disagreed. So the complaint has been  
passed to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss As case. 
Ive decided to uphold Miss As complaint because at the time Miss A was sold PPI she was 
working outside of the UK for 26 weeks of the year. This means that while  Miss A wouldve 
been paying full cost for the PPI, she wouldnt have been able to utilise the primary benefits 
of the policy. Had this been made clear to her, I dont  think Miss A wouldve wanted to take 
the policy, so I think  that Miss A has missed  out because of something FICL  did wrong. 
Ive considered everything FICL  have said  including  what  it has said about Miss As 
company being  based in the UK, so the exclusions around working outside of the UK would  
not apply in this scenario. But thats  not what the policy terms say. They  say that in order  to 
qualify for disability and unemployment cover you need to be working   which  is defined  as 
working 16 hours or more within the UK. There is no mention of any exceptions to this. So I 
still think I should uphold  the complaint.
putting things right
FICL should put Miss A in the financial position  shed  be in now if she hadnt  taken out PPI. 
The policy should  be cancelled  if it hasnt  been  cancelled already and:
A.FICL  should find out how much Miss A would owe on her store  card if the policy hadnt 
been added  to it.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges.
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Miss A owes  and what  she would 
have owed.
Ref: DRN87665452If Miss A made a successful claim under the PPI policy,  FICL can take off what  she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her. 
B.If  when FICL works  out what Miss A would have owed each  month without PPI  
Miss A paid more  than enough to clear  her balance, FICL should also pay simple interest 
on the extra Miss A paid.  And it should  carry on paying interest until the point when 
Miss A wouldve owed FICL something  on her store card. The interest rate should be 8% 
a year.
C.FICL  should tell Miss A what its done  to work out A and B.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires  FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give Miss A a certificate 
showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Miss As complaint.
Financial Insurance  Company Limited should  put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 June 2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8766545