K820x#14complaint
Mrs E is unhappy because U K Insurance Limited  hasnt paid a cancellation claim under her 
travel insurance policy. 
background
Mrs E held a travel  insurance  policy as a benefit of her packaged bank account. 
In August  2017  Mrs E and her husband  booked a trip abroad  to visit their daughter. But 
unfortunately Mr E was diagnosed with small cell lung cancer  so they were prevented  from 
taking the trip. 
Mrs E submitted a claim on her policy for the cancellation costs.  She was initially  told the 
claim had been  approved.  But the business  re-assessed the claim and it was subsequently  
declined. 
The business has said it declined  the claim because Mr Es condition  was pre-existing and 
therefore excluded  under the policy. 
Unhappy with this, Mrs E referred  her complaint to this service. The investigator didnt 
uphold the complaint as he felt the business  had assessed the claim fairly.
Mrs E disagreed so the complaint has been  passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mrs Es complaint,  for broadly the same  reasons as the investigator. I know this will 
be disappointing to Mrs E, but I hope this decision explains  why.
The business has said the claim was declined because Mr Es condition was pre-existing.  So 
Ive looked carefully  at the policy terms to see whether the business has been  fair in 
declining the claim.  
Under the section  entitled cancelling your trip (before you are due to start your trip) it 
explains that the policy doesnt  cover  any claim that is a result  of a pre-existing medical 
condition. 
The policy sets out its definition of a pre-existing medical condition  which incudes any 
medical condition  for which, at the date you booked  your trip you were under investigation or 
awaiting diagnosis.  
Im satisfied Mr and Mrs E wouldnt have known about Mr Es diagnosis before booking  their 
trip on 7 August 2017. But Im unable to say Mr E wasnt under any type of investigation for 
the medical condition hes since been diagnosed  with. This is because on 4 August  2017  Mr 
E visited his doctor with symptoms that resulted  in a referral to hospital for an assessment. 
Mr Es doctor has confirmed the following symptoms - he was complaining  of shortness of 
breath on exertion and chest  pain which was worse when pressing his sternum.  The doctor 
was concerned there was something significant  going on so I arranged  admission to 
hospital for assessment.
Ref: DRN83628922The most common symptoms of lung cancer  include feeling breathless and wheezing for no 
reason, and chest pain that doesnt  get better.  So, due to the symptoms explained by the 
doctor, Im persuaded one of the potential conditions Mr E was being  investigated for at the 
time was lung cancer.  As  the trip was booked after this visit to the doctors, Im satisfied  this 
meets the definition  of under investigation  and Mr E is caught  by this particular term. 
So, whilst I agree Mr E hadnt been diagnosed  at the point of booking the trip. I am 
persuaded he did know that something  might be wrong.
I can see the terms of the policy also explain that cover will be provided  if that pre-existing 
medical condition  had already been  declared  and accepted in writing by the business. This 
means that Mr or Mrs E couldve declared  that Mr E had been sent for assessment and then 
the business wouldve decided if they were happy to provide cover  in the event of a claim.  
Potentially the cancellation of the trip may then have been covered. 
Finally, Ive considered  the way the business  handled the claim since  it was submitted as I 
know Mrs E is also unhappy about this. The business initially told Mrs E the claim was 
approved in November 2017. And then,  after being  chased by Mrs E, 2 weeks later it 
informed her that the claim  was being  re-assessed   and it was subsequently declined.  I can 
see the business has offered £500  compensation for this poor level of service  and I think  this 
is fair. 
As expressed above, I know this will be disappointing for Mrs E and her husband, 
particularly given the difficult time theyve no doubt had since  Mr E was diagnosed  with a 
serious illness. And although  its clear to me this was a genuine attempted  claim, Im unable 
to conclude the business has acted  unfairly. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Es complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 February  2019.
Georgina Gill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8362892