K822xcomplaint
Mr P complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt transfer his investment Individual  Savings 
Account (ISA) fully as hed requested.
background
 
In May 2018, Mr P put in a request to transfer  his ISA holdings to another  investment 
platform provider. He wanted the new provider  to receive his full ISA including his 
investments and cash.
However, after the process  for this transfer had been started, Mr P bought  some  more 
shares in a company he already had holdings in. These werent  then included  in the original 
transfer request,  and so remained with Barclays.
Mr P also had shares in a company  that was undergoing a corporate  action.  Because of this, 
these had been delisted and so couldnt be transferred  at that time. Once  the takeover had 
completed, Mr P received  cash and shares  and the name of the stock was changed.  These 
then also remained in with Barclays.
Mr P complained that his full holdings hadnt  been transferred as he requested.  He was told 
hed need to complete a new instruction but he felt hed asked to transfer his full assets so 
shouldnt need  to do this. He felt hed suffered a loss because  of the delay in transferring the 
shares in the company following the corporate action, as their value  had gone  down.
Barclays apologised that Mr Ps account  hadnt  been put on hold as it shouldve  been when 
his transfer requested was started. This had meant  he was able to purchase more  shares  
after this time. It offered  Mr P £100 for the inconvenience caused  by this. But it said that it 
had to send a valuation to the new provider so Mr P would  need to complete another  transfer  
expectation. It said this should also include the new holdings from the corporate action. 
There was a cash amount  on Mr Ps account  that he been built up through  dividend  
payments and interest, and it said this would be transferred to the new provider.
However, when the complaint came to us, Barclays reviewed this position  and arranged  for 
the transfer of the remaining holdings without Mr P having to complete a further request. It 
had already transferred the cash balance  on his account but said this shouldve  been 
actioned before. So it offered to pay Mr P interest  at a rate of 8% simple  on the amounts 
based on when  it believed they should have been  sent. This totalled £144.77 after tax had 
been deducted. It also offered increase its offer of compensation  to £300 to recognise the 
time and effort  Mr P had spent trying to resolve  the situation. But Barclays  didnt think Mr P 
was due any compensation relating to the shares  from the company that underwent the 
takeover.
One of our investigators  put this offer to Mr P. He said Barclays had now transferred the 
remaining shares and cash; and had acknowledged  that it had made mistakes. It had 
allowed Mr P to trade after it had received his transfer request and couldve  transferred his 
cash holdings over earlier than it did. And he said the remedy Barclays had offered for this 
was what he would  recommend. Although Mr Ps cash had been held within an ISA, the 
investigator said the interest payment  would be viewed  as taxable income. But he said this 
didnt prevent Mr P from applying to claim back the tax deducted from HM Revenue & 
Customs.
Ref: DRN85351502The investigator also considered whether Mr P had lost the opportunity  to sell his shares 
after the corporate action. But the investigator said the records didnt show Mr P had told 
Barclays he wanted to sell them. He said he appreciated the share price  had gone  down in 
the time before they were transferred, but he couldnt conclude Mr P had wanted to sell them  
when he received them. Mr P had the opportunity to sell them  when the corporate action 
was announced  but didnt  do this. 
Mr P didnt accept the investigators findings. He said hed attempted  to sell the shares but 
couldnt because  theyd been delisted. He was told he didnt need to put in an additional 
instruction to sell the new shares once this corporate action was completed, but they werent 
transferred by Barclays until much later and after the share price had fallen significantly. He 
said Barclays should claim  the tax back on the interest as the ISA manager.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Mr P requested the full transfer of his ISA holdings to his new platform  provider.  And I think 
there are a few reasons  why this ended up happening in stages.
the shares in the company under corporate action
These had already been delisted a few days before Barclays received Mr Ps transfer 
request. So it wasnt  able to include them in the valuation  of shares to be transferred  across. 
I appreciate that Mr P has said he tried to sell these before  the takeover was completed but 
this was after theyd  been delisted.  However,  I understand  that Barclays  had written to him 
about the corporate action  around  two months  before this happened.  And the takeover terms 
were then extended so it wrote to him again.  So I think there  was opportunity  for Mr P to 
have sold the shares  before they were delisted,  if this was what  he wanted.
Ive also considered the notes of his calls with Barclays through the time when the majority 
of his holdings  had already been  transferred across and he was looking to find out why some 
still remained. Although I can see he refers to the expectation of shares and cash  from the 
completion of the takeover, there doesnt  seem  to have been mention of him wanting to then 
sell them.
However, because  Barclays initially thought  that a further transfer  instruction was needed, 
these shares werent then transferred  across to the new provider until some months later.  
This was then done without the need  for that further instruction. Barclays  has told us that, 
although Mr P wouldnt  have been able to trade online through this time, he couldve sold the 
shares by calling to ask this, and this wouldve been  completed at the same rate as if it had 
been done online. And Mr P has told us that he still holds these shares.
So I dont  think I can say with any certainty  that Barclays  delay in transferring these shares 
directly caused Mr P to suffer a loss through any drop in the share price.
the shares Mr P bought after the transfer had started
These werent part of Mr Ps holdings when Barclays began to process  his transfer request, 
and this meant they werent included in the initial transfer. However, Barclays  later agreed 
that Mr P didnt need to complete another request and the shares have since  been  
transferred.
Ref: DRN85351503Barclays acknowledged that Mr Ps holdings shouldve been ring-fenced  during the transfer  
process, which wouldve  meant he wouldnt have been able to purchase these shares. It has 
increased its original offer of £100  for the inconvenience  this caused him to £300, and I think  
this is a fair reflection of the trouble Mr Ps been  put to by the situation,  including being 
initially told another transfer request  was needed.
delays in the cash being transferred
Following a transfer such as this, Barclays has looked  to review the accounts cash holdings 
after 90 day periods to allow for any interest or dividends  it receives  during the crossover 
period.
But it has said that some  of Mr Ps cash holdings  shouldve been transferred across  at 
earlier times taking into account  this 90 day sweep  period. It has offered to pay Mr P 8% 
simple interest on the cash balances  for the period of this delay, and this has totalled 
£144.77 after tax has been deducted.
I appreciate that Mr P feels that Barclays should reclaim the tax back on this interest,  as his 
holdings were held in an ISA. However,  Barclays has offered this interest as compensation 
to recognise that the cash couldve been transferred across earlier,  rather  than as a 
reflection of what interest Mr P may have earnt on that cash  holding. Mr P can look to 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs.
Taking everything into account,  I think Barclays offer represents  a fair resolution to Mr Ps 
complaint.
my final decision
My decision  is that Barclays Bank  UK PLC should  pay Mr P compensation as it has already 
offered:
£300 in compensation for the trouble and upset Mr P was caused; and  
simple interest charged  at an annual rate of rate of 8% on the cash  balances  based 
on its 90 day sweep deadline to the date the cash was transferred out. It has 
calculated this to be £144.77 after tax has been deducted.
Barclays should tell Mr P how much income  tax it has deducted from the interest. It should 
also give Mr P a tax deduction  certificate, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 May 2019.
Cathy Bovan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8535150