K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt  do enough to prevent and protect him from 
losing money to a scam.
background
On 28 August 2016 Mr B made an online  payment of £800 from his HSBC  account to a 
third-party account to buy a van.
Mr B called and spoke to HSBC on 8 September 2016. He said that the vans  delivery  date 
had been rearranged several times, the van still hadnt been delivered,  and he thought it was 
a scam. HSBC said the payment couldnt  be reversed and there was nothing it could do to 
help recover the money.  
Mr B complained to HSBC in April 2017. He said that the payment was a result of fraud;  and 
that on 8 September 2016 HSBC  didnt explain how it could investigate and identify the 
receiving third-party account to try to recover the funds.
HSBC acknowledged  it didnt offer to transfer Mr B to the fraud team  on 8 September  2016. 
It apologised  for this, said it had provided feedback internally  for training purposes, and that 
it had credited Mr Bs account with £100  to say sorry.  It said,  however, that it wouldnt have 
been able to recover the funds anyway because the receiving  bank  had confirmed the funds 
were removed from the receiving account before 8 September 2016, the date Mr B made  
HSBC aware of the issue. It also said that, in any event, the receiving bank may have asked 
for an indemnity from HSBC to enable any refund from the receiving account but its not 
HSBCs policy to indemnify payments that have been authorised by customers.
Mr B remained unhappy  and referred his complaint here, where it was reviewed by one of 
our adjudicators. The adjudicator concluded that Mr B didnt interact with HSBC  at the time 
of the payment and the payment wasnt particularly unusual or suspicious in its appearance,  
so she didnt think HSBC  should reasonably have questioned the payment before allowing  it 
through, or that it unreasonably missed an opportunity to identify the payment was being  
made in relation to a scam. She also concluded that she understood HSBC  had paid Mr B 
£100 and this was fair and reasonable  because  although  HSBC could have provided a 
better service when Mr B reported the scam,  the funds  had left the receiving account  by the 
time Mr B reported the scam to HSBC on 8 September 2016, so even if HSBC had 
contacted the receiving  bank as soon as possible, it still wouldnt have been able to recover  
the funds. 
Mr B didnt accept the adjudicators conclusions and asked for an ombudsmans  decision.  
The complaint has therefore been  passed to me for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached materially the same  conclusions as the adjudicator, and for 
materially the same reasons. 
Ref: DRN89427482I know Mr B has been waiting for this final answer for a long time and this isnt the outcome 
hes been hoping  for. I understand  why he has wanted to do all he can to try to get his 
money back. And I have no reason to doubt that Mr B has, as he says,  been the victim of a 
scam. Im really  sorry hes lost this money.  Here,  however, I need to decide  whether it would 
be fair and reasonable for HSBC, in all the circumstances  of this case, to be held 
responsible for this loss. Overall, Im satisfied that it wouldnt  and Ill explain why. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules,  guidance  and standards;  
codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  what I consider to have been good  industry  
practice at the time.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank  is expected  to process  payments 
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make, in accordance  with the Payment  
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions  of the customers  account. And I have 
taken that into account  when deciding  what is fair and reasonable in this case.
Thats not the end of the story though.  The law recognises that a bank may be liable to its 
customer if it makes  a payment in circumstances where it has reasonable grounds (although 
not necessarily proof) for believing  that the payment  instruction  was an attempt to 
misappropriate the funds  of its customer (known as the Quincecare duty).  And regulated 
firms like HSBC  are also required to conduct  their business with due skill, care and 
diligence (FCA Principle  for Businesses  2) and to pay due regard to the interests of its 
customers (Principle 6). 
As a matter  of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have taken  
proactive steps  to identify and help prevent transactions   particularly unusual or out of 
character transactions   that could involve  fraud  or be the result  of a scam.  This is 
particularly so in light of the environment  created  by the increase in sophisticated
fraud and scams in recent  years   which banks are generally more familiar with than the
average customer.
So, with all this in mind,  I need to decide whether HSBC acted fairly  and reasonably in its 
dealings with Mr B when he made the payment of £800, or whether it should  have done 
more than it did.
I have considered the position carefully.
Ive reviewed Mr Bs account  statements leading up to the payment. And overall and in the 
context of Mr Bs normal spending  and account  usage, Im satisfied  here that it wouldnt be 
fair and reasonable to say that the amount  and type of payment should  have appeared 
unusual or suspicious  to HSBC. The payment request wasnt unusually large or suspicious  
Mr B had in the past conducted  transactions greater  than this amount and I dont think  the 
fact it was to a new payee means HSBC should,  in the particular circumstances  here, have 
automatically thought  it was suspicious  and that Mr B was at risk of financial harm. And in 
the circumstances here,  Im satisfied that HSBC  didnt do anything wrong by following the 
instructions Mr B gave  to send the money  without questioning Mr B about  the payment first. 
And as there wasnt any interaction between Mr B and HSBC as part of the payment 
request, HSBC didnt  unreasonably miss an opportunity  to unearth  the scam.   
When HSBC became aware  of the potential  scam  on 8 September  2016, it should have 
acted quickly to try to recover Mr Bs money from the third-party  account.  It didnt do this  
Ref: DRN89427483but should have done  and I note that HSBC has apologised for this and paid Mr B 
compensation of £100 in this regard.  
I know this is disappointing to Mr B and I do empathise with the situation he has found  
himself in, having lost this money.  Ultimately, however, it was the fraudster that tricked Mr B. 
And whilst I understand  Mr B will be rightly  disappointed  that HSBC  didnt do what it should 
have done when he told it about  this on 8 September 2016, Im satisfied by the available  
information that the funds Mr B sent to the payee  had already been  utilised and spent  by the 
payee before 8 September 2016   and that ultimately, therefore, HSBCs  failure  to act or 
advise Mr B correctly on 8 September 2016  hasnt made a difference,  and that it still 
wouldnt have been able to recover the money  in any event.
In the circumstances, Im therefore satisfied that HSBC has paid Mr B £100  compensation  
and that this is fair and reasonable in the overall circumstances here.  And that whilst Mr B 
will be disappointed, it wouldnt be fair and reasonable for me to say HSBC  should have 
prevented the loss.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  by 23 July 2020.
Neil Bridge
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8942748