K820x#13complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance policy  (PPI). Mr R says that 
Nationwide Building  Society (Nationwide) mis-sold the policy  alongside a mortgage in 
1988. 
I can see that when  PPI was sold to Mr R, Nationwide  was trading as the 
Staffordshire Building Society. But to keep  things simple, Ill refer to Nationwide  for the rest 
of this decision. 
background
Our adjudicator didnt  think that this complaint should be upheld.  Mr R didnt agree with that 
view and so the matter has been  passed  to me to make a final decision. 
I want to acknowledge  at the outset that I can see Mr R has been waiting a very long time for 
this final decision.  The reason for the delay is that we were working through  what the 
implications of a recent Supreme Court  judgment were for Mr Rs case. I am grateful to the 
parties for their patience whilst  they were waiting for this matter  to be passed to an 
ombudsman for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account  in deciding 
this case.
Ive taken account of all the evidence  before me. But Ive decided  not to uphold Mr Rs 
complaint. Ill explain  why below. 
The first thing Ive thought  about  is whether Mr R would have known this policy was optional  
and he didnt have  to buy it if he didnt want it. Mr R told us that Nationwide put pressure on 
him to take the PPI out. But then he also said that Nationwide  assumed he wanted the PPI. 
I can see that Mr R signed a separate PPI application form just underneath a statement 
which said, I/We wish to apply to join the scheme . I think  the wording  on the form is 
sufficiently clear to indicate that Mr R had a choice about the cover. And I think  its likely that 
the person selling the policy would have also made that clear. I dont think  Nationwide 
assumed Mr R wanted PPI. 
Ive also thought carefully about what Mr R said about Nationwide  putting pressure on him. 
Id expect that if undue pressure had been  applied, Mr R or his representatives would have 
been able to give me some detail about  what happened.  The evidence  I do have doesnt 
suggest that Nationwide unduly  pressurised Mr R to buy this policy. 
After considering  the papers, I dont think this was an advised sale.  But Nationwide still had 
to give Mr R enough information about  the PPI so he could decide for himself whether it was 
right for his needs.  That information had to be clear, fair and not misleading. 
I accept its possible that Nationwide didnt tell Mr R everything it should have done  when he 
bought this policy. So the question for me now is whether he would have  acted differently if 
Ref: DRN82139812Nationwide had given  him full information. To help me decide  what hes likely to have done, 
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the policy. And Ive also thought about what Mr R 
told us about his personal circumstances at the time. 
I can see that if hed had to make  a claim,  Mr Rs mortgage repayments would have 
probably been covered for up to 18 months if he was out of work. However, he would have 
only been able to claim statutory sick pay from his employer if he became unwell. So it 
seems the policy  would have paid out for longer  and in addition to the cover Mr R had in 
place from work. 
Mr R told us he was in good health  at the time. So I dont think hed have been affected by 
any of the policys exclusions about medical conditions. And I havent seen anything unusual  
about his employment  circumstances  that would have stopped  him from making a successful 
claim if he needed to. 
Mr R has mentioned he was unhappy  with the 60-day waiting period before he could make a 
claim. I understand  that he tried to make a claim, but was refused because  he hadnt been  
out of work for long enough. But the waiting period isnt unusual compared to other similar  
policies. And bearing in mind what Mr R has told us about his circumstances I dont  think  it 
would have put him off taking out this policy. I say this because  the mortgage  was secured 
on Mr Rs home and it would have been significantly at risk if he fell behind with his 
repayments. As the waiting period was common with other similar policies, I still think hed 
have bought this PPI. 
Ive also thought about the commission Mr R paid on his PPI  and whether Nationwide  
treated him unfairly. 
Nationwide has told us that the commission for Mr Rs PPI was less than half of what  he paid 
for each  premium. Weve  looked at how Nationwide has been working this out and based on 
what weve seen it looks like its right  Mr Rs commission was less than half the cost of the 
PPI. As thats the case, I dont think it needed to tell him about the commission  so I dont 
think Nationwide treated him unfairly. This means it doesnt need to pay Mr R back  any of 
the commission he paid for the PPI. 
This means that Mr R isnt worse off as a result  of what Nationwide did wrong.  So theres  
nothing it needs  to do to put things right. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Nicola Bowes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN82139813
Ref: DRN8213981