K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs E complain  that Barclays Bank UK PLC has acted unfairly and unreasonably 
when offering them a new mortgage  product. They  want matters put right.
background
Mr and Mrs E had a mortgage with Barclays and wanted a new three  year fixed  interest rate 
product. They  applied for such  a product through a broker, and were  then told that the 
product wasnt available as their mortgage was due to end before  the fixed interest rate 
period ended. Mr and Mrs E felt that this was unfair and unreasonable and said they were 
pressured to take out a product with a shorter fixed interest rate period to reduce the extra  
interest theyd pay otherwise.
Mr and Mrs E complained to Barclays. It accepted that the broker was initially told it was 
possible to apply for a three year product when the mortgage was due to end earlier. 
However, Barclays explained that this was a mistake; its lending  policies didnt allow  a 
product to be given  that would last longer than the mortgage. It apologised for the error, but 
said the only products  available  would  be those shorter than three years.  Barclays refunded  
the arrangement  fee, £3,777.80 for the extra interest  paid for three months and £400 
compensation for the trouble and upset  caused.
Mr and Mrs E complained to us, and said that they wanted a three year product. The 
investigators view was that Barclays was able to refuse to give a mortgage product that 
would last longer  than the mortgage term. He agreed that its staff had initially  incorrectly told 
the broker that this was possible, but thought  the offer from Barclays to put matters  right was 
fair and reasonable.
Mr and Mrs E disagreed. They said that the first product that they took out in 2016 had been 
allowed to last for more  than two years, and meant that now they couldnt have a three year 
product as there wasnt enough time left for the mortgage to run. The investigator said that it 
was the brokers  role to advise Mr and Mrs E, on such issues  not Barclays. Mr and Mrs E 
asked for an ombudsmans decision and said that neither Barclays nor their broker advised 
them that if they took out a two year product in 2016, they wouldnt be able to get a three 
year product  in 2018. They felt the original mortgage had been mis-sold.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I should point out that this service doesnt 
tell businesses that they must give consumers particular products; businesses are able to 
apply their commercial judgement and lending policies, provided  that they do so fairly and 
reasonably.
I note that this complaint has expanded since Mr and Mrs E first complained to include 
issues about what happened in 2016. I can only consider the complaint brought  to this 
service and investigated by Barclays. No mis-selling complaint was brought  and I wont 
consider that in this decision; Mr and Mrs E can raise another complaint  with Barclays if they 
wish. That said, what happened  in 2016 is relevant. In 2016,  Mr and Mrs E were advised  by 
a broker. Its the brokers  role to advise  Mr and Mrs E about their mortgage and future  plans 
(if the point is raised), not Barclays. Also,  the product taken  out in 2016 clearly sets out the 
date it ends, which is less than three years before the mortgage  ends.
Ref: DRN82073122The core of this complaint  is about what happened in 2018 and is in two parts: should 
Barclays have given  Mr and Mrs E the three year product,  and did it give their broker  
incorrect information? In relation to the first point,  no lender can give a consumer a product  
which last beyond the length  of the mortgage.  The product is simply a wrapper setting  out 
the interest rate (and sometimes other  matters) that apply to the mortgage  it does not exist 
independently of the mortgage. Barclays acted fairly and reasonably  in refusing to give 
consumers with a mortgage term of two years ten months a three  year product.
All parties  agree that Barclays did act unfairly and unreasonably by giving Mr and Mrs Es 
broker incorrect information  initially that it was possible in the circumstances to get a three 
year product. When mistakes  are made,  lenders are required to put the consumer  back into 
the position that they wouldve been in all along  if the error  hadnt been made. In this case, I 
think Barclays has done this. If the incorrect information hadnt been given, Mr and Mrs E still 
wouldnt have been able to get a three  year product. Barclays has paid the extra interest 
paid by Mr and Mrs E for three months to give them an opportunity to get a new shorter  
product and refunded the arrangement fee paid for the three year product  that wasnt  
available for them. This is fair and reasonable compensation  for financial loss.
This leaves  the issue of compensation  for trouble and upset. Money  never truly 
compensates for trouble  and upset, but this service has guidelines  which I must bear in 
mind. I accept  that Mr and Mrs E were put to inconvenience (applying for a product which  
wasnt available to them)  and worried about  extra interest costs. But I think  £400 
compensation for this is more than fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs E to accept or reject my decision 
before 28 February  2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8207312