K821x#15complaint
Mr C1 and Mr C2 complained about a transfer they asked Santander UK Plc to make. 
background
Mr C1 contacted  us in late 2015, to say that he wanted to make a transfer from an account 
that he held jointly with Mr C2, into an account  held only by Mr C2. He said hed been in 
touch with Santander a number of times,  but it hadnt made the transfer. We contacted 
Santander for him then, and I understand that Santander then made the transfer.  
Mr C1 contacted  us again in August 2018. He said that he was asking Santander to make 
another transfer. But he said Santander  hadnt made the transaction. It hadnt responded at 
all to his faxed request.  And it hadnt responded to his subsequent  complaint either.  
Santander said that Mr C1 and Mr C2 hadnt updated their addresses.  It set out the process  
to do that, and said it would need them both to update their addresses before it could update 
their details. Santander said that they could then make this transfer online if they wanted to. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold this complaint. He said that Santander had shown us the fax it 
received, asking it to make a transfer. The images of the documents Mr C1 had sent to 
prove identity were unreadable, which was why Santander had said that the transaction 
wasnt made. Santander also said that it had a different phone number and address on file 
for Mr C1 to the one provided on the fax. Our investigator said that was right. 
Our investigator said that he understood that it wouldve been helpful if Santander had got in 
touch with Mr C1 to say the fax was unreadable. But it didnt have enough information to 
identify Mr C1 from this fax. 
Our investigator said that when Mr C1 called Santander to see what was happening, he 
didnt pass security, so Santander wasnt able to provide any further information. Our 
investigator said that he could hear on that call Mr C1 had said he needed to look up details 
from the account. Our investigator said that it wasnt unreasonable for Santander to refuse to 
give out personal and financial information  because Mr C1 didnt know  the answers himself 
to the questions it was asking.  
Our investigator set out for Mr C1 how he and Mr C2 could  change  their personal details 
held with Santander. 
Mr C1 said that he thought that Santander shouldve at least responded to the fax he sent, if 
it could read the phone number there.  He thought  that the banking code required that. He 
also said that the reasons for the transfer were set out in his fax, and he thought those 
meant, in particular, that Santander shouldve dealt with this issue promptly.  He said hed 
written and signed the fax requesting the transfer,  so the signature couldve been compared  
to previous correspondence. He said he was making  the same transfer as before, and 
Santander was already  notified of his intention to make this transaction.  Mr C1 said that he 
did think Santander had enough on this form to identify  him and Mr C2. He said hed given 
Santander his new telephone number,  and it couldve  rung him on that number. 
Mr C1 said that the account was little used, and he thought it was unreasonable for 
Santander to say that he shouldve known the answers to the questions it asked, without 
checking in the passbook  for the account. 
Ref: DRN85829522Mr C1 said that he wanted this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so it was 
passed to me for a final decision.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I proposed  to uphold it in 
part. This is what I said then: 
-When I looked at this case, I thought  that what Santander was saying now, and what it 
did in 2015, didnt seem to fit that well together.
-The documents on our file suggest  that in 2015, Mr C1 gave overseas addresses, and 
overseas phone numbers, when he requested a transfer. The transfer was processed,  
and Santander  wrote to Mr C1s overseas address  when it responded to his complaint. 
-In 2018, Mr C1 gave the same overseas addresses, and exactly the same  overseas 
mobile phone number, when he requested the transfer.  Santander said it didnt process  
the transfer because the supporting ID documents werent clear.  Thats  reasonable. But 
it also said that it didnt  contact  Mr C1, because the details  it held for the account  were 
UK based, not the overseas address and number he had now provided. So Santander  
said it wouldnt ring, when it couldnt be sure who it was speaking to. 
-I asked Santander  to explain why the details Mr C1 provided in 2015 were accepted for a 
transfer, and Santander  was confident then about  sending a complaint response  to his 
overseas address,  but those details  werent  accepted in 2018,  and Santander  wouldnt 
ring the same overseas mobile number to tell him about the problems with the fax. 
-Santander said the transfer request in 2015  was authorised  because  the identification  
documents were  acceptable. It didnt need  then to call to Mr C1 in order to verify the 
transaction. The complaint handler  decided  to send a letter to the overseas address. 
Santander said that was different to dealing with the international  payment request. 
-Santander said its complaints team could send  correspondence to an address which it 
doesnt hold on record. But Santander  said that when it needed  to make contact with a 
customer in line with a particular request, such as an international transfer,  the contact 
details used must be those on its system. And those details must  have been registered 
for at least 30 days. The contact  details it had for Mr C1 and Mr C2 werent  up to date, it 
wouldnt make  an outbound call to an unknown number. It said that wasnt  unreasonable.
-Santander wanted me to keep in mind  that its complaints team has different processes in 
place when communicating to customers.  That team  isnt authorised  to make 
transactions or significant changes to a customers record, so Santander said that the 
risk there is minimal.  It said that a department which  is able to make high level 
transactions or changes to someones  account must be more stringent in its processes. 
-I didnt think it was unreasonable  for Santander to refuse  to make a transfer if the ID 
documents it had been sent werent clearly visible. And I thought  that was what 
happened here. The fax Mr C1 sent was partly illegible.
Ref: DRN85829523-I also didnt think it was unreasonable for Santander to refuse to contact Mr C1 on a 
number that it didnt recognise.  I didnt think the banking code required otherwise. And I 
thought that may explain why Santander  didnt ring Mr C1 when it got his fax in 2018. 
-But it didnt really  explain why Santander accepted ID in 2015 which included Mr C1s 
overseas address,  then didnt point out to him that the address and phone details hed 
supplied werent  the same as the ones  it held for him. I knew that Santander  had now 
told Mr C1 and Mr C2 that they needed  to update their personal details. But I thought  
Santander shouldve  noticed this in 2015,  and suggested this to Mr C1 and Mr C2 then. 
-I thought that if Santander had done  that, then Mr C1 would have experienced fewer 
problems with this more recent transfer  request. Because of that, I thought that 
Santander should pay Mr C1 and Mr C2 £150  in compensation.
-I knew that Mr C1 was also unhappy with the call that he had with Santander,  because  
he thought it shouldve actioned his complaint on that call. But Mr C1 hadnt passed 
security. I thought  that it was reasonable  for Santander not to allow Mr C1 to pass  
security on that call, once it realised  that he wasnt able to remember details of the 
account. And, having failed security, I also thought it was reasonable for Santander to 
say that it could log a non-customer complaint for Mr C1, but it couldnt access Mr C1 
and Mr C2s account  to investigate that complaint. I didnt think  that Santander  ignored  
Mr C1s complaint.  So I didnt think that Santander  had to do anything more  about this 
part of Mr C1 and Mr C2s complaint now.
I invited the parties  to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both parties  confirmed theyd received  my provisional decision,  but neither side has offered  
anything further  for me to consider.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I havent changed my mind.
my final decision
My final decision is that Santander UK Plc must  pay Mr C1 and Mr C2 £150 in 
compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C1 and Mr C2 
to accept or reject my decision before 2 August 2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8582952