K820x#14complaint
Mrs S complained about action taken by Santander  UK Plc, which  meant shed stopped 
earning interest on her account.
background
Mrs S told us that shed  noticed in August 2018  that Santander had stopped  paying  her 
interest. She said that when she checked,  she realised that no interest had been  paid since  
March 2018. Then,  when  she looked into why, she found that Santander had cancelled a 
direct debit on her account.  She said that the direct debit was still active  at the other end, 
and she said that Santander hadnt  told her it was cancelling the direct debit. 
Mrs S thought that it was highly irresponsible for Santander to cancel an active  direct debit, 
without discussing it with the customer before, or notifying them after.  She said this 
contrasted starkly with how Santander  managed the rest of its business, and even how other  
direct debits were managed by Santander.  She thought that Santander had only removed  
this direct debit so that she would no longer qualify for her interest payment. 
Mrs S said that Santander had paid her £30 as a gesture of goodwill. She said that she 
thought that this was an admission of wrongdoing. But she said this didnt compensate  her 
for her lost interest. And she told us that Santander was now putting something  in place to 
notify its customers when  direct debits are cancelled. She thought  that should be applied 
retrospectively to her. 
Mrs S thought that Santander should reimburse her lost interest,  and it should change  its 
procedures so that customer direct debits  arent  cancelled without the customers authority.
Santander said that there had been no activity on this direct debit for over a year.  It said to 
Mrs S that its terms and conditions allowed it to cancel these direct debits. But it said to us 
that the direct debit  rules require it to cancel  a direct debit in this situation,  and it sent us a 
link to the relevant  rules.
Santander said that it doesnt  tell customers when it cancels a direct  debit. It said that it 
would consider changing this for the future, but for the moment,  it didnt think  it had made  a 
mistake. It said that it had made the goodwill payment of £30 that Mrs S mentioned, but it 
wouldnt pay back the interest shed lost out on.
Our investigator didnt  uphold this complaint. He said that Santander had followed  the 
relevant rules. And although it wouldve been good  practice to tell Mrs S that it was 
cancelling the direct debit, Santander wasnt obliged to do that. So our investigator said that 
he couldnt say that Santander  had done anything  wrong by cancelling  the direct  debit 
without telling Mrs S. 
Our investigator said that once the direct  debit was cancelled, Mrs S didnt meet the 
conditions for interest on this account  any more. So he didnt think  that Santander  made a 
mistake when it stopped  paying interest either. 
Mrs S said that the direct debit rule that Santander referred to didnt say that Santander 
could take this step, of cancelling a direct  debit, without telling a customer it was doing that, 
either before or after it cancelled the direct debit. So Mrs S thought that the bank shouldve  
kept her informed of what was happening.  
Ref: DRN83756922Mrs S also said that Santander  had been  selective in the direct debits it cancelled. It had 
cancelled this one, but left another  in place which really had been  dormant  for almost three 
years. Mrs S said that the direct debit that Santander cancelled had a very detrimental 
financial effect, but the one left in place had little consequence. 
Mrs S said that she wanted an ombudsman to consider her complaint, so it was passed  to 
me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive reached the same overall conclusion  
as our investigator, and for broadly  the same reasons.  
Mrs S thinks  that Santander shouldve  notified  her that it had cancelled  a direct  debit.  She 
says that the relevant rule doesnt  say it can do this without letting her know. 
The relevant  rule doesnt require Santander to let her know either. So I need to think  about 
whether its fair and reasonable for Santander to cancel dormant direct  debits  without telling 
customers about that. And I dont think that its unfair for Santander to have removed this 
dormant direct debits, without checking  with Mrs S first. I know  that Mrs S thought that this 
was irresponsible  of Santander, but I dont think its irresponsible  to remove  a direct debit 
that hasnt been used  in over a year. 
I think that most of the direct debits  which havent  been used in over a year,  probably  arent  
going to be used again. So its in the interests  of most customers for them  to be cancelled.  I 
understand that this is why this rule was set up. And if the company that Mrs S used to pay 
wanted to claim under  this direct debit, then I think that either it or Santander wouldve 
contacted Mrs S about that.
But cancelling this direct  debit had another effect  in this case. It meant that Mrs S clearly  no 
longer met the requirements to receive  interest payments on this account. So Santander 
stopped paying that interest. 
I know that Mrs S thinks that Santander unfairly targeted this direct debit, because cancelling  
it would  stop her interest payments.  Shes  told us about another direct debit, which hasnt 
been cancelled.  But the comparison shes made is with a direct debit which is also dormant, 
but paid to another part of Santander. I dont think its necessarily  wrong for Santander to 
treat external and internal direct debits differently. 
Or it may be that, if Santander has delayed in cancelling another  dormant direct debit, then 
that could be a mistake. That direct debit isnt the subject of this complaint, so I havent 
reached a final view on that. 
But either way, that wouldnt  make  cancelling this dormant direct  debit, which  is the subject 
of this complaint,  a mistake,  or unfair. 
I know that Mrs S will be disappointed, but I dont think  that Santander has done anything 
wrong in this case. I dont think it has to do any more. So I dont think that this complaint 
should be upheld.
Ref: DRN83756923my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8375692