K820x#14complaint
Mrs C says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold  her a payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy 
in 2003.
background
Our adjudicator who looked at this case said the complaint about the PPI being mis-sold 
shouldnt be upheld. 
However, I can see that Barclays has now said its going to calculate an offer for Mrs C 
based on the commission it received from selling her the PPI. Mrs C still thinks  she was also 
mis-sold the PPI in the first place and has asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint about the mis-sale but I agree 
Mrs C is due back some money for the commission element Ive described above.
Mrs C cant remember  much about  the actual PPI sale but says she didnt need  this type of 
cover because she had a good job, with good sick pay.
I dont doubt that Mrs C now genuinely and honestly believes the PPI was mis-sold  to her. 
But this was around 16 years ago, which  is quite  a long time. And we know  from Barclays 
records, for example,  that Mrs C first applied for her credit card in July 2003.  On that 
occasion she filled out an application  form but she didnt  ask for any PPI with the card.  
But we know  the PPI was actually added  in December of that same year,  during  a 
telephone call. Weve seen quite  a few Barclays PPI policies sold in this way and as a 
consequence weve looked closely at what the sale process  normally  was.
Firstly, I think its reasonable for me to say that because Mrs C had been operating her new 
credit card for around 5 months without any PPI, she would have known that it wasnt  
something she was required to have. Theres no dispute between the parties that PPI was 
eventually added, so I think Mrs C would have started to see it appearing on her monthly  
credit card statements.  I think if she hadnt ever agreed to the PPI, she would have wanted  
to know why these  charges  had started to occur.
We no longer have access to a recording  of the telephone-call that was made but as it was 
so long ago, thats not unusual. However we do know that Barclays call-handlers were 
trained and expected to follow a specific telephone script  when  selling these policies and 
were satisfied that, having looked  at the scripts  used for this time period, consumers were  
normally told the policy was optional. They were also expected  to be given other 
information about the policy, such as the price.
I accept Mrs C probably cant remember  all this now, but I think its more likely  she agreed 
to the PPI cover during  that call.
Ref: DRN89465092Barclays says the PPI was probably  recommended to her during the call. This means it had 
an additional  duty to ensure this type of cover was suitable. Overall, I think  it was. This is 
because Ive looked at Mrs Cs situation.  I think she was eligible for the cover and not 
caught by any of the main exclusions we tend to see in these types of policy.  Looking at the 
work she did, I agree the sickness protection she had would have been quite good.  But Im 
afraid this doesnt  necessarily mean  the PPI was unsuitable. It would have paid 10% of her 
outstanding credit card balance for up to a year if shed needed to claim. This wouldve been  
in addition to any other  means she had at that time. I also think  the price  would have been 
affordable for Mrs C.
So I think this policy was suitable.
Barclays still needed to provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading  so Mrs C 
could make an informed  choice about whether or not to go ahead and buy the PPI. I cant 
obviously say Barclays did everything  right, but I think  there would have been an exchange 
of information  and she probably  had enough information to decide what  she wanted to do. 
Which means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs C. But it 
should pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to her because: 
When the policy was sold, Barclays expected to get a high level of commission and    
profit share (more  than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mrs C about  
that. Because Barclays didnt  tell her, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays has agreed  to to pay back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium and I think  thats  fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does  not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs C.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC must now calculate and pay Mrs C for the commission  and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 July 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8946509