K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs D are unhappy  with Shawbrook Bank Limiteds response  to their complaint, 
following its rejection  of their claim against it under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
(CCA) 1974 for some  mis-sold solar panels.
backgroundMr and Mrs D were contacted by a company, S, which supplied and installed solar panel  
systems. Following a meeting at their home,  Mr and Mrs D agreed to enter  into a contract 
with S for it to supply and install a solar  panel  system costing  almost  £10,000. To fund this, 
they also agreed to enter into a 15-year loan agreement  with Shawbrook. 
Mr and Mrs D made  a claim under  section  75 (s75)  of the CCA. They said that S had told 
them that the solar  panels  would be self-funding and that the monthly loan repayments 
would be more than off-set  by the feed-in-tariff (FIT) income  and any savings theyd make 
by using the electricity  generated  from the solar panels, rather  than buying it from their 
energy supplier. But that hasnt happened. Instead, their monthly loan repayments have 
been much  higher. In its final response letter, Shawbrook said that it didnt agree the panels 
had been mis-sold. Unhappy with the response, Mr and Mrs D referred their complaint  to our 
service. 
Following our involvement, Shawbrook made an offer of compensation to resolve the 
complaint. It said it had calculated the potential savings and income to Mr and Mrs D from 
the solar panels  over the term of the loan. It offered to restructure  the loan so that they would 
pay no more than this over the 15-year term. In effect its offer was to make the panels cost 
Mr and Mrs D nothing i.e. the cost of the panels  would match any benefits  Mr and Mrs D 
should expect  to receive.
When it carried out its calculation, Shawbrook worked out that Mr and Mrs D had been 
paying more each month than they should have been if the panels had been self-funding. It 
offered to pay 8% simple interest  on the overpaid amount and gave them  four options as to 
how they would like the overpayments and interest to be used. Shawbrook also offered to 
pay £100 for any trouble and upset caused.  
Our investigator felt that the offer put forward by Shawbrook was fair and reasonable. Mr and 
Mrs D didnt agree. They  said the calculations Shawbrook had used to estimate the benefits 
of the system were wrong and had exaggerated the benefits they would receive.
As an agreement couldnt  be reached the complaint has been  passed to me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs D say that they were approached by S and that during a sales meeting at their 
home they were  told that the solar  panels  would be entirely  self-financing. And that theyd  
pay for themselves  in four to five years. As neither Shawbrook  nor Mr and Mrs D dispute that 
the benefits of the solar panel  system  were  misrepresented by S, my decision will deal with 
what I consider to be fair compensation.  
Ref: DRN80534262The role of this service is to help settle disputes between  consumers and financial services  
businesses fairly and reasonably, with minimum formality. In cases like this one, determining  
fair compensation isnt an exact science.  My role is to arrive at a fair and reasonable 
outcome, taking into account  the particular circumstances  of Mr and Mrs Ds complaint. 
Ive considered whether it would be fair and reasonable  for Shawbrook to arrange  for the 
solar panels  to be removed from Mr and Mrs Ds home and to refund  them  all payments 
made less any benefits they may have  received. Here, I dont think  it would be fair or 
proportionate to require the removal of the solar  panels from their home.  Rather, I think  the 
fair outcome is to put Mr and Mrs D in a position  where the panels are self-funding  over the 
original term of the loan.  By allowing them to keep the panels, Im satisfied that they will 
likely benefit  from lower  electricity bills and FIT payments going forward (i.e. after the term of 
the loan has finished). 
Ive carefully considered  the methodology Shawbrook has submitted to this service to 
calculate the total benefits of the solar panel  system.  This methodology is based on the 
actual and estimated  future performance of Mr and Mrs Ds system. 
Shawbrook has outlined  that when calculating the estimated future performance of Mr and 
Mrs Ds solar panels, it will use a number of assumptions.  These  assumptions  include, 
amongst others,  the self-consumption  rate (the amount  of electricity generated by the solar  
panels that Mr and Mrs D are expected to use or self-consume); electricity  price inflation and 
the degradation  rate of the panels performance. Im satisfied that the assumptions that have 
been used by Shawbrook provide a fair and reasonable  basis  for calculating  fair 
compensation. Shawbrook has calculated that the total benefits Mr and Mrs D should expect to receive from 
the solar panels  over the 15-year period of the loan is about  £10,600.  This means  that their 
monthly loan repayments, if the panels had been self-funding, should have been around £59 
a month. Instead, they have been paying  almost £94 a month. This means they have been  
paying around £35 a month more than they should  have  been. As they have been deprived 
of the benefit of the monthly overpayment, I would  expect  Shawbrook to add 8% simple 
interest from the date any overpayments were made  until the date of settlement (less tax) - it 
has done this in its calculations.
I appreciate and understand Mr and Mrs Ds representatives concerns that the assumptions 
dont reflect reality  for Mr and Mrs Ds personal  situation. But I dont agree. Ive looked  back  
through the electricity bills provided in evidence.  And prior to the installation of the panels in 
late 2012, Mr and Mrs D appear to have used almost 8,000 KWh of electricity  a year. This 
figure was based  on actual  readings by Mr and Mrs D and not estimates.
After the panels  were  installed, their electricity  usage fell to just over 3,000  KWh a year, 
indicating that they were  using a lot of the electricity generated  as well as making other 
savings, possibly through use of more energy efficient devices such  as the LED light bulbs 
supplied by S. Mr and Mrs Ds monthly payments for gas and electricity  also dropped from 
about £120 a month  to about £80 a month  thats  a saving  of £480 a year which, when 
added to the £400 FIT payments received  each  year, means that Mr and Mrs D have made  
quite significant  savings following the installation of the panels.
The figures that Shawbrook use in their calculations also include the benefits  to be obtained 
from the free LED light bulbs provided  by S and other electrical savings. So, by my 
calculation, Mr and Mrs D appear to have saved even more in electricity than Shawbrook 
Ref: DRN80534263have allowed for in its calculations. Therefore, by Shawbrook using the estimates that it has, 
Mr and Mrs D havent been  disadvantaged.
Shawbrook has given  Mr and Mrs D four options to choose from as to how they would like 
any refund  of overpayments and interest to be used:
1.the overpayments and associated interest are used to reduce the balance of the 
outstanding loan and they continue to pay their existing monthly payment resulting in 
their loan finishing early;
2.the overpayments and associated interest are used to reduce the balance of the 
outstanding loan and they pay a new, lower monthly loan repayment until the end of 
the loan term;
3.the overpayments and associated interest are refunded to them and they continue to 
pay their existing monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early; or
4.the overpayments and associated interest are refunded to them and they pay a new,  
lower monthly loan repayment until the end of the loan term. 
I consider the above options  to represent fair compensation. Depending on which  one they 
choose, Mr and Mrs D will have the flexibility to have the overpayments returned to them if 
they would  prefer  or otherwise reduce the term of their loan or the monthly  repayments.  
If Mr and Mrs D accept my decision, they should indicate on the acceptance  form which 
option they would like to accept. I am satisfied that Mr and Mrs D have undoubtedly been  
caused some trouble  and upset through the way Shawbrook has dealt with their claim. 
Shawbrook have offered £100 to compensate them for this and I think  this is fair.
my final decision
Its my final decision to uphold this complaint against Shawbrook Bank Limited.
Shawbrook has made an offer to settle the complaint in the terms provided above. I consider 
this to be fair compensation. Subject to Mr and Mrs D indicating which option they prefer, I 
require that Shawbrook update the settlement figures to the date theyre applied to the loan 
account and settle the complaint in the manner  set out above. It should also pay Mr and Mrs 
D £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused to them.
Shawbrook will have deducted tax from any interest  that it has included in its calculations  as 
required by Her Majestys Revenue and Customs.  If Mr and Mrs D request it, Shawbrook 
should provide  Mr and Mrs D with a certificate setting out how much tax it has taken off so 
that Mr and Mrs D can reclaim it if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 August 2020.
James Kennard
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8053426