K820x#14complaint
Mr and Ms S complain  that DAS Legal  Expenses Insurance Company Limited  didnt give 
them legal representation,  which they feel entitled  to under legal expenses cover  they have 
with DAS.
For ease Ill simply  refer to Ms S throughout this decision.
background
There is a detailed background  to this complaint which the parties are familiar  with and 
which Ill not describe  here. In summary  though, Ms S made a claim in relation to a local 
council for property damage raising a number  of other potential  issues. The main issue for 
which legal assistance  was required was about the installation of a metal door. But DAS 
refused cover on the basis that the installation wasnt accidental damage.
Ms S disagreed with DAS and so DAS instructed panel solicitors  to look at the matter. The 
solicitors refused to act because of a conflict of interest but didnt  raise  this until around one 
month after instruction.  DAS chose another solicitor who contacted Ms S asking for 
information from her, including  clear instructions. This wasnt forthcoming  and so the 
solicitors wrote to Ms S outlining the difficulties and stating that it could  no longer act in such  
a situation. DAS informed Ms S that she could select  her own solicitor  and it could  give an 
opinion on whether her claim  was covered  under the policy.
One of our investigators  looked into Ms S complaint and explained that DAS had acted in 
line with the policy and fairly  in all the circumstances.  He said DAS had instructed solicitors 
to give an opinion on Ms S proposed claim and offered Ms S the opportunity  to use her own 
solicitor. A solicitor  had explained there wasnt  sufficient information for them to look at a 
claim against the Council and DAS had followed that advice. The investigator was of the 
view that DAS should have told Ms S it wasnt covering her claim but that it had offered Ms S 
help in trying  to find another solicitor. 
Ms S disagreed and so the matter has been  referred  for an ombudsmans  decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
DAS has a duty to handle  claims  promptly  and fairly.  In this matter DAS had instructed panel 
solicitors to look at whether Ms S has a claim thats valid under the policy  such  that DAS 
should fund legal assistance.  
Whether Ms S has a valid claim depends on a number  of issues but importantly her claim 
must have  reasonable prospects of success. This is common to all policies like Ms S and is 
nether unusual or unfair. In the ordinary course of things insurers or their claims agents  will 
use appropriately qualified solicitors to give a legal  opinion  on prospects. Again this is usual 
and fair as lawyers  are qualified in legal matters  and unless their view is obviously wrong 
then we think its reasonable for an insurer to rely on the legal advice it gets.
In this complaint  its not in dispute that DAS instructed  more  than one set of solicitors.  It was 
unfortunate that the first solicitors didnt communicate its conflict of interest  for some  time. 
Ref: DRN83225482But as it relates to the conduct of the solicitor, and as the investigator  explained  to Ms S, the 
appropriate ombudsman  service to look at that issue against the solicitor is the Legal 
Ombudsman should Ms S want that matter  looked  into.
The second  set of solicitors was in contact with Ms S but there  were  challenges  in the 
solicitor receiving information and instructions from Ms S. The solicitors explained to Ms S 
that without the information they had asked for, they couldnt assist  in deciding whether  her 
proposed claim was covered by the policy. The solicitors  gave  this information to DAS also 
and Im persuaded by the information that DAS has acted  fairly in not covering Ms S 
proposed claim under  the policy. It does not have sufficient information,  at this time, that 
demonstrates Ms S has a claim for legal assistance that would  be covered by the policy.
DAS had offered  Ms S the opportunity to use her own solicitor  and has now confirmed that it 
would fund two hours  for Ms Ss chosen  solicitor  to give an opinion. Its for Ms S to let DAS 
know if she wants to avail of this.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint against DAS Legal  Expenses Insurance Company Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 February  2019.
Sean Hamilton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8322548