K822xcomplaint
Miss K complains  that Bank  of Scotland Plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) hasnt acted fairly 
or reasonably when  dealing with her mortgage. She wants matters  put right, such as giving 
her a different interest rate.
background 
Miss K had a mortgage with Halifax. She said that she wanted to make  a lump  sum payment 
to reduce the balance and switch from interest  only to repayment.  Miss K said shed 
borrowed the money from a relative  to clear her mortgage. Miss K asked how much  the 
monthly payments  would be after the changes and was given the wrong  information   she 
was told that the monthly payments would be considerably lower  than they would really be. 
Miss K said that she didnt  find out the correct position until after shed paid in the lump  sum 
and said that the new monthly payments would be unaffordable. Miss K also said that 
Halifax had taken the wrong amount  as a monthly  payment  twice  as it hadnt recalculated 
her mortgage following  the lump  sum payment.
Miss K complained to Halifax. It said that it had given incorrect information over the phone  
about the likely monthly  payment if Miss K paid in the lump sum and changed to repayment  
for the remaining term. Halifax said it would refund the overpaid interest caused by the 
incorrect monthly payments being  taken and paid £500  for the trouble and upset caused.
Miss K complained to us. Halifax said that it didnt give Miss K advice  about  paying a lump  
sum into her mortgage account or changing  to a repayment  basis. It accepted that it didnt 
give her the right information or go through the application process to put Miss K onto a 
repayment mortgage. Halifax said it wanted to put Miss K back into the position that she 
shouldve been  in if it hadnt  made the mistakes  and had recalculated  the monthly payments 
as if the remaining mortgage was on an interest  only basis. It offered £500 compensation for 
the trouble and upset caused by its poor service and raising Miss Ks expectations. But it felt 
Miss K knew the monthly payment shed been quoted was too low as she questioned it and 
it wasnt anywhere near enough to clear the debt over the remaining term. Halifax  also didnt 
accept that if Miss K had been given the right information, she wouldnt  have  reduced  her 
mortgage but instead wouldve invested  the money elsewhere.
The adjudicators view was that Halifax did make a mistake  and noted  that it had offered to 
return the lump sum, but Miss K wanted it to stay in the mortgage account. The adjudicator  
accepted that Halifax  had raised Miss Ks expectations and failed to return  calls as 
promised, but thought  the £500  compensation  for the trouble and upset caused was fair and 
reasonable. Miss K had overpaid the interest  in November and December 2018, which  
meant her balance had been further  reduced, but Halifax was willing to refund this. The 
complaint wasnt upheld.
Miss K disagreed. She said that shed borrowed money due to the information given by 
Halifax and it had taken  two months  of monthly  payments  at the incorrect  amount, despite 
being told that this was incorrect. Miss K said shed  been caused  a lot of worry and couldnt 
see how she could pay off the mortgage  when  it ended. She wanted an ombudsmans view. 
The adjudicator pointed out that Miss K always had an interest only mortgage, so wouldve 
had to find money to pay it off in full when it ended  in any event.  
Ref: DRN80433432my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that Miss K was given incorrect information when she asked about  the 
likely monthly  payments if she paid in the lump sum and changed her mortgage to 
repayment. This isnt fair or reasonable. Equally, it wasnt fair or reasonable to charge  the 
incorrect monthly payment twice,  though  I think this can be explained by the attempts to sort 
matters out with Miss K after she got the correct information. Halifax didnt want to change 
the mortgage until it was clear  about  what the options available were  for Miss K.
This leaves  the question  of what is the fair and reasonable resolution? My role isnt to punish  
businesses for making mistakes, but to put the consumer back into the position that they 
shouldve been  in if the mistake hadnt  been  made.  Miss K had an interest  only mortgage 
before the mistake  was made and is responsible for ensuring that the mortgage was paid in 
full when it ends.  She told Halifax that her repayment plan was to sell a property; it isnt clear 
whether she still owns  that property.  So the fact that Miss K still needs to repay  the mortgage 
and is on an interest only mortgage hasnt been  caused by the mistake;  that was always  the 
position and it appears from what Miss K has said that a repayment mortgage  isnt, and was 
never, affordable.
Miss K wants a different rate and to be sure that the mortgage is repaid by the end of the 
term. But the mistake hasnt affected  Miss Ks position on these  points as I explain above. 
And Halifax has offered  to return the lump sum,  but Miss K has refused. As Miss K told this 
service that she borrowed  the money from a relative to reduce  her mortgage, I dont think its 
likely she wouldve used the money differently if shed had the correct information in the first 
place, particularly as shes  refused  the offer from Halifax to return  the money. 
Im not persuaded that Miss K has suffered a financial loss, following Halifaxs  agreement  to 
return the overpaid monies. What about compensation for trouble and upset? I think Miss Ks 
expectations were raised due to Halifaxs mistake, but its clear that even Miss K thought  the 
information shed  been given didnt  make sense. She questioned it at the time and basic  
mathematics shows that she was right to do so  the amount quoted  could never have paid 
the mortgage in full. I accept Miss K was upset by what happened and disappointed. I also 
think her stress was increased  by the incorrect  monthly payments taken by Halifax.  
But having  looked at all the evidence available  to me, and considered  all the circumstances, 
I think £500 is fair and reasonable compensation for trouble and upset. Money never  truly 
compensates for trouble  and upset, and I think part of Miss Ks upset is that she needs to 
ensure that the mortgage is paid in full when it ends  and a repayment  mortgage isnt 
affordable, a position that wasnt caused  by Halifaxs mistake.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint and leave it up to Miss K to accept the 
offer from Bank of Scotland Plc. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Miss K to accept or reject my decision before 9 May 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8043343