K820x#14complaint
Mrs Ms complaint is about the transfer  of the Cash Equivalent  Transfer Value (CETV) from 
an occupational  pension scheme (OPS) to a personal pension. She says Thomson Brown 
Financial Management  Ltd (trading as Audley Asset  Management) didnt do enough to 
ensure the CETV quoted  by the OPS was transferred before it expired (it was valid for a 
period of three months  after it was quoted).  As a result, she had to ask for a new CETV  
quote, which was lower. She thinks Audley  Asset Management (AAM) is responsible for the 
difference between  the original and new CETV quotes. 
background
Mrs M appointed AAM to advise her on the transfer  of a number of pensions  to a personal  
pension. Her concerns  only relate  to the transfer  from one particular OPS  she currently  
has no concerns about the other  transfers  were dealt with. 
A CETV for the OPS was provided on 13 September 2017 and was valid for a period of 3 
months. So transfer instructions would need to be with the OPS  by 13 December for the 
amount of the CETV  to be transferred.  In the event the transfer instructions were given after 
13 December, a new CETV would have to be quoted by the OPS. 
In the event, AAM did not complete the work  necessary  for it to provide advice on the 
transfer until after the CETV quote had expired. So a new CETV  quote had to be requested.  
This was around £12,000 lower than the original CETV quote. On the basis  of this, I 
understand Mrs M did not proceed with the transfer,  and instead complained  about  it not 
being completed before the original  CETV  quote  expired. 
Mrs M, when  making her complaint, said she did not understand why the transfers from her 
other OPSs had completed, when they were subject  to similarly  tight timescales, and this 
particular transfer  did not. She explained  that she had completed all the relevant forms in 
plenty of time, and that she felt more should  have been done to manage  deadlines.  
AAM did not uphold the complaint. It said it did not receive the CETV from Mrs M until 30 
October 2017, and was unable to proceed until she signed  a letter  of authority allowing it to 
approach the OPS  for further information on 1 November 2017. It said it needed further 
information from the OPS  before it was able to advise Mrs M to proceed with the transfer 
and it did not receive  this, after chasing, until 6 December 2017. It added that it did not need  
to ask for as much information on the other  OPS  transfers, which  is why it had been able to 
advise Mrs M to proceed with those  before the CETV quotes expired. Mrs M was unhappy 
with this response, so came to us. 
Our adjudicator looked into things and concluded Mrs Ms complaint should not be upheld.  
He said, in summary:
Transfers from OPS are complex and involve  significant risks. So AAM  had to ensure 
it had all the relevant  information before it was able to proceed. 
AAM  did not receive all the information  it needed until five working days before the 
CETV expired. He did not think this allowed it enough time to review the information, 
provide advice, and arrange the transfer.  
Ref: DRN85614672He thought Mrs M had received the CETV  quote  dated 13 September  2017 and 
would therefore  have been  aware of when it was due to expire. 
The details of the CETV were not passed to AAM until late October  2017   so crucial  
time was lost in the process.  
Overall, he did not think AAM  was responsible  for any undue  delays. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have reached the same 
conclusions as the adjudicator, for the same reasons.
I appreciate Mrs M would have been disappointed to see a lower CETV quoted to her by the 
OPS. But I do not think  it would be fair to say AAM is responsible for Mrs M missing  out on 
the original CETV which was quoted  to her. 
As the adjudicator noted, advising on transfers from OPS is something  which  needs to be 
done with a great deal of care. The regulator  has publicly stated that the starting point should 
be that such transfers are unsuitable, so advisors  must give very careful  thought to 
everything before advising  a consumer to proceed with a transfer. OPSs are also inherently 
complex, and each scheme has its own features  which need to be considered before a 
transfer can be recommended.  
Here, I think  AAM faced a significant  challenge  as the CETV  was requested a considerable 
amount of time before  it got involved.  I know Mrs M feels it was 24 October rather than 30 
October when the information was provided to AAM but, in any event, it is clear  that around  
half of the CETV expiry  period had already lapsed  before AAM became involved. 
AAM has provided a timeline, setting out the action  it took. And a copy  of the entries  from its 
activity log, which sets out what action was taken  and when. These show:
AAM  reviewed the information about  the OPS as soon as it received it.
Once it identified  that some information  was missing it asked Mrs M to sign a letter  of 
authority to allow it to get that information the following day. 
It contacted the OPS  on day it received  the letter of authority  (which was the same 
day as it asked Mrs M to sign the letter).
It spoke to the OPS  several times before  it received  the information it needed. 
Once it received  the information it needed  it completed a transfer value analysis 
(TVAS) report within two days, and sent this to Mrs M. 
I think this shows AAM  did take reasonable steps  to progress things. It does not demonstrate 
any undue  delay on the part of AAM. I know Mrs M feels it could  have done  more to manage  
timescales, but it did chase the OPS. And the OPS  would  have been  aware  that a CETV had 
been requested  and that the information  being requested  was with a view to completing a 
transfer of the amount of the CETV. So it would have  been aware  that the work was time 
sensitive. 
I appreciate that some  of Mrs Ms other OPSs had CETV quotes that expired at similar 
times, and the transfers of those were  completed  before  the quotes expired. But each 
scheme is different.  For example, the administrators of one scheme might be quicker than 
Ref: DRN85614673another. And the features of each  scheme will differ  so full information  about each is 
needed before things  can proceed.  AAM  has explained it had pre-existing knowledge of the 
other schemes and so was able to deal with these more quickly.  But it did not have such 
knowledge about the OPS  Mrs M is complaining about. I do not think  it reasonable to expect  
an advisor to have pre-existing knowledge  of all OPSs and, as mentioned, AAM would have 
had to take great care to ensure it had all the relevant information  before it advised Mrs M to 
make the transfer.  So I do not think it was unreasonable for AAM to have to take steps  to 
gather the relevant information before it proceeded. 
Overall, I do not think there  is sufficient  evidence to say AAM has done  anything wrong. It 
appears to have made reasonable efforts to progress things against a relatively tight 
timescale. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  I do not uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2019.
John Pattinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8561467