K821x#15complaint
Mr D complains the vehicle he acquired through finance supplied by BMW Financial 
Services(GB) Limited trading as Alphera Financial  Services was not of satisfactory  quality. 
He wants to reject the vehicle and end the agreement.
background
Mr D tells us he obtained the vehicle, through a hire purchase agreement,  in March 2018. He 
says hes had a number of issues arise. This has included loss of power, and oil light and 
water coolant warning lights being  illuminated.  And he points to a new gearbox being 
required in December 2018. He says hes lost faith in the vehicle and wants  to reject it and 
end the agreement.
Alphera told us it had rejected Mr Ds complaint  as the fault identified with the gearbox had 
first occurred outside the first six months after supply  and was a separate  fault to the first 
issue. It said it was unable to accept rejection of the vehicle.
Our investigator recommended the complaint  should be upheld. She found that the vehicle 
had required  repairing on two occasions within the first eight months after initial supply to Mr 
D. On the second  occasion the vehicle had required a replacement gearbox.  She said that 
the Consumer  Rights Act 2015 meant  that durability was an aspect which  related to whether 
goods were of satisfactory quality. Having regard to the cost,  age and mileage  of the vehicle  
she didnt think a reasonable  person would expect  this performance.  She thought  Mr D 
should be allowed  to reject the vehicle.
Alphera did not agree with this outcome. It said faults occurring outside the first six months 
of supply are presumed not be there  at the point of supply - unless the customer proves 
otherwise. As its not been  possible to resolve  the complaint an ombudsman has been asked 
to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  Mr D has experienced the worry and inconvenience which  occurred when this 
vehicle failed to match his expectations.
Under present  legislation - as the supplier of both the vehicle and finance - Alphera is 
responsible for the vehicle being  of satisfactory quality when supplied. And whilst I dont 
apply the law - directly - I do take it into account.  Relevant legislation here includes the 
Consumer Rights Act of 2015.
When Mr D acquired the vehicle it was two years old but had mileage of only 4,100 recorded 
at that time. This is very low and was presumably reflected in the cash  price of just under 
£35,000. 
The first reported fault arose in July 2018 at which point the vehicle  had covered 8,138  
miles. The warranty invoice shows an oil leak was repaired and a new pump fitted due to an 
electrical fault.
Ref: DRN85672342I can see theres a note that Mr D wanted  to return the vehicle at this stage - and it seems  he 
was advised of the option for it to be returned  and the agreement terminated  once half the 
cost of the agreement  had been paid. Its not clear whether he was considering rejecting the 
vehicle at this point - but that would  not have been  an available option. By this time Alphera 
would have been entitled to have the chance  to arrange a repair  - which  is what happened.
In October, Mr Ds partner, S, sent an email on his behalf to Alphera which said:
It is with deep regret that we have had too many issues with this vehicle and we would like    
to discuss rejecting the vehicle.
And on 1 November Mr D called to further discuss issues which he said had been occurring 
since the start of the agreement. These  included the coolant and engine  oil lights coming on. 
Mr D also reported hed had to top up the oil level three or four times since  March.
Alphera acknowledged this complaint on 2 November but whilst it was being considered the 
vehicle suffered another breakdown on 11 December. This eventually  required a 
replacement gearbox  to be fitted. Whilst the vehicle was being  repaired, Mr D again  asked to 
reject it. But his request  was refused  by Alphera  in its final response  letter  of 17 January 
2019. In that letter  Alphera stated:
Any fault that occurs  after the first six months of ownership is presumed not to be there from 
point of sale, unless  proven  otherwise  by the consumer.
I dont entirely agree  with this statement if it is intended to be a summary  of the provisions of 
the CRA  relating to the time limits  in which certain  presumptions apply. The CRA makes 
reference to a presumption that a fault arising within six months of supply  is presumed  to be 
present at the point of supply - unless it is shown otherwise. In other words, a consumer 
would only need  to show a fault occurred within six months of supply - he wouldnt need  to 
separately prove it was present at the point of supply  - in order to invoke his rights under the 
legislation.
But there is no corresponding  provision that says faults identified  outside of the six months 
period following supply are presumed  not to have been present at the point of supply. So 
any intended inference - that a fault identified after more  than six months automatically 
means the goods were of satisfactory quality when supplied - is incorrect.
Where a fault is identified  later than six months after supply it is for the consumer to show  
that the fault meant the vehicle was not of satisfactory quality when  supplied.  And - as our 
investigator correctly pointed out - durability is an aspect which  has to be considered  in 
determining if goods are of satisfactory quality.
Alphera has suggested that Mr D has not supplied any evidence  to show the vehicle was 
faulty at the point of supply. But I dont agree with this view.  Whilst in many circumstances Id 
expect independent evidence from an expert who had examined the vehicle  - I dont think  
thats necessary  here.
Theres no doubt the gearbox  failed prematurely in terms  of the reasonable expectations  
which would attach to a vehicle of this value and specification. The mileage recorded  at the 
time was only 11,796  miles. That it was replaced under a warranty  allows me to infer there 
was no evidence that the failure was caused by any misuse by Mr D.
Ref: DRN85672343Its also a reasonable  inference that the failure  was attributable to a manufacturing defect. 
Gearboxes on premium  motor vehicles do not routinely fail after such low mileage - which 
means the component did not meet the required standard of durability.  
And whilst it was a different fault to that repaired in July - the CRA does not allow  each fault 
with an item to be treated separately. A vehicle is supplied as a whole unit which comprises 
of multiple different component  parts.  When the vehicle was returned to Mr D following the 
July repair, it should have complied with the requirement to be of satisfactory quality. The 
fact that there was such a major failure so soon  afterwards leads me to think that this was 
not the case.
In summary,  and on a balance of probabilities, I dont  think this vehicle was of satisfactory 
quality when supplied  as it failed to meet a reasonable standard of durability. And as there  
was an unsuccessful attempt to repair it I think Mr D should now be allowed to reject the 
vehicle. Accordingly,  Im upholding his complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im upholding this complaint.
Im now requiring BMW Financial Services (GB)  Limited trading as Alphera  Financial  
Services to take the following action:
1.End the agreement with nothing further  for Mr D to pay - subject to all payments and   
charges due under the agreement  having  been  paid up to the date of termination;  If 
there are any payments and/or charges  due these  may be deducted before paying 
any sums arising from this decision;
2. Arrange for the collection of the car at no further cost to Mr D;
3.Refund the deposit of £5353.07  and pay 8% simple interest from the date of payment 
until the date of settlement;
4.Pay £150 for distress  and convenience  - arising from the vehicle faults  necessitating 
return trips for repairs  to be completed.  
5.Arrange for the removal of any details in relation  to this account  from Mr Ds credit  
file. This need only be arranged after all sums due (if any) under item 1 have been 
paid.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 August 2019.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8567234