K820x#14complaint
Mrs S complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc asked  her to provide  information  that she had 
already provided.  She believes this means that the bank had either lost her information or 
been careless in dealing  with it. Mrs S is represented in this complaint  by her husband, Mr S. 
background
In May 2018  Mrs S applied online for a HSBC savings account, and she was asked to 
provide identity and verification documents. In June,  Mr S took these into a branch on her 
behalf. 
Mrs S account was opened in July, but that triggered a further request to her to provide 
information to satisfy the banks Common Reporting  Standard CRS) check. In particular she 
was asked to sign a form and return it to a local branch, or to contact HSBC directly if she 
was living  abroad,  which  she was. 
In September  Mr S rang HSBC to complain that it had asked  his wife to provide information 
that it should already have had as a result of his branch visit in June. HSBC spoke to Mrs S 
during that call and completed the outstanding CRS declaration over the phone.
A few days  later HSBC  sent its final response to Mrs S complaint explaining that the CRS 
request had been triggered automatically  on the opening of her account  in July. Mrs S 
remained unhappy with this explanation  and asked for further  clarification.  HSBC sent a 
follow up letter confirming that the CRS request had been system  generated when  she 
opened her account because  the bank didnt have  all of the information  it needed.
Mrs S then complained to us because she believed that HSBC must  either  have lost or 
mislaid the information  shed  already provided.
Our adjudicators view was that she didnt believe HSBC had made  a mistake in asking  Mrs 
S for information. She said that the bank  hadnt  lost the documents  Mr S had provided, but 
that the subsequent opening  of Mrs S account meant that it had to complete  an additional 
verification check on her. But the adjudicator agreed that some of HSBCs letters werent as 
clear as they might have  been.
Mrs S didnt accept the adjudicators view and asked for an ombudsmans  decision. She re-
stated her concerns  about being asked  for the same information more  than once; and about 
HSBC then being prepared to accept  this over the phone when shed previously been 
required to have it verified by a suitable person, such as a lawyer,  in the country  in which  
she was living. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Subject to certain  constraints  banks are entitled  to ask account  applicants for whatever 
information they feel they need to satisfy  the regulatory requirements within which they 
operate and their own business needs.  And so when  Mrs S savings account  was opened in 
July HSBCs systems  generated  a request for further information from her. This was a self-
certified form on which she was asked to provide details of her country  of residence for tax 
purposes.
Ref: DRN88882632Mrs S maintains that she had already completed  that form and that Mr S had previously 
taken it into a HSBC  branch  where it had been photocopied. For its part HSBC  has said that 
its systems generated  the CRS request. This implies  to me that either this particular form 
hadnt already  been provided by Mrs S, or if it had, then it hadnt been recorded  as having 
been provided on that section of HSBCs systems  processing Mrs S application. I note that 
HSBCs CRS letter  includes the following comments  If you have multiple  accounts  with 
HSBC, you may receive more than one request for information. Please  ensure that you 
respond to all the requests as they may relate to different parts of the HSBC group. 
Essentially, this is saying  that the bank  might ask for the same  information more than once. 
This doesnt mean that information has been lost, rather that (and in HSBCs words in a 
reply to Mrs S complaint) some of our processes may not be as smooth as wed 
intended 
On the evidence I have seen I cannot  determine with any certainty  exactly what documents  
Mr S took into the HSBC  branch  on Mrs S behalf. But if the tax compliance  form was 
amongst them,  the system processing Mrs S account opening didnt know  about. But Im 
afraid it doesnt necessarily follow that the tax form had therefore been  lost, or dealt with 
carelessly, as claimed by Mrs S. 
Mrs S points to the fact that having said it hadnt received the form, HSBC was then happy  to 
accept the information over the phone. She argues that if telephone verification was 
acceptable she should never  have  been  asked to complete the form. Or alternatively,  that by 
the time she spoke to HSBC it had found her form and so the telephone verification was in 
effect a charade.
I should make clear that my role is not a regulatory one nor do we as a service interfere with, 
or make recommendations about, banks internal processes and procedures. It follows  that it 
is not for me to determine whether HSBC  should  always require the tax residency form to be 
completed as a signed document  or whether, in some circumstances, it is acceptable  that 
the information is provided over the phone. That is a matter for HSBC  to determine in the 
light of its responsibilities to HMRC.  
But having  written to Mrs S to say that the CRS check was outstanding, in my opinion HSBC  
then dealt with the matter  efficiently following Mr S complaint. And I do not consider that Mrs 
S was inconvenienced to any significant  extent by what happened here. 
And so having  considered the circumstances of this complaint  Im afraid that I cannot 
reasonably conclude that HSBC has done anything wrong. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 June 2019.
June Brown
ombudsman
Ref: DRN88882633
Ref: DRN8888263