K820x#14complaint
Miss A complained about Aviva Insurance Limited.  She isnt happy  about the way it dealt 
with a claim under her home  emergency policy.
background
Miss A had a leak in her rented property in June  2015 and she told Aviva.  It attended but 
didnt diagnose  the issue. This meant  that there were  ongoing  problems at the property. It 
attended on two further occasions  before it got to the bottom  of the problem and cause of the 
leak.
Aviva eventually fixed the leak. It also agreed to meet the cost of repairing further  damage  
caused by the leak.  Miss A also had problems  getting a radiator fixed.  It sent a specialist  to 
consider the damage caused  by the leak and Aviva  offered to pay for the damage caused. It 
also agreed to pay £440  in acknowledgement of the inconvenience it had caused.
previous final decision  September 2016
Miss A didnt think that the compensation level was sufficient.  She requested a structural 
engineer to assess the damage caused.  As Aviva  didnt agree she asked this service to look 
into things for her which resulted in a final decision. 
Her complaint was fully considered and partly upheld. It was decided that the case could be 
concluded without  Aviva having  to appoint a structural engineer. This was because  there 
was sufficient evidence  from professionals,  including  a loss adjuster,  to make a final decision 
and both sides were  given opportunity to provide evidence supporting their position. 
Aviva was required to pay Miss As repair costs for the damage  caused to her property  
(subject to Miss A gaining two estimates),  pay replacement  carpet  and cleaning  costs 
(subject to reasonable evidence)  and pay £550 compensation. 
background to this complaint
Miss A provided estimates from two reputable professionals in line with the final decision and 
Aviva looked  to settle things by paying out in line with the estimates. It agreed to pay Miss A 
£4,560 which was the higher of the two quotes Miss A obtained.
But Miss A wanted Aviva  to pay for additional costs she said that she was facing including  
skip hire, additional car insurance costs (as she felt that she would  have to use her car for 
commuting and business purposes)  and a contribution towards her own travel costs and her 
general inconvenience. And when Aviva didnt agree to pay these she instructed a solicitor. 
And Miss A then got further estimates,  after instructing  a building consultancy, identifying 
potential further  problems, which increased the estimated repair  costs  considerably.
As the matter couldnt be mediated  Miss A complained again to this service. Our adjudicator 
highlighted that a number of costs  that Miss A had now outlined werent covered under the 
original quotes.  But he felt that Aviva  should look to pay a higher amount, less costs  
surrounding areas of damage that hadnt been  mentioned previously, before going onto say 
that we couldnt look at the complaint again.  This was because he was of the view that the 
subject matter of the complaint had already been  looked at by this service. And because 
Miss A had actually rejected the settlement outlined in the original final decision. 
Ref: DRN82271832As Miss A didnt agree  the matter  was passed to me for review.
my provisional decision
I looked at all the circumstances and information  surrounding this complaint and outlined my 
provisional view.  I was minded not to uphold Miss As complaint and Ill summarise my 
position:
I was satisfied that this service could look into Miss As complaint. And that Aviva had looked  
to act in line with the original final decision in trying to settle things. This was because  it 
looked to pay the original  repair costs  in line with the two estimates gained. And agreed to 
pay Miss As replacement carpet costs, subject to reasonable evidence,  although  these 
hadnt been settled at that stage. Although I did ask Aviva to clarify why all the compensation 
hadnt been paid to Miss A.
In relation to the increased estimates  that Miss A produced (more than double the original 
estimates). I acknowledged Avivas point that things couldve got worse at the property or an 
additional problem  (unrelated to the original event)  couldve occurred given the passage  of 
time between the estimates. Aviva also questioned why the original repairers didnt identify 
the additional problems if they were present at that time.
I highlighted  that Miss A had the opportunity to appoint  a surveyor  before the previous final 
decision in September 2016. I was of the view that given the passage  of time I didnt think it 
was fair to hold Aviva  responsible for the additional  costs identified approximately two years 
after the original  leak.
I thought that Aviva  had acted more than reasonably  in the first instance in agreeing  to pay 
Miss As repair quote, especially as it was a lot higher  than the other quote she got. And I 
highlighted that she was more than happy with the knowledge, experience and 
professionalism of her chosen  repairer at that time.
As highlighted previously,  I said that I wouldve expected a professional to identify any 
additional work necessary. And I noted that the repairers did identify additional  work  in the 
first instance. So, overall I thought that Aviva had acted reasonably  in paying the higher of 
Miss As two quotations  and agreeing to pay replacement carpet or cleaning costs  (once  
suitable evidence  was provided).  
I also outlined that this service generally  expects consumers to mitigate  their losses.  And I 
wasnt satisfied that Miss A had taken positive steps  to make good the damage to her 
property at an earlier stage. So, although  I could understand Miss As frustration about the 
delay in repairing  her property and the difficulty the whole situation  had caused  her. I didnt 
think Aviva  had acted unreasonably.
replies
Both sides have responded. Aviva accepted the decision and confirmed that it was happy to 
pay any remaining compensation and additional carpet damage  payments without any 
further estimates or invoices - alongside the original  agreement to pay Miss As higher 
estimate (totalling  £5,070) if Miss A agreed. And Miss A made a number of representations 
by phone and following  further questions directed by me.
Ref: DRN82271833Ultimately Miss A didnt  agree with the provisional  decision. She said that she hadnt  in fact 
received payment from Aviva for £4,560  so was prevented from taking action  to repair  her 
rented property at the time. She highlighted that she made a counter offer including other 
additional costs  (covering things like skip hire and additional  car insurance costs) and clearly 
told Aviva  in a recorded delivery letter that she hadnt received its payment. 
As Miss As counter offer letter was sent around  the time payment was due I asked her why 
she didnt follow this up with Aviva.  And she said that it was clear from her recorded  delivery 
letter, and the fact that the cheque wasnt cashed, that payment wasnt received.  So she 
didnt think she needed to do anything further.  Miss A made  the point that she wouldve 
expected Aviva to contact  her following this letter as it would be apparent that payment 
wasnt received. 
Miss A also highlighted that she didnt think that further damage was caused at the property  
in the period between her original estimates  and the later ones which were more  than 
double. Miss A said that she wasnt responsible  for any delay in getting  the repairs  done.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  This case is far from straightforward and I 
can understand how difficult things have been  for Miss A. Ive spent a great deal of time 
reconsidering all the available evidence but Im not upholding her complaint. I know  that this 
will be upsetting to Miss A but Ill explain why.
The main  point that Miss A has raised,  and that I will consider here, is the fact that in my 
provisional decision I said that she had been paid £4,560. But it transpires that she never 
received the cheque from Aviva. Miss A feels that this prevented her from taking positive 
action and paying for the repairs at that time.
Ive asked Aviva about this. It said that the cheque was sent but it has since confirmed that it 
was never  cashed.  As Miss A highlights she did write to Aviva saying that payment  hadnt 
been received  around the same time as the cheque should have been  received by her. 
Miss As letter was sent by recorded  delivery. 
Ive considered this carefully and in an ideal  world Aviva shouldve  been able to identify that 
its cheque hadnt  been cashed. But I think that it didnt act unreasonably in presuming that a 
dispatched cheque  was received and cashed. I say this as it didnt hear anything  further from 
Miss A after she sent the recorded delivery  letter. 
Although Miss A did send her counter offer around the time the cheque was due. I can 
understand why Aviva  would have thought that the cheque was still received as it was 
possible that the letter and cheque had crossed in the post. Im satisfied,  on balance, that it 
sent the cheque. I cant hold Aviva responsible for problems  with the postal system. And at 
that stage, Aviva had agreed to pay the higher of Miss As original quotes, which was 
reasonable.
Additionally, it is very clear from telephone  conversations around this time between the 
parties that Miss A didnt  want to accept Avivas payment  without her additional costs  (as 
outlined in her letter) being included  - she reiterated this in her recorded delivery letter.  And 
when Miss A did make Aviva aware that the cheque hadnt been received (a fair while  later)  
it offered to re-issue the cheque but Miss A refused. Instead, she instructed a solicitor as she 
Ref: DRN82271834wanted her additional costs paid as opposed to trying to get the original payment, which 
Aviva was still prepared  to pay, re-issued. So I dont think that she would have accepted the 
payment at that time in any event. 
Either way, as outlined  previously, this service expects consumers to mitigate  their losses. 
As a landlord a number of unexpected difficulties can occur at a rented property that would 
require urgent attention and repair which could be costly. So while  I accept that Miss A was 
in a difficult financial position, that doesnt  explain why she didnt contact Aviva  to ask why 
she hadnt received  the cheque she was expecting, after she wrote to it with her counter 
offer. 
Indeed when Miss A did contact Aviva  she then wanted to renegotiate the settlement in 
order to cover additional costs. But if she had accepted the payment Aviva wanted to pay 
her this would  have allowed the work to begin which may have avoided any additional  
damage occurring.
As Aviva had already acted in line with the original decision by agreeing  to pay the higher of 
Miss As two quotations  I wouldnt have expected it to look to enter into further negotiations 
about Miss As other costs. As far as it was concerned it had sent her the payment for the 
work, in line with the final decision of September 2016. And Miss A was then in a position to 
get on with the repairs  if she wished.
After Miss A instructed a solicitor, she also appointed a building  surveyor  which  identified  
further work  that needed to be done.  However  I dont think that all the work identified  can be 
attributed to the original leak. This is due, in part, to the passage of time and likelihood of 
general deterioration and the fact that additional  work to different areas that werent  
identified before being highlighted. Im not suggesting that Miss A or her tenants  caused 
further problems,  but it is possible  that other  things  have  wrong  at the property. Indeed, it is 
very likely that the original  problems, associated with the leak that was covered by the 
original final decision in September  2016,  might have got worse.  But I dont think  I can hold 
Aviva responsible for this.
I know Miss A feels that she wasnt  in a position financially to appoint  a surveyor during  the 
process of complaining and finalising the previous final decision in September 2016. But, 
while I can understand her financial position,  both sides were asked if they had any further 
evidence for consideration at that time and Miss A didnt  provide any. And I think as a 
landlord that Miss A needs to be in a position to be able to facilitate emergency repairs and 
general repairs at the property  that generally  occur.
Im not sure why Aviva didnt send Miss A the full compensation outlined  in the original final 
decision at that time.  But Im sure that the drawn out nature of this complaint and the clear  
breakdown in the relationship between Aviva and Miss A affected this.  But Aviva remains 
happy to pay the compensation now and the carpet costs Miss A outlined originally without 
any further evidence.  As long as Miss A accepts the original  position which  I think  is fair.
So, I know that Miss A will be upset by my findings  and I understand that she continues  to 
face financial difficulties  in relation to her rented property but I cant hold Aviva responsible 
for this. I have looked to consider this matter, in detail, and in a fair and reasonable way to 
both sides. 
I simply leave  it to Miss A to decide whether, upon reflection, she wishes  to accept Avivas 
offer to pay her originally  agreed repair costs  and remaining compensation (amounting to 
Ref: DRN82271835£5,070). Furthermore, as Miss A is aware there  is a further issue in relation to a problem with 
a radiator that is being considered separately.
my final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above,  that I dont  uphold  this complaint 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 May 2019.
Colin Keegan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8227183