K820x#14complaint
Mr T has complained about Great Lakes  Insurance SEs decision to decline  his claim for 
benefit under his unemployment insurance  policy.
background
On 15 November 2017, Mr T took out the policy. It would pay a monthly benefit of £2,000 for 
up to twelve months in the event that Mr T was made involuntarily  unemployed. The policy 
was subject to an initial exclusion  period  of 120 days (which in Mr Ts case therefore ended  
on 14 March 2018) during which Mr T was unable to make a claim.
In April 2018, Mr T telephoned Great Lakes to make  a claim. He said that his employer 
(which Ill call Z) had made him redundant from 1 April 2018, though he was receiving three  
months salary in lieu of notice which meant  that under the terms of the policy his 
unemployment didnt  start until 1 July 2018.  Great Lakes asked when he was first made 
aware that his job was at risk and he said it was 5 March 2018. Great Lakes said that 
because this was within 120 days of the policy starting it thus fell within  the initial  exclusion 
period and so he would not be eligible for benefit.
Mr T later called Great Lakes back and said hed checked his records  and it was on 
19 March 2018  that he learned  his job was at risk. Since this was just outside the 120 day 
exclusion period,  Great Lakes agreed to assess his claim.
Great Lakes contacted Z which said that the date on which  it first advised Mr T that his job 
might be at risk was 23 March 2018.
In view of the discrepancy in the information which  had been provided, Great Lakes 
undertook further  research. It noted  a press  article which had been published in July 2017 
which reported that Z was planning  to make  redundancies in the department in which Mr T 
worked. Great Lakes  therefore declined the claim on the grounds that Mr T was aware  his 
job was possibly at risk before he took out the policy.
Mr T appealed against the decision. He said that the restructure to which the press article 
referred had taken place in September 2017.  He said that, as far as he was aware when  he 
took out the policy, his job was safe and this had been confirmed to him by Z as recently as 
January 2018.
Great Lakes wouldnt change its position. Mr T therefore referred his complaint to us. He 
said that he thought Great Lakes should pay his claim but, failing that, it should  at least  
refund all the premiums  hed paid for the policy given that it was apparently  never on risk.
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I was minded to uphold the complaint. My 
findings were as follows:
The policy  will pay benefit if Mr T becomes unemployed. The policy defines unemployed  
as follows:
You are without work due to your employment ending unexpectedly and due to 
circumstances beyond  your control.
Ref: DRN86926692It appears that Mr T was involuntarily made redundant  by Z. On the face of it, Mr T therefore  
has an eligible claim. However, the policy  contains  certain exclusions.  These include:
c) Claims during the initial exclusion period where:
you are notified of your unemployment  even if your last day in work falls outside of 
this period;
you are made aware that there is a risk you could be made  unemployed even if the 
formal notification of your unemployment  was issued outside of this period
and
e) Claims where you were aware  of the risk or possibility of you becoming unemployed 
 at or prior to the start date of this policy.
While Mr T initially  said he was told of the impending  redundancy on 5 March 2018, he has 
explained that he estimated this without access to his work records.  Z has since told Great  
Lakes that the relevant date was 23 March 2018. I consider that Zs version of events  is 
likely to be the more  accurate.  Given that 23 March 2018 was outside the initial exclusion 
period, I dont consider that Z can reasonably rely on exclusion c), above,  to decline Mr Ts 
claim.
This means  that, to decline the claim, Great Lakes must rely on exclusion e). However, I 
consider this is written  in such  broad  terms as to make it almost meaningless.  Anyone  who 
takes out an insurance policy must  be aware of the possibility of the insured event occurring 
otherwise they wouldnt  take out the policy in the first place.  No-one  would insure against an 
event which  was guaranteed never  to occur.  
I can understand that Great  Lakes wanted to limit its risk. It didnt want  to provide cover 
where the applicant  was aware that they were at significant risk of redundancy. But it needed 
to use a form of words which more accurately described the level of risk which  it wanted to 
exclude. If, for example, it didnt want to extend  cover to someone whose employer had 
made other staff redundant  in the past twelve months, it should have spelt  this out in the 
policy terms. That way, the applicant could reasonably judge whether it was worthwhile 
taking out the policy.
Given that the clause is meaningless,  I could arguably say that Great  Lakes cannot rely on it 
at all. However, given  that Im satisfied no insurer would have willingly provided cover where 
it was more likely than not that the applicant would be made redundant  within twelve  months,  
I have considered whether Mr T was in this position  at the time he applied  for the policy.
The only evidence which Great Lakes has obtained in support of its position is the 
newspaper article from July 2017.  This explained  that Z was planning a re-structure which 
was expected to lead to the loss of over 100 staff,  comprising  15% of the relevant 
department. The article said that the consultation  process was likely  to be completed  by 
August 2017.
Mr T has explained  that this re-structure was completed by September  2017 and his role 
was retained.  The fact that Z had made  staff in his department redundant may have 
heightened Mr Ts awareness of the risk of unemployment and thus prompted him to make  
the prudent decision  to take out cover. However,  I dont think  the earlier redundancies meant 
that he should necessarily have expected that he would also shortly be made redundant. He 
Ref: DRN86926693has said that the announcement of his redundancy came as a surprise. Z has confirmed  that 
it only made Mr T aware  of the threat to his job on 23 March  2018 and I have no reasonable 
grounds for disputing this.
Given that Mr T has shown that, on the face of it, he has an eligible claim, the onus is on 
Great Lakes to show that an exclusion can reasonably be applied.  I consider that Great 
Lakes has failed to do this. I therefore consider that Great Lakes should pay Mr Ts claim, 
plus interest, in accordance with the policys remaining terms and conditions.
I invited both parties to comment  on my provisional decision.
Mr T accepted my provisional decision.  He provided details of the period for which he 
remained unemployed and explained  how hard he had found  this financially.
Great Lakes didnt respond.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that Mr T has accepted my provisional decision and Great  Lakes didnt respond, Im 
satisfied that my provisional  decision should stand.
Mr T says that he was unemployed from 1 July 2018  to 6 May 2019  inclusive.  However, I 
havent stipulated  in my decision that Great Lakes must pay benefit for this period as it may 
want to see evidence to confirm this.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I require Great Lakes  Insurance SE to accept Mr Ts claim and to pay him benefit in 
accordance with the remaining policy terms. Great Lakes should add interest to these benefit 
payments at the annual simple rate of 8%, calculated from the date each payment was due 
to the date of settlement.*  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 January 2020.
David Poley
ombudsman
* If Great Lakes considers that its required  by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income  tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr T how much its taken off. It should also give Mr T a certificate showing 
this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN8692669