K821x#15Complaint
Mr M has complained about a loan which was provided to him by Christian Paul Gachet  
(trading as easylogbookloans.tv). He says the loan was irresponsibly provided to him as it 
was unaffordable.
Background
Mr M was provided with a loan of £2,500.00 in October 2015.  The loan was to be repaid in 
24 monthly payments  of £250 month and had a quoted  Annual  Percentage  Rate (APR) of 
170%. This meant that the total amount to be repaid was £6,000.00. Easylogbookloans 
describes the loan as a logbook loan. But as it was provided in Scotland  it wasnt secured by 
way of a Bill of Sale on Mr Ms car. Instead  Mr M was asked to sign a document  described 
as an Agency Appointment and Power of Attorney.  
Our adjudicator looked at Mr Ms complaint and concluded Mr M shouldnt have been  
provided with this loan as Easylogbookloans ought  reasonably to have realised that it wasnt  
affordable for him. Easylogbookloans disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision.  As 
a result,  the complaint has been  passed to me for a final decision.
In reaching my decision, I have taken into account the relevant law and regulations; relevant 
regulators rules,  guidance and standards; relevant codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
The regulatory framework
Easylogbookloans gave  Mr M this loan while it had interim permission from the industry  
regulator  the Financial  Conduct Authority (FCA)  to carry out credit related regulated 
activities. Easylogbookloans interim permission to provide consumer credit and its eventual 
authorisation to do so meant that it was subject to the FCA rules and regulations from 1 April 
2014.
the FCA Principles  for Business (PRIN)
The FCAs Principles for Business  set out the overarching requirements which all authorised  
firms are required to comply with.
PRIN 1.1.1G, says
The Principles apply  in whole or in part to every firm.
The Principles themselves are set out in PRIN 2.1.1R. And the most relevant principle here 
is PRIN 2.1.1 R (6) which says:
A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
Ref: DRN86090642the Consumer  Credit sourcebook (CONC)
This sets out the rules  which apply to providers of consumer credit  like Easylogbookloans. 
CONC also replaced the requirements  set out in Section 55B CONC 5 sets out a firms  
obligations in relation  to responsible lending. And CONC 6 sets out a firms obligations after 
a consumer has entered into a regulated agreement.
Its clear there is a high degree of alignment between  the Office  of Fair Tradings (OFT) 
Irresponsible Lending Guidance and the rules set out in CONC 5 and CONC 6. As is evident 
from the following  extracts,  the FCAs CONC rules specifically note and refer back to 
sections of the OFTs Irresponsible Lending Guidance on many occasions.
Section 5.2.1R(2) of CONC  sets out what a lender needs to do before agreeing  to give a 
consumer a loan of this type.  It says a firm must consider:
(a)the potential  for the commitments  under the regulated credit agreement  to adversely 
impact the customers financial situation, taking into account  the information  of which  
the firm is aware  at the time the regulated credit agreement is to be made; and
[Note: paragraph 4.1 of ILG]
(b)the ability of the customer to make repayments as they fall due over the life of the 
regulated credit  agreement, or for such an agreement which is an open-end 
agreement, to make repayments  within a reasonable period.
[Note: paragraph 4.3 of ILG]
CONC also includes guidance  about  proportionality  of assessments. CONC 5.2.4G(2) says:
A firm should consider  what  is appropriate  in any particular circumstances dependent  on, for 
example, the type and amount of credit  being  sought and the potential  risks to the customer.  
The risk of credit not being sustainable directly  relates to the amount of credit  granted and 
the total charge for credit relative to the customers financial  situation.
[Note: paragraph 4.11 and part of 4.16 of ILG]
CONC 5.3 contains further guidance  on what a lender should bear in mind  when thinking 
about affordability. 
CONC 5.3.1G(1) says:
In making the creditworthiness assessment  or the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R 
(1), a firm should take into account more  than assessing the customers ability  to repay the 
credit.
[Note: paragraph 4.2 of ILG]
CONC 5.3.1G(2) then says:
Ref: DRN86090643The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1) should 
include the firm taking  reasonable  steps to assess the customers  ability to meet repayments 
under a regulated credit  agreement in a sustainable  manner without the customer  incurring 
financial difficulties or experiencing significant  adverse  consequences.
[Note: paragraph 4.1 (box) and 4.2 of ILG]
CONC 5.3.1G(6) goes  on to say:
 
For the purposes of CONC  sustainable means  the repayments under  the regulated credit 
agreement can be made by the customer :
(a)without undue difficulties, in particular:
(i) the customer should be able to make repayments  on time, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments;  and
(ii) without having to borrow  to meet the repayments ;
(b)over the life of the agreement, or for such an agreement which  is an open-end 
agreement, within a reasonable  period; and
(c)  out of income and savings without having  to realise security  or assets; and
unsustainable has the opposite meaning.
[Note: paragraph 4.3 and 4.4 of ILG]
In respect of the need to double-check information disclosed by applicants,  CONC 5.3.1G(4) 
has a reference  to paragraphs  4.13,  4.14, and 4.15 of ILG and states:
(a)it is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for its assessment of the 
customers income and expenditure on a statement of those matters  made  by the 
customer.
And CONC 5.3.7R says that:
A firm must not accept an application for credit under  a regulated  credit  agreement where 
the firm knows or ought reasonably to suspect  that the customer  has not been  truthful  in 
completing the application in relation to information supplied by the customer  relevant to the 
creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required  by CONC 5.2.2R (1).
[Note: paragraph 4.31 of ILG]
My findings
I have read and considered all the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, 
in order to decide what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
case.
Taking into account the relevant rules,  and my remit to decide whats  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances  of Mr Ms complaint, I think there are two overarching questions I need  
to consider in order to decide this case. These  questions are:
Ref: DRN86090644Did Easylogbookloans complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that Mr M would be able to repay his loan in a sustainable way?
oIf so, did it make  a fair lending decision?
oIf not, would  those checks have shown that Mr M wouldve been able to do so?
Did Easylogbookloans act unfairly or unreasonably  in some other way?
If I determine that Easylogbookloans didnt  act fairly  and reasonably towards  Mr M and that 
he lost out as a result,  I will then go on to consider what is fair compensation.
Did Easylogbookloans, each time it lent, complete reasonable and proportionate checks  to 
satisfy itself that Mr M would be able to repay  his loan in a sustainable way?
Regulations in place when Easylogbookloans lent to Mr M required it to carry out a 
reasonable assessment of whether Mr M could afford to repay his loan in a sustainable  
manner. This is sometimes referred  to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The affordability checks shouldve been borrower-focused  so Easylogbookloans had to 
think about whether  repaying the loan sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse 
consequences for Mr M. In other words, it wasnt enough for Easylogbookloans to think only 
about the likelihood that it would get its money  back without considering the impact  of 
repayment on Mr M himself. The documentation  suggesting to Mr M that the loan was 
secured on his car didnt alter, lessen or dilute this obligation.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes  a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon  a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the borrower 
(e.g. their financial history, current situation  and outlook, and any indications of vulnerability 
or financial difficulty) and the amount  / type / cost of credit they are seeking. Even for the 
same customer, a proportionate  check could look different for different loan applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have  
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the longer  the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit  is 
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make  payments for an extended  
period); and 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ref: DRN86090645There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed  a proportionate check 
should be for a given  loan application  including  (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive thought 
about all the relevant factors in this case.
Were Easylogbookloanss  checks reasonable and proportionate?
From what  Ive seen, Easylogbookloans appears  to have asked Mr M for evidence  of his 
income in the form of three months  worth of payslips. Mr M appears to have also been 
asked for details of his monthly expenditure. It also looks  like Mr Ms wifes income and child 
benefit payments  were  also included in Easylogbookloans assessment. But I cant see that 
Mr Ms wife expenditure  was factored into the assessment.
Ive also seen that Mr M provided a letter from an insurer showing that his direct  had been  
cancelled and he needed to make alternative  arrangements to pay his home insurance 
otherwise cover would  cease. Im assuming that this was obtained  as a proof of address. 
Easylogbookloans says the income  and expenditure information it obtained showed that    
Mr M had a monthly disposable income of in excess of £1,100.00 which  meant that he could 
easily afford the monthly payments  of £250.  
Ive thought about what Easylogbookloans  has said. But CONC makes  it clear that the 
extent to which a lenders checks are proportionate will depend on the type of credit,  the 
associated cost and the risks to the borrower bearing in mind their financial situation.  Equally 
the rules and guidance also suggest  that when  income or expenditure is taken into account,  
checks are less likely to be proportionate  where the lender relies solely on a statement of 
those matters made by the borrower. 
So bearing all of this in mind, in my view, a less detailed affordability assessment, without 
the need for verification, is far more likely to be fair, reasonable and proportionate in 
circumstances where  the amount to be repaid is relatively small, the consumers financial 
situation is stable  and they will be indebted for a relatively short period. 
But, in circumstances  where a customers finances  may be less stable (for example where  
they appear to be having difficulty making  payments to existing creditors  - such as an 
insurer), they are expected to make  repayment for a more extended period of time and there 
appears to the borrower at least to be the potential for them losing their car if they run into 
difficulty making payments, I think its far more likely that any affordability assessment would 
need to be more detailed and contain a greater degree of verification, in order for it to be fair, 
reasonable and proportionate. 
So given the circumstances in this case,  where  Mr M was provided with a very expensive  
high-interest loan and he was at least told there was the possibility of him losing his car, I 
wouldve expected  Easylogbookloans  to have verified the expenditure information  provided 
as well as his income. Easylogbookloans might  have thought that a light touch check was 
proportionate because Mr M believed his car provided security  and so he mightve been 
more willing  to pay. But I dont think that this was enough to constitute a borrower focused 
assessment. And I dont  see how this considered the impact  of the repayments on Mr M. 
Equally Im concerned that Easylogbookloans decision to lend was based on an 
assessment, which any reasonable scrutiny ought  to have alerted it to the fact that it was at 
best overoptimistic and at worst wholly inaccurate. After all why would someone need to 
borrow £2,500.00  at such rates and sign documentation suggesting their car was at risk if 
Ref: DRN86090646they genuinely had a monthly disposable  income of approaching £1,200.00,  unless there  
was some other problem.  And I think that Easylogbookloans decision to simply  proceed  with        
Mr Ms application on the basis of what at face value appears to have been  an overoptimistic 
declaration of his expenditure  meant that it didnt complete reasonable or proportionate 
checks before providing this loan.
Would proportionate checks on Mr Ms loan have indicated to Easylogbookloans that he 
would more likely than not have been unable to repay his loan in a sustainable manner?
Ive already explained that I think a proportionate check  for this loan wouldve involved 
verifying Mr Ms normal monthly outgoings and regular financial commitments. But as 
Easylogbookloans didnt  carry out proportionate  checks for this loan, I cant  say for sure 
what such verification of Mr Ms normal monthly outgoings and regular financial 
commitments would more likely  than not have shown. 
So I need to decide whether it is more likely than not that fair, reasonable and proportionate  
affordability checks wouldve told Easylogbookloans  that it was unfair to offer this loan to    
Mr M. To help us understand for ourselves what Easylogbookloans would more  likely than 
not have discovered  if it had completed reasonable and proportionate checks on Mr Ms 
loans, we asked  Mr M to provide us with information on his financial circumstances. 
Having carefully considered the information, I think that a detailed review  of Mr Ms normal  
monthly outgoings and regular financial commitments, would have shown that he was in 
arrears on his mortgage and that hed had previous problems paying credit. To the extent  
that hed recently  defaulted on two accounts. Its also clear that Mr M was gambling 
significant sums of money. And his ability to make his payments to this loan would in large 
part be dependent on his success as a gambler.
In these circumstances, I think there  was little reasonable prospect of Mr M being able to 
make his payments  without undue difficulty or borrowing further. And as I think  that 
reasonable and proportionate checks would more likely than not have  shown 
Easylogbookloans all of this, it follows  that I think reasonable  and proportionate  checks 
would more likely than not have alerted it to the fact that Mr M wouldnt have been able to 
sustainably make the repayments to this loan.  
Did Easylogbookloans act unfairly or unreasonably  in some other way?
Having carefully thought  about everything, while I have significant  concerns about the fact 
that Easylogbookloans,  on more than one occasion,  told Mr M that he could have  sold his 
car if he was experiencing financial difficulty when it got him to sign documentation  
purportedly providing  an undertaking that he wouldnt, Ive also seen  that Easylogbookloans 
did attempt  to exercise forbearance  when  Mr M explained that he was struggling to make 
payments.
In these circumstances, Im not persuaded that Easylogbookloans  acted unfairly or 
unreasonably towards  Mr M in some other way.
Overall and having carefully thought  about the two overarching  questions,  set out on page 
four of this decision, I find that Easylogbookloans  unfairly and unreasonably provided  Mr M 
with his loan. 
Ref: DRN86090647As Mr M ended up paying and is being expected to pay interest and charges on a loan he 
shouldnt have been given, I think that he lost out because of what Easylogbookloans  did 
wrong. 
So I think that Easylogbookloans  now needs  to put things right.
fair compensation  what  Easylogbookloans needs to do to put things  right for Mr M
Ive thought about what amounts to fair compensation  in this case. Where I find that a 
business has done something  wrong, Id normally expect that business   in so far as is 
reasonably practicable   to put the consumer in the position they would be in now if that 
wrong hadnt taken  place.  In essence,  in this case, this would mean Easylogbookloans 
putting Mr M in the position hed now be in if he hadnt been given this loan.
But when it comes to complaints about  irresponsible lending this isnt straightforward.  Mr M 
was given the loan in question and he used the funds.  So, in these  circumstances, I cant 
undo whats already been  done.  And its simply not possible to put Mr M back in the position 
he would  be in if he hadnt been  given  this loan in the first place.
As this is the case, I have to think  about some other way of putting things right in a fair and 
reasonable way bearing in mind all the circumstances of the case. And Id like to explain  the 
reasons why I think that it would be fair and reasonable for Easylogbookloans to put things 
right in the following way.
interest and charges on the loans Mr M shouldnt have  been given
As Ive explained, Mr M was provided  with a very expensive loan which  meant that he had to 
pay a significant  amount  in interest  and charges  on a loan that he should  never  have been 
given. So to start with, I think that Easylogbookloans should  refund the extra   over and 
above the amount Mr M was lent  paid by Mr M.
Im also mindful that Mr M lost the use of the funds he used to pay the interest and charges, 
I now think that Easylogbookloans  needs to refund  to him. As Mr M lost the use of these 
funds, I think that he should be compensated for this. We normally ask a business to pay 8% 
simple interest where a consumer hasnt had the use of funds because  its actions resulted in 
something having gone wrong. 
Easylogbooklons has said that our general approach  doesnt  take into consideration any of 
the costs it incurred by providing Mr M with his loan such as; loss of interest on the capital 
sum, cost of HPI registration,  administration fees,  office overheads, advertising costs, 
staffing costs, etc.  
Ive thought about what Easylogbook  has said and I dont  dispute that it would  have incurred 
costs providing this loan.  But that doesnt  alter the fact that it shouldnt have provided this 
loan in the first place  or the fact that Mr M has lost the use of the funds he paid the interest 
and charges on this loan with.
Bearing in mind these  facts, I see no reason  to depart from our usual approach here and 
I think that awarding 8% per year simple interest,  on the interest  and charges that were paid, 
is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case.
Ref: DRN86090648So Easylogbookloans should  pay Mr M 8% per year simple interest on the interest and 
charges he paid from the date any overpayments were made to the date it settles Mr Ms 
complaint.
Mr Ms credit file
Generally speaking, Id expect  a lender to remove any adverse information recorded on a 
consumers credit file as a result  of the interest  and charges  on the loans they shouldnt  have 
been given. After all its the interest and charges that the consumer  is being  refunded  and 
the expectation is they will have repaid, or they should repay what  they owe.  Bearing in mind  
my direction  in relation  to the refund of interest  and charges, Im satisfied that removing any 
adverse information  recorded on Mr Ms credit file is fair and reasonable in this case.
The Agency  Appointment and Power of Attorney document/agreement 
Ive found that this loan should be unwound as far as possible. And while Im not wholly 
persuaded about the validity and enforceability of the Agency Appointment and Power of 
Attorney document  Easylogbookloans got Mr M to sign, it follows  that any agreement should  
be terminated  especially  as Mr Ms liability in relation to what  he has to pay will be 
discharged should he accept this decision. 
 
All of this means  that I think it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of        
Mr Ms complaint for Easylogbookloans  to put things right in the following way:
remove all interest,  fees and charges applied to Mr Ms loan from the outset. The 
payments Mr M has made  should be deducted  from the new starting  balance.  
Easylogbookloans should treat any payments  made once the new starting balance 
has been cleared  as overpayments. And any overpayments  should  be refunded to  
Mr M.
add interest at 8% per year simple on the above overpayments  from the date they 
were paid by Mr M to the date of settlement;
remove all adverse  information about  this loan from Mr Ms credit file;
terminate any agreement as a result of the Agency Appointment and Power  of 
Attorney document.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Easylogbookloans to take off tax from this interest. 
Easylogbookloans must  give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he 
asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  Mr Ms complaint about  Christian Paul Gachet. 
Christian Paul Gachet  should pay Mr M compensation as Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2020..
 
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8609064