K820x#14Complaint
Miss G says that Barclays Bank UK plc (trading under its Barclaycard brand) is holding her 
liable for debts created on a Barclaycard account  which she says she didnt open and knew 
nothing about.  She says that her ex-husband acted  without  her authority. Shes been 
represented by Mr P. 
Background
In 2004 Barclays  opened a Barclaycard account  in Miss Gs name. The credit card was used 
over several years, until 2011.  Over that time, two different cards were  used,  both sent to 
Miss Gs address. 
Mr P has said that, over that time Miss Gs now ex-husband controlled all the family 
finances, including her own accounts. He kept paperwork from her and opened various 
accounts without  her knowledge,  including  the Barclaycard account.
Miss G raised the matter with Barclaycard in 2017  and in early 2018  her solicitors wrote  to 
Barclaycard setting out her case in some detail and providing evidence  of a range  of medical 
conditions from which Miss G had suffered over many years   some of which  are ongoing.  
This, they said, helped  to demonstrate that Miss G was vulnerable  and, in some cases, 
would have been unable to use the credit card herself. 
Barclaycard didnt accept  however that Miss G knew nothing about  the account.  It said that 
the account application appeared to have been  signed by Miss G and that  as a new 
customer  she would  have had to provide identification on opening the account.  It also said 
that its notes indicated that Miss G had discussed  the account  on several occasions, 
including to arrange a payment in 2011. 
Mr P referred the complaint to this service on behalf of Miss G, and one of our adjudicators  
issued a preliminary view on it. He accepted that it was likely that Miss Gs ex-husband did 
have control of her finances. But he also concluded that Miss G was aware of the account, if 
not all of the spending on it. He didnt think it would be fair to require Barclaycard to refund 
the disputed transactions on the account. 
Mr P didnt accept the adjudicators findings. He didnt believe  there  was sufficient  evidence  
for the adjudicator to make  many of the findings he had made. He thought the adjudicator  
had attached insufficient weight to the medical  evidence provided. He said there was 
insufficient evidence  to prove  that Miss G made telephone calls about  the account  or was 
responsible for balance  transfers to it, and he suspected her ex-husband had been working 
with an accomplice. 
Mr P asked that the case be referred to an ombudsman  as the final stage in our process.           
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill deal first of all with a point that Mr P has made about evidence. Hes said that its 
disappointing that clear evidence, such as telephone  recordings and CCTV footage,  is no 
longer available. Our rules say that we cant generally look at a complaint  which  is referred 
to us more than six years after the events complained of. There  are exceptions, and one of 
those is where the financial  business  doesnt object. The ombudsman  service takes that to 
Ref: DRN81792452mean that, unless the business  specifically  raises the time limit, its prepared  for the service 
to consider the complaint.
But one reason for the time limit is that recollections  fade and evidence  gets lost or 
destroyed. It was some  12 years or more from the opening of the account until the complaint 
was raised, which  was itself more  than six years after the last transaction  on the account.  I 
think Mr Ps criticisms about the evidence thats available  must be seen in that context. 
I turn now to the account opening. The adjudicator  identified an apparent contradiction  in 
Miss Gs solicitors  account of events  here.  They appeared to say both that she had opened  
the account and received the card,  but also that the account had been opened without her 
knowledge. Be that as it may, the banks  records  include a copy of the account application 
which appears to bear Miss Gs signature. Barclaycard says,  and I accept, that it would have 
checked Miss Gs identity, as she was a new customer. On balance,  therefore, I think it more  
likely than not that she did open the account and was aware of it. 
I make  similar comments about the telephone  calls that the banks records indicate it had 
with Miss G. On occasions, the bank says, Miss G would call and authorise her husband to 
take over the call. That would have required Miss G to pass security. I cant rule out the 
possibility that some or all of those calls were made by someone pretending to be Miss G  
as Mr P suggests. But there is no real evidence for that  and in any event, Miss G handing  
the call to her husband seems to me to be entirely consistent with Mr Ps case that he had 
complete control  over the family finances.  
I accept Mr Ps argument that theres  no guarantee that Miss G made the calls, but thats not 
necessary. On balance  though, Im satisfied  that she did. 
Mr P says that the adjudicator  did not take Miss Gs health into account. I dont think  thats 
right though. He commented that she was extremely vulnerable  due to her ill-health. Mr P 
did add however that some of the medication Miss G was taking would hinder her ability to 
function normally, and that her mobility was much more limited  than the adjudicator had 
suggested. That meant it would have been impossible for her to make some of the 
transactions. 
Mr P has also said that Miss G would not have known how to carry out balance transfers, for 
example, or what fees for student applications  were. 
Again, I accept that Miss G may not have carried out all the transactions  herself. Indeed,  the 
adjudicator made that finding.  He concluded  though that she knew about the account and 
knew in general  terms about  spending on it  even if she wasnt  aware of each individual  
item. 
For these reasons, Ive reached broadly the same  conclusions as the adjudicator did. Im 
satisfied  albeit  on balance  that Miss G knew about the account  and was involved in its 
opening. I believe too that she was aware that her then husband was using the account, 
even if she wasnt aware of and didnt necessarily  consent to all the spending on it. But I 
dont believe  in all the circumstances that it would  be fair of me to require Barclaycard to 
make any refunds or take any further action in relation  to this complaint. 
Ref: DRN81792453My final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Barclays Bank UK plc to take any further steps to 
resolve Miss Gs complaint. Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service, Im 
required to ask Miss G to accept or reject my decision before 3 October  2019.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8179245