K822xcomplaint
Mr R complains that Santander UK Plc prevented him from making a bank transfer and put a 
stop on his online banking account.
background
Mr R was looking to make a large purchase. On 17 November 2018 he called Santander to 
check that hed be able to make  a bank transfer for £10,000 to the vendor over the 
telephone. Santander said he could, and explained  that for a payment that large  their 
security measures would require them to be able to call him back  to confirm the payment 
before it could be processed. Mr R confirmed his telephone number at their request.
On 20 November 2018 Mr R called Santander  to make the payment. They  initially said they 
couldnt process it over the phone because hed only recently updated his contact telephone 
number, and this didnt meet their security requirements. Mr R was upset because  he hadnt  
given them a new telephone number. And after some conversation Santander  agreed  they 
could make his transaction after all. They told him that theyd phone him back  shortly to 
confirm the payment in line with their security  process.
Mr R didnt receive a call back  from Santander. When  he complained, Santander  said that 
theyd tried to call him three times  but he hadnt  answered. So they hadnt been able to 
process the payment. They also said theyd now blocked his online banking  account 
because hed given  them the wrong security credentials. They  explained he would need to 
take steps to reset  these  before they could set the payment up again.
Mr R disputes that Santander  tried to call him three times. He says his phone  only shows 
one missed call from them. Hes explained this was a very upsetting experience.  He suffers 
from poor health and his son took time off work to drive him 150 miles to make  his purchase, 
only to find he couldnt pay for it. Hed made Santander aware of these circumstances.
Our investigator let Mr R know that Santander  have now offered him £50 compensation for 
the service he received  when he made  his complaint  to them.  The investigator felt this was 
fair, and didnt think there was any evidence that Santander had done anything  else wrong 
here. They felt Santander  had followed their processes correctly when dealing with Mr Rs 
payment request and revoking his security credentials. 
Mr R disagrees.  He was expecting a significant  compensation award  for the stress this has 
caused him. Hes upset Santander  initially told him they wouldnt be able to call him back to 
confirm his payment.  And he feels strongly that he gave them the right security credentials  
on the telephone. So the case has been passed to me to review.
Ref: DRN81930772my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I know  Mr R will be disappointed,  but Ive 
reached the same conclusions as our investigator, for broadly the same reasons. Ill explain 
why.
I appreciate this was a very frustrating and upsetting  experience for Mr R. He contacted 
Santander before he needed to make his payment  to ensure there  wouldnt be any 
problems. But unfortunately when he came  to make it, Santander werent  able to put it 
through.
Ive listened to the call Mr R made to Santander.  There was some  confusion as his 
telephone number had been recorded  as having been updated when hed spoken to them  
earlier that week. Santander explained  other ways Mr R could make his payment  either 
using online banking,  or by going into a branch. But Mr R confirmed he wasnt  able to do 
these things and was understandably distressed. 
I appreciate this would  have  been frustrating for Mr R. But I can hear that Santander were 
able to clarify on the same call that he hadnt  changed his telephone number, and took steps  
to proceed with his payment. So whilst I know Mr R feels  strongly  about  this incident, I dont 
feel that it prevented  his payment being  made. And Im satisfied that Santander realised their 
mistake quite quickly and corrected it.
In order to complete  the transfer for him though,  Santanders security process required them  
to call Mr R back. Mr R complains that he did not receive this call back. 
Santander have  shown us that, in line with their usual process, they tried to call Mr R three 
times on the correct telephone number. Theyve  provided us with recordings, and I can hear 
that the phone rang for a reasonable length  of time before the caller heard an automated  
message saying that the mobile number they had called  was currently  unavailable. So whilst 
I understand Mr Rs phone only shows one missed call, I am satisfied that Santander 
followed their process  correctly here and did try to ring three times. 
I cant be certain as to why Mr R didnt receive these calls. But looking at the call times on 
the log Santander have given us, it looks like they coincided with when Mr R called them  
back to say hed missed their first call. So this may well have been a case  of unfortunate 
timing. The advisor Mr R was speaking to could see he was due to receive a call back  about 
his payment. But they wouldnt have  been aware  that another  Santander team  were trying  to 
contact him whilst they were on the phone, as this wasnt logged  until after their call with Mr 
R ended.
Whatever the reason was that Mr Rs phone didnt notify him of the second and third calls, it 
wouldnt be fair for me to hold Santander responsible for this, as this wasnt within  their 
control.
When Mr R complained to Santander the next day they explained  that they could no longer 
process his payment over the telephone  because his security credentials  had been revoked. 
They told him he would need to call the number on the back  of his debit  card, or take his 
identification and account details into a branch  and a member of staff would assist him. 
Again I understand why this was frustrating for Mr R, but looking at what  happened  I dont 
think Santander did anything wrong.
Ref: DRN81930773Mr Rs credentials  were  revoked because  when he called Santander back  on 20 November 
2018 he gave  them incorrect  security digits three  times.  I appreciate he feels  strongly that he 
provided Santander with correct information. But Santander have shown us evidence  that his 
security details were changed  when  his account was logged  into online banking  shortly 
before he made the call to them. Because of this, the digits  he was giving them on the phone  
were incorrect.
Mr R has no recollection of changing these details. I dont know whether he did this himself 
unintentionally, or someone  else may have accessed his account. But Im satisfied  that they 
were changed. And I think Santander were correct not to accept his previous details, and to 
follow their process and revoke his credentials. Whilst I understand this was highly 
inconvenient for Mr R, Santander  were taking reasonable steps to protect the security  of his 
account. 
Santander have  offered  Mr R £50 compensation for the inconvenience he experienced when 
making his complaint to them. I can hear that he spent quite some  time on the telephone, 
and spoke to a number of different agents. At one point his call was disconnected, and he 
had to ring back and start his complaint again. This would have been very frustrating for Mr 
R. But I think the compensation Santander  have offered  for this is reasonable in the 
circumstances. Mr R should let our investigator  know if he wishes  to accept this 
compensation.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint for the reasons I have outlined above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 June 2019.
Jenette Lynch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8193077