K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that Phoenix Life Assurance Limited mis-sold him two policies, didnt  tell him 
he had two pensions  and gave him conflicting  information.
background
In 1990 Mr R met with an adviser from Phoenix and was advised to transfer the funds  in his 
employers pension into a section 32 pension plan. The transfer value was £2,898.72  which  
was ten months  service  and offered him a guaranteed pension of £975.52 at age 65. He 
was in his late 30s and was married with a dependent child.  I gather that although he is over 
65 he has yet to take the benefits of this plan. He named his wife as beneficiary should  he 
die.
The transfer was caught by the industry  wide review  and the business  wrote  to him in 
January 1999  and issued  reminder 28 days later, but received no response.  
In 1991 Mr R set up a personal  pension with payments of £30 a month which  increased  to 
£60 in 1992. He was self-employed  and I understand  Mr R has been taking benefits from 
this pension since 2004.
Mr R divorced and some  years later in 2008 he enquired as to whether his ex-wife would 
benefit from the pension. He says he received conflicting advice. Phoenix has supplied a 
copy of a letter it sent to him explain he couldnt nominate beneficiaries as he wished, but 
that provision could be made in his will. 
In 2018 Mr R complained  to Phoenix. It rejected his complaint explaining that the section 32 
policy had been  the subject of a review which he hadnt pursued.  It also said the personal 
pension sale was suitable and it didnt believe it had given him conflicting  advice about 
beneficiaries. However, it accepted it had been slow in dealing with his complaint and paid 
him £100 compensation. 
Mr R brought his complaint where  it was considered by one of our adjudicators who didnt 
recommend it be upheld. She thought  the transfer into the section 32 pension  was 
reasonable. Mr R had some 27 years  until his pension age which  was sufficient time for the 
pension to build up to meet his expectations.  She noted death benefits  were important to 
Mr R, but didnt believe it could have been  predicted  that he would later divorce his wife.
She also thought  the personal pension  was suitable. It provided Mr R with a pension  at a 
reasonable cost.  Mr R was self-employed and it seemed that the payments were  affordable.  
As for the issue of conflicting advice she asked Mr R and Phoenix for more  information. Mr R 
provided the first names of people he recalled  speaking to and Phoenix  supplied record of its 
contacts with him. The adjudicator there  was insufficient evidence to show  Mr R had been 
misled.
Mr R didnt agree and said he had not been  aware he had two plans and he had been given 
different stories by people  at Phoenix about what to do after his divorce.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN80495532Although the section  32 transfer was the subject of a review  which  wasnt  taken  up the 
business has agreed we have the jurisdiction to look at the sale.  That said I can see nothing  
that would  allow me to conclude Mr R has been  mis-advised. He was relatively young and 
had a small sum which was transferred. It doesnt  appear that he has lost out as a result  of 
the transfer and I have  seen nothing in the documentation that would suggest he had been  
misled.
Although Mr R says he was unaware  he had two pensions I can see the paperwork shows 
the adviser explained the personal pension to him and given he was self-employed and only 
had the section 32 pension it wasnt unreasonable for him to have taken out a personal 
pension. As the adjudicator has said there are no grounds to suggest he couldnt afford it. 
He had a wife and dependent child at the time and the provision of death benefits  was a 
prudent decision.
Later several  years after his divorce  he asked about the benefits his ex-wife  may get and 
says he was given  conflicting advice. That may be the case, but I can see that the business  
wrote to him explain the situation and that made  the matter clear.  It may have been that up 
to that point there had been some  confusion,  possibly between the two pensions,  but I am 
satisfied that ultimately Phoenix gave him clear and accurate information. 
While I have no reason to doubt Mr Rs recollections of the event of some  11 years  ago 
without some supporting  evidence I dont believe it reasonable to ask the business to 
compensate him. 
Overall I dont consider  the business  has done anything wrong. Mr R now benefits  from two 
pensions. I note the business  has paid him £100 for delays in addressing  his complaint and I 
consider that to be a fair response.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or reject  my decision 
before 3 July 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8049553