K820x#14complaint
Miss R is unhappy that her buy-to-let mortgage with The Mortgage Works (UK) Plc (TMW) 
went onto the Managed  Rate (MR)  for a month.
background
Miss R has a buy-to-let mortgage with TMW.
On 10 September  2018 she phoned TMW as her preferential mortgage  rate was coming  to 
an end. She said On the call I was advised  to go to the website and review their products. 
I was also advised  that I should change the product 6 weeks  prior to the current  deal ending 
to avoid transferring  to a higher interest rate. I was advised that the deadline was between 
19th September  and 27th October 2019 [sic].
Miss R says she went online several times between the end of September and October, and 
when she looked  it appeared  she could switch products right up until the current  product 
expired. She says the website wasnt clear,  and it didnt mention that if she didnt switch her 
product in time then shed go onto the MR.
Miss R selected a new rate on 29 October 2018,  but because  this was after the cut-off  date 
of 27 October the rate change  didnt  take effect  until 1 December. This meant  Miss Rs 
mortgage moved to the MR on 1 November  when her previous preferential rate ended, so 
she was charged the MR for one month.
Unhappy with this Miss R complained to TMW. It rejected  her complaint saying the cut-off  
date was made clear  to her. Our investigator  didnt uphold the complaint. He was also 
satisfied that the date was clear. Miss R didnt  agree and so its been passed  to me to 
decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss R has admitted that TMW  told her about  the deadlines on the phone  on 10 September.  
Shes also admitted  that in the customer specific part of the TMW  website there  was 
a section saying  we had to complete the switch by a certain  time. TMW  has also said the 
open part of its website explained this and set out all the relevant dates. That page said: 
Product switches always take effect from the 1st of the month. Switcher applications  must  
be submitted and accepted at least 5 days before this. After  this time, the new deal wont  
apply until the 1st of the following month.
The page  then displays a table showing the dates by which  an application can be submitted 
and accepted in order to apply from the first of the following  month.
Its difficult to see what  else TMW could have  done to draw  this to Miss Rs attention. The 
problem was that rather than querying  it if she thought the information  online wasnt clear,  
Miss R made an assumption. She said we  did not see information that advised we would 
switch to the standard variable rate if we extended  that period. We assumed that we would 
loose [sic] the offer if we missed the deadline  and that we would need  to look at other deals. 
Ref: DRN84759402Its not clear why Miss R made that assumption when shed already been told on the phone 
what the deadline was for. That is, that the rate wouldnt take effect until the following month 
if she didnt complete the switch by a certain time.
Having considered everything  Im satisfied TMW did nothing  wrong here.  It gave all the right 
information to Miss R. If she chose to make an assumption based  on information she didnt 
think was clear online (rather than phoning  TMW again to check)  then that was her choice to 
make, but I cant hold TMW liable for that choice.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im 
required to ask Miss R to accept or reject my decision before 27 April 2020.
Julia Meadows
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8475940