K821x#15complaint
Mrs and Mr L complain about the way that Lloyds Bank General Insurance  Limited  has dealt 
with a claim under their property insurance policy  after a break  in at their home.
 
background
Throughout this decision I will refer to Mrs L rather than both her and her husband  as it 
seems that she has largely been the one dealing with this service and the insurer.
Mrs L suffered a break in at her home  which led to her making  a claim against her buildings 
insurance for damage to her garage  and shed. This dispute has largely been about  the 
damage, and method of repair,  to the garage  door.  This was one of a pair of doors. 
From the earliest point  of her claim she stated  her preference for a cash settlement as Mr L 
intended to do any repair work himself.  When dealing with Lloyds  contractor initially, she 
was told that a new garage  door would be needed  and she was given an indication of the 
likely cost of the work of around £3000. Later, other  settlement  figures of far less were 
provided and these often changed depending on who she spoke  to. This caused her 
concern and she was also worried that the proposed replacement of the single garage  door 
would lead to a mismatch. She felt that both doors  should be replaced.
On a number  of occasions  Lloyds  gave her different settlement figures. They pointed out at 
one stage that the original figure  quoted had been  the private cost for the contractor to do 
the work  rather than the cost that Lloyds would incur due to their preferential rates and which  
they would  therefore be prepared to pay her as a cash  settlement. But there continued  to be 
confusion about  changes that were  being  made to the offer and differences of opinion  about 
the extent of the damage.
Mrs L wanted a cash  payment  to allow her to replace both garage doors. Lloyds argued that 
they could replace the door with a matching one, although obviously newer,  but it appears 
that there  was then some confusion over whether  the proposed  door was the right match at 
all. Finally, Lloyds decided that it was possible to repair the damaged  door. That would mean  
that the cash settlement would be much lower  and there wouldnt need to be any dispute  
about the problem of matching a replacement door.  Lloyds contractor now said that the 
locking mechanism could  be replaced  after they had sourced the parts. The total offer for the 
whole claim had now reduced to £850.67  and Lloyds offered to pay £125  as compensation 
for their poor handling of the claim.
Our investigator at first wasnt convinced by the evidence shed seen. She instructed  Lloyds  
to increase the offer to pay for replacement  of both doors, plus an increase in the 
compensation to £300. Lloyds challenged that outcome and provided more  evidence as well 
as an argument  as to why the compensation suggested was too high. The adjudicator 
accepted the new evidence about  the potential  repair. Her view changed  to agreeing  that the 
settlement figure was appropriate and also reducing  her award of compensation to £200.  
Mrs L thinks that she has unfairly lost out by the latest change that reduced her payment 
from around £1800 to £850. She also argues that there was additional damage to the door 
that Lloyds dont propose to repair and she feels that Lloyds should settle for the cost of 
replacement rather than repair.  As she disagrees  with the outcome the case  has come  to me 
for a final decision.
Ref: DRN85146602my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I agree with the final outcome  proposed  
by the investigator  and I will explain why.
Firstly I should record that I agree that this must have been  a very frustrating time for Mrs L 
and her family. Not only suffering a burglary, she has then had to contend  with her claim 
being handled inconsistently. She also refers to the amount of time that the damage has 
stayed visible and the upset this has caused.
But as has been  pointed out, the right resolution to the claim seems  to be that the damage 
can be repaired. Lloyds  have offered a cash settlement, which was her preference, to 
achieve that. From the evidence Ive seen  Im satisfied that this is an appropriate  resolution.  
That includes the information from its contractor that they have sourced, and will provide, the 
relevant spares  and why that wasnt originally  identified  as possible. The fact that this took 
time to clarify, and that other better offers  were  made, is frustrating for her and undoubtedly 
has caused her annoyance  and additional inconvenience. Having looked at the photographic 
evidence, and the professional view from Lloyds  contractor,  Im satisfied that its legitimate 
that the damage can be repaired. And I dont agree with Mrs L that other  damage  to the door 
is consistent with the break in, as opposed  to being natural wear  and tear due to age.
Its right that some  compensation  is paid for Lloyds poor handling, Deciding how much  is 
seldom an exact science.  Lloyds  have eventually agreed with our suggestion of £200. I think  
that is an appropriate figure. The original  £125  offered  seems  low and I took the view that 
the £300 suggested at first by the investigator  was too high. This wasnt  a claim that actually 
took overly long for Lloyds to conclude. But undoubtedly there  were  some delays and as Mrs 
L says those caused  upset at home.  And being given inconsistent information about  
settlement figures  was obviously annoying. Mrs L argues that she could have accepted an 
earlier offer of much more  and that Lloyds  should honour that amount. She says that shes  
now out of pocket as a result. I cant agree with that. The right amount is the one which 
meets Lloyds contractual commitments under  the insurance policy, and as Ive said Im 
satisfied that includes  only a repair of the door.  I cannot require Lloyds to offer more due to 
the disappointment  that Mrs L feels at having  a higher offer withdrawn. 
The investigator didnt  mention the issue of interest in her letters  to Lloyds but it will be 
aware that our usual  approach, in line with the courts, is to award interest on cash 
settlements from the date of loss.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part against Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited. 
If not already paid I require Lloyds to pay Mrs and Mr L £850.67 in settlement of their claim 
and to pay compensation for trouble and upset of £200. Interest on the cash  settlement 
should be paid at a rate of 8% per annum simple from the date of loss to the date of 
payment. If Lloyds doesnt make the additional payment of compensation within 28 days of 
the date of this decision  then interest will become due at the same rate until the sum is paid.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 April 2019.
Ref: DRN85146603John Withington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8514660