K820x#14Complaint
Ms N, represented by Mr C, complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited 
(VWFS) applied unfair charges at the end of her hire agreement.
Background
Ms N entered into a hire agreement with VWFS  in 2016. She says that at the end of the 
lease she was told she owed over £500  for damages. Following her challenging this amount  
it was reduced to around £280. However Ms N says the damage was minimal and that 
having spoken to a car workshop she believes the damage could be repaired  at a much  
lower cost.
Ms N says she didnt agree to pay the charges but an unauthorised payment was taken from 
her account.  She says she contacted  her bank and had the payment cancelled. She says 
she then received letters from debt collectors  which have caused her further  stress  and she 
says that she has contacted  VWFS about this but not received a reply. Ms N also complains 
that the delivery of the car was delayed by four weeks  and that VWFS hasnt dealt with this 
issue but just passed  it on the supplier which hasnt responded. She says the delay cost her 
around £300 as well as causing  stress.
VWFS says that Ms Ns complaint had two parts. The first related to the late delivery  of a 
vehicle which it says is an issue for the supplier as it wasnt  involved  in the ordering of the 
vehicle. It says that because of the delay in delivery  13 days of extra  hire was waived as a 
courtesy and there was no charge  for the mileage during this period.  
The second  part related to the end of contract  charges. VWFS  says that the charges now 
being applied  were for damage that fell outside of the wear and tear guidelines.  
Our investigator didnt  uphold this complaint. He thought the revised damage charges were 
reasonable and in line with the fair wear and tear guidelines. He said that Ms N should have 
been reasonably aware of the charges  for excess mileage and that the collection of payment 
through a direct debit should  have  been  expected.
Ms N didnt accept our investigators view. Mr C said that once Ms N had something to say 
the costs are being disputed VWFS shouldnt make  an attempt to claim the money. He said 
the costs charged  were  excessive and that it was VWFS fault that the car was delivered late 
which resulted in the excess mileage and costs of a replacement car. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms N entered into a 36 month hire agreement with VWFS.  At the end of the hire period the 
car was inspected.  This took place on 22 March 2019. The inspection  identified damage for 
which charges of £530.40 were applied. However following Ms N disputing  the charges 
these were reduced to £282.
I note Ms Ns comments about the extent of the damage and her thoughts  that it should be 
considered for wear  and tear or that the damage  could be repaired at a much lower cost.  I 
have looked at the inspection report and have considered this against the British Vehicle 
Ref: DRN85414672Renting and Leasing Association (BVRLA)  fair wear  and tear guidelines. Having done this I 
think it reasonable that the charges for the wheels remain.  The damage is shown on the 
photographs and I accept this falls outside of the wear  and tear guidelines.
The other damage charge is for the door. Having looked at the photographs  I can see that 
this dent does  have paint damage as well so I agree this falls outside of the fair wear  and 
tear. Given  this I find the charges  being applied for the damaged wheels and door are 
reasonable. 
I note Ms Ns comments about the cost of the repairs however Ms N could have had repairs 
carried out before returning the vehicle.  This didnt happen and so it is now not unreasonable  
that charges are made  for the damage identified. 
Ms N has also complained about  the excess mileage. I can see that Ms N amended  the 
mileage allowance  on her agreement more than once with the final total mileage allowance  
being 26,499. The mileage recoded  in the inspection repot was more  than this. Therefore the 
mileage exceeded  the total allowed and so an excess mileage charge was applied. Given 
Ms N had adjusted the mileage allowance on her agreement I find it reasonable to accept 
she was aware of this limit and the cost of exceeding it. 
Ms N has said that a car delivery was delayed which meant she had to extend her lease. I 
have looked at the charges applied and can see no charge was made  for the extension. I 
appreciate the comments about the excess mileage  but as the mileage was above  the total 
amount allowed I do not find that I can say it is wrong for VWFS to charge  for this.
I also note Ms Ns comments  about her payment being taken while  she was disputing the 
charges. I can understand why this was upsetting.  However the letter  that included the 
charges clearly set out that if payment  was made  by direct debit under the agreement then 
the charges would be claimed through this. I appreciate the points Ms N has made but I do 
not find that I can say VWFS has done  anything wrong.
I understand that the issues have caused Ms N stress but as the damage is shown in the 
inspection report and the mileage is also noted I do not find I have enough to say VWFS has 
acted unfairly in this case. Therefore I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 February  2020.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8541467