K820x#14complaint
Mr P has complained about the charges that Arval UK Limited applied when he handed back  
a car hed acquired under a hire agreement. 
background
Mr P acquired a brand new car under  a hire agreement with Arval UK in November 2014. 
When he handed the car back at the end of the hire period, Arval UK said there was damage 
on it that was outside  of fair wear and tear. So it asked  him to pay £225. This charge was 
made up of £90 for damage to the front wing, and £135 for damage  to the quarter panel. 
Mr P disputed the damage. He said that when he handed back the car, Arval UK didnt follow 
the correct procedure when collecting it from his son. So he says that its impossible to 
determine when  the damage was caused. In summary, Mr P is unhappy that:
His son wasnt present during the inspection because the collection  agent told him he 
could wait inside.
His son was asked  to sign off the report without  seeing its contents.  
The collection agent didnt  indicate there were any issues.  
The agent moved the car without permission  so the damage  could  have occurred at that 
point. 
Some of the photos on the collection report were taken in a different location to where 
the car was originally  inspected. 
He wasnt provided with a copy of the report at the time of collection.
He inspected the car himself before handing it back and it didnt have any damage.  
Arval UK originally intended to charge Mr P for a missing service  book, but this charge was 
later removed when  it was found.  Arval UK responded  to the rest of the complaint and said 
that its possible the collection agent went through the appraisal screens  on the tablet too 
quickly so it apologised  that the process wasnt quite followed properly. However, it said that 
it thought the damage was present on the car, so wouldnt remove  the charges. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt uphold it. She said that it wasnt 
unreasonable for the collection agent  to move the car to be able to conduct  the inspection.  
She thought  it was unlikely the collection agent  caused the damage. She also thought that it 
wasnt Arval UKs fault that Mr Ps son didnt stay outside for the inspection.  
However, our investigator did say that the collection agent should have shown Mr Ps son 
the photos of the damage that was on the car. But she didnt think  this had a major impact.  
This is because she reviewed the photos of the damage (taken at the initial collection site) 
and thought that they were indicative of damage that would be considered outside of fair 
wear and tear. So she felt that it was fair that Arval UK charged Mr P £225. She said that 
she would  consider evidence from Mr P showing  the car didnt have  any damage when 
handing back. 
Mr P didnt agree. He reiterated that he wasnt present during the inspection. He also said 
that the evidence is not good enough  to show that it is his car which  has been photographed 
with damage.  
As things  couldnt  be resolved, Ive been  passed the case for a final decision. 
Ref: DRN83288712my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where evidence  is unclear or in dispute, 
I reach  my findings on the balance of probabilities  which  is to say, what I consider most 
likely to have happened based on the evidence available and the surrounding 
circumstances.
Mr P acquired his car under a hire agreement. It is a regulated agreement and we have the 
power to consider complaints about  it. In Mr Ps case, the agreement  set out that at the end 
of the contract  term the car would be inspected.  The agreement  also set out that Arval UK 
would invoice Mr P for the cost of repairs  (whether  or not carried  out) to the car for damage 
that would  be considered  outside of wear  and tear. 
Ive also reviewed Arval  UKs collection and inspection process.  It says that when a car is 
collected and inspected the inspector should  show the customer the evidence  on a tablet 
which showed non fair wear and tear damage. The inspector is also supposed to record the 
customers name and obtain  an email  address  from them. Ultimately, the inspector is meant 
to find out if the customer agrees with the assessment, and give them  an opportunity  to state  
any reason for disagreement. 
As a starting point,  Ive reviewed the photos  of the damage on the car. Arval UK is seeking 
to charge for two areas of damage   a scratch to the front wing and scratches  to the quarter 
panel. I consider  the photo  of the front wing shows a scratch  thats around 35mm long. And 
the photo of the quarter panel  shows  a scratch around 40mm long and another  scratch that 
is around 25mm long. 
Arval UK is a member  of the British  Vehicle  Rental  & Leasing Association  (BVRLA) and uses 
its guidance on fair wear  and tear standards.  In Mr Ps case, the car was brand new when he 
acquired it, and I think it reasonable to consider the BVRLA  standards  when deciding 
whether the damage is outside  of fair wear  and tear. The BVRLA guidance sets out that 
scratches and abrasions up to 25mm are acceptable providing the primer or bare metal isnt 
showing. 
The car was brand new when Mr P acquired  it, so it should have been in perfect  condition,  
free from even minor  defects. So its very unlikely the scratches would  have been  present 
when Mr P acquired the car. Taking  this into account, along with the relevant industry 
guidelines, I consider both of the scratches  to be representative of damage that is outside of 
fair wear and tear. 
However, Mr P has said he didnt hand the car back with damage that was outside  of fair 
wear and tear. He also says that the inspector shouldnt have moved the car without  
permission, and that he should  have  followed the correct process for getting his son to agree 
to the damage  that had been recorded.  
Ive also thought about how the inspection was carried out. Im minded to agree that some 
aspects of the inspection process werent carried out exactly  as they should have been 
done. But Im not persuaded  theres sufficient evidence to lead me to think  the charges 
should be removed  because of the procedural mistakes. 
Ref: DRN83288713Firstly, the inspector thought the inspection  might take a little longer than usual and it was 
raining at the time, so he gave Mr Ps son the option to go inside whilst it was carried  out. In 
the circumstances, Im not persuaded the inspector should have insisted Mr Ps son 
remained outside. But at the very least he should  have called him over so he was present to 
see the chargeable damage which had been noted   which  doesnt  look like it happened  
here. 
Secondly, I dont think it was wrong for the inspector to move  the car. From  looking at where  
it was initially parked, whilst it looks like there was sufficient room to easily get in and out of 
the car and reverse it out of the parking space, I cant  see that it would have been easy  for 
the inspector to carry out an unobstructed inspection. So I dont think  it was wrong he moved 
it.
Thirdly, the inspector didnt get Mr Ps son to confirm contact details on the tablet when he 
got him to sign the report. Which meant  a copy of the report  wasnt emailed over straight  
away. So Im inclined to believe  that this part of the inspection  wasnt  carried out properly 
either. I can understand why Mr P would  have wanted to have seen the report  sooner. . 
I agree  that there were  some mistakes with the inspection. But I think the main thing I need 
to decide in this complaint is whether Mr P handed the car back with damage that is 
considered outside of fair wear and tear. Ill never  know  exactly when the damage was 
caused, so I reach my conclusion on the balance  of probabilities. 
The inspection report contains photos that were taken when the car was first collected and 
others taken the following day when it had been moved. Ive looked at the photos  of the 
damage that Arval  UK is charging Mr P for. Those  particular photos  appear to show a 
reflection of the car park where Mr Ps son works.  So, on balance, it seems  probable  that the 
photos were likely taken  either when  the inspector first saw the car, or when hed moved it to 
another parking space. Having looked  at the photos, I consider its more likely  than not that 
they are of Mr Ps car. I also think that they are clear enough  to show the damage that was 
present. 
Ive also thought about whether its more  likely  than not the inspector damaged  the car when 
he was taking photos of it, or when he moved  it to get a better view. The scratches  arent 
consistent with damage  caused whilst  taking  photos  of the car. The scratches could have 
happened when  the inspector moved  the car. But taking everything into account, on balance, 
I feel that its most likely  the damage  was caused before the inspection. I dont feel I can say 
that the most  likely  thing  to have happened was that the inspector, when moving the car, 
managed to damage the near side wing and the offside quarter panel. 
So all things  considered, I think there  were  some mistakes with the inspection  that 
understandably have caused  some frustration to Mr P. But I dont  consider  the mistakes  
were significant enough  to warrant compensation from Arval  UK. The mistakes  also dont 
change my view on when  the damage  was likely  caused to the car, and whether it would be 
considered outside of fair wear and tear. Therefore,  whilst I know  it will disappoint  Mr P, Im 
not going to direct Arval UK to remove the charges for the damage.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Ref: DRN83288714Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Simon Wingfield
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8328871