K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a store card payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy  sold in 1997. 
Financial Insurance  Company Limited (FICL), the PPI insurer, has taken responsibility for 
the sale. So to keep things simple in my decision Ill just say FICL when Im referring to the 
PPI seller or to FICL. Ms C says FICL  mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Cs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Ms Cs complaint because:
The PPI was added when Ms C took out her card in a shop. Her card application  form 
has a separate  section for the PPI. It says the PPI is cover for the account payments in 
case of accident,  sickness or unemployment.  And it says:  If you would like cover, please 
tick the box below. Also, the box says:  Yes, I want my Account covered by Payment & 
Purchase Protection Insurance... I think  Ms C wouldve known the box should  only be 
ticked if she wanted the cover. And on Ms Cs application form, which she signed  to take 
the card, the box is ticked. Ms C says she wouldnt have taken the cover if shed been 
told it was optional.  But bearing in mind what Ive said above, I think FICL likely made it 
clear that Ms C didnt  have to take the PPI and she chose to take it.
FICL  didnt recommend the PPI to Ms C so it didnt have to check  the PPI was right for 
her. But it did have to make sure Ms C got the information she needed  to decide if the 
PPI was right for her.
Ms C says the PPI costs and exclusions werent  explained. Its possible the information 
FICL gave Ms C about the PPI wasnt as full or as clear as it shouldve been. But I think  
she chose to take the cover - so it looks  to me like Ms C wanted this type of cover. From 
what shes told us, her work  sick pay wouldve halved after six months and her savings 
wouldnt have made up the difference for long. And based on what  Ive seen of Ms Cs 
circumstances at the time, she wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the 
cover - like any exclusions for existing medical  issues - so it wouldve been  useful for her 
if something went wrong. Taking everything  into account, I dont think  better  information 
about the PPI would have put Ms C off taking the cover.
Ive taken into account all Ms Cs points, including what shes said about getting money back 
for another  PPI policy she took out on a different card at the same time. But my decision 
here is based on the facts of this particular  complaint. And I havent found a reason to 
uphold it. So, with all Ive already said above  in mind, these points dont change my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 April 2019.
Ref: DRN87901072Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8790107