K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) mis-sold them a single premium  
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy  in 1997 when they applied for a joint secured 
loan. They also want compensation for HSBCs  delay in logging the PPI complaint.  
background
Mr and Mrs C said HSBC mis-sold them  a PPI policy in July 1997 through the actions of their 
lender at the time,  a company Ill call Company E. They  said the PPI was sold over the 
telephone and the salesperson implied they would not be accepted for the loan unless they 
took PPI. Mr and Mrs C said Company  E mis-sold the policy  and they say that Company E is 
now in the HSBC Banking Group  of companies  (through ownership by another  bank), so 
they conclude  HSBC must now be responsible  for looking at the complaint through  Company 
Es lending  actions. Mr C said HSBC was profiting from the transaction when they paid the 
loan and PPI payments  to HSBC. So they complained to HSBC.
HSBC said it was not responsible for the PPI sale through Company Es lending  actions.  
HSBC accepted that accounts owned  by Company E were transferred to HSBC to be 
serviced. It also said it was suggested by its internal  screenshots that the policy was sold by 
a broker company.
Mr and Mrs C also want compensation for their distress and inconvenience caused by 
HSBCs delay in processing  the PPI complaint.  They are annoyed  they have taken several 
years to get any company to take ownership  of the complaint. HSBC apologised and said it 
had to access another Banks records to see what had happened  so it was not able to give 
Mr and Mrs C immediate answers from its own records. It said Mr and Mrs Cs complaint  
letter dated  15 June  2018 was forwarded to the other bank to investigate  and the complaint 
was logged on 30 August 2018. An acknowledgement letter was sent on 
11 September 2018.
Mr and Mrs C complained  to this Service. Our adjudicator thought  HSBC  was not 
responsible for the PPI sale and he sent a detailed letter to Mr and Mrs C exploring  all other  
avenues for them. Mr and Mrs C disagreed with our adjudicators view and asked for the 
matter to be looked at again.
I issued my provisional decision in December 2018  where I explained why I thought HSBC 
probably was not responsible for looking at this complaint because HSBC  didnt sell the PPI 
to Mr and Mrs C. We sent a copy of my provisional  decision to Mr and Mrs C and to HSBC.  
HSBC had no further comments to add. 
Mr and Mrs C added  the following points:
HSBC rejected their complaint because it said the PPI had been sold by a broker  
company;
It wasnt true that a third party (the broker company) was involved in this PPI sale;
Company E provided the PPI so Company E sold it to them which  in turn makes 
HSBC liable.
Ref: DRN81982922my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Cs case.  
The first thing I need to decide is whether HSBC is responsible for the sale of the PPI policy. 
If I decide it is, then I can decide whether the sale happened  as it shouldve done.  If I dont  
think HSBC was responsible for the sale to Mr and Mrs C, then Im not able to consider  a 
PPI mis-sale complaint against it. 
Having looked  at the evidence, I do not think HSBC sold the PPI policy to Mr and Mrs C. So 
it follows that if HSBC did nothing wrong  during the PPI sale, I will not be upholding this mis-
sale complaint against  HSBC. I know  this will disappoint Mr and Mrs C, so I will explain why.
Ive looked at all the evidence provided  by Mr and Mrs C about the sale. They  recalled they 
were applying for a joint secured loan. They bought the loan over the telephone and they 
said they were told by the salesperson they would have to have PPI to be accepted  by 
Company E for the loan. Ive seen a bank statement which  shows  their loan and PPI 
repayments were paid to HSBC. They  said HSBC  was profiting from the transaction  so they 
conclude the complaint  should now be looked at by HSBC.
Ive looked at all the evidence provided  by HSBC. HSBC explained  it was not the lender at 
the time Mr and Mrs C bought the policy from a broker company - although it accepted 
accounts owned by Company E were later transferred to be serviced  by HSBC. It produced 
a copy of the loan agreement  and said its records show the PPI was sold by a broker 
company.
I looked very carefully at the loan agreement but it does not say who sold the PPI to 
Mr and Mrs C; it does not identify who Mr and Mrs C called over the telephone to buy the 
loan and the PPI  which I presume  must  have  happened at some  point before the loan 
agreement was signed. I have also seen the screenshots from HSBC which  suggest  the PPI 
was sold by a broker company.  
Mr and Mrs C have commented  again  that its clear  Company E sold the PPI because  there 
is PPI on the loan agreement. However, I would  expect  the loan agreement  to come from 
Company E and to bear its name  as Company E is the lender and Mr and Mrs C are buying 
Company Es products;  but the loan agreement Ive seen does not show that Company E 
sold the PPI during the telephone call. So there is not enough evidence here to say HSBC  
through Company Es lending actions  sold the PPI to Mr and Mrs C during the earlier 
telephone call. 
Mr and Mrs C more recently added there  was no broker  company involved in this PPI sale,  
but they were  clear  they spoke to a sales person on the telephone  who told them  they would 
not get the loan without taking the PPI. As far as I can see on the evidence produced, there 
isnt anything to suggest they spoke to Company E during that call. The evidence  Ive seen 
suggests they spoke to a broker company  which is what  HSBC told Mr and Mrs C when it 
initially rejected  their complaint.
So in this case, as I do not think Company E sold the PPI to Mr and Mrs C, I cannot  agree 
with Mr and Mrs C that Company Es actions when completing the loan agreement  will make  
HSBC responsible for looking at the PPI mis-sale  complaint.
Ref: DRN81982923As I think  HSBC was not responsible for the PPI sale,  it follows that it also was not 
responsible for carrying out the PPI sale properly. So I am intending not to uphold  this PPI 
mis-sale complaint against HSBC. 
I then looked at Mr and Mrs Cs claim for compensation for HSBCs delay in logging  the 
complaint. I do appreciate  that it takes  time for a consumer and a business to collect  
documents to deal with a complaint; and cases where liability is in dispute do take longer to 
consider than other, less complex,  complaints.  I accept that HSBC  had to access records  
from another bank  and this is bound to take extra time but having seen the dates of the 
complaint letter and the date the complaint was actually logged,  I dont think  there has been  
an excessive delay  here, so I dont  intend  to uphold this part of Mr and Mrs Cs complaint.
I can see our adjudicator did a very thorough investigation and reported  on all possible 
avenues of complaint  to Mr and Mrs C but  and I am sorry to disappoint them  - this will be 
as far as this Service can take this complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against HSBC  UK Bank Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 February  2019.
Amrit Mangra
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8198292