K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out to protect a
mortgage.
Mr H says Bank of Scotland Plc mis-sold  him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
BoS had to make Mr H aware  that the PPI was optional and gain his consent  before
adding it to his mortgage. Mr H has told us he was sold the policy  in 1997  when he
applied for his mortgage. 
There is limited  information available from the time of the sale,  but this isnt surprising  as the 
sale took place  a long time ago and businesses arent required  to keep this type of 
information indefinitely.  From the information  that is available  I dont have  enough to say 
BoS didnt make Mr H aware  the PPI was optional,  or that Mr H didnt choose to have it.
BoS recommended the PPI to Mr H, so it had to check that the PPI was right for him. Mr H
has told us he would  have  been entitled to generous sick pay and redundancy when  he took 
the policy, he also had savings and a secure job, so she didnt need  the policy.  Mr H has not 
provided evidence  of his sick pay entitlement, but either way the PPI would have paid out in 
addition to his sick pay and in circumstances other than redundancy.
The PPI would also have  protected  Mr Hs savings  so they could be used towards  any other 
expenses he may have had. While I appreciate Mr H was in a secure job and still works  for 
the same  company, I dont think this could have  been guaranteed when he took his 
mortgage and the PPI would have offered addition protection.
Based on what Ive seen  of Mr Hs circumstances  at the time he wasnt  affected by any of
the exclusions to, or limits  on the PPI cover and Mr H seemed to have had a need for the
cover. So, I think it was right for him.
Ive thought about everything Mr H has told us including that he sold his house and moved 
back in with his parents  for financial reasons. But he has also told us he had savings, a 
secure job and was earning  substantially more than his mortgage payments each month. So, 
this information  doesnt change my decision.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 March  2021.
Ref: DRN83517772Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8351777