K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Santander UK plc mis-sold  him a regular premium  payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
The circumstances leading to this complaint, and my initial conclusions, are set out in my 
provisional decision from November 2019,  a copy of which  is attached and forms part of this 
final decision. In that decision, I explained why I was minded to reject Mr Bs complaint and I 
invited both parties to let me have any further  representations.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Both parties were  sent the provisional 
decision, but neither party  has provided  any further  information for me to consider.
In view of this, I see no reason to depart  from my provisional findings.
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 February  2020.
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN88739762Copy of Provisional  Decision
complaint
Mr B complains that Santander UK plc mis-sold  him a regular premium payment  protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.
background
In August 2001 Mr B took out a loan with Santander in order  to complete some  home  improvements, 
and the bank  recommended he take out PPI to protect the loan repayments. Mr B and his 
representative say the PPI was mis-sold
Our adjudicator said he thought the complaint  should be upheld. Santander disagrees  with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint comes to me to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Where the evidence  is incomplete,  inconclusive  or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is more  likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and the wider  surrounding circumstances. And having done so, I dont 
think this complaint should be upheld.
Santander hasnt been able to provide  copies of all the documents completed when Mr B applied  for 
the loan, but its provided samples of the loan application he wouldve had to complete  to get it. On 
balance I think its unlikely that Mr B couldve  got the loan without completing  that form.
The application form required Mr B to either select or decline the cover. As the loan was taken  out in a 
Santander branch, I think its likely  the PPI wouldve  been discussed between
Mr B and the bank before the application form was completed. Details of the PPI were also set out on 
the loan agreement that Mr B actually signed.
From what Ive seen, on balance  I think its likely  that Santander discussed the PPI with 
Mr B and made him aware it was optional.
Santander has accepted  that it advised Mr B to take out the policy  and it doesnt look as if it was 
unsuitable based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time. I say this because:
- Mr B was eligible for the policy given his circumstances and the PPI terms and conditions.  
And it doesnt look like he would have been caught by any of the conditions that limited the 
policys main benefits (such as those affecting self-employed people)  
Mr B told us he had a pre-existing  medical  condition,  first diagnosed  in 1994, so I looked very 
carefully at the terms of the policy that relate to people with pre-existing conditions. And 
having Im satisfied that Mr B wouldve  been  able to claim on the policy. This is because  the 
policy only excluded  conditions  for which the customer had received treatment or advice in 
the 12 months prior to the policy starting and which occurred again  within the following  12 
months. And Mr Bs representative hasnt been able to provide any medical  evidence that 
shows Mr B wouldve been caught by this policy  restriction.  So Im satisfied he couldve 
benefited from the full extent of the policy.
- Mr B says he wouldve received some work-related benefits  if he couldnt work  due to 
sickness or accident. But he was taking on a new financial liability  and this policy  wouldve  
Ref: DRN88739763paid out in addition to any employment benefits and for longer  so it wasnt unsuitable of 
Santander to recommend this policy to Mr B. 
- The loan agreement set out what the policy would cost each  month  and Mr B signed it. So I 
think Mr B would have  known  how much he would  be paying  for it and Ive seen nothing to 
suggest it was unaffordable.  And as it was a regular monthly  policy it could  be cancelled 
without charge or penalty if Mr B decided  he no longer wanted the policy.
Its possible the information Santander gave Mr B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should  have 
been. But he chose to take out the policy  and so appears to have wanted this type of cover. Mr B 
wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or limitations  and the policy seems to have been affordable. 
So I think its unlikely  Mr B would have made a different  decision if better  information had been  
provided  overall, I think he would still have taken out the policy.
Ive taken into account all of Mr Bs other comments but, at the moment, these  points dont change my 
conclusion.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont think this complaint should  be upheld.
I now invite  Mr B, and Santander UK Plc to give me any further  information  theyd like me to consider 
before I make my final decision.
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8873976