K820x#14complaint
In summary  Mr B has complained that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited  mis-sold  him a life 
assurance policy. 
background
Mr B was sold a life assurance  policy in 1982. And at around the same time he was also sold 
a pension policy. Mr B has said the life policy  was taken out to protect his pension  policy,  
which only provided a return of contributions on death. 
The life assurance  was sold by another business, which is now part of Aviva. So Aviva  has 
accepted responsibility for the sale. And Ill refer to Aviva in my decision as the business  
which gave the advice.
In 2015 Mr Bs life assurance came to an end. But his pension policy will only mature in 
2020. Mr Bs understanding was that his life assurance would continue to the same date his 
pension matured. So he complained to Aviva  that his life assurance had been  mis-sold. 
When Aviva  realised that it was responsible for the sale, it explained to Mr B why it didnt 
think the life assurance  had been mis-sold. Mr B wasnt happy  with Avivas answer so he 
asked our service to look into his concerns. 
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint.  He explained  to Mr B that taking into 
account the standards Aviva was supposed to adhere to at the time of the sale;  he didnt 
think the policy had been mis-sold. Mr B wasnt happy with the answer  he was given, so the 
complaint has been passed to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In doing so I have to take into account  the 
relevant law, regulations and what I consider to be best industry practice at the time the 
policy was sold to Mr B. 
From what  Ive seen Aviva seems  to accept that it recommended the life assurance to Mr B. 
When the policy was sold there were  different  requirements about what a business had to do 
when giving customers advice, compared  to the requirements now. This is because  Mr Bs 
life assurance was sold before the Financial  Services Act 1986 came into force. This 
legislation set down  rules and regulations as to how financial businesses had to provide  
advice. So at the time Mr B was sold his life policy, the advice wasnt  regulated.  And 
businesses such as Aviva  were required to exercise the common  law duty to act with 
reasonable skill and care when providing  appropriate advice. 
So I need to think  about the advice given to Mr B taking  into account the obligations on Aviva  
as they were in 1982. There is limited information available  from the time of the sale. This 
isnt surprising as Aviva werent  required  at that time to complete a fact find or similar type of 
document. And it wasnt required  to issue a suitability letter  to Mr B explaining  why it had 
made the recommendation. 
The proposal form shows that Mr B was married. The policy schedule shows  that the 
premiums would finish in 2015 and that the policy was written in trust for his wife. There  is 
also a notice from Aviva that it accepted Mr Bs pension proposal. It shows a term of 38 
Ref: DRN88494732years and that the premiums would be returned  without  interest  on death. So I accept  Mr Bs 
statement that the term of the two policies doesnt match.
As Ive explained above, there  wasnt an obligation on Aviva to ensure the recommendation 
was suitable. However  it did have to exercise reasonable care and skill to provide  Mr B with 
appropriate advice.  
I understand Mr B is adamant that the life assurance  was taken out to protect  the value of 
his pension in the event  of his death. But I dont  think  I can safely say taking into account  
everything Ive seen, that this was more likely than not to have been  the case. I say this 
because the term assurance was level and written in trust for the benefit of Mr Bs wife. So I 
think its equally possible that the policy was taken out to provide a lump  sum for Mr Bs wife, 
rather than to protect the value of the pension in the event  of Mr Bs death. 
There simply isnt enough  evidence for me to decide that the two recommendations were 
linked or that the term assurance should have been written  to age 70. So I cant  safely  say 
that Aviva  did anything wrong  by recommending life assurance that had a different term to 
Mr Bs pension  maturity date.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above  my final decision is to not uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 March 2019.
Simon Dibble
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8849473