K820x#14complaint
Mrs M says AXA France IARD mis-sold her a payment protection  insurance  (PPI)  policy. 
background
Mrs M bought the policy in 1997 at the same time as taking out a store  card. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ms case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ms complaint  because:
 The credit  agreement Mrs M signed included a box to tick if she wanted PPI. The box 
was ticked, so I cant reasonably say that AXA didnt make Mrs M aware that she had a 
choice about buying the PPI, or that she didnt choose to take it. 
 AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs M so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. 
 Its possible the information AXA gave Mrs M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Mrs M doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the main 
things the policy  didnt cover  and based on what I know about  her circumstances it 
looks like the policy couldve been  useful to her. She didnt have significant amounts of 
sick pay or other ways to make her repayments. So I dont  think better information 
wouldve stopped  her buying  it. 
Ive taken into account Mrs Ms comments, including what shes said about how she is sure 
she didnt tick the box and kept spending on the card to the minimum  so could easily make 
the repayments. But these points dont  change my conclusion. Given  the evidence from the 
time of sale I cant reasonably say she didnt tick the box on the credit  agreement.  So the 
evidence doesnt  support  her argument  that she didnt know  about it and wouldnt have 
wanted it. So I dont  think I can safely say she wouldnt have taken it if AXA had given her 
clearer information about the PPI. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 December  2019.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8600649