K820x#14complaint
Mrs Ps complaint is that CMC Spreadbet Plc (CMC) had a responsibility to address indications 
that her trading  and/or loss accumulation was out of control but it did not do so. She says CMCs 
failure to do so resulted in her excessive gambling, which  created a significant financial loss.
background
Mrs P opened her account with CMC around  June 2011. CMC says that based on the 
information she provided at the time it  deemed  a trading account to be appropriate  for 
her. The account  was based on an execution only service. With regards to the opening of 
her account  and the time period that defines  her complaint, Mrs P says: 
I agree that I looked suitable for spread betting  but it was evident that I wasnt in every year 
since 2011.
There appears to be no dispute  that Mrs Ps account was appropriate  for her at the outset in 
2011 and she says her complaint does not assert otherwise. Her complaint is about the 
period thereafter,  during which she says CMCs  knowledge that her trading (and losses)  had 
become out of control meant it should have  known that the account and trading had become 
inappropriate for her; and meant  it should  have put a stop to both.  
CMC provided information to this service summarising the profit  and loss activity in Mrs Ps 
account as follows:
2011 - £344,309.40 trading profit.
2012 - £496,636 trading loss.
2013 - £96,177.40 trading loss.
2014 - £78,642.20 trading loss.
2015 - £13,542.50 trading loss.
2016 - £3,746 trading  loss.
2017 - £17,113.50 trading loss.
2018 - £150,185 trading loss.
CMC also noted that over the years  Mrs Ps trades were  liquidated  67 times and she had to 
fund her account 251 times. 
Mrs P first raised  her concerns  to CMC in May 2018.  CMC addressed  it as a complaint and 
did not uphold  its merits. After the matter was referred to this service in July it asserted that 
the complaint  was made outside the regulators time limits. This point was addressed in a 
separate decision about our jurisdiction and it was concluded that Mrs Ps complaint had 
been made in time. One of our investigators then considered the merits of the complaint.  In 
the main,  she concluded  as follows:
The complaint  should not be upheld.
The regulators Conduct of Business  Sourcebook (COBS) rules, under COBS  10.2, 
address the requirement for a firm to assess appropriateness of a financial product or 
service for a consumer. 
Mrs Ps complaint is not about appropriateness of her account at the outset, so that is 
not the dispute. The dispute is about whether (or not) CMC had an obligation  to 
review appropriateness  of her account  thereafter. The judgment  in QUINN v IG 
INDEX [2018] EWHC 2478  (Ch)  the Quinn case  gives  guidance on how to 
Ref: DRN86119392consider such a dispute. Based on this guidance, a firm does not have  an ongoing 
responsibility to review appropriateness  after a financial product or service  has been  
correctly assessed  to be appropriate  at the outset.
In terms of the wider  argument about  the out of control nature of Mrs Ps trading and 
losses being against her interest, the judgement notes that COBS 2.1 requires a firm 
to act honestly and fairly in the best interest  of its client  but it does not require a firm 
to prevent its client from engaging in an execution  only transaction.
Based  on the execution only basis  for Mrs Ps account, it could not be said that CMC 
were obliged  to monitor  the account,  unless it had been  made  aware of an underlying 
problem. Mrs P notified it of her problems in May 2018 and CMC took action to avoid 
her situation worsening by first limiting the account and then closing it.
There was a time when CMC  offered to upgrade Mrs Ps account, but evidence 
suggests that this was part of a general invitation  to its clients  to apply for such 
upgrading and that those who did apply were assessed against a set of eligibility 
criteria. Mrs Ps application failed because it did not meet  the criteria. If a change,  
such as an upgrade, had happened to the account CMC would have been required to 
reassess appropriateness, but no such change  happened in Mrs Ps case.
Mrs P had presented  arguments to assert that CMCs business model was such  that it 
benefitted from the out of control  trading and loss accumulation that took place in her case  
and that it was aware of the increasing losses in her account but allowed it to continue in its 
interest  and against her interest. The investigators view noted that an assessment of 
CMCs business model is beyond her remit and beyond the core issue   about reviewing 
appropriateness  that needs  to be addressed in the complaint. 
Mrs P did not accept the investigators conclusion and she repeated  her arguments about 
CMCs business model and about its knowledge of her losses.  She also said that she never 
received a rejection to her application for an upgrade and that instead CMC called her to 
discuss how her application could be progressed if she produced certain documents.  The 
matter was referred to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have reached the same 
conclusion as the investigators for broadly the same  reasons. 
It is agreed and settled that Mrs Ps account was appropriate for her at the outset.  I have not 
seen evidence that casts this conclusion  into doubt. One of the issues in dispute is whether 
(or not) CMC  had an ongoing obligation  to review appropriateness of Mrs Ps execution only 
account service (and the traded products within it) and I consider that the investigators 
conclusion has correctly  been guided by the applicable rule(s) and case  law. I acknowledge 
Mrs Ps assertions about CMC being aware of her losses, benefiting from her losses  and 
putting its interests above hers by doing nothing to address the gambling problem that, she 
says, it could see she had. This relates to the other  issue  in dispute  that is, whether (or 
not) CMC breached the regulatory clients best interests rule. In this respect, I also consider 
that the investigators conclusion correctly reflects the applicable rule(s) and guidance from 
case law.
Appropriateness Review
Ref: DRN86119393For the sake of clarity, it might  be helpful to begin  with the acknowledgement that the 
execution only service  in Mrs Ps account  meant  CMCs appropriateness  assessment 
only needed to establish her knowledge and experience and understanding of risks, 
all in relation to the product to be traded in the account. It must be noted that the 
regulators rules under COBS 10 do not require a firm to assess  a clients expertise, 
competence or success rate in terms of the traded  financial  product. Guidance  in the 
Quinn case supports this. It follows that even if CMC had a duty to review 
appropriateness  which, for reasons given below, I do not consider  it had  it would 
not have been required to review  Mrs Ps expertise,  competence  or success  rate.
COBS 10.4.2 (R) a firm  is not required to make  a new assessment [of 
appropriateness] on the occasion of each separate transaction   by its client(s),  
and that a firm providing clients with a regulated service complies with the rules for 
assessing appropriateness  provided  that it makes the necessary appropriateness  
assessment before  beginning that service.  This confirms  a firm is not required to 
review appropriateness  after the initial assessment.
As the investigator  noted, a change  in Mrs Ps account  which would arguably  have 
involved a change  in service  could have  given rise to the need to review  
appropriateness. The duty to assess appropriateness must be discharged by a firm 
at the outset of providing a service to a client, so it follows  that if a change  of account  
creates a new service to the client the duty to assess the appropriateness of the new 
account/service arises at its outset.  Mrs P disputes CMCs claim about her 
application for an account upgrade  being  declined and she says it discussed with her 
ways of progressing  the application.  It does not appear necessary to go further into 
this dispute. Whatever might have happened with the application, evidence appears 
to be that her account was not upgraded and did not change. So the idea of a review 
of appropriateness  based on a change  of account/service falls away.
Clients best interests rule 
This rule exists in COBS 2.1.1 (R), which says A firm must act honestly, fairly  and 
professionally in accordance with the best interests of its client.
In straightforward terms, Mrs P says CMC was aware that her trading and losses  had 
gone out of control,  aware that it was not in her best interest and that it should  have 
intervened to stop her trading. She says it did not intervene because accumulation  of 
her losses  was in CMCs interest and it prioritised that.
CMC  has disputed  Mrs Ps assertion with a rebuttal  of its own. Mrs P says CMC 
would have been monitoring her account  sufficiently  to know that her trading and 
losses were out of control and not in her best interests. CMC essentially says that the 
execution only service  defined the account  and meant that it did not monitor  the 
account as Mrs P asserts. I have not seen enough evidence  to uphold Mrs Ps 
assertion. CMCs system held and compiled  records about  her account and activity 
within it, but that does  not automatically mean it was monitoring the account in the 
way that has been  asserted or that would probably have been necessary to acquire 
knowledge of a potential gambling/trading/loss  accumulation problem. It cannot be 
ignored that it would  have  been in the normal course  of business for CMC and/or its 
system to record different types and sizes of losses and profits  across  its clients  
accounts and in the non-advisory context CMC would not have been monitoring 
affordability for those  clients. I do not suggest  that awareness of a clients significant  
Ref: DRN86119394net loss position or of one that spans and/or increases over a significant  period of 
time cannot create notice of a gambling problem. It is arguable  that it could, but it 
remains necessary to have a level of monitoring that identifies and translates raw 
trading loss information into cause for concern about  a potential gambling  problem. I 
am not persuaded that CMC applied such a level of monitoring to Mrs Ps account or 
that it was obliged to do so.
It does not appear to be in dispute  that CMC acted correctly after it became aware  of 
the problem in May 2018. In terms of a general duty upon a firm to protect a client  
from self-inflicting economic harm, guidance  from the Quinn case  says that in the 
absence of a contractual  term, in  very clear express words spelling out such  a 
duty , no such duty is to be read from COBS  2.1.1 (R). Without  such  a general  
duty, it remains arguable in Mrs Ps case that CMCs awareness of her problem 
created a duty upon it  not a general duty but a duty qualified by that awareness  to 
take protective  action.  After  all, that is what it did after its awareness in May 2018  and 
guidance from the Quinn case suggests that a duty in this context is arguable.  
However, Mrs P would need  to show that the actions taken by CMC after May 2018 
should have been  taken  earlier  based on an earlier  point of awareness. I do not 
consider that this has been established because, as I said above,  I have not seen 
enough evidence  to conclude that CMC was monitoring the account in the way Mrs P 
asserts or in a way that gave it an earlier point of awareness of her problem.
my decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold Mrs Ps complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 February  2019.
Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8611939