K822xcomplaint
Miss P has complained  about  her let property insurer,  Amtrust  Europe Limited because it 
declined her claim made for damage caused to her property after a storm.
background
Miss P was alerted by her tenants  to damage having  occurred on 9 November 2018. 
During a storm, rain had come in and the bathroom ceiling had collapsed  plaster had 
fallen on to cladding  which  finished the ceiling, causing it to fall. Miss P arranged for work 
to be done and made a claim to Amtrust. Miss P provided her invoice, which totalled 
£1,900 (£2,280 inc VAT), which showed that cracked roof tiles had been  found. Along 
with perished felt. The contractor said the storm weather had allowed rain to be driven 
under the tiles and through the felt.
Amtrust said it was declining Miss Ps claim for storm damage. It said the weather data 
showed there hadnt been a storm (with windspeeds of only 36 miles per hour)  and that 
the description on the invoice suggested damage had occurred due to wear and tear. It 
said it would  consider a claim for accidental damage  for the interior  repairs  but only if 
Miss P provided a further invoice which  separated internal  and external costs.  Miss P 
asked the contractor for a breakdown and he provided one  but this didnt separate out 
the internal and external  costs. She said she couldnt provide anything  more. Amtrust 
wasnt prepared to do anything more regarding the claim but offered  £25 compensation 
as it accepted it had caused a delay.
Miss P complained to us and our investigator initially upheld  her complaint, but when 
Amtrust objected to his findings, he changed his mind.  The complaint was passed to me 
for a decision to be made. I felt Amtrust should pay Ms P £1,015, plus VAT and interest*, 
along with £100 compensation, so I issued a provisional decision. Both parties  said they 
accepted my findings.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I said provisionally:
Having reviewed the evidence Amtrust  provided, I think there  was a storm. Amtrusts 
data shows there were windspeeds of 47 miles per hour on the day of the loss. 
Admittedly the closest  weather  station only recorded speeds of 36 miles per hour, but the 
latter (used by Amtrust  to decline the claim) was only two miles closer.  Given weather 
can vary, and often in quite a localised manner, it isnt reasonable, in my view, to be so 
restrictive in considering this matter as to exclude the data from the station only two miles 
further away. That would create an unfair outcome. And Ive seen other  data showing 
rain of 28.6 mm fell that day as well. So, Im satisfied  its fair to say a storm occurred on 
the date of loss.
The invoice shows cracked  tiles. This type of damage is consistent with storm damage. 
Water damage to internal  ceilings  is also consistent  with storm damage.  Perished  felt is 
not consistent  this is more typical of wear and tear damage.  So as damaged felt isnt 
consistent with storm damage, this part of the claim,  and, therefore, Miss Ps losses,  fall 
Ref: DRN80713492away. Amtrust  isnt liable for any cost for repairing  the felt and batons.
Miss Ps contractor said that rain was driven  under the tiles and through  the felt, causing 
the damage to the ceiling below. He doesnt  comment on the cause of damage for 
broken tiles.
Amtrust has indicated that, if it had been told of the costs for the ceiling, it would have 
accepted this damage. So I think its fair to say it had no concerns this damage had been
on-going over a long period. For completeness, Ive seen the photos, and I dont think it 
was. Or if it was, that Miss P or her tenants would have known about it. I say that 
because the celling was finished  in cladding  and this was to be re-fitted once the roof 
and ceiling were  repaired, so it wasnt damaged.
Amtrust hasnt raised any argument to make  me think the tiles werent damaged  as a 
result of storm. And it is known  that windspeeds of 47 miles per hour can and do damage 
tiles.
Overall, Im satisfied that Amtrust is liable for some of the costs  Miss P incurred in 
repairing her property.  As Amtrust says it cant use the invoice to calculate a settlement 
for Miss P, and Miss P has said she cant get any further information, Ive decided what 
Amtrust should pay. As I said above, I think that figure is £1,015, plus VAT, plus interest*. 
Ive set out below how Ive come  to this figure (using  the breakdown invoice costs 
provided). Where Ive suggested a part payment is due this is based on what I think  is 
fair, taking  into account a general understanding of repair costs:
Scaffolding, £165  Likely necessary for replacing tiles, Amtrust to pay.
Rubbish  removal, £150  Necessary  for felt and baton removal, not for Amtrust  to pay.
Materials, £285  Mostly for felt and batons,  but likely some  small cost for sundries 
and ceiling repair, Amtrust to pay £50.
Replacement tiles, £100   storm damage, Amtrust to pay.
Labour, £1,200  Large proportion regarding felt and baton repair,  but some labour for 
replacing tiles, patching ceiling and re-fitting cladding. Amtrust to pay £700.
Amtrust noted there was some delay  in its claim handling. But my review  shows  that its 
decline of the claim  was wrong from the outset. I can see this has all been upsetting and 
frustrating for Miss P, which is why I think Amtrust should pay £100  compensation.
As both parties have  accepted my provisional  findings, I see no reason to change or 
move away  from them.  They are now the findings of this, my final decision.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require Amtrust  Europe Limited to pay Miss P:
£1,015, plus VAT, plus interest* from the date of payment until settlement is made.
£100 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 July 2020.
Fiona Robinson
Ref: DRN80713493ombudsman
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts  specified and from/to the dates stated. If Amtrust 
Europe Limited considers  that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off income tax from any interest due to 
Miss P, it should  tell her how much its taken  off. It should  also give Miss P a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so 
she can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN8071349