K821x#15complaint
Miss W complains that Uncle Buck Finance LLP irresponsibly lent to her.
background
The background to this complaint was set out in the provisional decision I issued on 2nd 
December 2019.  An extract  from this is attached and forms part of this final decision, so 
I wont repeat that information here.
In my provisional decision I set out why I thought the complaint should  be partially upheld 
and what Uncle Buck needed  to do to put things right. I invited both parties to let me have 
any further comments and evidence. 
Miss W responded on 17 December 2019,  and said she had nothing  further to add. 
Uncle Buck  responded on 27th December 2019  and although it didnt make  any new points,  it 
reiterated its view about this complaint and the checks that it had carried out. Although I am 
only summarising here what Uncle Buck has said, I have considered its entire response 
carefully before writing  this decision.
Uncle Buck  reasserted  that it carried out enough checks about Miss Ws short term 
commitments when  it assessed whether to give her loan 3. It says short term loans would 
have been shown in the credit file. It also adds  that it would expect a customer to include 
short term credit  when  they are asked  about general credit  commitments. It says it has 
shown that its checks  were reasonable.
my findings
Ive once more  considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Uncle Buck  says it carried out enough  checks when it agreed to give loan 3 to Miss W. But 
as I explained  in my provisional decision, I dont  think it went  far enough. It should have 
looked to find out more  information about Miss Ws short term credit commitments and not 
just relied on what it had found  out up to that point, for the reasons I gave in my provisional 
decision. 
So having  considered everything  Ive received in relation to this complaint, both before and 
after issuing my provisional decision, I am not persuaded to change those initial conclusions. 
Uncle Buck  now needs to put things right with regards to loan 3. 
putting things right
Uncle Buck  should:
refund  all interest and charges Miss W paid on loan 3;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loan 3 on Miss Ws credit  file; 
Ref: DRN83361762 HM Revenue & Customs requires Uncle Buck to take off tax from this interest. Uncle  Buck 
must give Miss W a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold  Miss Ws complaint and direct Uncle Buck Finance 
LLP to put things  right as detailed above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 February  2020.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN83361763EXTRACT FROM PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Miss W complains that Uncle Buck Finance LLP was irresponsible  to give her loans that she couldnt  
afford to repay.
background
Miss W borrowed three times from Uncle  Buck  between November 2014  and January 2015,  as 
follows:
loan number date taken amount borrowed date repaid
1 18 November 2014 £250 25 November 2014
2 01 December 2015 £400 23 January 2015
3 25 January 2015 £650 23 April 2015
Miss W says that Uncle Buck was irresponsible to give her the loans. She doesnt think  it carried  out 
proper checks. If it had done  so, she says it would  have seen from her credit file that she had other 
debts and the loans werent affordable. 
Uncle Buck says that, before  it lent to Miss W, it asked her about her monthly income  and expenditure 
and carried out a credit  check that confirmed  the monthly income figure provided was accurate. This 
showed that Miss W had enough disposable income to meet the repayments.
Our adjudicator partially upheld Miss Ws complaint. He said Uncle Buck  should have carried  out 
further checks  when it agreed to lend her loans 2 and 3. He concluded  that if it did this, it would  have 
seen that the 2 loans were  not affordable for Miss W so it shouldnt  have given  her them.
Uncle Buck disagreed, so as both parties are still not in agreement Miss Ws complaint has been 
passed to me to make  a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
With regard to all the loans Uncle  Buck  provided, it was required to lend responsibly. It needed to 
make checks to see whether  Miss W could afford to pay back  each loan without it adversely impacting 
on her financial situation. It had to gather enough  information so that it could make an informed 
decision on the lending. 
The guidance and rules  dont set out compulsory checks  but they do list a number of things a lender 
might wish to take into account before  agreeing to lend. But checks should be proportionate and 
should take into account  a number of things, including  things such as the size of the loan, what the 
lender knows  about the consumer, what the consumer tells the lender about  their circumstances  and 
when whats being borrowed  is due to be repaid.
I think  that it is important  though to stress that Uncle Buck was required to establish whether Miss W 
could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable  on a strict 
pounds and pence calculation.  
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might  be an indication a consumer could  
sustainably make  their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This is 
because the Office  of Fair Trading guidance on Irresponsible Lending and then later the Consumer 
Credit Sourcebook (CONC), defines sustainable as being without  undue difficulties and in particular 
Ref: DRN83361764the customer  should  be able to make  repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable 
commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to meet the repayments.  And it follows that a lender 
should realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise,  that a borrower  wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely  to be able to make their repayments without borrowing 
further. 
Loans one and two
Uncle Buck has given  us evidence to show that it asked Miss W about her monthly  income and 
expenditure for these two loans and that it carried out credit checks.
Given Miss Ws repayment  amounts, what was apparent  about her circumstances  at the time, and her 
history with the lender, I dont think it wouldve  been  proportionate for Uncle Buck to ask her for the 
amount of information that would be needed to show the lending was unsustainable for loans one and 
two.  
Loan three
Miss W applied for loan 3 on 25 January 2015. By this stage I dont think the checks  that Uncle Buck 
carried out for this loan went  far enough. I think Uncle  Buck should at this point also be looking  at 
Miss Ws short term lending commitments along with asking  her about  her income and expenditure.
 
I have drawn  this conclusion because  Miss W had asked  to borrow for a third time within a month of 
repaying loan two and the amount she asked to borrow had increased. She had also rolled over 
payment of her previous  loan. So whilst  there is no set level at which  further checks  should  be made, 
given what I have just said, I think this should have prompted Uncle Buck  to carry out more  checks  
than it did. 
Uncle Buck has said that it contacted  Miss W and asked questions about  her expenditure at the time 
and also used  information provided  by the credit search results to see what short term lending she 
would have had. Despite this, I dont think the checks Uncle Buck carried  out went  far enough. I cant 
see that Uncle  Buck  requested further information about Miss Ws short term lending in particular or 
assessed in detail her short term lending commitments at that time. 
So in the circumstances, and because I think it should have carried out further checks on Miss Ws 
short term lending  at this point, I think its fair to place weight on Miss Ws bank statements. At the 
time she asked for loan three she had other short term lending commitments with several loan 
providers. I think if it had carried out further checks, it would have been given a clear  indication that 
Miss W was facing significant problems managing her money. And so I think Uncle Buck should have 
concluded it was likely that Miss W was borrowing to fill the hole that repaying  previous loans was 
leaving in her finances. So I dont think Uncle Buck should have given this loan (loan 3) to Miss W.
Ref: DRN8336176