K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain  that Aviva Life & Pension UK Limiteds conditions associated  with 
surrendering their mortgage endowment  policy were  onerous.
background
In 1993, Mr and Mrs F bought a mortgage endowment  policy from General Accident Life 
Assurance Limited (now  Aviva Life & Pensions  UK Limited  Aviva). There was a shortfall 
when it matured in 2018. Mr and Mrs F complained to Aviva  about the premiums paid; the 
policys performance; and the promise. They were also unhappy  with the conditions  
associated with surrendering it as they felt it made it difficult for them to withdraw and 
change to a repayment mortgage  without incurring additional costs  or loss. Aviva  refused to 
look into the complaint  and explained  it had already investigated and responded to their 
concerns in 2013.
Mr and Mrs F referred the complaint to this office. Aviva said it had been referred to us more  
than six months after it issued its final response in 2013 and so it didnt consent to us looking 
into it. Our investigator explained  to Aviva that Mr and Mrs F raised concerns about the 
surrender conditions only after the policy matured  in 2018, and it didnt issue  a final 
response on the matter.  On this basis, it consented to us looking into this part of their 
complaint. 
Our investigator agreed Mr and Mrs F were too late to refer their concerns about  the 
premiums, the promise and the performance, as they had raised  these concerns with Aviva 
and it sent its final response in 2013. She also concluded that the terms surrounding the 
surrender of the policy werent onerous. She explained surrendering any investment  early 
had consequences. 
Mr and Mrs F didnt  agree  with the investigators  findings and the complaint was passed to 
me for a decision. I issued a decision  deciding  the complaints about the premiums charged, 
the policys performance and the promise were out of our jurisdiction. 
Since then the matter  has been  referred back to me for a decision on whether the surrender 
terms were onerous.  I asked Mr and Mrs F for a copy of their policy schedule as Aviva 
couldnt provide  a copy given the passage of time;  all it had been able to provide was some 
general leaflets  about  how low cost with-profit endowment policies  worked. It was explained 
to Mr and Mrs F that if they werent  able to provide  any information  then my decision would 
be based on these  and my knowledge  of the industry.
Mr and Mrs F have  replied extensively about my decision on our jurisdiction to consider part 
of their complaint.  But they havent  provided  any further information about the onerous 
surrender terms. It is now appropriate  to move the remainder of their complaint to the final 
stage of our process.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding it. I 
explain why below.
Ref: DRN87962932I know Mr and Mrs F are unhappy that I have  decided  part of their complaint falls outside  of 
our jurisdiction. For the sake of completeness, that matter is not being revisited. If they still 
wish to pursue that part of their complaint they will need to do so outside of our service. 
The policy Mr and Mrs F took out was a low-cost endowment policy invested into the with-
profits fund. As they are probably aware,  a with-profits fund is a pooled investment where 
their premiums are pooled with other policyholders premiums to make investments and gain 
returns. The investments  are usually into a wide spread of areas including equities, cash, 
gilts etc. 
Unfortunately, I havent been provided  with a policy schedule setting out the actual terms of 
this policy. A leaflet which provides general information from around the time of the sale 
explains that the amount repayable on surrender  may fluctuate depending  on financial 
conditions. And my understanding of with-profits funds is that on occasion  a fund provider 
(like Aviva)  may apply a market value reduction  on early surrender, particularly if investment 
returns have been poor.  
This is because the investment is a pooled  investment where smoothing takes place. This 
means that when investment returns are good  some of the profits  are held back so that 
bonuses can continue  to be paid when investment returns are poorer. This results in less 
fluctuations than might otherwise be experienced with other types of investment. And by 
taking money out of the pooled investment early,  this can affect performance levels and 
bonuses payable to those that stay within the fund. 
Aviva isnt the only fund provider  that operates in this way. In my experience, this is how the 
with-profits fund works  across the industry.  Im not aware of anything within Avivas terms 
that are any more onerous or different to other providers. And whilst I understand why        
Mr and Mrs F may have felt tied into their investment, I dont find it unfair for such  terms to 
be in place given  the objective  of the investment. It was for Mr and Mrs F to decide whether 
to continue with the policy in the knowledge  of the high risk of a shortfall (high  risk warning 
letters had been sent) or to surrender the policy. I dont know  if Mr and Mrs F made any 
other arrangements to mitigate against  any possible shortfall at maturity.  But ultimately it 
was their duty to do so  the very reason the projection letters were issued was to prompt  
customers into action to ensure their mortgage could be repaid at the end of the term. 
Im not persuaded Aviva has done  anything wrong and so I find no basis on which to ask it to 
contribute to the additional  costs  Mr and Mrs F believe they have incurred as a result of not 
surrendering the policy  earlier. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 November  2019.
Claire Hopkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8796293