K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that Barclays Bank Plc (Barclays) mis-sold him a monthly  premium  payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr A took out a credit card in 2000. He was sold the PPI at the same  time in connection with 
this card during  a meeting.
The PPI cost 75p per £100 of the monthly  outstanding balance. It would have paid 10% of 
the outstanding balance  each month  for up to 12 months if Mr A was off work sick or lost his 
job.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mr As complaint should  be upheld. Mr A didnt agree with our 
adjudicator so the complaint has been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr As case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold  Mr As complaint.
First of all, Ive considered  whether Mr A was eligible under the policy.  Based on Mr As age, 
residence and employment  at the time of the sale, I think that he was eligible.
Barclays had to make it clear to Mr A that the PPI was optional and needed his consent  
before the PPI could be applied to his account. Mr A says PPI wasnt  presented to him as 
being optional.
Ive seen a copy  of Mr As credit  card application form. This had a separate  section for PPI. 
And I note there were two equally clear options  to take or refuse PPI. I can see that the box 
to take PPI has been selected. Mr A also signed this form. 
So, based  on the evidence Ive seen,  I think the PPI was presented  as optional and Mr A 
chose to take it out.
Barclays advised Mr A to take PPI out. This means  they had to check if it was right for Mr A. 
Based on what I understand of Mr As circumstances at the time of the sale,  I think the PPI 
was right for him. I say this because:
-The PPI would have  paid out in addition to Mr As sick pay and would have  done  so     
for a longer period  of time.  It would also have paid out if Mr A lost his job. I appreciate 
Mr A has told us he had savings at the time of the sale but I havent seen anything  
which suggests to me that the savings  Mr A had would have been such that the PPI 
wouldnt have been of benefit to him.
Ref: DRN82608122-Mr A wasnt affected by the main exclusions/restrictions in the policy  which would 
have made it difficult for him to make  a successful claim  under the policy.
- I havent seen  evidence which suggests  the PPI was unaffordable to Mr A.
- Mr A could  have cancelled the PPI at any time without losing out financially.
As well as checking the PPI was right for Mr A, Barclays also had to give him sufficient 
information for him to be able to decide if he should take PPI  in particular about the costs, 
benefits and main exclusions under the policy. Its possible the information Barclays gave  
Mr A wasnt  as clear as it should  have been. This in itself doesnt mean the policy was mis-
sold as I have to go on and consider whether better  information about the policy would have  
put him off taking  it out. 
And I dont  think better information about  the policy would have put Mr A off taking it out. I 
say this for the same reasons I think the policy was right for him.
So I dont  think Barclays mis-sold Mr A this policy.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr As complaint against  Barclays Bank Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 February  2019.
 
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8260812