K820x#14complaint
Mr E says Renault Retail Group UK Limited  (Renault) mis-sold  him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
In August  2019,  I issued my most recent decision  on this complaint. It included  the following:
In 2005 Mr E took out a hire purchase  agreement to buy a car. At the same  time he bought 
a regular premium PPI policy.
I issued a provisional decision (my first provisional decision) in June 2019  explaining  why I 
wasnt minded to uphold the complaint. Among the reasons I gave for not finding that the 
PPI had been mis-sold  was that it appeared  Mr E wasnt affected by the policys  exclusions 
or limitations   for example, I said he hadnt told us about any pre-existing  medical  
conditions (PEMCs).
I asked the parties  to send me any more  comments or evidence  they wanted  me to consider 
before I issued my final decision. Renault didnt  respond to my first provisional decision.
Mr E replied  that he still believed the complaint should be upheld. Essentially, he said Id 
relied on a policy document  from 2007 despite the sale taking place in 2005. He said the 
policy terms could have  changed considerably in that time. Mr E also said Renault should 
have, though didnt, ask him about any medical  conditions he might  have had. He said he 
had a number  of medical conditions which would have impacted on his ability  to claim on the 
PPI and that our published approach to PEMCs supported his complaint. 
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments  including,  most notably, Mr Es 
response to my first provisional decision  to decide  whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the 
sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding this complaint. 
Having done so, I still dont intend  to uphold Mr Es complaint.  Ill explain why.
To reiterate  what I said in my first provisional  decision, our adjudicator felt Renault didnt 
provide enough evidence  to show it made  it clear  to Mr E that he had a choice about buying 
PPI. I accept that Renault hasnt provided  copies  of the papers Mr E signed, but its sent us 
copies of samples documents it says hed have seen. 
These document include the hire purchase  agreement and, more importantly in this case, 
the Customer Demands  and Needs Statement. I remain  of the view that the latter suggests 
Mr E was asked a number  of questions designed to allow Renault to determine  the suitability 
of the PPI, as well as several other  insurance products. The last section of the form set out 
Renaults personal recommendation  and included boxes to tick to say if the consumer had 
declined the recommendation for each  product.  There was a section  for the consumer to 
sign at the end of the statement. 
Its difficult to say for sure what happened  at the time of the sale but, on balance, I still cant 
fairly say the PPI wasnt presented to Mr E as optional or that he didnt choose to take it out.
Ref: DRN88406082As I say, I believe Renault recommended the PPI to Mr E. That meant it should have 
checked that the PPI was right for him. From what Mr Es told us about his circumstances in 
2005 both before and after my first provisional  decision, I still consider the PPI was right for 
him. 
Its true that Renault hasnt been  able to provide a copy of the policy terms from 2005, 
though it has sent us a copy from 2007.  Im aware that Mr E has reservations about me 
relying on those terms and points out that they could have been different when he bought  
the PPI. I agree thats possible, but I dont find it likely  that theyd have fundamentally 
changed. Nor has Mr E set out what he believes may have changed  or how he might have 
been affected by any changes. Overall, I think I can fairly rely on the policy terms Renaults  
provided.
With that in mind, Id repeat what I said in my first provisional decision to the extent that:
Theres nothing in the policy terms, or anything from experience of PPI policies 
generally, to make  me think Mr E wasnt eligible for the cover.
I cant see that the monthly premium was unaffordable for Mr E. And the PPI was 
flexible in that he could have cancelled  it at any time if he decided  it was no longer 
suitable for him.
Mr E says he was entitled  to generous  sick pay and redundancy pay from his 
employer which meant he didnt need PPI. But the policy  would have paid out in 
addition to that pay and for longer at, I gather, up to 24 months per disability claim 
and 12 months per unemployment claim.  So I think hed have found  the extra 
protection the PPI provided useful.
Regardless of the exact contents  of the applicable  policy terms, its likely the PPI included 
terms that excluded  or limited cover in certain circumstances. In my first provisional decision 
I said I hadnt seen  anything to suggest  Mr E would have been  affected by any of them. For 
example, I said he hadnt told us about  any PEMCs. He had the opportunity to do so in 
bringing his complaint to us when we asked him in our PPI questionnaire when you took out 
this insurance, did [you] have any health  problems  or were [you] registered as disabled?
Despite answering  no and even adding  that he wouldnt have required [PPI] based on 
employment and health of myself at the time, Mr E now tells us that in fact he had had a 
number of medical problems from birth, including asthma. I dont  know  why Mr E indicated  
on his PPI questionnaire that he didnt have any medical conditions but he now says hes 
currently taking a large number of medications in order to keep his asthma under control  
and he provided  information from his GP surgery in support.
The GP evidence  shows Mr Es suffered with asthma since he was a child. Hes currently  
prescribed several drugs to be taken  daily and another to be taken as required. The 
evidence suggests  his conditions reviewed annually and, from what  Mr Es told us, its 
relatively controlled.
Ive thought very carefully about whether Mr Es asthma meant  the PPI was unsuitable for 
him but I dont think it was. It seems the condition had long since  been  diagnosed and was 
largely under control due to appropriate  treatment. Theres no suggestion it had led to time 
Ref: DRN88406083off work prior to, or around the time of, the sale. The evidence doesnt indicate to me that, in 
2005, the condition was so significant  that it would have been a major factor  in the sale.
The only other condition  the GP evidence mentions concerned Mr Es liver but it seems that 
this post-dated the sale by several  years. From  what Ive seen  I cant say the condition 
meant the PPI as sold in 2005  wasnt suitable. 
Ive taken into account our published approach  to complaints involving PEMCs, to which  
Mr E refers,  but that doesnt alter my view given the circumstances.
Finally, it was also for Renault  to provide Mr E with enough information about  the PPI for him 
to make an informed decision as to whether to take it out. I dont know  what information 
Renault gave  him. But, for the same  reasons that I think the PPI was right for him, I dont  
think better information would have put him off taking out the policy. 
Taking everything into consideration, I still dont think Mr Es lost out because of how Renault 
sold him the PPI.
my provisional decision
For the reasons  given,  I still dont intend to uphold the complaint.
I asked the parties  to send me any more  comments or evidence  they wanted  me to consider 
before I issued my final decision. Renault accepted my most recent provisional decision and 
had nothing more  to add.
Mr E still believed  the complaint should  be upheld. In summary, he said he didnt say he had 
a pre-existing medical condition in the PPIQ because he wasnt  ill at the time of the sale.  But 
he had been ill, and admitted to and treated in hospital, in the past and said he wouldnt 
have been able to claim on any of those  occasions because of the policys  exclusions. Mr E 
emphasised the lack of paperwork Renault  had been able to provide from the sale which,  he 
argued, should count in his favour.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Es case.
With regard to the lack of sales paperwork  provided  by Renault, I accept this isnt ideal. But 
that in itself isnt enough  for me to find in Mr Es favour. Without  sight  of copies of his 
application papers or the policy terms from the time, Ive considered  the remaining evidence 
to determine what, if anything, hes likely to have seen. 
As I said in my most recent provisional decision,  the documents Renaults sent us are 
enough for me to conclude, on balance, that Mr E would have been told the PPI was 
optional. And that hed have agreed to the PPI before  it was added.  The documents also 
provide me with a good indication of what the terms of Mr Es policy  including those 
relating to pre-existing medical conditions  are likely  to have said.
Ref: DRN88406084I appreciate the effort Mr Es gone to in providing further information for me to consider. 
However, having considered the information  very carefully,  I dont think  it makes a difference 
to the outcome. Ill explain why.
In his recent submissions, Mr Es sent evidence of his hospital admissions relating to 
asthma, among  other things. He says this proves he shouldnt have been sold PPI since  he 
wouldnt have been able to claim for the condition as it would have been deemed pre-
existing under the policy terms.
I accept Mr E might not have been able to claim on the policy for his asthma, depending on 
the exact nature of any claim that was made. But Ive placed emphasis on the circumstances 
at the time of the sale to determine what Mr Es likely course of action would have been had 
he been properly  advised and informed  about the policy.
At the time of the sale, the situation  regarding Mr Es health was, as far as I can tell, as I set 
out in my most recent provisional decision.  Thats to say hed been  diagnosed as suffering 
from asthma at a very young age and that it was relatively well-controlled  by 2005.  The 
evidence Mr Es sent in recently doesnt  change  my view of this as it relates  to hospital 
admissions that didnt take place until long after the sale in 2005. For example, theres a 
discharge letter relating to asthma dating back to 2016  11 years  after the sale. There  are 
other discharge letters for other health  problems but these only date back  to 2010,  2011 and 
2012. Again,  these  relate to a period long after the sale took place.
None of this new medical  evidence  leads  me to think the policy sold in 2005  wasnt  suitable 
for Mr E given his circumstances at the time,  or that hed have decided  against taking it out 
had he been better  informed  about  the policy.      
Taking everything into account,  I remain of the view that Mr E hasnt lost out because of how 
Renault sold him the PPI.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 December 2019.
Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8840608