K820x#14Complaint
Mr C says Lloyds Bank  Plc mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.  
Background and summary to complaint
Not all of the information  from the times  still available but Mr C and Lloyds agree he bought 
the policy in 1994 at the same time as taking out a credit card. He says he applied for the 
credit card and PPI policy in a branch  meeting.  Lloyds hasnt disputed  that as it no longer 
holds evidence as to how the PPI was sold to Mr C. 
At the time,  Mr C was employed  as a coach builder. Hes told us he was entitled to statutory  
sick pay and that he didnt have any other means  of repaying his credit  card if hed been 
unable to work. Mr Cs said he was in good  health at the time of the sale.  
The policy provided  cover  for life, sickness and injury, and unemployment  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  10% of Mr Cs credit  card balance  in the event 
of a successful claim. At the time,  it cost 79p per £100 of the monthly outstanding balance. 
The premium would  continue to have to be paid during a successful claim and it attracted 
interest. 
Lloyds has sent us evidence to show that the credit  card account closed in June 2002.
Mr Cs representative made lengthy  and substantial  representations on his behalf. I wont 
restate them all here,  but Ive read and considered them all carefully. In summary, Mr Cs 
representative said:
Lloyds failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr C wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr Cs representative 
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Lloyds should have 
told Mr C about  the poor value;  and
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Lloyds should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr C and the impact  they 
would have had on his chances of making a claim.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld   both parties  have seen the 
adjudicators opinion and had the opportunity to respond to it. Mr C disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion. Among other things, he didnt understand how the adjudicator could 
find in favour  of Lloyds  despite accepting there were significant failings in how the policy was 
sold. Mr C felt that, as the information  from the time of the sale was limited,  more emphasis 
should be placed on his recollections of what happened.
Ref: DRN81896292As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it was passed to me for a decision. After  
considering the complaint, I issued a provisional decision setting out why I didnt think it 
should be upheld.  I gave the parties  the opportunity  to respond before I considered the 
complaint again.
Lloyds didnt have  anything to add in response to my provisional decision.  
Mr C, on the other hand, said he didnt agree  with my provisional decision.  He said the PPI 
was meant  to be optional  and that his apparent eligibility for the cover didnt mean  he 
wanted, or needed, it. He emphasised that the sale was rushed and that, although failings by 
Lloyds during the sale had been  identified, assumptions had incorrectly been  made  to 
suggest hed have bought  the PPI anyway.
My findings
Although Ive only included a summary  of the complaint Ive read and considered  all the 
evidence and arguments available to me from the outset in order to decide  whats, in my 
opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
Relevant considerations  
When considering  whats fair and reasonable, Im required  to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Cs. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Cs complaint.
This sale took place  in 1994, before the General Insurance  Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated by the FSA in January 2005. So the GISC Code, the 
FSAs (and FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses and insurance  conduct rules 
(ICOB and ICOBS) arent applicable to this complaint;  nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance 
(PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2002. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgement in Plevin about 
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgement, arent 
applicable either. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
Ref: DRN81896293The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Lloyds  at the time. So Im satisfied I should take these codes into account 
when deciding, whats in my opinion fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Cs 
case.
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence);  the law relating to the utmost  duty of good  
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman (OBO)  might have  been expected to reach in relation to an equivalent 
complaint. I note that under the OBOs terms of reference the Ombudsman was required to 
decide complaints  by reference to what was, in his opinion, fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Lloyds was required to take into account the provisions in DISP  App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering Mr Cs complaint. 
Key questions   
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  whats in my opinion fair and reasonable  in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If Lloyds gave advice,  whether  it advised Mr C with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him, given his needs  
and circumstances.  
-Whether Lloyds gave Mr C sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable  
him to make  an informed  choice about  whether to take out the policy, including 
drawing to his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr C, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr C suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr C and 
Lloyds, Ive decided  not to uphold  Mr Cs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
Ref: DRN81896294Did Mr C know he had a choice?
Lloyds had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional and ensure it didnt apply undue 
pressure to Mr C to buy the policy. 
Lloyds hasnt been able to provide a copy of Mr Cs signed credit card application form but I 
dont find that surprising given how long ago the sale took place. So, I cant  say for sure how 
the PPI was presented to him or whether he was given the option  to refuse it. And I note 
what Mr Cs said about being rushed  by the adviser.
All of that said, Lloyds  has provided  a sample  application form that appears to date back to 
1993. The form included  a section headed  Payments Insurance.  In it, customers were  
asked to either tick a box to agree  to PPI or tick an equally  prominent box just below to say 
they didnt want  it.  
Taking everything into account  including experience of how Lloyds sold PPI in its branches 
generally, I think its just as likely as not that Mr C knew  the policy was optional  and had 
adequate time to make up his mind about  whether to take it before agreeing  to it. I realise  its 
possible that Mr C was rushed but, overall,  Ive seen insufficient evidence to show  he was 
placed under  undue pressure. 
Did Lloyds provide  advice?
Both Lloyds  and Mr C agree that advice was provided during  this sale.
This means  Lloyds had to advise Mr C with reasonable care and skill, in particular  whether  
the policy was appropriate or suitable given his needs and circumstances at the time. 
The advice
I dont know what steps Lloyds took to establish whether the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr C. It seems  Mr C cant remember  clearly what  happened and there s 
no record of what the adviser discussed  in relation to the policy. This is unsurprising  in 
respect of a sale during a meeting. The adviser  had some limited information  about Mr Cs 
financial circumstances, but there s no specific evidence to show the adviser took steps to 
establish whether  Mr C would have been caught  by the significant  exclusions and limitations  
which might  have meant the policy did not fully meet his needs.  For example, there s nothing  
to suggest Lloyds considered whether Mr C had any pre-existing medical conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities I am not persuaded that Lloyds  did all it should have 
done to determine whether the policy was suitable for Mr C given his circumstances. So Im 
not persuaded Lloyds advised with reasonable  care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should  have done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr C, I do think its more likely than not that the policy  was ultimately  suitable  for 
him. In reaching that conclusion Ive taken  into consideration:
-Despite what Mr Cs argued  before and after I issued my provisional  decision, I 
consider his eligibility (or otherwise) for the PPIs relevant in determining the likely 
suitability of the policy. And Ive found he did meet  the eligibility criteria for this policy.
Ref: DRN81896295-Mr C had a need for the policy  it seems likely that Mr Cs ability  to continue to meet 
his credit card repayments  would  have been  put under strain  if he wasn t working  for 
an extended period of time  especially as he says he was only entitled  to statutory 
sick pay and that he had no other means  of making his credit card repayments if he 
wasnt working.
-Although Mr C suggests he was financially stretched  at the time, Ive seen nothing 
else to suggest  the monthly cost of the PPI wasnt affordable.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr C. There  was 
nothing about  Mr Cs employment or occupation  which would have made it difficult  
for him to claim. And he hasnt told us about any pre-existing  medical  conditions  that 
could affect his ability to claim. 
-While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 months for each claim 
for sickness and injury or unemployment, it still provided useful cover given Mr Cs 
circumstances and the fact the policy could have cleared his outstanding  card 
balance.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Lloyds  gave Mr C sufficient information 
about the cover provided by the policy to enable him to understand  what Lloyds was 
recommending to him and make an informed decision about whether to follow  that advice 
and take out the policy. 
The information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr C was given a very broad description  of what  the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is, that the policy would protect his card payments in the 
event he was unable  to work through disability or unemployment). I have reached this 
conclusion because I think  Mr C would have been told this  at the very least   during  the 
discussion with the adviser. I think its unlikely Mr C would have taken out the policy without  
any sense of what the policy was. The sample application form Lloyds says he signed also 
described the policy as Payments  Insurance,  which would have given  him some idea of 
what the policy was for.
Im also satisfied Mr C would  have realised the policy wasnt free and its likely he would 
have had some understanding of how much the policy cost before  agreeing  to take it out.
But the evidence  from the time of the sale doesnt  tell us whether Lloyds gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost (the fact that the premiums  
would be added to the account balance, attracting interest if unpaid  at the end of the month, 
and were payable  during  a claim) or about  the exclusions  and limitations, before Mr C 
agreed to take out the policy.  Even if that information were in a leaflet or policy summary 
Mr C might have  been given, I think its more likely than not that he based his decision on 
the things he was told, rather than on anything he was given.
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied that the policy  was a suitable recommendation for Mr C, Im not persuaded Lloyds 
did enough to present  information about  the policy it was recommending in a way that was 
fair and reasonable to Mr C. Im not persuaded that Lloyds gave Mr C all of the information 
he needed about the policy to make an informed decision about whether to follow  the 
recommendation and take out the policy. 
Ref: DRN81896296Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And, for the reasons set 
out above and as pointed  out by Mr C, Im persuaded that there were significant failings in 
this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Cs representative has raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. Ive considered  these  carefully  and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr Cs representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-the common law duty of utmost good  faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr C about  the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Cs representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr C has suggested. And taking into account  the law, industry  codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Lloyds ought  to have done either. 
What effect did Lloyds shortcomings  have on Mr C? To what extent did Mr C suffer  
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Lloyds  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy to Mr C. So 
Ive gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude  Mr C suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether  or not Mr C would have 
still taken out the policy,  had Lloyds  done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded that Lloyds took the steps  it should  have done to establish  whether 
the policy it recommended was suitable  for Mr C, Ive found that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for him.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr Cs suffered loss or damage 
in this case primarily depends on whether, if Lloyds had explained things properly, Mr C 
would have acted  differently,  or whether he would have taken out the policy  in any event.
Mr C says he wouldnt have taken it out and believes that I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
Ref: DRN81896297return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they dont have  insurance,  should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr C had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when Lloyds  advised him that there was a suitable  
product he could buy that would protect  his credit card payments in the event  he was unable  
to work because of sickness and injury or unemployment, he concluded  he wanted that 
product. But he made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning what  he 
thought he was getting is not exactly what he got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr Cs circumstances at the time 
of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable  for him.
In relation to the costs, Im satisfied Mr C ought  reasonably to have known hed have to pay 
something for the PPI and that it would cover a portion of his outstanding balance. But, I 
accept that Lloyds didnt make  clear the ongoing  cost information. So while  Mr C didnt know 
some things, the ultimate position in the event of a successful  claim wasnt  dissimilar to what  
hed reasonably have thought from the information he likely based his decision to take out 
the policy on and found acceptable.  
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr C thought hed bought and what 
he actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims for sickness and injury caused  or contributed  to by a 
condition for which  Mr C consulted  or received treatment from a doctor  in the 12-
month period  prior to the start of the policy; and
The policy excluded claims for mental  health  conditions; and
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back conditions, placing more  
onerous evidential  requirements to support  a claim on those grounds.
I do accept that theres a possibility that the limitations and exclusions above might  well have 
caused Mr C pause for thought  and may well have caused  him to conclude  that the policy 
wasnt as good  as he thought and he might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on 
the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might have dissuaded 
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr C from taking out the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr Cs circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy  
wasnt fundamentally wrong for him. He was eligible for its benefits and it provided cover 
that, despite its limitations and exclusions, could have proved valuable to him should the 
insured risks have  become a reality. I also havent  seen any evidence to suggest hed have 
been caught by any of the significant exclusions  Mr C didnt have any pre-existing medical 
conditions. 
I accept back pains  a common problem and the steps required to make a claim for that 
condition were more  onerous than Mr C might  reasonably have expected.  But its unlikely 
hed have expected to be able to make a sickness  and injury claim without having to provide  
some evidence to support  that claim. And, while claims  for mental health conditions  were 
excluded, Mr C hadnt suffered such problems up to the time of the sale.  
To make a disability claim, Mr C needed  to be totally unable to do his normal occupation. I 
dont think this is likely to be too different to what hed have expected to make  a claim. 
Ref: DRN81896298Overall, I still think Mr C had some  good reasons to take the policy  out.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, and Mr Cs response  to 
my provisional decision, I still consider it more likely than not that Mr C would still have taken 
out the PPI. The policy  was sufficiently  close to what he thought he was getting and he only 
had limited means of meeting his credit  card repayments if he was unable to work  due to 
sickness or injury  and none in the event of redundancy. In those circumstances I consider 
it more likely than not that hed have  taken out the policy in any event.  
Mr Cs representatives say the rules  about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  theres evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but its a relevant  consideration so I take it into account along with 
many other things when  I decide whats in my opinion fair and reasonable. Considering the 
purpose of the guidance, I dont think it was ever intended to be at odds with the approach 
Ive taken. 
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr C wouldnt have bought the PPI he bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, theres evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumptions  rebutted  in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr Cs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr C 
found himself in as result  of the sale was the same  position hed have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr C believes  the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we should give proper 
weight to the evidence  including his own comments  that he wouldnt have taken out the 
policy. Im not persuaded by these arguments  or his comments on the issue in response to 
the provisional decision. 
Even if Im ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr C in the position hed have been  in if he hadnt  bought  
the policy. 
Thats because,  while I accept its possible that Mr C wouldnt have taken out the policy,  Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that hed still have taken out the 
PPI had he been given clear,  fair and not misleading  information  about the policy  he was 
buying. So Im not persuaded  it would  be fair and reasonable in those circumstances, to 
conclude Lloyds should pay Mr C compensation, as that would put him in a better position 
than hed have  been in if everything had happened  as it should have done. 
Ive also considered whether Lloyds misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI. While I accept theres a possibility a court  might  conclude some of Lloyds 
statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why Lloyds failed to act 
Ref: DRN81896299fairly and reasonably wasnt because of what it did or didnt say in the information it provided 
 but because the overall information Lloyds gave Mr C, in the way it did, was insufficient to 
meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 1994 when 
providing information about an insurance  policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach a court might take if it were to find Lloyds negligently 
misrepresented the contract to Mr C and about the remedy  a court  might  award  if it were  to 
find that Lloyds  had been in breach  of its duty of utmost good faith. But this doesnt persuade 
me to alter my conclusions about  whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
complaint  including what I thinks fair compensation in the circumstances of this case. For 
the reasons Ive already  set out I dont  think  it would be fair and reasonable to put Mr C in a 
better position than if everything had happened  as it should have done. 
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide whats,  in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint, and for the reasons Ive set out 
above, I dont  uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 February  2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8189629