K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains about the way that Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc have handled his Section 75 
claim after his computer  stopped working. 
background
Mr M took out a fixed sum loan agreement in June 2014 to buy a custom-made computer for 
£2,066.20. In January 2018, the computer stopped working. Mr M took it to a repairer,  who 
said the graphics  card was defective.  Because of this, Mr M feels it didnt last as long as it 
shouldve done.  He made a claim for breach of contract and unsatisfactory  quality under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974. And hed like a replacement  card provided. 
Hitachi Capital contacted the supplier  of the computer, who explained that the warrantee  had 
expired, and that the system wasnt known for having any faults. They  said that due to the 
amount of time that had passed, Mr M would need to get an independent  report  to show the 
graphics card was faulty at the time of sale. Hitachi Capital agreed, so didnt uphold Mr Ms 
claim. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and agreed Mr M would  need  to get an 
independent report  to show the card was defective at the time he bought  the computer. She 
explained that three and half years had passed, and that she didnt have anything to show 
how much  the computer had been  used in that time.  She also explained that she didnt have 
anything to show the card was defective, and why. Because  of this, she wasnt  able to find 
that the card was of unsatisfactory quality at the point of sale. 
Mr M disagreed with our investigator. He said that the graphics card is not a low-priced 
product, and that its a non-portable component  of the computer so should have lasted 
longer. He also said that he did gain enjoyment  of the computer for a number of years and 
so wouldnt be seeking a full refund, however the computer didnt last a reasonable amount 
of time and so feels his claim  under section 75 should be paid.  
Because Mr M disagreed the complaint  was passed to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
investigator for the same reasons so wont be upholding the complaint. Ill explain why. 
Mr M made a claim to Hitachi  Capital under section  75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  
which in certain circumstances makes Hitachi Capital responsible for a breach  of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier. 
So what  Im deciding is whether or not Hitachi Capital treated Mr M fairly when considering 
his claim.
Mr M has complained there  has been a breach of contract because the computer wasnt  of
satisfactory quality when it was sold to him. The Sale of Goods  Act 1979 implies a term into 
all contracts that the goods are of satisfactory quality. It says that goods will be considered of 
satisfactory quality where they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider 
satisfactory, taking into account the description  of the goods, the price paid and other  
relevant circumstances.
Ref: DRN86568602In Mr Ms case, it doesnt seem like the graphics card was broken at the point of sale. This is 
because the computer was used and worked for three and a half years before it stopped 
working and he was told the graphics  card was defective. However, I have considered 
whether the computer was sufficiently durable. By this I mean  would a reasonable person 
expect for this component in this computer  to have the issue arise when it did. 
In coming to my findings I have considered the price of the computer and the relative  cost of 
the graphics card. I think  its fair to say this was a relatively powerful computer and graphics  
card at the time, towards the more expensive end of the market. Mr M also purchased it from 
new. So there would be a fairly high expectation  around how long things would work well 
before anything went wrong  (in normal use). 
However, despite this reasonably high expectation  of quality, I think  that three and a half 
years is a significant period of time for a piece of computing equipment  to last (particularly a 
component which might  be upgraded every few years like a graphics  card). And despite 
what Mr M has said about the way a graphics  card is stationary/internal and protected  from 
wear and tear, there are still several  environmental  and operating variables to consider that 
could affect its lifespan.  So, considering the time that has passed, together  with those 
variables, I dont think its clear cut that the item isnt as durable as it should be. And I note 
that Mr M has not provided  anything (such as an expert opinion) that persuasively shows  the 
item likely failed because  it was not reasonably durable.
So overall, and considering the time that has passed, theres simply no persuasive  evidence 
to show that, on balance, the computer  was not of satisfactory quality when it was sold to 
Mr M. 
While I know itll disappoint Mr M, for the reasons stated above I dont feel it would be right to 
ask Hitachi Capital to make any payment toward the cost of a new graphics card. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 March 2020.
Danielle Padden 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8656860