K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  that Lloyds Bank Plc mis-sold a mortgage product  to them.  They 
want a refund of the early repayment  charge (ERC) and broker fees.
background
Mr and Mrs S took out a mortgage with Lloyds,  and later took out a mortgage product online 
in 2018. They believed that the mortgage  could  be transferred to a new property (ported), 
not just the product. Mr and Mrs S then wanted  to move to a new property and were told that 
the mortgage itself wasnt  portable  the new property  needed  to be subject to a new 
mortgage, but the product  could  transfer  to deal with the interest rate. Mr and Mrs S applied  
to Lloyds for a new mortgage but were  unsuccessful  they said Lloyds didnt  tell them  why. 
They then used a broker (and paid fees) to get a mortgage and had to pay Lloyds an ERC.
Mr and Mrs S complained to Lloyds.  It said that Mr and Mrs S chose the product themselves 
online; Lloyds  didnt give any advice so it couldnt  have  mis-sold it. It confirmed that the 
product was portable, but explained that applications to borrow more money were subject to 
a full application  Mr and Mrs S had applied to borrow more  money, not just to move the 
mortgage. Lloyds  explained that it was the application to borrow more  that was 
unsuccessful, and it was Mr and Mrs S choice to go elsewhere to borrow the money and 
repay the Lloyds  mortgage early, triggering the ERC.
Mr and Mrs S complained to us, saying that they had no choice to repay  the mortgage early  
as they wanted to move home.  The adjudicators view was that Lloyds wasnt at fault. He 
said that Lloyds  was able to decide if it was willing to lend more  money,  and it wasnt willing  
to lend more money  to both Mr and Mrs S under its lending policies due to internal 
information about Mrs S and her credit worthiness. The adjudicator  didnt think  Lloyds  had 
acted unfairly or unreasonably and didnt  think that Lloyds had to tell Mr and Mrs S the 
details as to why it wouldnt lend more.
Mr and Mrs S disagreed. They said that they wouldnt have taken out the product in 2018 if 
theyd known it couldnt be ported and no other lender thought  that Mrs S was high risk.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lenders are able to claim ERCs if they are a genuine pre-estimate of the loss it would  suffer 
if the mortgage is repaid early (this can be calculated over a group of mortgages) and if the 
ERC is clearly set out in the mortgage documents accepted by the consumer. Mr and Mrs S 
dont dispute this  their argument is about  Lloyds refusal to lend them  more  money  to 
enable them to move  to their new property and port the product they already held.
Ref: DRN89276272But Lloyds didnt  refuse to allow Mr and Mrs S to port the product (which it didnt advise 
Mr and Mrs S on anyway  so it couldnt  have  mis-sold it  Lloyds isnt responsible for any 
misunderstanding about how porting works). It refused to lend more  money, based on the 
information it held.  Lenders are able to use their commercial judgement about to whom  and 
how much  to lend, provided  that the lending  policies are applied  fairly and reasonably. 
Having seen the evidence available to me, I cant say that Lloyds  acted unfairly or 
unreasonably when deciding whether to lend more  money or in not disclosing commercially  
sensitive information  to explain in detail why. Mrs S is aware that her position was the issue.
And Mr and Mrs S did choose to repay  the mortgage early in order to move  home,  but they 
were aware of the ERC  when they decided to do so. The fact that the sellers of their new 
property wanted  Mr and Mrs S to have  a mortgage  in place quickly  doesnt mean that Lloyds 
was at fault or should pay their brokers fees. Ultimately, Mr and Mrs S did agree to pay the 
ERC if they repaid the mortgage early, they did repay the mortgage early  and I cant  say in 
all the circumstances  that its unfair or unreasonable for them to pay the ERC and broker  
fees.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to accept or reject my 
decision before  5 April 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8927627