K820x#14complaint
Mr C says Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy on his credit card.
background
I sent my provisional decision on 31 December 2018. A copy  of my provisional decision is 
attached and forms part of this final decision.
My provisional decision sets out the background of this complaint. It explains why I thought 
this PPI policy had not been mis-sold.  I said Id consider anything  else anyone  wanted to 
send me, but both sides let me know they had nothing further to add.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has sent me anything new to consider. So having reviewed everything, Ive 
come to the same conclusion as before  that I dont think  this policy was mis-sold.
my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold  Mr Cs 
complaint about  Capital  One (Europe) plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2019.  
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN81159392COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr C says Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance  (PPI)  policy  on his 
credit card.
background
Mr C bought  the policy  in 1999 at the same time as taking out a credit card by post.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr C disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the 
complaints been passed  to me to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Mr Cs case.
Based on what Ive seen so far, I dont  think this PPI policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
The credit  card application  had a section for additional  information. There was an option  to take out 
PPI, which  referred  Mr C to an included  leaflet for more details. There  were  two tick boxes to choose 
from: one to buy PPI and one to turn it down. The box to take PPI was ticked, and Mr C signed  the 
application. Mr C pointed out that some years later, he lost his job but didnt  claim. But given the 
evidence I have that he opted into the policy, I think its more likely that, understandably,  he forgot  
about the policy as the years went by. So I think that Capital One made  Mr C aware he had a choice 
about buying the PPI, and that he chose to take it at the time.
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Mr C, so they didnt have to check  if it was right for him. 
They did have to give Mr C enough information to decide if the PPI was right for him.
Its possible that the information Capital  One gave Mr C about PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have changed his mind. 
Here, Mr C chose to take out the policy - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. Based  on what 
Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he was affected by any of the policys 
main exclusions or limitations.
Mr C said he couldve sold his house  or car to pay for his credit card.  But those wouldve been rather 
extreme measures to go to just to pay off a credit card. So I think this policy  couldve been really 
useful for Mr C if it stopped him feeling like he had to lose his house or car. And from what Mr C told 
us and Capital One, he had only limited redundancy pay, and didnt have any sick pay beyond the 
statutory pay. Mr C now says he wouldve  been paid sick pay indefinitely, but thats very different from 
what hes said up till now, and would have been an unusually generous sick pay policy.  So taking into 
account everything Mr C has given  us and Capital  One, I think its more  likely  that the PPI offered him 
useful protection. And so I dont think better information  about  the PPI was likely to have put him off 
taking out the cover. Of course,  if Mr C has any evidence  of his sick pay in 1999,  then he should  send 
it in response to this provisional  decision and Id be happy to reconsider this point. 
Lastly, Mr C said he could have claimed when  he lost his job, but didnt. If Mr C was still covered by 
the PPI at that point and was eligible to claim,  then he may now be able to make  a back-dated claim.  
If hed like to do that, he should get back in touch with Capital One. And if Mr C has any issues 
making the back-dated  claim, he may then be able to bring that to our service  as a separate  complaint 
if he needs  our help.
Ref: DRN81159393my provisional  decision
Based on what Ive seen so far, I think its most likely Mr Cs PPI policy was not mis-sold.
Please could  Mr C and Capital One send me any more information or comments  to look at by 31 
January 2019. After that, Ill issue my final decision.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8115939