K820x#14complaint
Mrs H says Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, (Halifax) mis-sold her a payment  
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mrs H bought the policy at a meeting  in 1997 at around the same  time as taking a mortgage.  
She was employed  at the time as a buyer and had been there a year. Shes  told us she was 
entitled to sickness  or redundancy  pay. She hasnt said how much but, from what  shes  told 
us, I think it likely she was at least entitled to statutory sick pay. Mrs H has also told us she 
had £2000 in savings she couldve used to pay her mortgage if she couldnt work. From what  
shes told us, Mrs H was in good health  at the time of the sale and without any health  issues.  
The policy provided  cover  for Mrs H for accident, sickness and unemployment  subject to 
its exclusions and limitations.  It cost around £13 a month at the time and, for a successful 
claim, offered to pay £250 a month to help with Mrs Hs mortgage related costs.  
Halifax has sent us evidence to show the mortgage  account closed in 2004. Mrs Hs 
representative has made lengthy  and substantial representations on her behalf. I will not 
restate them all here,  but I have  read and considered them  all carefully.  In summary, Mrs Hs 
representative says:
Halifax failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should be presumed Mrs H wouldnt have taken  the 
policy and the complaint  should  be upheld. Mrs Hs representatives believe there to be 
no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a successful 
claim meant  the policy was of inherently poor value  as shown by the low claims ratio. 
The common law duty of utmost  good faith means  Halifax  should have told Mrs H about  
the poor value;  
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Halifax  should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mrs H and the impact  they 
would have had on her chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is generally 
someones biggest ever long-term  transaction  cover would stop at the time it would be 
most needed; 
The information Mrs H received was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue; and 
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of cover.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had a chance to 
give their responses to the adjudicators  opinion.  Mrs H disagreed  with the adjudicators  
Ref: DRN88956462opinion for several  reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been  
passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Hs. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here, but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Hs complaint.
This sale took place  in 1997 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2004. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct Marketing/ 
Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Halifax at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI Code  and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding what is, in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mrs Hs case.
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
Ref: DRN88956463Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   the Office of the Banking Ombudsman  in this 
case  might have been expected to reach in relation to an equivalent complaint. I note that 
under the Banking Ombudsmans  terms of reference the Ombudsman was required to 
decide complaints  by reference to what was, in his opinion, fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances  and that the Ombudsman was required  to observe any applicable rule of 
law or relevant judicial  authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Halifax was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mrs Hs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Halifax gave advice,  whether it advised  Mrs H with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs and 
circumstances. 
-Whether Halifax gave Mrs H sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to enable  her 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take the policy,  including  drawing to her 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions 
of the policy  and significant limitations  and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mrs H, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mrs H suffered loss or damage  
and what I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mrs H and 
Halifax, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Hs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning  below. 
did Mrs H know she had a choice?
Halifax had to make it clear the PPI was optional. Mrs H has said she had no interest in PPI 
and has said it was just included with her mortgage as part of the package. But I wouldnt 
expect her to have recalled the PPI sale vividly when she set out these  recollections  - at that 
point around 20 years  had passed since the sale. With this in mind, and while  I give Mrs Hs 
recollections some weight, on balance they dont, on their own,  persuade me that Halifax 
didnt give her a choice about  the PPI. 
Ref: DRN88956464Ive nothing to make me think Halifax wouldnt normally have given customers  like Mrs H a 
choice about the PPI. Halifax hasnt  been able to provide any paperwork from Mrs Hs sale 
to show how a choice  was given - but this isnt surprising in view of the time that has passed 
since the sale and the years  that have passed  since the mortgage account itself was repaid.
With everything Ive said above  in mind, what I have doesnt  persuade  me that Halifax  didnt 
give Mrs H a choice about taking the PPI. Also, Ive nothing to suggest  Halifax pressured 
Mrs H into the PPI. So, taking everything into account, I think  its more  likely Mrs H knew  the 
PPI was optional  and agreed  to take it without  undue  pressure.
did Halifax provide advice?
Halifax says it provided advice during this sale  and if Halifax did give advice, it had to do 
more. Mrs H hasnt said whether advice was given  or not. With all this in mind,  I think  its fair 
to proceed on the basis that Halifax gave advice. This means  it had to advise  Mrs H with 
reasonable care and skill, in particular whether the policy was appropriate or suitable given 
her needs  and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps Halifax took to establish  whether the policy was a suitable 
recommendation for Mrs H. Due to the time that has passed, Halifax  hasnt  been  able to 
provide any papers from the sale. There is also no record of exactly  what  Halifax discussed 
in relation to the policy. This is unsurprising  in respect of a sale during a meeting.  Its likely 
Halifax had at least some information about Mrs Hs financial circumstances as part of her 
mortgage application. Also, Halifax has records showing answers for Mrs H to questions  to 
say she was working and not aware  of any impending unemployment or any pre-existing 
medical conditions.  But I dont know when or how that information  was collected from her 
and, overall, what I have doesnt show  that Halifax did enough  to establish Mrs H had a need 
for the PPI and that the PPI was suitable  for her. For example, theres nothing  to show that 
Halifax asked Mrs H about  her work  benefits or to show that it asked her the questions about 
her health  before it recommended  the PPI. 
Overall, on the balance of probabilities, Im not persuaded Halifax  did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mrs H given her circumstances. So Im not 
persuaded Halifax advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Halifax did all it should have done to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mrs H, I do think its more likely than not the policy  was ultimately suitable for 
her. In reaching  that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mrs H met the eligibility criteria  for the policy.
-Mrs H had a need for the policy  it seems likely shed suffer a loss of income if sickness 
or unemployment stopped her working  for a prolonged period  even allowing for the 
work benefits its likely  shed have been  entitled to. The PPI wouldve helped  her manage 
the consequences of that loss of income  by helping  her cover mortgage related costs,  so 
helping protect her home and leaving her rainy day savings free to meet other  liabilities 
at what could be a difficult time if Mrs H were unemployed or too sick work.
-Although Mrs H says she was financially stretched at the time, Ive seen nothing  else to 
suggest the monthly cost of the PPI wasnt affordable.
Ref: DRN88956465-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mrs H. There  was 
nothing about  her employment  or occupation which wouldve made it difficult for her to 
claim. And she hasnt  told us about  any pre-existing medical conditions that couldve 
affected her ability to claim.
-There were  limits  to the cover  provided  by the policy (including that it would only pay 
benefits for a maximum of 12 months  for each claim and Mrs H couldnt claim disability 
unless she were  unable to do her own or any similar  job and also unable  to do any paid 
work her experience,  education or training reasonably qualified her to do). But the PPI 
still provided valuable  cover given Mrs Hs circumstances, the loss of income she might 
suffer if she couldnt work, the role the policy benefit could play in that situation in helping  
her meet  mortgage related  costs and, as the PPI was to protect  the mortgage on Mrs Hs 
house, the potential consequences  were she to have become unable to make payments 
on the mortgage loan secured against her home.
the information
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Halifax gave Mrs H sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable her to understand what  Halifax 
was recommending to her and make an informed decision  about  whether to follow that 
advice and take the policy.
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mrs H was given a broad description of what the policy 
was intended  to cover (that is, the policy would protect her payments if she were unable  to 
work through  accident, sickness or unemployment) and of the approximate  costs. I have 
reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mrs H would have taken the policy  
without any sense of what the policy was for and of how much the premium might be.
But theres no evidence  from the time of sale to tell us whether Halifax  gave sufficient  
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mrs H agreed  to take the policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mrs H, Im not persuaded Halifax did 
enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a way that was fair 
and reasonable to her. Im not persuaded Halifax gave Mrs H all the information  she needed 
about the policy to make an informed decision about whether to follow the recommendation 
and take it.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mrs Hs representative has raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mrs Hs. Ive considered  
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have explained 
the low claims  ratio  what Mrs Hs representative  considers  to be poor value  and the 
fact much of the premium went to the business rather than the insurer.  
Ref: DRN88956466-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just told 
Mrs H about the limitations  and exclusions,  it should have gone further and explained  the 
significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Mrs Hs representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find this extended to the insurer having to disclose the claims 
ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations and exclusions  in the way 
Mrs H has suggested. And, taking into account  the law, industry codes and standards  of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude Halifax ought to have done  either.  
what effect did Halifaxs  shortcomings  have  on Mrs H? To what extent did she suffer  
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found Halifax  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  to Mrs H. So I have 
gone on to consider whether it would  be fair and reasonable to conclude  Mrs H suffered loss 
and damage as a result.  To answer  this, I must  decide whether or not she would have still 
taken the policy,  had Halifax done things  properly. 
While Im not persuaded Halifax took the steps  it should have done to establish whether  the 
PPI it recommended was suitable for Mrs H, Ive found the PPI was ultimately suitable for 
her. In those circumstances  it seems to me that, whether  or not Mrs H has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if Halifax  had explained things properly, 
Mrs H would have acted  differently or whether she would have taken the PPI in any event.
Mrs H says she wouldnt have taken it and believes  I should  presume  this to be the case  
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take insurance  requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests Mrs H had some interest in taking PPI. By this I mean 
when Halifax offered her the PPI or advised  her there was a suitable product she could buy 
that would  protect  her mortgage payments if she couldnt work because of unemployment or 
disability, she concluded she wanted it. But she made that decision  based on incomplete  
information, meaning what she thought she was getting isnt exactly  what she got.
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mrs Hs circumstances at the 
time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. 
Although I consider it more likely than not Mrs H knew she would have to pay something for 
the policy, it doesnt appear  Halifax  told her the exact premium at the point Mrs H applied for 
the policy. Having  said that, I dont think it likely Mrs H wouldve taken the PPI without  some  
idea of the approximate cost. Also if when she started paying for the PPI the cost had been 
significantly at odds  with her expectations at the point of sale,  its possible she might  have  
Ref: DRN88956467raised this with Halifax or reconsidered her decision at that time rather  than continuing with 
the policy. Overall, Im not persuaded Mrs H wouldve found the cost unacceptable if she had 
been given the exact figure during the meeting in which she agreed to the policy.
In addition, Ive nothing to show that Halifax made  clear exactly what  Mrs H would get if she 
made a successful claim. But I think it likely  she expected  the policy to at least  cover her 
monthly mortgage payment, and her mortgage  payment was initially  more than covered by 
the benefit amount, so I think it unlikely Mrs Hs expectations about what  the policy  would 
pay were exceeded  by or significantly different  to what it actually paid. Possibly the most  
significant differences between what Mrs H thought she had bought and what  she actually 
bought were the following:
The policy excluded disability claims related to any health  issue  Mrs H knew  or shouldve  
known about or for which she had been  advised or treated by a medical practitioner in 
the 12 months before the policy start and which recurred within  24 months  of the start;  
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health conditions 
placing more onerous evidential requirements  to support a claim on those  grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations  excluded, unemployment  cover  if Mrs H wasnt  
a permanent employee;
The requirement that, to be eligible for a disability claim, Mrs H be unable  to do her own 
or any similar job, and unable to do any paid work her experience, education  or training 
reasonably qualified her to do; and
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, not the remaining mortgage  term.
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Mrs H pause for thought   and may well have  caused her to conclude  the policy wasnt as 
good as she thought and she might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the 
cover, when  coupled  with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have  dissuaded some  
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mrs H from taking the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mrs Hs circumstances at the time of sale shows the policy  wasnt  
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. Mrs H was eligible for its benefits and it provided 
cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proven valuable  to her should  the 
insured risks have  become a reality. I also havent  seen any evidence to suggest she 
wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions  she didnt have any pre-existing 
medical conditions  and was in permanent  employment. So, I think Mrs H still had some good  
reasons to take the policy.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mrs H might 
reasonably have expected. 
But its unlikely Mrs H would have expected to be able to make a disability claim without 
having to provide some evidence to support that claim. And while  this limitation might have 
dissuaded some  consumers in slightly different circumstances to Mrs H from taking the 
policy, Mrs H, in her circumstances,  still had some good reasons to take it.
If Mrs H had known she couldnt claim for disability  unless she were not only unable  to do 
her own or any similar job, but also unable to do any paid work her experience, education or 
training reasonably qualified her to do, it might have played into her thinking about what  to 
do. And I accept it may have given her pause for thought  although, given her 
circumstances, on balance I think Mrs H wouldve still been interested  in taking the cover.
Ref: DRN88956468Halifax may not have  told Mrs H any claim she made would be limited to 12 months.  This 
may have  differed from what  she expected  and mightve hoped  for  but its likely 12 months  
was longer than she wouldve received full sick pay and her redundancy entitlement was 
also likely worth less than 12 months  income. In those circumstances, I consider it likely  
Mrs H wouldve still thought a policy that paid up to 12 monthly benefit payments would be of 
benefit and help her manage the consequences  if she couldnt work  in the circumstances the 
policy covered. The policy allowed multiple  claims and the benefit could help reduce Mrs Hs 
outgoings and, by covering mortgage  related outgoings, help reduce the chances of her 
home being placed at risk and leave  her rainy day savings free for other uses at what could 
be a difficult time if she were unemployed or too sick to work.
Having considered all the evidence and arguments in this case,  I consider  it more likely than 
not Mrs H would still have  taken the policy. The policy  was suitable for her, was sufficiently 
close to what its likely  she thought she was getting and provided benefits that would help 
her manage the consequences if she were made redundant, or unable  to work through  
accident or sickness. In the circumstances, I consider it more likely  than not Mrs H would 
have taken the policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mrs Hs representatives say the rules  about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption. 
They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mrs H would  not have bought the PPI she bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mrs Hs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mrs H 
found herself in as a result of the sale was the same position  she would have been in had 
the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Mrs H believes  the presumption may only be rebutted  when the flaws in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments.  
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mrs H in the position she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policy.  
Ref: DRN88956469That is because,  while I accept it is possible she wouldnt have taken the PPI, I am satisfied, 
of the two possibilities, its more likely than not Mrs H would still have taken the PPI had she 
been given clear, fair and not misleading  information about the policy  she was buying. So Im 
not persuaded it would  be fair and reasonable, in those circumstances, to conclude Halifax  
should pay Mrs H compensation, as that would put her in a better position than she would  
have been in if everything had happened as it should have  done.  
Im also aware Mrs H thinks Halifax misrepresented  the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Halifaxs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why Halifax  
failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in the 
information it provided  but because the overall  information Halifax gave Mrs H, in the way 
it did, was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to 
have met in 1997 when providing information about  an insurance policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mrs Hs representative  says a court might take if it were 
to find Halifax negligently misrepresented the contract to Mrs H and about the remedy  a 
court might award if it were to find Halifax had been  in breach of its duty of utmost good faith. 
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out, I dont think  it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mrs H in a better position  than if everything had happened  as it should 
have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 February  2021.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8895646