K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a store  
card in 1993. Mr G says he was mis-sold the PPI.
Although the sale took place at a well-known retailer at the time, the company now 
responsible is called AXA France IARD.  Ill therefore refer mainly  to AXA France IARD 
throughout this final decision, for consistency.
background
The background and circumstances leading  up to this complaint (which includes Mr Gs 
circumstances at the time as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and exclusions of 
cover) arent  disputed.  So I havent  repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator didnt  think we should uphold the complaint. Mr Gs representative  disagreed 
with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt  raise any new or additional points  but repeated 
the same  complaint points and arguments theyd previously made. As the complaint couldnt 
be resolved informally,  it has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations;  regulators  rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some  example  final decisions  that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Gs. I havent set out that detailed  information 
here but Ive taken  into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr Gs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised  my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
I think AXA France IARD made  it clear enough  that Mr G didnt have to take out the 
PPI and he chose  to take it out. I say this because weve  seen a number of very 
similar sales  to this one and weve spoken  at length to the company involved to gain 
an understanding of the processes that were generally used. So we now know  
consumers were  asked to fill out an application  which was part of a wider leaflet-
based form. The terms and conditions of the PPI were  included in what  the applicant 
was given to complete. I was sent the agreement Mr G filled out and I see there was 
a section on it about PPI. This invited him to tick an option  box if he wanted the PPI 
cover. Mr G ticked  the box at this point so I think this strongly  suggests  that he did 
want PPI. Because  I also think he wouldve had access  to the terms and conditions  
as Ive described above, I think he consented to the PPI cover  when he signed at this 
point. Hed have  been equally free to not have  ticked the section asking for the PPI.
Ref: DRN87636112AXA France IARD didnt provide an advised  sale so it needed  only to give Mr G 
enough information so he could decide for himself  whether or not he wanted PPI and 
whether it was right for him. 
Its certainly possible the information AXA France IARD gave Mr G about  the PPI 
wasnt as clear  as it should have been. But Ive found that he chose to take it out - so 
it looks like he wanted this type of cover. It wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr G, for 
example he wasnt  affected  by the significant  exclusions on or limits to the cover. So I 
dont think the policy was too dissimilar to what he reasonably thought he was buying  
from the information he was most likely given during the sale, even if AXA France 
IARD could have done a better  job at explaining things. There  were  also no 
additional conditions  on claiming  for mental  health  or back problems and it looks  like 
it was affordable  so it seems  like it would have been useful for him if something  
went wrong. 
Overall, I consider that Mr G would have still taken out PPI. The policy was sufficiently close 
to what its likely he thought he was getting  and I think  the policy could provide a useful 
benefit in a difficult time, given his circumstances.
Mr Gs representative has raised  a number of what  I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says apply  to all PPI complaints. These  general points include: a claim that the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service  is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance 
for handling PPI complaints; these policies  represented poor value because of the number of 
significant exclusions and limitations of cover  coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty 
of utmost good  faith meant AXA France IARD  should have disclosed the poor value and 
explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions  and the impact  it had on the 
chances of making  a claim.
However, Mr Gs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific  facts and 
circumstances of his individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr Gs particular case. But 
they dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
This means  AXA France IARD doesnt  have to do anything  to put things right.
Ref: DRN87636113my decision
I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint  so I make no award against  AXA France  IARD.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 September  2021.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8763611