K821x#15complaint
Mr K complains that Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc (Hitachi) havent supported  a claim he made 
to them  under section 75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974 (section  75).
 
background
In October  2017 Mr K ordered  a new bathroom  from a supplier Ill call B. He funded the 
project though  a fixed sum loan with Hitachi. The goods and installation were  included in the 
arrangement.
Mr K complained of several problems with the installation. He said,  the door was cut too 
small; the door tread  was the wrong one; floor and wall tiles were stepped and would need 
replacing; the radiator  was poorly fitted;  silicone sealant was excessive; the vanity unit was 
damaged and needed replacing; the mirror  was damaged; as was the shower; the bath had 
a crack in it; the extractor fan ducting  was disconnected and it wasnt  working and a tile trim 
was wrong.
B arranged  remedial action but Mr K experienced problems with that too. The fitter found  
damage behind  the wall tiles where  the external wall had been  damaged  by the original fitter. 
Work was suspended whilst this issue was resolved. In the meantime Mr K was left with a 
bathroom with half a tiled wall. When the remedial work was eventually completed  
Mr K still had some problems. He explained that the extractor fan would not turn off; the floor 
tile grouting was cracking and the replacement  door had been  delivered damaged.
He was dissatisfied with the resolution  offered by B so he made a section 75 claim to Hitachi 
as he said he had a like claim  against  the provider  of credit as he did against  the supplier.
Hitachi were unable to respond within 8 weeks and Mr K therefore referred his complaint to 
this service. In the interim an offer was made by B to provide £1,100 for Mr K to complete 
the outstanding remedial  work and an additional £3,125 to compensate him for the distress 
and inconvenience  hed experienced. Mr K didnt accept this offer. He wanted the bathroom 
removed, some compensation paid and his finance  agreement cancelled with his money 
returned.
Our investigator agreed with him. She thought it was clear that the business attempt to 
repair the problems  had failed and in those circumstances she thought  it would now be 
reasonable for them to remove the bathroom,  pay Mr K £150 to compensate  him for the 
distress and inconvenience hed experienced and terminate his finance agreement,  
refunding all payments  hed made  towards it.
B didnt  agree with the investigators way forward. They suggested that Mr K had accepted 
an offer from B made in December 2018  to settle  the matter.  They  thought removal of the 
bathroom was a disproportionate  resolution  and they therefore asked for a final decision by 
an ombudsman.
Ref: DRN88536672my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators opinion. I know that will disappoint Hitachi so please let me 
explain.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When considering  a complaint about a financial  services provider,  Im not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section  75. I take section 75 into account 
when I think about  whats a fair way to resolve the complaint but I dont have  to reach the 
same view as, for example, a court might reach if Mr K made a claim through them for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
When something goes  wrong  and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a fixed  sum 
loan for the goods, as is the case here,  it might  be possible to recover the money paid 
through a section 75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit  Act (1974) says that in 
certain circumstances,  the borrower under a credit agreement has a like right to claim 
against the credit provider  as against the supplier if there's either a breach  of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier.
Im not persuaded that Mr K accepted an offer of resolution from B. Theres insufficient 
evidence of this. And if Mr K had accepted the offer of £2,450,  that B say he did, it doesnt 
seem rational that hed subsequently reject the significantly higher offer of settlement they 
made.
Im persuaded there has been  a breach of the contract  here. There  is no dispute that the 
original installation had numerous faults. Theres also no dispute that faults  remained  in 
December 2018  when remedial work was attempted.
I can understand Mr Ks frustration. I was sorry to hear about the issues  he experienced and 
I can understand why he doesnt want to allow the business to carry out any further  works  to 
his property. 
The relevant  legislation  allows the business  one opportunity to repair faults and Im 
persuaded B had that opportunity in December 2018 and that those  repairs were 
unsuccessful. In those circumstances it may be appropriate for the consumer to then reject  
the goods if the action is proportionate. Here,  Im persuaded that that is a proportionate 
action. Despite several attempts to attend to problems Mr K continues to have problems with 
Ref: DRN88536673the installation  and I think hes making a reasonable request to have  the bathroom removed 
so that he can be in a position  to have a new one fitted by an alternative  company.
In those circumstances Im therefore asking Hitachi to terminate the agreement.  
Ive considered whether it would be reasonable to allow  them to withhold some  of the 
payments Mr K has made  towards his finance  agreement because Mr K has had some  use 
of the bathroom.  But, having read the file in detail,  I think Mr Ks use of the bathroom has 
been significantly impacted by the poor installation. Hes had no extractor fan and Ive read 
about the problems this has caused with mould and damp. Fitting  problems have also left 
him with a part tiled wall and a decommissioned shower. And hes had to put up with these 
problems, and others, for a significant  time. So I think the fairest resolution would be for 
Hitachi to refund all of the finance instalments that have been paid.
I think its clear  Hitachi could  have  resolved this complaint earlier. Mr K asked to reject  the 
bathroom in late August  2018. I think Hitachi should compensate  him for the distress  and 
inconvenience their actions have caused  him and, in the circumstances, I think  £150  is fair.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell Hitachi  Capital (UK) Plc to:
arrange for the bathroom to be removed  at no cost to Mr K;
terminate the agreement;
refund  all payments  Mr K has made  towards the finance agreement;
remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mr Ks credit  file in relation to 
this issue.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 May 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8853667