K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Close Brothers  Limited  treated him and his wife in a threatening way 
when he missed a payment. He says the treatment caused him and his wife distress and he 
incurred unfair charges.
background
Mr S entered into a conditional sale agreement with Close Brothers  in March 2016 to acquire 
a car. He made  the payments due under the agreement  until June 2018 when a payment  
was missed. Mr S says he received a call but as he wasnt aware of who the call was from 
he asked the caller for the reason for the call. He says he was told he should  know  what the 
call was about. He didnt provide his security details  and felt the call was threatening.
The next day Mr S says a visit was made  to his house and as he wasnt in he was left a 
letter threatening legal action. He says threatening calls were  then received on a daily basis, 
a marker was put on his credit file, and he was charged £140  because of the home visit.
Mr S says that he and his wife felt threatened and intimidated  by the behaviour  of Close  
Brothers and that their approach  was disproportionate as he had only missed  one payment  
which he tried to pay within the same calendar month.
Close Brothers says that it doesnt  have the call recording  with Mr S and so it couldnt 
validate Mr S comments. However it says when it receives a service complaint it provides 
feedback to the agent. It says it has no evidence of wrong doing aside from Mr S comments.
Our adjudicator upheld  this complaint. She thought that Close  Brothers should pay Mr S 
£150 compensation because of the severity of the actions it took after Mr S missed only one 
direct debit payment  following two years of timely payments.
Close Brothers didnt  accept our adjudicators view. It said multiple calls were only made  
because it wasnt able to make contact with Mr S.
my provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I concluded in summary:
Mr S conditional sale agreement set out what could happen if a payment was missed 
and so while Mr S had a good payment record up to June 2018,  it was reasonable 
that when a payment was missed action  was taken;
Close Brothers called Mr S on 6 June  2018, when the direct debit failed. I thought  it 
reasonable that Mr S would have known  who Close Brothers was given his previous 
dealings and so I thought  it would  have been  reasonable  for him to engage with the 
call at that time;
call recordings  were not available  and so I couldnt say whether Mr S was treated in a 
threatening manner;
Mr S requested a letter and this was sent out that day. From what I saw Mr S didnt at 
this time say he only wanted contact by letter. Given this, I didnt think it 
unreasonable that further attempts were  made  to make contact  by telephone;
Ref: DRN87593882contact was attempted  on 8 June but wasnt successful  and a text message was 
sent. A further  unsuccessful attempt at contact  was made  on 11 June and the notes 
say a name and number was left on Mr S mobile. Contact was then attempted at 
Mr S place  of work but it was found  he no longer worked  there. At this point I found it 
reasonable that further action was taken;
arranging a home visit could seem  extreme after a single missed payment, and within 
a few days of this, but given the lack of contact Close  Brothers had been able to 
achieve I didnt  think I could say it was wrong that Close Brothers took this action;
the visit must have  been for Mr S wife and I understood that she tried to deal with the 
issue. However Close Brothers wasnt authorised to discuss Mr S account  with his 
wife and so it was up to Mr S to make contact.  
Overall, without call recordings  I didnt find I had enough to say that on the first contact call 
on 6 June Mr S was treated in a threatening  manner.  I also found that as Mr S didnt return 
calls or make contact himself with Close  Brothers  it wasnt unreasonable that Close Brothers  
made its own further calls and attempts at contact.
Because of the above, I didnt find that I had enough  to uphold this complaint. 
Mr S responded to my provisional decision.  He said that Close Brothers  had upheld  his 
complaint and admitted that its employee hadnt  acted unprofessionally. He said that contact 
had been made and he had asked for the direct debit to be taken again or bank details to be 
provided so he could make payment. He said he made the payment as soon as this was 
made possible by Close  Brothers. 
Mr S said he was asked in a threatening way to pass on credit card details 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr S feels he has bee treated in an unfair and threatening way. I also note 
his comments about his complaint being upheld by Close Brothers. However, having looked 
at the information provided, Close Brothers said that it upheld the complaint because  it didnt 
have the call recording and so couldnt  say what had been said or how it was said. It said it 
had no evidence of wrong doing other  than Mr S complaint but that when it receives a 
complaint of this nature  feedback is given. 
I find that Close Brothers acted reasonably in response to Mr S complaint. However as I 
have no evidence to support Mr S comments about the threatening nature of the call I dont 
find I have enough  to uphold this part of his complaint.
I considered the additional contact and action taken.  As I said in my provisional decision, I 
can appreciate how upsetting this was for Mr S and his family. I also accept he had 
previously had a good  payment record. However,  as a payment had been  missed I cant say 
Close Brothers did anything wrong by trying to make contact with Mr S.
Ref: DRN87593883I note Mr S comments  about the contact, however having looked  through the system notes 
provided by Close Brothers, it appears that attempts  were made before the home  visit and 
given these were unsuccessful I dont find I can say it did anything  wrong  by taking this 
action. 
Overall, while  I understand Mr S comments I do not find that I have  enough evidence  to 
uphold his complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 October  2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8759388