K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  that in April 2007,  a Mr Paul Clark  wrongly advised them to invest 
£300,000 in the Stirling Mortimer Global  Property  Fund PCC Limited  Majestic  Village No 3 
Fund (the fund). They further complain that in late 2006 and early 2007, Mr Clark wrongly 
advised them to cash in their existing investments to raise money to purchase shares in the 
fund.
Mr and Mrs B believe that Positive Solutions (Financial Services) Ltd is responsible for 
Mr Clarks advice.
background
Mr and Mrs B say that in late 2006,  they were  considering their retirement  plans. Mr Clark 
advised them to cash in their existing investments and reinvest the proceeds in the fund, for 
a short  term boost to their retirement pot.  They believed the fund would mature after two 
years, and was guaranteed to return 6% per year.
The fund experienced significant  difficulties. Mr and Mrs B did not receive the 6% per year 
they expected,  nor was their capital returned  to them  after two years. Mr and Mrs B still do 
not know when   or if  any part of their capital  will be returned to them.
Mr and Mrs B complained to Positive Solutions in early 2013, just less than six years after 
they received  the advice they complain about.  They asked Positive  Solutions  to put them  in 
the position they would have been in if they hadnt invested in the fund.
Positive Solutions objected to our consideration of the complaint, because  it said it was not 
responsible for Mr Clarks advice.  
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 13 September  2019. Briefly,  I said I was 
satisfied that Positive Solutions was responsible for the acts Mr and Mrs B complain about. I 
explained why I thought  the fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint was for Positive 
Solutions to pay compensation to Mr and Mrs B.
Mr and Mrs B accepted my provisional decision,  but Positive Solutions did not. Its 
representative provided detailed comments in support  of its position. In summary,  its 
representative said:
It considers that my provisional conclusions on jurisdiction are wrong as a matter  of 
law. It further considers that the conclusions I drew  from the case law dealing with 
principals and agents are incorrect.
My provisional decision fundamentally misses that Mr Clark advised  [Mr and Mrs B] 
without Positive Solutions knowledge  or authority, as he was operating on behalf  of 
his own and distinct business which had nothing to do with Positive  Solutions.  
Further, Positive Solutions gave no representations to [Mr and Mrs B] in respect of 
either the surrender advice or the investment into Stirling Mortimer.
None of the alleged  representations by Positive  Solutions as to the authority of 
Mr Clark  were  in fact representations  of the necessary sort.
Ref: DRN89463852Since there is no rational basis for finding that Positive Solutions  made  any 
representations at all, there is no need  for me to consider Positive Solutions 
intentions in making representations.  Similarly, there  is no need for me to consider 
whether Mr and Mrs B relied on those representations. But on the facts,  
Mr and Mrs B cannot credibly assert that they relied on Positive Solutions.
As a matter of law, it is not the case that there  is a broad test of justice . In addition, 
my provisional decision wrongly said that the complaint did not involve fraud. In fact, 
the complaint  does  involve fraud  by Mr Clark.
The case  of Cox v Ministry of Justice [2016] UKSC 10 is not relevant to the present 
circumstances. Even  if it was, it is perfectly  clear that Mr Clark was advising  about 
Stirling Mortimer in the context  of a recognisably  independent business 
(Clark Rees).
In any event, the complaint is not suitable  for determination by the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, and is more appropriately dealt with by the court. It is 
impossible to make fair findings on the issue of reliance without cross examination 
and disclosure.
Nothwithstanding the above,  Positive Solutions believes that the redress I proposed 
in my provisional decision is not appropriate.
my findings
I have reconsidered  all the evidence and arguments both parties have provided on this 
complaint. Having done so, I have reached  the same conclusions as I did in my provisional  
decision of 13 September 2019. Those  conclusions were:
Mr and Mrs Bs complaint is about  an act or omission in relation to the carrying on of 
the regulated  activity  of giving investment advice.
Positive Solutions represented  to Mr and Mrs B that Mr Clark had Positive  Solutions  
authority to conduct business of the same type as the business  he did in fact 
conduct, Mr and Mrs B relied  on those  representations, and apparent  authority 
therefore operated  such as to give rise to Positive Solutions responsibility for the 
acts Mr and Mrs B complain about. 
In addition, Positive Solutions  is vicariously  liable for the investment advice Mr Clark 
gave to Mr and Mrs B. Although he was not an employee of Positive Solutions, he 
was an approved person with responsibility for carrying on Positive Solutions 
business of advising  its customers  and arranging their transactions.  As such he 
carried on activities as an integral part of Positive Solutions business  activities and 
had a sufficient  relationship to Positive Solutions for vicarious liability  to arise. His 
advice to Mr and Mrs B was so closely connected  to Positive Solutions business 
activities as to make it just to hold Positive Solutions liable for it.   
Positive Solutions is also liable to Mr and Mrs B under section 150 of the Financial 
Services and Markets  Act 2000.
Mr and Mrs Bs complaint therefore  falls within the jurisdiction of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service.
Ref: DRN89463853Mr Clarks advice was unsuitable  for Mr and Mrs B.
Mr and Mrs B acted  on that advice and suffered  a loss as a result of the unsuitable 
advice.
The fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint is for Positive  Solutions  to 
compensate Mr and Mrs B for that loss.
My reasons  for reaching those conclusions are those which  I set out in my provisional 
decision of 13 September 2019 supplemented by the additional points which  I make below. 
That provisional decision is attached to, and forms part of, this final decision.
To compensate Mr and Mrs B fairly,  Positive Solutions must:
Compare the performance of Mr and Mrs B's investment with that of the benchmark 
shown below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of 
the investment.  If the actual value is greater  than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
Positive Solutions should also pay interest as set out below. 
Pay Mr and Mrs B £2,000 for the distress  and inconvenience they suffered.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional  
interest
Stirling  
Mortimer 
Global 
Property  
Fund PCC 
Limited  
Majestic 
Village No 
3 Fundstill exists  
but illiquidaverage rate 
from fixed  
rate bondsdate of 
investmentdate of my 
decision8% simple per 
year from date 
of decision  to 
date of 
settlement (if 
compensation 
is not paid 
within  28 days 
of the business 
being  notified 
of acceptance)
The terms actual value, fair value,  and average rate from fixed  rate bonds  have  the 
meaning explained in the attached provisional decision.
Having considered Positive Solutions  response  to my provisional decision, I set out below 
certain points by way of supplementing and explaining  certain  aspects of the provisional 
decision. I will use headings  that are similar  to the ones used in Positive Solutions response.
apparent authority
Positive Solutions suggests that I have asked  the wrong questions  in respect of Mr Clarks 
apparent authority here.
Ref: DRN89463854It agrees that I should ask, on the facts of this individual case:
Did Positive  Solutions make a representation to Mr and Mrs B that Mr Clark had 
Positive Solutions authority to act on its behalf  in carrying  out the activities they now 
complain about? And
Did Mr and Mrs B rely on that representation in entering into the transactions  they 
now complain about?
However, Positive Solutions  representative  goes on to say the decision appears incorrectly 
to ask whether  whether Positive  Solutions placed Mr Clark in a position  which  would 
objectively carry authority  to enter into transactions such as the Stirling  Mortimer 
investment. This appears to be asking whether  Positive Solutions gave Mr Clark authority to 
transact a general class  of acts, and assuming that if Positive Solutions did so, it has granted 
ostensible authority. This is not the correct question. The question is whether there was 
ostensible authority in relation to this transaction.
I agree  that the ultimate question is whether there  was apparent  authority in relation to this 
transaction. But to answer that question, I think it is right for me to consider whether Positive 
Solutions placed Mr Clark in a position which would objectively  carry Positive  Solutions  
authority for Mr Clark to conduct business  of a type he did in fact conduct.
I note that the case law does not say that apparent  authority  operates  only when a principal  
has represented that an agent has authority to carry out a specific act. Apparent  authority 
also operates where a principal has represented that its agent has its authority to carry out a 
more general class of acts. 
For example, Diplock LJ in Freeman & Lockyer referred to a representation  that the agent 
has authority to enter on behalf of the principal into a contract of a kind within the scope of 
the apparent  authority.  And in Armagas, Lord Keith said that in the commonly  encountered  
case ostensible authority is general in character  arising when the agent  is placed in a 
position generally regarded as carrying authority to enter into transactions  of the kind in 
question. 
In Hely-Hutchinson, Lord Denning said that people who see a managing director acting as a 
managing director  are entitled to assume  that he has the usual authority of a managing  
director.  I consider that the usual authority of a managing director  includes a wide variety  
of acts. 
Here, for the reasons  Ive already given  in my provisional decision I am satisfied that Positive 
Solutions represented to Mr and Mrs B that Mr Clark had its authority to carry out the acts 
which an independent financial adviser  would usually have authority to do  including  giving 
investment advice on behalf of Positive Solutions. 
Positive Solutions did not specifically mention Stirling Mortimer in its representations, but 
that is not determinative. Mr Clark had Positive Solutions apparent authority to act on its 
behalf in recommending  that Mr and Mrs B invest £300,000 in Stirling Mortimer, because he 
had Positive Solutions  more general  apparent authority to act on its behalf  in giving them  
that kind of investment advice.
who was Mr Clark acting for?
Ref: DRN89463855Positive Solutions position has been, and remains in its recent  submissions,  to the effect  
that Mr Clark advised Mr and Mrs B on behalf  of his own distinct business  which  had 
nothing to do with Positive  Solutions .  In my provisional decision, I considered whether the 
facts are consistent with that characterisation. I concluded that Mr Clark acted throughout on 
behalf of Positive  Solutions and not on behalf of a distinct business of his own.  This was a 
relevant question for at least two reasons:
Firstly, part of the test for vicarious  liability in Cox is whether the harm was done  by 
an individual who carries  on activities as an integral part of the business  activities  
carried on by a defendant for its benefit  rather than his activities  being  entirely  
attributable to the conduct of a recognisably  independent business of his own or by a 
third party .  As I explained in my provisional decision, I do not find this to be a case  
where the relevant advice was attributable to the conduct of a recognisably 
independent business. The explanation for that finding, as I state in the provisional 
decision, is in the section  who was Mr Clark acting  for?.
Secondly, if Mr Clarks activities had been  attributable to a distinct business which  
was nothing to do with Positive  Solutions, it could have no liability  or responsibility for 
those activities under s. 150 FSMA.  That section applies only where an authorised  
person (here, Positive Solutions)  breaches a regulatory rule applicable to its carrying 
on of one or more  regulated activities in the United  Kingdom.   If the relevant  
regulated activity were  carried  on by a distinct third party  which has nothing to do 
with the authorised person, it is most unlikely to have been carried  on by the 
authorised person  in breach of any rule, and the section would probably not be 
engaged. 
Positive Solutions representative  says that it follows from my finding that Mr Clark lacked 
actual authority from Positive  Solutions to advise Mr and Mrs B to invest  in the fund that 
Mr Clark cannot  have been acting  for Positive  Solutions.  But  I dont think  that his lack of 
actual authority (which  isnt the only route to Positive  Solutions responsibility here)  means  
that Mr Clarks  advice  and actions can be characterised as belonging to a distinct business, 
namely Clark Rees LLP, as opposed to Positive Solutions,  as Positive Solutions has 
contended. 
Positive Solutions representations as to the authority of Mr Clark
I acknowledge that Positive Solutions  believes strongly that it did not make  any relevant 
representations to Mr and Mrs B. I disagree, for the reasons given in my provisional 
decision.
Positive Solutions has made several specific objections to my provisional findings on its 
representations. I have considered each of those objections in turn:
With respect to the status disclosure on stationery, I do not agree that Jacobs J found 
in Anderson v Sense that a status  disclosure could  never be a representation of 
anything. Instead,  I consider that his finding  was that on the particular facts of that 
case, the status disclosure was not a representation of any kind to the effect that 
[the agent] was running the [Ponzi] scheme  with the authority of Sense or as the 
agent of the Defendant (emphasis mine).  Financial advisers are not usually 
authorised to run schemes like the Ponzi scheme  there in question, so I am not 
surprised by his finding. 
Ref: DRN89463856Descriptions of an individuals status contained  in business stationery can, in my 
view, be relevant representations creating apparent  authority.  For example in Martin  
v Britannia Life, Jonathan Parker Js finding of apparent authority was based on the 
contents of a business card.  His reasoning was a follows:
Mr and Mrs Martin   have to establish a representation made by LAS, which was 
intended to be acted on and which was in fact acted on by them, that Mr Sherman 
was authorised by LAS to give them financial advice concerning a remortgage  of The 
Brambles.
In my judgment the business card which  Mr Sherman proffered at the outset of the 
meeting on 9 May 1991 was the clearest representation that he was authorised by 
LAS to give such  financial advice. It may well be the case that, as Mr Burrell 
submitted, the unqualified use of the expression  Financial  Adviser  on the business 
card would not have  led a reasonable person  to believe that Mr Sherman was 
authorised to give financial advice on matters wholly unconnected with the sale of 
insurance, but that is nothing to the point. It plainly did represent,  in my judgment,  
that Mr Sherman was authorised to give advice  in relation to the sale of insurance, 
including advice concerning associated or ancillary  transactions: in other words, to 
give investment advice in the sense in which that term is used in the 1986 Act . In 
particular, it represented  that Mr  Sherman was authorised by LAS to advise  on the 
package of transactions which,  in the event,  he recommended. 
Jacobs J in Anderson  v Sense  applied Martin and endorsed the above approach.  He 
said As Martin shows, [ostensible authority] requires a representation that there was 
authority to give advice  of the type that was given .
I do not suggest that the status  disclosure in this case should have the effect  of 
making Positive Solutions liable for any communication  of whatever type made on 
the notepaper bearing the status  disclosure. But I think the status disclosure is 
relevant to whether Positive Solutions  is liable for the investment advice given in this 
particular case.  Positive  Solutions had given Mr Clark permission to tell third parties 
like Mr and Mrs B that Clark Rees LLP was a trading style of Positive  Solutions.  
That meant that Positive Solutions described itself to customers  as Clark Rees  LLP.  
And it had given Mr Clark permission to describe himself as Paul Clark, Independent 
Financial Adviser on notepaper  bearing Positive  Solutions branding.  I dont think 
Mr Clark was doing anything that a reasonable person would think  was unusual for a 
financial adviser. He was not running  a Ponzi scheme, or appropriating 
Mr and Mrs Bs money for himself  he was simply recommending the surrender of 
some investments in favour of the purchase of another. I think that Positive Solutions 
represented he had its authority to give that kind of advice.  
Equally, obtaining approval from the Regulator for Mr Clark to advise Positive 
Solutions customers about investments was in my view, part of the conduct by which 
Positive Solutions held him out to the world  in general as authorised to do that. 
Again, this was not a holding out that everything he might do was authorised.  But, to 
the extent that he gave  advice to Positive  Solutions customers, such  as 
Mr and Mrs B, about the contents of their investment  portfolios, this was the type of 
business he was held out as carrying on for it.  
I entirely accept that Mr and Mrs B cannot have relied  on any correspondence they 
did not see  and in particular that they cannot have relied on the 2006 email 
Ref: DRN89463857exchange between  Mr Hudson (of Positive Solutions) and Mr Clark. I think that 
correspondence is consistent with Positive  Solutions placing Mr Clark in a position  
that would  generally be regarded as having  Positive Solutions authority to 
recommend investments, but I do not say that the correspondence is itself a 
representation to Mr and Mrs B.
In my provisional decision,  I commented on the manner in which Mr Clark gave  his 
advice about Stirling Mortimer  under  the heading  Positive Solutions 
representations. I made  those  comments because Positive  Solutions had previously 
submitted to me that Mr and Mrs B cannot possibly have regarded that advice as 
ordinary Positive Solutions business being  carried out in the usual way  and I 
wanted to explain  why I disagreed with Positive  Solutions on that point. I accept that 
my comments on that point relate to reliance rather than representation.
If Positive Solutions had not obtained  FSA approval for Mr Clark  and Mr Rees to 
arrange transactions in investments on behalf of Positive Solutions customers, they 
would probably  have been  in no position  to perform that service for Mr and Mrs B, by 
arranging their investment in the fund. I remain satisfied that Positive Solutions put 
Mr Clark (and Mr Rees)  in a position  where they could  tell product providers they 
were Positive Solutions representatives and enable investment  transactions to go 
ahead.  Mr Clark and/or  Mr Rees did exactly that when completing the Stirling  
Mortimer application form in this case.  I consider that issue  is relevant to whether 
Positive Solutions placed Mr Clark in a position which  would, in the outside  world, 
generally be regarded  as having authority to carry out the acts Mr and Mrs B 
complain about.
Positive Solutions gave Mr and Mrs B access to its website portal. In my provisional 
decision, I explained that this is not a strong point in isolation. But I consider that it 
does amount to a representation by Positive Solutions that Mr Clark had its authority 
to act on its behalf as a financial  adviser. Mr Clark had previously given Mr and Mrs B 
investment advice whilst acting on behalf of Positive Solutions, and the investments 
he recommended  as a result  were shown on Positive Solutions portal. I consider that 
those facts amount  to a representation that Mr Clark did have Positive Solutions 
authority to give investment advice of the kind in question.  It is argued by Positive 
Solutions representatives that giving Mr and Mrs B access to the portal  cannot  be 
taken to be a representation  that Mr Clark was authorised to advise about Stirling  
Mortimer. I disagree, I think it was a representation  of general type that Positive  
Solutions permitted him to advise about their portfolio of investments. The relevant 
sales and purchase were part of a course of dealing of that type.     
Positive Solutions representative  says that Mr Clark advised  clients no longer to use 
the Positive Solutions portal.  However, Ive been  provided with no evidence that 
Mr and Mrs B received any such advice. Positive Solutions did provide me with 
copies of two letters  dated 25 June 2006 and 31 October 2006, and it initially 
suggested those  letters were sent to Mr and Mrs B  but it has since  accepted that 
was not the case. The letters  were in fact sent to two of Mr Clarks other customers. 
Positive Solutions would  like me to take the letters into account anyway, because  it 
says they are very important evidence  of how [Clark Rees]  was interacting with and 
representing advice  to their clients.  So I have looked at those letters:
oThe 25 June 2006 letter was clearly written in response to specific queries 
raised by Mr Clarks other client, so I think  it unlikely  Mr and Mrs B would 
Ref: DRN89463858have received the same information.  In any event, the letter  did not tell the 
other customers not to use Positive  Solutions portal,  as has been  suggested  
to me, but only that valuations on the portal  had not been updated because 
Clark Rees Ltd was going  to transfer away from Positive Solutions to be 
regulated directly (a change which didnt take place until 25 November 2007) 
and once Clark Rees had become  registered  it would update clients.
oThe 31 October  2006 letter (whose  letterhead describes Clark Rees  LLP as a 
trading name of Positive Solutions) is about  a specific third-party platforms 
requirements when  Stirling  Mortimer investments were  held within an ISA on 
that platform. Mr and Mrs B were  not using ISAs, so again I think  it unlikely 
they would  have received that information.  
In the circumstances, I dont find these letters  to other clients of assistance in 
deciding the issues  between Positive Solutions and Mr and Mrs B.
Positive Solutions says that it is impossible  to see how the fact that it authorised  
Mr Clark to advise  Mr and Mrs B about  their investment in 2005 is relevant  to his later 
advice in connection with the fund. As I said in my provisional decision, I think  
Mr and Mrs B would reasonably have  concluded  from Positive Solutions conduct  in 
2005 that it had given  Mr Clark its authority to act on its behalf in recommending  that 
they acquire the Sterling bond  (which indeed it had done).  I do not find it surprising 
that Mr and Mrs B thought  that in 2006, Mr Clark still had Positive  Solutions authority  
to act on its behalf in recommending  that they surrender that same Sterling bond. I 
accept that a 2005 representation does not necessarily imply that the situation  is the 
same in 2006 or 2007, but I remain satisfied that Positive Solutions 2005 conduct  is 
relevant here. Positive Solutions  could have told Mr and Mrs B that there were 
restrictions on the advice  Mr Clark was able to give with respect  to the Sterling  bond,  
but it did not.
Positive Solutions failure to communicate  restrictions on Mr Clarks authority to give 
investment advice on its behalf  is not in itself a representation.  I mentioned  it to 
make the point that if Positive Solutions  had been clearer about  the limits of the 
actual authority it gave  to its agents,  it would have  been far more difficult  for Mr and 
Mrs B to have reasonably  concluded that Mr Clark had Positive  Solutions  actual  
authority to give the advice he did.
I remain satisfied that Positive Solutions conduct in requiring Mr Clark to tell Positive 
Solutions clients, including Mr and Mrs B, that he was a Positive Solutions financial 
adviser is relevant  here. In the circumstances of this case, I see nothing  unfair or 
unreasonable in finding that Positive  Solutions is responsible  for the investment 
advice Mr Clark gave to Mr and Mrs B, whilst I nonetheless do accept that he acted 
outside his actual authority in giving that advice. 
I note that Positive Solutions does not understand why I mentioned Mr and Mrs Bs 
belief that Mr Clark had to set up a company in order to be a Positive  Solutions 
Independent Financial Adviser. The relevance of this point  is that I dont think  
Mr and Mrs Bs belief  that Mr Clark was acting for Clark Rees  LLP is incompatible 
with a belief that Positive Solutions  was taking responsibility for his advice. As I have 
said, I consider that Positive Solutions caused  Mr Clark to represent  to Mr and Mrs B 
that Positive Solutions used  the trading name Clark Rees  LLP. Positive Solutions 
Ref: DRN89463859conduct might have been a mistake or an accident,  but I see no reason why 
Mr and Mrs B should be disadvantaged as a result.
reliance
Positive Solutions position is that Mr and Mrs B cannot  credibly  assert that they relied on 
Positive Solutions. I disagree, for the reasons given in my provisional  decision. 
is it just for Positive  Solutions to bear the loss?
Positive Solutions representative  said that the section  in my provisional decision asking 
whether it was just for Positive  Solutions to be required to bear losses caused  by Mr Clark:
proceeds on a blatent misdirection of law. It is not the case that there  is a broad test 
of justice as a matter of law. If it were so, the result of any particular case  would be 
entirely at the discretion of the decision maker (which is, we observe, the vice of the 
decision taken as a whole) and parties rights would  be entirely  unpredictable.  This is 
directly contrary  to the principles of the common law. It is also not supported by the 
authorities. A good  example of this is per Lord Keith  in Armagas where  he asked 
whether the circumstances  are such as to make  it just for the principal to bear the 
loss, but he went  on specifically to define the circumstances which  would make  it just 
to reach  that conclusionLord Keith was not saying that the test was one of general 
justice.
This misunderstands why I expressed  in my provisional decision my view that my finding of 
apparent authority coincided with the justice of the case.
In my provisional decision immediately above  the heading Positive Solutions 
representations, I set out in summary  why I consider that Mr Clark had apparent authority to 
act on behalf of Positive Solutions when he advised Mr and Mrs B to invest  in the fund.  In  
doing so, I applied the specific  criteria drawn from the authorities.   
That summary, and the discussion  of the authorities  leading up to it, make clear  that the test 
for apparent authority  does not include a general consideration of the justice  of the case, and 
that I reached my provisional conclusion on each of the criteria for a finding of apparent 
authority before discussing that question.
However, Positive Solutions  seems to me to believe that holding it responsible for Mr Clarks 
advice in relation  to the fund is unjust  to it.  I disagree. So in fairness  to Positive  Solutions  it 
seems to me to be appropriate to explain why I disagree.  And  I believe doing  this can be 
helpful for another reason: if I had felt that the conclusion I was drawing was unjust, that 
would have given  me pause for thought as to whether the conclusion  could be correct.  
I note that in the reported cases judges do much  the same, so I dont believe that including 
such a discussion in my provisional  decision is untoward. 
Positive Solutions contention that Mr Clark  committed a fraud
One of the arguments advanced by Positive Solutions representative in response  to my 
provisional decision is that Mr Clark committed fraud.
Ref: DRN894638510I said in my provisional decision that I was satisfied that neither Mr Clark nor Mr Rees had 
acted fraudulently, but I did not fully explain why I had reached that conclusion  (largely  
because, at that stage, Positive  Solutions  had not said that it believed  Mr Clarks conduct  
had been fraudulent). I expand on the fraud issue below:  
I regard an allegation of fraud  as a serious  allegation. I should  find fraud if, on the 
balance of probabilities, that is more likely than not to be the explanation for any 
conduct of Mr Clark.  But, in the same way as the courts,  I approach such questions 
from the starting point  that the more  serious the allegation of misconduct, the 
stronger is the evidence required to establish  on the balance of probabilities  that the 
misconduct occurred: see Re H (Minors, Sexual Abuse Standard of Proof) 1996] AC 
563, at 586, where Lord Nicholls said:
The balance of probability standard means  that a court is satisfied an event  occurred 
if the court considers that, on the evidence, the occurrence of the event was more 
likely than not. When assessing the probabilities the court will have in mind  as a 
factor, to whatever extent  is appropriate  in the particular case,  that the more serious 
the allegation the less likely it is that the event  occurred and, hence, the stronger 
should be the evidence before the court  concludes  that the allegation is established 
on the balance  of probability.  Fraud is usually  less likely than negligence.. Built into 
the preponderance of probability standard is a generous  degree  of flexibility in 
respect of the seriousness of the allegation.
On balance, I dont  think Mr Clarks (or Mr Rees) conduct in respect of the 
sophisticated investor certificate was dishonest  and therefore it cannot  have been 
fraudulent. The certificate says:
We, CERI REES (POSITIVE SOLUTIONS), being  an authorised person for the 
purposes of the Financial  Services  and Markets Act 2000 confirm  that 
[MR AND MRS B] is sufficiently knowledgeable to understand the risks associated 
with the investments described in the above certificate  [that is, investments like 
Stirling Mortimer]
(The capitalised part of that quote  is handwritten,  and the rest is pre-printed.) 
Positive Solutions has said Mr Clark knew the certificate was false, but it has not 
specified the falsehood. I think  there are three possibilities: that Mr Clark (or 
Mr Rees) was acting  on behalf of Positive Solutions; that Mr and B had sufficient 
knowledge to understand the risks of the investment; or that Mr Rees was himself  an 
authorised person. In any event, I dont think the signing  of the certificate  was 
dishonest: 
oThe completion of the sophisticated  investor  certificate was not in itself a 
regulated activity. I cant see that Positive  Solutions ever told Mr Clark or 
Mr Rees that they were not permitted to certify an investor  as sophisticated  
whilst acting on Positive Solutions  behalf, and I see nothing  dishonest in their 
doing so. 
oI am satisfied that Mr and Mrs B did not have  sufficient knowledge to be able 
to understand  the risks associated with the Stirling Mortimer investment. But I 
dont know whether or not Mr Rees knew that. He might  have honestly  
believed that the level of knowledge  required to understand the investment 
Ref: DRN894638511was fairly  low  and in that case, I consider that he was wrong  but not 
dishonest. 
Alternatively, he might have signed  the certificate  because it was part of the 
application pack, without sufficiently considering Mr and Mrs Bs level of 
knowledge. I think that is a very likely explanation,  but it does not imply 
dishonesty.
oMr Rees was not himself an authorised person  under FSMA, but the way he 
completed the form is ambiguous as to whether he understood that Positive  
Solutions was authorised (which was true) or that he himself was an 
authorised person  (which was untrue).  So I dont  know which he intended.  If 
Mr Rees intended the latter  meaning,  I think the most likely explanation for 
that is that he didnt  understand his own regulatory status as an approved  
person. Given the complexity of the arrangements, I dont  find that surprising. 
I think the way Mr Rees completed the form is far more likely to be a result of 
confusion between  his status as an FSA approved  person and Positive 
Solutions status as an FSA authorised person than of dishonesty.
If Mr Clark knew he wasnt permitted to recommend  Stirling  Mortimer products on 
behalf of Positive  Solutions and yet purported  to do so, that might  amount  to fraud. 
However, it is not clear to me that Mr Clark did in fact know that he wasnt permitted 
to recommend Stirling Mortimer products whilst acting on behalf of Positive Solutions.  
I think Mr Clarks October 2006 email exchange with Mr Hudson of Positive Solutions 
is likely  to have led him to believe that he was permitted to promote Stirling  Mortimer 
products on behalf of Positive Solutions so long as he referred those promotions to 
Positive Solutions compliance department.  
In other  words, I think  Positive  Solutions conduct would have led Mr Clark to believe 
that he could promote Stirling Mortimer products if and only if he carried  out certain 
steps. He did not carry out those steps.  But I am not persuaded that his failure to do 
so was a result of dishonesty. I think his failure is more likely  to be a result of 
laziness, or forgetfulness, or disorganisation, or some similar reason. I dont  think he 
would have thought Positive Solutions  was guaranteed to refuse him permission to 
promote Stirling Mortimer  if that had been  Positive  Solutions  position, presumably 
it would  have said so during the October 2006  exchange.
Positive Solutions might be alleging  fraud  on the basis  that Mr Clark channelled 
commission from the Stirling Mortimer investment away from Positive Solutions,  and 
arranged for it to be paid to Clark Rees LLP instead. 
The contracts Mr Clark and Mr Rees had with Positive Solutions said they had to pay 
all commission over to Positive Solutions, and then Positive Solutions would pay them  
the amounts they were entitled to. But Positive Solutions hasnt said much  about how 
the finances worked in practice and it may well be that Mr Rees  or Mr Clark thought 
there were good practical and/or legal reasons for the commission to go to Clark 
Rees. Im not convinced on the limited material that has been provided to me that 
either of them  was dishonest.
I dont think Mr Clarks (or Mr Rees) conduct in recommending and arranging  the 
Stirling Mortimer investment was solely with the aim of making a personal gain. 
Certainly the provision  of financial  advice was likely to benefit Mr Clark through the 
Ref: DRN894638512payment of commission  but at the time,  it was very common  for advisers  to receive  
commission when they gave advice. 
This is not a case in which  an adviser appropriated a customers  money for himself, 
nor is it a case in which the adviser  recommended that the customer invest  in a fund 
managed by or controlled by the adviser himself. Instead, this is simply a case  in 
which a financial adviser recommended  that a customer surrender existing products 
and then reinvest into another investment. That is a very common  activity for financial 
advisers. As Ive said, I dont think Mr Clarks advice was suitable for Mr and Mrs B  
but unsuitable does not necessarily imply fraud.
vicarious liability
I remain satisfied that Positive Solutions is vicariously liable for the acts Mr and Mrs B 
complain about, for the reasons I gave in my provisional decision.
First, I remain  of the view that the tests  laid down by the Supreme Court in Cox and 
Mohamud are applicable.   Those decisions make it very clear that non-employment 
relationships can give rise to vicarious liability.  Indeed, the purpose of the guidance 
contained in Cox is to define the criteria by which a non-employment relationship can be 
judged as either capable or incapable of giving rise to vicarious  liability. In the present case, 
Mr Clarks relationship with Positive  Solutions  satisfies those criteria and had similarities to 
employment, as I explain  in my provisional decision.  It would seem  very odd if that were  to 
count for nothing just because he enjoyed  powers of an agent to contract business. Many  
employees are given authority, as agent, to contract business on their employers behalf and 
Bowstead & Reynolds  on Agency (paragraph 1-004) says that the status  of an agent will 
usually be either that of employee or independent contractor. So it cannot  have been  
intended that the test in Cox is disapplied  whenever  there is an agency. 
However, Positive Solutions  representative  has drawn my attention to paragraph 15 of Lord 
Reeds judgment  in Cox.  It says of this that Lord Reed specifically stated that nothing in his 
judgment applied  to the law of principal  and agent  (paragraph 15). So properly understood, 
the law is that Cox is not relevant to the present circumstances.
The premise  for that argument  seems to be that Mr Clark is Positive  Solutions  agent, which  
is the opposite  of Positive Solutions position  in relation to the relevant advice.  So, I take it 
that Positive Solutions  position is that Mr Clark was not its agent,  having no authority from it 
whether actual or apparent to give the relevant advice; but that I should not apply Cox, 
because he was its agent in other respects.   That position seems to me to be illogical and 
probably wrong on its own terms.
Anyway, the basis for the argument seems to me to go well beyond what  Lord Reed actually  
said, which was:
15.  Vicarious liability in tort is imposed upon a person  in respect  of the act or 
omission of another individual, because of his relationship with that individual,  and 
the connection between that relationship  and the act or omission in question.  Leaving  
aside other  areas of the law where  vicarious liability can operate, such  as partnership  
and agency (with which  this judgment  is not concerned),  the relationship is classically  
one of employment, and the connection is that the employee committed  the act or 
omission in the course of his employment:  that is to say, within the field of activities  
assigned to him, as Lord Cullen put it in Central Motors (Glasgow) Ltd v Cessnock 
Ref: DRN894638513Garage and Motor  Co 1925 SC 796 , 802, or, adapting the words of Diplock LJ in 
Ilkiw v Samuels [1963] 1 WLR 991 , 1004,  in the course  of his job, considered  
broadly. That aspect of vicarious liability is fully considered by Lord Toulson JSC in 
Mohamud v Wm Morrison Supermarkets  plc [2016] AC 677 .
16.  It has however  long been recognised that a relationship can give rise to vicarious 
liability even  in the absence of a contract  of employment. 
I think that Lord Reed  is there recognising that aside from cases where vicarious liability  is 
imposed because there is a relationship of, or having similar features to, employment (which  
the Cox case  considers), there exist categories of cases, such  as partnership and agency, 
where vicarious liability can be imposed on different bases  (which the Cox case  does  not 
consider).   I dont think that he can be taken to have  said that no principal can ever be 
vicariously liable for an agent under Cox, even though their relationship fulfils  the Cox and 
Mohamud criteria for such liability. 
I recognise in my provisional  decision that Cox and Mohamud dont apply to torts of 
dishonesty, but I am not aware of any case which holds that they dont apply whenever the 
defendant has given the wrongdoer any authority  to act as its agent.  For the reasons I have 
given above I would  not expect the courts to arrive at such  a conclusion.  
I also want to be explicit that I do not say that the fact Positive  Solutions put Mr Clark in a 
position which gave  him the opportunity to make errors is in itself sufficient to make Positive 
Solutions vicariously liable for his conduct.  Similarly, I am not saying  that the stationery issue 
in isolation is sufficient  to make Positive  Solutions liable. But I am saying  that, after taking 
the whole  of the evidence  into account, I am satisfied that Positive  Solutions  is vicariously  
liable for the actions of Mr Clark and Mr Rees in this complaint.
I accept that Mr Clark advised Mr and Mrs B without  Positive Solutions  knowledge  or 
authority. But I do not agree that he was was  operating on behalf of his own and distinct  
business which had nothing to do with Positive Solutions. I note:
In my provisional decision,  I explained  why I did not think  it would be reasonable to 
have expected members of the public like Mr and Mrs B to have realised  that Clark 
Rees LLP was independent  of Positive  Solutions. Clark Rees  LLP was not a 
recognisably independent business.  
In particular, Positive Solutions had given Mr Clark permission  to use the words 
Clark Rees LLP as a trading  style  of Positive  Solutions. I accept that Positive  
Solutions says it gave that permission by mistake, but nevertheless  it was given. 
Mr and Mrs B therefore received correspondence on Clark Rees  LLP notepaper in 
respect of transactions carried out on behalf  of Positive Solutions (such as the 2005  
AIG fund switch).
I also accept that if Mr Clarks  (or Mr Rees)  conduct had been fraudulent, then much of the 
case law I have quoted  in relation to vicarious  liability would not apply. But for the reasons 
Ive given above, I dont think it was fraudulent. And even if it was, or even if the test in Cox 
does not apply for some other reason,  Positive  Solutions would still be responsible for the 
acts complained of by reason of apparent authority.
I agree  that the FSMA does not, and was not intended to, provide a remedy  to every 
consumer who has lost out as a result  of wrongful advice. But for the reasons I gave in my 
Ref: DRN894638514provisional decision, I am satisfied that s150  of FSMA  does  provide  a remedy  to certain  
consumers who have  lost out as a result of the actions of an authorised firm  and I consider 
that it does apply here.
Finally, I note Positive Solutions representatives comment that this case substantially 
resembles Frederick in that there was no semblance of an advice process, and in particular 
no reasons why letter or fact find process .
I accept that there are similarities  between  this case and Frederick, particularly in that the 
term of the agency  contract in Frederick appear to be identical to the terms of Mr Clarks and 
Mr Rees  agency contracts. But as I explained in my provisional decision,  there  are also very 
considerable differences. A key one is that there  was no advice process in Frederick, but 
here I am satisfied that Mr Clark did give Mr and Mrs B investment  advice.  That advice was 
not documented, but in light of Mr and Mrs Bs recollections I am satisfied that it was given. 
In addition, I think it is inherently implausible that consumers in Mr and Mrs Bs position 
would approach an independent  financial  adviser  and then choose to invest in one of Stirling 
Mortimers funds without  first taking advice.
suitability for determination by an ombudsman
On the date Mr and Mrs B referred their complaint to the ombudsman service, our rules said 
(at DISP 3.3.4R):
The Ombudsman  may dismiss a complaint without considering its merits if [she]  
considers that:  
(10) it would be more  suitable for the subject  matter of the complaint to be dealt with 
by a court, arbitration or another complaints  scheme.
I acknowledge that Positive Solutions  believes that it would be more suitable for the subject 
matter of this complaint  to be dealt with by a court. But I do not agree.
The Financial Ombudsman  Service routinely  deals  with disputes about whether a 
respondent firm is responsible for the acts a consumer has complained about. Some  of 
those disputes  are more  complex than others, and Positive Solutions is right to say that this 
particular complaint concerns a developing area of law. But I see no reason why that 
prevents me from considering the matter.
Positive Solutions has suggested that it would be impossible for me to make fair findings  on 
the issue of reliance without disclosure. But it would be very unusual for any party  to have 
contemporaneous documents which identified the statements on which they relied,  and so I 
dont think the courts power to order disclosure of documents would be of any assistance 
here. In any event, I have  no reason to suspect  that either of the parties  have failed to 
disclose relevant evidence.
Overall, I am satisfied that I can resolve  this complaint justly, fairly, and within my 
jurisdiction. I therefore decline to exercise my discretion to dismiss this complaint.
oral hearing
Our rules also allow for the possibility of an oral hearing (at DISP 3.5.5R):
Ref: DRN894638515If the Ombudsman considers that the complaint can be fairly  determined without 
convening a hearing, [she] will determine the complaint. If not, [she]  will invite the 
parties to take part in a hearing. 
Positive Solutions representative  considers  that it is impossible to make fair findings on the 
issue of reliance without  cross examination and disclosureAlthough  this matter  should 
be referred to a Court, at the very least the FOS should hold an oral hearing in order  to more 
fully address the question of [Mr and Mrs Bs] reliance,  before making a final determination 
on jurisdiction. 
The representative went on to say before finding  in favour of [Mr and Mrs B] that there  were  
representations and reliance thereon [Mr and Mrs B] must be expected to give oral evidence  
on the issue, and be cross examined  about it, because to make a finding  otherwise in their 
favour on these issues is simply impossible and irrational.
I have carefully considered Positive Solutions comments. However, in the specific  
circumstances of this complaint, I am satisfied that I can fairly determine the matter  without  
convening a hearing.  In  particular, I note:
The events complained of happened  more than ten years ago, and memories 
inevitably fade. Whilst I am sure Mr and Mrs B are doing their best to assist me, I 
think it highly unlikely  that they can remember exactly  why they chose to take 
particular actions  so long ago  and I think it is inevitable that their recollections will 
be coloured by subsequent  events.  I consider that I can reach a fair outcome by 
considering all the available evidence and using the circumstances to infer 
Mr and Mrs Bs reasons for taking the actions they did.
In such circumstances, even  the courts (whose  procedure is far more  formal, 
elaborate and reliant on hearing oral testimony than that of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service)  have recognised that oral evidence  can be of limited value 
(see Gestmin  SGPS S.A. v Credit  Suisse (UK) Limited [2013]  EWHC  3560  (Comm)). 
Positive Solutions representative  clearly believes that I have misunderstood the law, 
but it has also set out its position clearly in writing. I do not believe that fairness 
requires me to offer the representative  the opportunity to tell me in person why they 
believe I am wrong.
The Court  of Appeal has adopted a very flexible  approach to what  is fair in this 
context (Heather  Moor  & Edgecomb Ltd). 
confidentiality 
Positive Solutions representative  has also referred  to DISP 3.5.9(2), which says:
The Ombudsman  may:  accept information in confidence (so that only an edited 
version, summary or description  is disclosed to the other party)  where  [she] 
considers it appropriate. 
The effect of that rule is that  where  I consider it appropriate to do so  I may take account 
of evidence without  providing the whole of that evidence to both parties.
Ref: DRN894638516Here, I have  noted Positive Solutions  belief that my final decision should  not refer to or 
include information that it provided  to me in confidence. I have assumed that it is referring  to 
Mr Clarks and Mr Rees  contracts with Positive  Solutions. But as a matter  of natural justice,  I 
consider it important that Mr and Mrs B have had the opportunity  to comment  on the 
evidence I relied  on to reach my decision. I have  relied on the contracts, and so I consider it 
appropriate that I quote the relevant sections of those contracts  within my decision.
merits
I remain satisfied that the Mr Clarks advice was not suitable for Mr and Mrs B for the 
reasons I gave in my provisional decision of 13 September 2019.
However, Positive Solutions  does have a number  of concerns about the redress  I proposed  
in that provisional  decision. 
We make the following submissions regarding  the proposed redress:
1.You have concluded  that [Mr and Mrs B] were  low risk investors,  despite  the fact that 
they handed over a cheque for £300,000 based on oral advice alone.
2.You have assumed  that [Mr and Mrs B] have lost the entirety  of their investment. We 
require evidence of this.
3.We require evidence  of whether  they received any returns  at all.
4.The suggestion of using an average  rate from fixed  rate bonds to calculate redress  is 
unfair and inappropriate. You have concluded that [Mr and Mrs B] had a low risk 
appetite and it is therefore inappropriate  to suggest a rate which provides such high 
interest returns. Cautious investors  would never expect to receive such  high 
percentage returns.
5.The period  for the calculation of redress unreasonably and unfairly runs from the date 
of the investment to the date of the Ombudsmans  decision  despite the FOSs 
serious and lengthy delays  (of years) in dealing with this matter.
6.An interest rate of 8% is unreasonably  high and does not reflect current,  or even 
recent, market conditions.
7.The award for distress  and inconvenience is inappropriate in this case.  This is a 
matter where Positive Solutions is also a victim  of Mr Clarks activities.  Mr Clark 
advised [Mr and Mrs B] without Positive Solutions knowledge  or authority as he was 
operating on behalf  of his own and distinct business  which had nothing to do with 
Positive Solutions.
Mr and Mrs B have  accepted that their conduct was nave. I agree. Their actions exposed  
them to considerable risk. But that does not automatically mean that they should have been 
advised to take such  risks.  On balance, I think it is more likely than not that if they had been  
given suitable  advice they would  have taken it.
As I explained in my provisional decision,  I do not know  how much risk Mr and Mrs B wanted  
to take. But in view of their circumstances,  I think their capacity  for risk was low and this 
should have been appreciated by a competent financial adviser  exercising reasonable skill 
Ref: DRN894638517and care and complying with COB 5.3.5R. Regardless of their attitude  to risk, they should  
not have been advised to take more  than a small amount of risk. 
My conclusion that Mr and Mrs B have  lost the whole of their investment is based in part on 
my conversation with the funds liquidator  last summer. He told me that there was not 
enough money in the fund to cover  his fees,  let alone to give returns  to investors.  I consider 
that very strong evidence that Mr and Mrs B have lost the whole of their investment.
I also note that Mr and Mrs B are happy to assign the whole of their investment in the fund to 
Positive Solutions in exchange for the full fair compensation  as set out in my provisional 
decision. If I am wrong to value Mr and Mrs Bs interest in the investment at zero, then the 
assignment will enable Positive Solutions  to recover any remaining value.
I agree  that it is fair for Positive Solutions to seek evidence as to whether Mr and Mrs B 
received any returns at all. As I said in my provisional decision, any income  or other  payment 
out of the investment should be deducted  from the fair value calculation  at the point it was 
actually paid.  
I see nothing unfair  or inappropriate  about using the average rate for fixed rate bonds to 
calculate redress. The particular rate I chose  is published by the Bank  of England,  and 
reflects the average rate that banks  and building societies are advertising for fixed  rate 
deposit accounts with a fixed term of 12 to 17 months. It's a weighted average, meaning that 
the biggest banks' rates  have more influence. I am not saying that I think  Mr and Mrs B 
would in fact have put their £300,000 into a fixed interest deposit account. Instead,  I am 
saying that I think  that rate fairly reflects the sort of return they would have  got with little to no 
risk to their money.
Over the relevant period, the average rate for fixed rate bonds ranged from around  5.5%  in 
April 2007 to around 1.0% today  with a high of 6.2% in October 2007 and a low of 0.6%  in 
January 2017.  I do not agree that that rate is higher  than Mr and Mrs B could reasonably  
have expected to receive  if they had been  given suitable advice.
In addition, I see nothing  unfair or inappropriate about calculating redress from the date of 
the investment  to the date of my final decision. Mr and Mrs Bs losses  cover the whole of that 
period, and I therefore consider that it is right for Mr and Mrs B to receive compensation for 
the whole  of that period.
I acknowledge that it has taken me much longer than I would  have liked to issue this final 
decision. I apologise to both parties for that. But I see no reason  why Mr and Mrs B should 
be disadvantaged as a result. I consider that Positive Solutions should have upheld  
Mr and Mrs Bs complaint at the outset, and so I am satisfied that it is fair for Positive  
Solutions to be held responsible for the whole of Mr and Mrs Bs loss despite  my delays.
I accept that Mr and Mrs B are unlikely to receive returns  of 8% per year simple if they invest 
elsewhere. But in this particular case, I am only ordering Positive Solutions to add interest at 
that rate if it does  not pay compensation within 28 days of being  notified of Mr and Mrs Bs 
acceptance of this final decision.  If Positive Solutions pays  promptly,  it will not have to pay 
interest at 8% simple.  If it fails to pay promptly, then I consider that it is fair for me to specify  
that interest  will accrue at a rate of 8% per year simple.
Finally, I accept that Positive  Solutions did not know that Mr Clark had advised Mr and Mrs B 
to invest in the fund.  But for the reasons Ive given,  Im satisfied that Positive Solutions is 
Ref: DRN894638518responsible for Mr Clarks advice. I consider that it is fair and reasonable for me to order  
Positive Solutions to compensate Mr and Mrs B for the consequences of that advice  and 
those consequences  include the distress and inconvenience  they have suffered.
my final decision
Where I uphold  a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business  to pay 
compensation of up to £150,000, plus any interest and/or costs  that I consider appropriate. If 
I consider that fair compensation exceeds £150,000,  I may recommend the business  to pay 
the balance.
determination and award: I uphold the complaint. I consider that fair compensation should 
be calculated as set out above.  My decision is that Positive Solutions (Financial Services) 
Ltd should pay Mr and Mrs B the amount produced by that calculation   up to a maximum of 
£150,000 (including distress  and/or  inconvenience) plus any interest set out above.
If Positive Solutions (Financial Services)  Ltd does not pay the full fair compensation, then 
any investment currently illiquid  should be retained by Mr and Mrs B. This is until any future  
benefit that they may receive  from the investment together with the compensation paid by 
Positive Solutions (Financial Services)  Ltd (excluding any interest)  equates to the full fair 
compensation as set out above.  
Positive Solutions (Financial Services)  Ltd may request an undertaking from Mr and Mrs B 
that once the full fair compensation has been  received by them, they will transfer to the 
extent possible the benefit of the investment  to Positive Solutions (Financial Services)  Ltd 
and will pay it any amount  Mr and Mrs B may receive from the investment thereafter.
Positive Solutions (Financial Services)  Ltd should provide details of its calculation to Mr and 
Mrs B in a clear,  simple  format.
recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation  of fair compensation exceeds 
£150,000, I recommend that Positive  Solutions (Financial Services) Ltd pays  Mr and Mrs B 
the balance plus any interest on the balance as set out above.
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award.  It does not bind Positive 
Solutions (Financial  Services) Ltd. It is unlikely that Mr and Mrs B can accept my decision 
and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr and Mrs B may want  to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept this decision. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs B 
either to accept or reject my decision before 6 January 2020.
Laura Colman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN894638519Copy of provisional  decision  issued  on 13 September 2019
complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that in April 2007, a Mr Paul Clark wrongly advised them to invest  £300,000  in 
the Stirling  Mortimer Global Property  Fund  PCC  Limited   Majestic Village No 3 Fund (the fund). 
They further complain that in late 2006  and early  2007, Mr Clark wrongly advised  them to cash in their 
existing investments  to raise  money to purchase shares in the fund.
Mr and Mrs B believe that Positive  Solutions (Financial Services) Limited is responsible for Mr Clarks 
advice.
background
Mr and Mrs B say that in late 2006, they were considering  their retirement plans. Mr Clark advised 
them to cash in their existing investments and reinvest the proceeds in the fund, for a short  term boost  
to their retirement pot.  They believed the fund would  mature after two years, and was guaranteed to 
return 6% per year.
The fund experienced  significant difficulties. Mr and Mrs B did not receive the 6% per year they 
expected, nor was their capital returned to them after two years. Mr and Mrs B still do not know when 
 or if  any part of their capital will be returned to them.
Mr and Mrs B complained to Positive Solutions in early 2013, just less than six years after they 
received the advice they complain about. They asked Positive Solutions to put them in the position 
they would have been in if they hadnt invested in the fund.
Positive Solutions objected to our consideration  of the complaint, because  it said it was not 
responsible for Mr Clarks advice.  
I issued a provisional jurisdiction  decision  on this complaint in November  2018. In that provisional 
jurisdiction decision, I explained that I thought Positive Solutions was responsible for the matters Mr 
and Mrs B complain about  because  Mr Clark  had apparent authority to carry  out the acts complained 
of on behalf of Positive Solutions. Mr and Mrs B accepted my first provisional decision,  but Positive  
Solutions did not.
Mr and Mrs B said:
They  believe they have provided  ample factual evidence to show they were being advised by 
Mr Clark in his capacity as a representative  of Positive Solutions.  Their  investment portfolio  
was serviced by Positive Solutions  from 2003 until July 2007.  Positive Solutions provided 
them with a personal  account on its website  on which to view their investment status,  Positive 
Solutions was fully aware of the liquidation of their portfolio,  and the investment they complain 
about was made by a Positive Solutions representative using  Positive Solutions name  and 
Financial Services  Authority (FSA) number.
If there was any mismanagement  of the activities and processes used by [Mr Clark] , then Mr 
and Mrs B believe  that to be an internal disciplinary matter between Positive  Solutions and its 
representatives. Mr and Mrs B say they could  not possibly have been aware of any such  
mismanagement unless Positive Solutions informed  them of it  and Positive Solutions did 
no such  thing.
Positive Solutions also provided  detailed  comments in support of its position. In summary, it said:
It did not itself make  any representations to Mr and Mrs B that Mr Clark  had its authority to act 
on its behalf in respect of the matters Mr and Mrs B complain about. It considers that any 
Ref: DRN894638520representations made by Mr Clark  are not relevant to the issue  of whether Positive  Solutions 
itself made representations  to Mr and Mrs B.
Mr and Mrs B cannot  have placed any reliance  on representations  from Positive  Solutions 
that Mr Clark had Positive Solutions authority to carry out the acts they complain about,  
because Positive Solutions made no such representations.
The fact Mr Clark was one of its agents,  and appeared on the FSA Register with respect to 
Positive Solutions, is not relevant to the issue of whether Mr Clark appeared to have Positive  
Solutions authority to carry out the acts Mr and Mrs B complain  of.
Mr Clark did not use Positive Solutions stationery  for the purpose of carrying out the acts Mr 
and Mrs B complain about   and in any event the stationery issue is not relevant  to apparent 
authority.
Mr and Mrs B received  oral advice from Mr Clark personally, and they acted on that oral 
advice. Mr Clark was not acting for Positive Solutions when he gave that advice.
Mr and Mrs B understood they were  dealing with Clark Rees LLP, and were  happy to do so. 
They must have known they were not dealing  with a network, because they did not receive a 
suitability letter on the networks headed paper.  
I have taken both parties comments into account in reaching the revised provisional  findings that I set 
out below. I have also given  further consideration  to the law, particularly in the areas  of apparent 
authority, vicarious liability, and statutory duties under the Financial  Services and Markets Act 2000 
(FSMA). Having done so, my overall  conclusions on jurisdiction are unchanged,  but my reasoning is 
not identical to the reasoning I set out in my first provisional decision.
my provisional  findings  on jurisdiction
Firstly, I have considered  whether Mr and Mrs Bs complaint falls within the jurisdiction of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. I am satisfied that it does.
Briefly, my provisional  findings on jurisdiction  are:
Mr and Mrs Bs complaint is about  an act or omission in relation to the carrying on of the 
regulated activity of giving investment advice.
Positive Solutions represented to Mr and Mrs B that Mr Clark had Positive Solutions authority 
to conduct business of the same type as the business he did in fact conduct, Mr and Mrs B 
relied on those representations, and apparent authority therefore operated such  as to give 
rise to Positive Solutions responsibility for the acts Mr and Mrs B complain about. 
In addition,  Positive Solutions  is vicariously  liable  for the investment advice Mr Clark gave to 
Mr and Mrs B.  
Positive Solutions is also liable to Mr and Mrs B under section 150 of FSMA.
Mr and Mrs Bs complaint therefore  falls within  the jurisdiction of the Financial  Ombudsman 
Service.
I go on to explain how I reached  those  findings.
the factual background
The facts here are essentially undisputed (other than some  points relating to Mr and Mrs Bs use of 
Positive Solutions website portal, which  I discuss  below). Neither  party  is in a position  to challenge  
Ref: DRN894638521much of the others factual evidence. For example, Mr and Mrs B cannot  usefully add anything  to 
Positive Solutions description of its contractual relationship with Mr Clark, and Positive  Solutions 
cannot usefully  add anything  to Mr and Mrs Bs recollections of Mr Clarks comments  to them.
Where the parties have given me evidence  from within  their own knowledge, I have no concerns 
about that evidence.  I am satisfied that they are both doing their best to help me understand this 
complex matter.
Information about Positive  Solutions  interactions with Mr and Mrs B is clearly relevant  here. I also 
intend to rely on evidence showing the parties  interactions with Mr Clark (the financial  adviser), Mr 
Rees, (Mr Clarks associate), Clark  Rees LLP (Mr Clark  and Mr Rees  limited liability  partnership), 
Stirling Mortimer (the product provider  for the fund Mr and Mrs B complain about), Heritage  (the funds 
administrator), and with Sterling, AIG and Skandia  (other product providers). 
In my first provisional jurisdiction decision on this complaint, I set out my findings  as to the factual  
background. I think it is helpful for me to set out those  facts again. I do so in largely identical terms to 
my first provisional decision, but there are two substantive differences:
I now accept that the Cardiff office Mr Clark  worked from was not Positive Solutions Cardiff 
office. Since I issued my first provisional jurisdiction  decision, Positive Solutions has provided  
me with the address  of its actual Cardiff office, which  differs from the address used by Mr 
Clark. Mr and Mrs B say that whilst they assumed that the office in which  they met Mr Clark 
was a Positive Solutions office,  there was never a name on the door. They  also accept  
Positive Solutions evidence on this issue.
Both parties have  provided me with further  evidence about a Sterling  investment bond Mr 
Clark sold to Mr and Mrs B in early 2005. I have incorporated that further evidence into my 
findings.
Subject to anything further that I receive  from either party, I am provisionally  satisfied of the following:
Mr Clarks relationship with Mr and Mrs B before  2003
Mr Clark first advised Mr and Mrs B in 1998.  At the time, Mr and Mrs B believed Mr Clark to be 
working for a different firm of financial advisers (not associated with Positive Solutions). 
Over the period 1998  to 2003, Mr Clark  gave advice to Mr and Mrs B in his capacity as a financial 
adviser of that other  firm. Mr and Mrs B accepted his advice.  They make no complaint about the 
advice Mr Clark gave during this period. 
Mr Clarks 2003 move to Positive  Solutions
In 2003, Mr Clark moved from the other  firm to Positive Solutions. One of his associates,  a Mr Rees, 
also moved to Positive  Solutions at around the same time.
Mr Clark and Mr Rees  entered into (separate) agency agreements  with Positive  Solutions. Positive  
Solutions has provided me with copies. At clause 2.1, those agreements said:
The Company [Positive Solutions (Financial  Services) Ltd] hereby appoints  the Registered 
Individual as its Registered  Individual for the purpose only of introducing  Applications  by 
Clients for new Contracts for submission  to the Institutions specified  by the Registered 
Individual and approved  by the Company  [Approved Institutions].
Ref: DRN894638522At clause 4.5, they said:
The Registered Individual must at all times describe itself as a Registered Individual and 
must not hold itself out as an employee of the Company.  All correspondence, business  cards 
or other  similar literature must clearly  state that the Registered  Individual is a Registered 
Individual of the Company .
And at clause 10.7
Any act or omission of the Registered  Individual shall be treated as an act or omission of the 
Company. It is therefore imperative  that the Registered Individual adheres to the strict rules 
laid down by the FSA and the Companys Procedures manuals.
The agency  agreements also said the term Registered  Individual had the meaning ascribed to 
Investment Adviser function, Investment Adviser (Trainee) Function or Pension Transfer Specialist 
Function by the FSA and in the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000. At the time, the FSA 
defined each  of those functions  as a controlled  function  or in other words as a function, relating to 
the carrying  on of a regulated  activity  by a firm, which is specified  under section 56 of the [Financial  
Services and Markets]  Act (Approval for particular arrangements) in the table of controlled  functions 
[set out in SUP 10.4.5R in the FSA Handbook].   
(I note here that the term Registered Individual is not defined in FSMA. I am aware that other 
authorised firms use the same term for different  purposes, often to denote an employee  of an 
appointed representative. Throughout this decision, where I use the term Registered Individual I do 
so with the meaning specified in Positive Solutions agency  agreements.)  
The contract between Mr Clark  and Positive  Solutions included a provision for Mr Clark to indemnify 
Positive Solutions in circumstances where Mr Clark acted outside of his authority, and for Mr Clark  to 
pay over to Positive Solutions any monies  (including commissions) that he received from financial 
institutions. A further provision said that Positive Solutions would not be bound by any acts of Mr 
Clark which exceeded  the authority granted to him under the contract. Mr Rees  contract  contained 
identical provisions.
Mr and Mrs Bs move  to Positive Solutions
Mr and Mrs B say they were aware of Mr Clarks  move to Positive Solutions, and they wanted him to 
continue to be their financial  adviser. They told us they believed Mr Clark had to set up a company  
in order to be a Positive Solutions Independent Financial Adviser.
Mr and Mrs B completed various documents in 2003 to enable the servicing of their existing 
investments to be transferred to Positive Solutions. I dont have all of those documents, but I do have 
confirmations from some  of the product providers  that the documents were  received.  For example, 
Skandia wrote to Mr and Mrs B on 21 October 2003 to confirm that I have changed your financial 
adviser to Positive Solutions (FS) Ltd (P Clark)Any future commissionwill  now be paid to your 
new adviser.
Mr and Mrs B completed further documents in 2004. Ive seen  copies of their Positive  Solutions 
Transfer  of Servicing Request forms for Scottish  Amicable, Allied  Dunbar, Scottish  Widows and 
Clerical Medical.  Mr and Mrs B signed  all of those  forms on 11 August 2004. They all show Positive  
Solutions logo, and carry identical wording:
I/we write to inform  you that I/we would like the responsibility  for the future  servicing  of the 
above plans to be transferred to the following company: Paul Clark, Independent Financial 
Adviser at Positive Solutions (Fin.Serv.) Ltd) [at Positive Solutions Newcastle head office 
address]. Can you please notify Positive Solutions when the transfer has been completed and 
provide an up to date valuation  report for their records.
Ref: DRN894638523Positive Solutions Terms of Business
At the time, firms providing investment advice were required to tell their retail  customers whether  that 
advice covered the whole of the market (independent advice), or whether the advice was restricted  
to one or a limited number of product providers.  The rules in this respect did not change significantly  
between 2003 (when Mr and Mrs B first became clients of Positive  Solutions)  and 2007 (when they 
invested in the fund complained about).  
Positive Solutions provided independent advice.  It told its customers that it was independent  by 
providing them  with its Terms of Business, which included the following:
REGULATORS STATEMENT 
Those who advise on life assurance, pensions  or unit trust products are either: Independent 
Advisers or Representatives of one company. Your adviser is independent  and will act on 
your behalf in advising  you on life assurance, pensions  or unit trust products. Because your 
adviser is independent he or she can advise you on the products of different companies.
The Terms of Business  also included Positive Solutions partnership code, which explained that its 
purpose was to help our clients understand, protect and increase their assets. The Terms  of 
Business also say that Positive  Solutions partners will give impartial,  independent financial advice.
Mr and Mrs B do not recall receiving Positive Solutions Terms of Business, and Positive  Solutions 
has no record  of having provided  that document to Mr and Mrs B. But I think the Terms  of Business 
are still relevant, in that they show what Positive Solutions was telling  the general  public about what it 
expected its financial  advisers, including Mr Clark and Mr Rees, to do.
the December 2004 screenshot / the website portal
I think  Mr and Mrs Bs alleged  use of Positive Solutions  website portal is the only area where  the 
parties disagree about the facts of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs B told us that part of the attraction  of dealing  with Positive  Solutions was their online 
tracking of our investments  we were given  username/password access to our account on their 
website. So, details of our investment portfolio were held on Positive Solutions  own system.
Mr and Mrs B provided  me with a screenshot which  they say shows their investments on Positive  
Solutions website portal as at December  2004. Mr and Mrs Bs recollection is that they logged into 
the portal themselves,  from their home computer, in order to produce the screenshot.
Positive Solutions evidence is that Mr and Mrs B did not log into its system themselves. It provided  
me with two screenshots which it says show that, as at June 2014,  Mr and Mrs Bs Positive Solutions 
accounts each had 0 logins.  
I dont think any of the screenshots provided  are, in themselves, strong evidence.  The screenshot  Mr 
and Mrs B provided could have come from Mr Clark  rather  than from their own computer.  Positive  
Solutions screenshots only show that there were zero logins from Mr and Mrs Bs accounts since it 
started tracking those  logins. Positive Solutions has not told me the date on which that login  tracker 
started. 
In the circumstances,  I rely on the screenshot evidence  only as far as to say: Positive  Solutions had a 
website portal; Mr and Mrs B knew  that; Mr and Mrs B had accounts on Positive  Solutions portal; and 
Mr and Mrs B believed  that it was open  to them  to log on to the portal  and view their investments. 
Whether or not Mr and Mrs B actually logged  into the portal themselves,  I am satisfied  that they knew 
they could. 
Ref: DRN894638524Mr Clarks January 2005 Sterling recommendation
In January 2005, Mr and Mrs B invested in a Sterling bond. They  say they did so in reliance  on a 
recommendation from Mr Clark, who was acting in his capacity as a Positive Solutions financial 
adviser.
Unlike the later Stirling Mortimer investment, Positive Solutions has substantial records in respect of 
Mr and Mrs Bs 2005  Sterling investment.  In particular,  it has copies of:
The fact find Mr Clark completed before recommending Mr and Mrs B invest in the Sterling 
bond. Mr Clark noted clients have received an inheritance from [Mrs Bs mother]clients 
wish to invest £115,000 for growth over a minimum  term of five years.
The identity verification  certificate  Mr Clark completed  for Mr B. This form has a Positive 
Solutions logo on it. It appears to have been  completed by Mr Clark in his capacity as an 
independent financial adviser  of Positive Solutions (Financial Services)  Ltd, and notes that 
Mr Clark made  a home visit to Mr B in early  January 2005.
Positive Solutions own New Business Submission Sheet, detailing  the commission  it 
received in respect of Mr and Mrs Bs new Sterling  bond.
Mr Clarks 4 January  2005 letter to Mr and Mrs B confirming their investment in the Sterling 
bond, and inviting them to view their personal private client  web-site at 
http://www.pclark.co.uk. 
Mr Clarks documented  reasons for recommending the Sterling investment (enclosed  with his 
4 January 2005 letter).
The application form for Mr and Mrs Bs Sterling  investment. That application  names  Mr Clark 
as Mr and Mrs Bs adviser, and records Positive Solutions as the Adviser Firm.
I note that Mr and Mrs B disagree with Positive Solutions as to whether their investment in the Sterling  
bond has any relevance to Positive  Solutions liability for their later Stirling  Mortimer investment.  But I 
understand everyone agrees  that Mr Clark was acting on behalf of Positive  Solutions when he 
recommended the Sterling investment to Mr and Mrs B. They also agree that Mr and Mrs B accepted 
Mr Clarks recommendation  in respect of the Sterling  bond,  and that the bond duly went into force.
incorporation of Clark Rees LLP
In March 2005, Mr Clark and Mr Rees set up the limited liability partnership, Clark Rees LLP. They  
were both members of the partnership, and remained  so until December 2009.
I have seen no evidence to suggest that there has ever been any contractual relationship  of any kind 
between Clark  Rees LLP and Positive Solutions (Financial Services)  Ltd. In particular, Clark Rees 
LLP has never been an agent, appointed representative, or Registered  Individual of Positive  
Solutions. Positive Solutions certainly had contractual relationships with Mr Clark  and Mr Rees 
individually, but it did not have contractual relationships with their limited liability partnership.
the 2005  trading style correspondence
Nicky Calder of Positive Solutions wrote to Mr Rees in June 2005 to confirm  that Clark Rees LLP 
had been registered as a trading style of Positive Solutions. Mr and Mrs B were  not aware  of that 
email at the time.
Positive Solutions later explained that the email had been sent in error, because  it does not usually  
allow the use of trading names including the terms LLP or ltd.
Ref: DRN894638525September 2005 AIG fund switch
Mr and Mrs B have recently provided  me with a letter  dated 28 September  2005, on Clark  Rees LLP 
notepaper, which said:
Please find enclosed a Fund Switch Form for your AIG Investment Bond. I would be grateful 
if you could both sign it and return it to me in the pre paid envelope provided. 
Mr and Mrs B provided  this letter as another example  of a document  with the footer Clark Rees LLP 
is a trading style of Positive Solutions  (Financial Services) Ltd.
Sterlings 2006 and 2007 correspondence
Sterling wrote  to Mr and Mrs B in January 2006 and January 2007 to give them an annual statement  
for their investment  bond. Sterlings letters said a copy of this statement has been sent to your 
Financial Adviser,  Positive Solutions (Financial Services) Limited. If you are reviewing your 
investment objectives we would recommend that you discuss them with your Financial Adviser .
I consider these letters  show  that Sterling  acted on the basis that Positive  Solutions was Mr and Mrs 
Bs financial adviser in respect of their Sterling bond. 
the October 2006 promotion  
Doug Hudson, Positive Solutions Assistant Director Compliance,  wrote to Mr Clark  and Mr Rees in 
October 2006 in respect of a promotion Mr Clark had sent to other Positive  Solutions Registered 
Individuals. The promotion was in respect of the Stirling Mortimer Property fund. This was not the fund 
Mr and Mrs B ultimately  invested in, but it was offered by the same product provider  which was not 
on Positive Solutions list of approved institutions.
In the promotion, sent by email, Mr Clark  described himself as a managing partner, gave his 
address as Clark  Rees LLP, and provided  Clark Rees LLPs  company  number. Mr Hudson said:
I have had a complaint lodged  by one of our partners[*]   who received the attached  email 
from you. He feels that this does  not fall into the category of business which PS would want to 
be associated with.
I am more  concerned that you are advertising  your services to PS partners using an email 
which does not meet our standards and in which you are advertising yourself  as an [LLP]. 
Further there is no mention  that you are a trading style of PS. I have had an exchange  of 
emails with Ceri Rees before this went out and he was instructed that you must not portray 
yourself in this way. He agreed that it would not happen again, but clearly has ignored this. In 
addition I am not happy that your advert, for that is what it is has not been passed by PS to 
confirm that it complies  with our requirements.
Clearly you are both in breach of our procedures  and I will record this as such.
I need confirmation from you both that in future all advertising will be sent [to Positive 
Solutions] for approval, that you will cease to refer to yourself as a limited liability partnership 
AND you will ensure  that all future emails and letters will show fully that Clark Rees is a 
trading style of Positive  Solutions  in line with FSA rules. 
(*I understand Mr Hudson  and Positive Solutions use the term partners to mean the Registered 
Individuals of Positive Solutions. I do not believe Mr Hudson was referring to partners in the sense of 
members of an ordinary or limited liability partnership.)
In his email, Mr Hudson  did not comment on whether Stirling Mortimer was an institution approved  by 
Positive Solutions. He did not say that Positive Solutions had any concerns over being associated 
Ref: DRN894638526with the type of business  done  by Stirling Mortimer   only that one of Positive Solutions other 
Registered Individuals had such a concern. 
There is no suggestion in Mr Hudsons email  that Mr Hudson believed Mr Clark was acting on behalf 
of Clark Rees  LLP in promoting the Stirling  Mortimer investment. On the contrary, it is clear  that Mr 
Hudson thought Mr Clark  was acting on behalf of Positive Solutions  and indeed had breached 
Positive Solutions procedures in doing so.   
Mr Hudsons objection to Mr Clarks use of the name Clark Rees LLP was specifically  about the 
inclusion of the letters LLP  and not about the use of the words  Clark Rees. Mr Hudson  insisted 
that Mr Clarks future letters  and emails referred to the fact Clark Rees was a trading style of Positive  
Solutions.
A very similar  promotion appears  to have been sent through  the post.  Positive Solutions provided  me 
with a letter dated 10 October  2006,  from Clark  Rees LLPs Head  of Operations to a third party 
(Positive Solutions redacted the recipients name, but I understand it was not Mr or Mrs B). That letter 
also promoted  the Stirling Mortimer Property Fund. I do not know when that letter first came into 
Positive Solutions possession, nor do I know whether it took any action on receipt  of the letter.  
Mr and Mrs Bs 2006/2007 surrenders and reinvestment
On 24 August 2006 Mr Clark wrote  to Mr B on Clark  Rees LLP headed paper, with a footer  explaining 
Clark  Rees  LLP is a trading  style of Positive Solutions (Financial Services) Ltd. The letter promoted 
the prestigious  Stirling  Mortimer Property Fund. That fund was also the subject of Mr Clarks  October 
2006 promotion, but was not the fund Mr and Mrs B ultimately invested in.  
Mr and Mrs B subsequently met with Mr Clark. I do not know the date of that meeting, but Mr and Mrs 
Bs recollection is that it was in October 2006. Mr Clark recommended that Mr and Mrs B cash  in 
some of their existing investments, with the aim of reinvesting elsewhere. Mr and Mrs B accepted  that 
recommendation, though there was some delay  before the advice was implemented. I do not know 
the cause of the delay.
Mr Clark then wrote  to various product providers  using Positive Solutions  headed paper, enclosing Mr 
and Mrs Bs surrender instructions. An example is Mr Clarks 8 February 2007 letter to Sterling (which 
I understand instructed  the surrender of the bond  Mr Clark had recommended two years earlier). The 
product providers  followed  Mr Clarks instructions, and at least  some of them wrote to Positive 
Solutions at its head office address in Newcastle  to confirm the surrenders. Skandia wrote directly to 
Mrs B, confirming it had received her instructions and naming her financial adviser as Positive  Sols 
(FS) Ltd (P Clark).
In April 2007  Mr and Mrs B had a single meeting  with Mr Clark. He recommended that they invest 
£300,000 in the fund.  Mr and Mrs B do not recall Mr Clark providing them  with a suitability letter, nor 
do they recall receiving any other document in which he set out the reasons why he had 
recommended they invest in the fund.
Mr and Mrs B accepted Mr Clarks recommendation to invest in the Stirling Mortimer  fund. I dont 
know the precise  date on which they accepted the recommendation, but it must have  been on or 
before 11 April 2007   the date on which Mr and Mrs B signed an application form for their investment 
in the fund. The application form had a section For Professional Advisers Use Only, in which 
Mr Rees  of Positive Solutions was named as their financial adviser. This section of the form also 
included Positive Solutions FSA number.
I understand that Stirling Mortimer  would not have permitted UK based investors  like Mr and Mrs B to 
invest in the fund unless it was satisfied they were eligible, or qualified, to receive promotions about 
it. Stirling Mortimer appears to have proceeded on the basis that the fund was a qualified investor 
scheme (in the sense used  in the FSA Handbook).  At the time,  such a scheme  could only be lawfully 
promoted within the UK to investors who fell within  one of the relevant  exemptions.  Here, it appears 
Ref: DRN894638527Stirling Mortimer was satisfied of Mr and Mrs Bs eligibility because  Mr Rees completed a 
Sophisticated  Investors Certificate in respect  of Mr and Mrs B. In doing  so, Mr Rees identified 
himself as working for Positive Solutions.
Heritage (the fund administrator) told us that it paid commission for Mr and Mrs Bs investment in the 
fund to Mr Ceri Rees, Clark Rees, Positive Solutions.
I dont know what, if anything, happened in respect of any commission paid out by other product 
providers in respect  of Mr and Mrs Bs existing  policies.  I do know that Sterling deducted an early 
surrender charge of around £12,500 because Mr and Mrs B had surrendered their bond within five 
years of taking it out, but I dont know whether any of the initial commission was clawed back.
Mr Clarks resignation from Positive Solutions
On 2 July 2007 Mr Clark wrote to Positive Solutions to say he had decided to resign  from Positive 
Solutions. Mr Rees wrote  to Positive  Solutions on the same date and in near-identical terms. 
I understand that all parties to this complaint  accept  that from 2 July 2007 onwards,  nothing Mr Clark 
did was done on behalf of Positive  Solutions.
the fund update
Mr and Mrs B provided  me with an undated Stirling Mortimer Fund Update. That update is printed  on 
paper marked with Clark Rees (without the limited liability descriptor) in the upper right hand corner.  
The update refers to our recommendation  that Mr and Mrs B invest  in the fund, but does not specify 
who is meant by the word our.
Mr and Mrs B do not recall when they received  this update.  But from context, I consider that it must 
have been in either 2009  or 2010  after Mr Clark  had resigned from Positive  Solutions.
the FSA Register
Throughout the relevant  period, Positive Solutions was registered with the FSA as having permission 
under Part IV of FSMA to carry on certain regulated  activities, including those of advising on 
investments and arranging transactions  in investments.  As such, Positive Solutions was an 
authorised person under FSMA.
 
Mr Clark and Mr Rees  both appeared on the FSA Register with respect to Positive Solutions.  Mr 
Clarks name appeared between June 2003 and October 2007, and Mr Rees name appeared 
between February 2003 and October 2007. They were approved by the FSA to carry  out the 
controlled function  Investment Adviser (Trainee) and then Investment Adviser  on behalf of Positive 
Solutions. Mr Clark  and Mr Rees therefore both had the status of approved persons for the purposes 
of performing specific functions for Positive Solutions. But neither of them  were themselves an 
authorised person under FSMA. 
(The FSAs  register  also shows that Clark Rees LLP was registered as a trading  name of Positive  
Solutions between 17 July 2007  and 5 November 2008,  but this was after the events Mr and Mrs B 
complain of.) 
Mr and Mrs B are now aware of the contents of the FSA Register,  but I do not believe they were 
aware of the Register in 2006 or 2007.
the stationery
Ive seen letters  from Mr Clark on two different sets of notepaper. 
Ref: DRN894638528I understand Positive Solutions provided  Mr Clark with notepaper bearing  Positive Solutions name  
and logo. It has a footer with Positive Solutions registered address and company number. It displays 
Mr Clarks Cardiff address more prominently,  at the top right of the page, and describes Mr Clark as 
an Independent Financial  Adviser. Positive Solutions provided Mr Rees with similar notepaper.
The other  notepaper bears the name and address (but not company  number) of Clark Rees LLP. It 
includes the footer  Clark  Rees LLP is a trading style of Positive Solutions (Financial  Services) Ltd 
who are authorised and regulated by the Financial Services  Authority. This notepaper did not include 
a position for Mr Clark, but he described himself as a senior partner  in his signature block. I accept 
Positive Solutions evidence that it did not provide or approve this notepaper.
I have seen a third notepaper, for Clark Rees LLP, but I have not seen any letters  from Mr Clark to Mr 
and Mrs B on that paper (the single letter  I have seen is the October  2006 promotion  mentioned 
above, which  was not addressed to Mr and Mrs B, and which was from somebody identifying herself 
as Clark Rees  LLPs  head  of operations). That notepaper includes Clark Rees LLPs  name and logo, 
its registered address, and its company registration  number  and VAT number. It does not mention 
Positive Solutions. 
I am not aware of any correspondence  or stationery  in which Mr Clark described himself as a 
Registered Individual of Positive Solutions. I understand that Positive Solutions business cards, 
compliments slips and other stationery described  its Registered Individuals  as an Independent 
Financial Adviser  rather than as a Registered Individual.
the compulsory jurisdiction
Having set out the factual background, I go on to decide whether the complaint Mr and Mrs B have 
asked us to look at falls within the jurisdiction of the Financial Ombudsman Service.
The Financial Ombudsman  Service can consider a complaint under  its compulsory jurisdiction if that 
complaint relates to an act or omission by a firm  in the carrying on of one or more  listed activities,  
including regulated activities (DISP2.3.1R).  Positive Solutions  is clearly a firm  under our rules, and it 
does not dispute that. 
As DISP  2.3.3G explains, complaints about  acts or omissions include those in respect of activities for 
which the firm  is responsible (including  business of any appointed representative  or agent for 
which the firm  has accepted responsibility).
So there are two questions to be determined before I can decide whether this complaint can be 
considered under the compulsory jurisdiction of this service:  
1.Were the acts about  which  Mr and Mrs B complain done in the carrying on of a regulated 
activity?
2.Was the principal firm, Positive Solutions (Financial Services) Ltd responsible  for those acts?  
the regulatory background
I have taken into account the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA), Financial  Services 
and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated Activities) Order 2001 (the RAO), and the Conduct of Business 
section of the FSA Handbook (COB).
regulated activities
An activity is a regulated activity if it is an activity of a specified kind that is carried  on by way of 
business and relates to an investment of a specified kind, unless otherwise specified (section 22, 
FSMA).
Ref: DRN894638529Regulated activities  are specified in Part II of the RAO and include advising on the merits of buying or 
selling a particular  investment which  is a security or a relevant investment (article 53 RAO),  and 
making arrangements for another  person to buy or sell or subscribe for a security or relevant 
investment (article 25 RAO).  
the general  prohibition
Section 19 of FSMA says that a person may not carry on a regulated activity in the UK, or purport to 
do so, unless they are either an authorised  person or an exempt person. 
This is known as the general prohibition.
At the time of the events complained about,  Positive Solutions  was an authorised person (referred to 
as a firm in COB). That means it could carry out regulated activities without being  in breach of the 
general prohibition.
Mr Clark and Mr Rees  were neither authorised  persons nor exempt from authorisation. That means  
that if Mr Clark (or Mr Rees)  had carried out a regulated activity on his own behalf by way of business, 
he would have been in breach of the general  prohibition.  Similarly, if Mr Clark had carried out a 
regulated activity on behalf  of Clark Rees  LLP, both he and Clark  Rees LLP would have been  in 
breach of the general prohibition. 
If Mr Clark had been an appointed representative of Positive Solutions,  the position would have been 
different. He would then have been exempt from authorisation, and so he could have lawfully carried  
on regulated  activities by way of business on his own behalf (to the extent that Positive  Solutions had 
accepted responsibility for the regulated  activities he carried out). 
the approved  persons  regime
The approved persons regime  is set out in Part V of FSMA. Its aim is to protect  consumers by 
ensuring that only fit and proper individuals may lawfully carry  out certain  functions within the 
financial services industry.
At the relevant time, section 59(1) of FSMA said:
(1)  An authorised person (A) must take reasonable care to ensure  that no person performs  
a controlled function under  an arrangement entered into by A in relation to the carrying on by 
A of a regulated activity,  unless the Authority approves the performance by that person of the 
controlled function  to which the arrangement relates.
Positive Solutions was an authorised person. The act of advising on investments was a controlled 
function. I consider that Mr Clarks (and Mr Rees) Registered Individual contracts with Positive 
Solutions amounted to an arrangement entered into by Positive  Solutions in relation to the carrying on 
by Positive Solutions  of a regulated  activity.  
Positive Solutions was required to take reasonable  care to ensure that neither  Mr Clark nor Mr Rees 
gave investment advice unless they were acting in accordance with an approval  given by the FSA. 
Positive Solutions therefore arranged  for both Mr Clark and Mr Rees  to be approved  by the FSA to 
perform the controlled functions Investment Adviser (Trainee) and then Investment  Adviser in 
relation to regulated  activities  carried on by Positive Solutions. 
The approved persons regime  does not depend on an individuals  employment  status. Employees  can 
be approved  persons,  as can non-employees like Mr Clark  and Mr Rees.  
Ref: DRN894638530breach of statutory duty
At the relevant time, section 150(1) of FSMA said:
A contravention by an authorised person of a rule is actionable at the suit of a private person  
who suffers loss as a result  of the contravention, subject  to the defences and other incidents 
applying to actions for breach of statutory duty. 
(The provisions of section  150(1) of FSMA are now substantially contained in section 138D of FSMA.)
Rights of action under section 150(1) of FSMA were only available in relation to contravention of 
specific rules made by the FSA under FSMA. 
One such  rule in place at the time of the events Mr and Mrs B complain about was COB 5.3.5R,  which 
said:
A firm must take reasonable steps to ensure that, if in the course of designated investment 
business:
(a) it makes any personal  recommendation  to a private customer to:
(i) buy, sell, subscribe for or underwrite a designated investment (or to exercise  any right 
conferred by such an investment to do so); 
the advice on investments or transaction is suitable for the client. 
The FSA Glossary explained that designated investment business  included arranging  deals in 
investments and advising on investments. Those  terms had the meaning set out in the RAO.
Mr and Mrs B were both private persons under  section  150(1) of FSMA  and private customers under  
COB 5.3.5R.  Broadly, those terms  covered  all natural persons to whom  no exceptions  applied.  I am 
satisfied that no exceptions applied to Mr and Mrs B  they were  not firms, and they were not 
themselves carrying out any regulated activities by way of business. They  were  simply ordinary 
consumers.
That means that if Mr and Mrs B suffered a loss as a result  of a rule breached by Positive Solutions,  
they would have a right of action against Positive Solutions for breach of statutory duty.  They  would 
have no such right against  Mr Clark or Mr Rees, because neither Mr Clark nor Mr Rees were firms.
were the acts Mr and Mrs B complain about done  in the carrying  on of a regulated activity?
I understand that Positive Solutions does  not deny that a regulated activity  took place. It objects to my 
consideration of this complaint because it says it was not responsible for the advice Mr and Mrs B 
received  not because it says they did not receive  advice  at all. But I include this point,  both for 
completeness and because I think there might be some confusion about  the extent of the regulated 
activity that took place.
The fund Mr and Mrs B invested in is a security  or relevant investment under article 53 of the RAO. 
The products Mr and Mrs B surrendered in order to raise money to purchase the fund were also 
securities or relevant  investments. Mr and Mrs B say they were advised on both buying shares in the 
fund and on selling their existing products.  I am satisfied that they were so advised. I also note that 
the application form for their investment in the fund names an adviser.  A regulated activity   advising 
on investments  therefore took place. 
I am satisfied  that Mr Clarks advice was given by way of business.  Again, I dont  think theres  a 
dispute about  that but I mention it for completeness. I note that Stirling Mortimer paid commission in 
respect of Mr and Mrs Bs investment in the fund.
The regulated activity  of arranging deals  in investments also took place, both in relation to the 
purchase of Mr and Mrs Bs shares in the fund and in relation to the sale of their existing investments. 
Ref: DRN894638531Mr and Mrs Bs complaint  is primarily about  Mr Clarks  advice, but the advice they complain  about 
could not have been implemented unless somebody arranged deals  in investments. I think  it is 
therefore relevant for me to consider the circumstances  surrounding the arrangement of those  deals.
was Positive Solutions  responsible for the acts Mr and Mrs B complain about?
Mr and Mrs B did not deal with any employees of Positive Solutions  although Mr Clark  and Mr Rees 
were both agents of Positive Solutions, they were not Positive Solutions employees. But Positive  
Solutions might still be responsible for the advice even if none of its employees were involved. 
I have first considered  the issue  of actual authority. Positive Solutions accepts that if it had given  Mr 
Clark actual authority to recommend that Mr and Mrs B surrender their existing  investments and then 
reinvest in the Stirling Mortimer fund, it would  then be responsible for that advice. But Positive 
Solutions says it did not give Mr Clark actual  authority  to carry out those  activities.
Briefly, Positive  Solutions says:
It had not agreed  terms of business with Stirling  Mortimer (or its administrators Heritage),  and 
it would not have given  permission for any of its Registered Individuals to recommend any 
fund without terms  of business in place. 
It had not given Mr Clark or Mr Rees  permission to recommend any Stirling Mortimer fund.
It did not give Mr Clark permission to recommend  that Mr and Mrs B surrender any of their 
existing investments. 
It did not receive any commission in respect of Mr and Mrs Bs Stirling  Mortimer investment.
Mr and Mrs B have not provided me with any evidence  as to whether Mr Clark had Positive Solutions 
actual authority to make the recommendations  he did. That is not surprising. It would be very unusual 
for consumers  in Mr and Mrs Bs position to have  detailed  knowledge of the contractual  relationship 
between their adviser and his principal. 
Provisionally  and subject  to any further evidence  or arguments I might receive  I am prepared to 
accept Positive Solutions evidence that it did not give any of its
Registered Individuals permission  to recommend Stirling Mortimer products. It is impossible for 
Positive Solutions to prove that it did not give permission, but taking the evidence as a whole I think 
that is unlikely.   
Similarly, I think it unlikely that Mr Clark  followed Positive Solutions procedures in respect  of the 
surrender of their previous  investments, and I think it unlikely that Positive Solutions received 
commission. I have no reason to suspect  Positive Solutions  of failing  to disclose documents  that it has 
in its possession. I consider  that if Mr Clark  had followed Positive Solutions procedures,  Positive 
Solutions would have  a record of the surrender advice   and it says it has no such record.
In the overall circumstances, I am not persuaded that Mr Clark had Positive Solutions actual authority 
to carry out the acts Mr and Mrs B complain about. However, I am satisfied that apparent authority 
operated such  as to give rise to Positive Solutions  responsibility for the actions of Mr Clark  in this 
complaint. I am also satisfied that Positive  Solutions  is vicariously liable for Mr Clarks actions,  and 
that section  150 of FSMA provides a further route to liability. I will explain why below.
relevant case law
I have considered the leading  authorities on the common law of agency, particularly those  focusing on 
apparent authority (sometimes called  ostensible  authority) and the issues of representation and 
reliance. I have also taken into account case law on the issue of vicarious liability.
Ref: DRN894638532The case law I have considered includes:
Freeman & Lockyer v Buckhurst Properties (Mangal)  Ltd [1964] 2 QB 480
Hely-Hutchinson v Brayhead Limited [1968] 1 QB 549
Armagas Ltd v Mundogas SA (The Ocean Frost) [1985] UKHL 11
Gurtner v Beaton [1993] 2 Lloyds  Rep 369
Martin v Britannia Life Ltd [1999]  12 WLUK 726
Pacific Carriers  Limited v BNP Paribas [2004] 218 CLR 451
So v HSBC [2009] EWCA Civ 296
Various Claimants and Catholic Child Welfare Society and Others [2012] UKSC 56 (the 
Christian Brothers case)
Bilta (UK) Ltd v Nazir (No 2) [2015] UKSC 23
Cox v Ministry of Justice [2016]  UKSC  10
Mohamud v WM Morrison Supermarkets plc [2016] UKSC 11
Sino Channel Asia v Dana Shipping & Trading PTE Singapore & Another [2017]  EWCA 
Civ 1703
Frederick v Positive Solutions (Financial  Services) Ltd [2018]  EWCA Civ 431
Anderson v Sense Network Ltd [2018] EWHC 2834 (Comm); [2019] EWCA Civ 1395.
James Scott Winter  v Hockley Mint Ltd [2018] EWCA Civ 2480.
what is apparent authority?
In an agency relationship,  a principal may limit the actual authority of his agent. But if the agent acts 
outside of that actual  authority, the case law shows that a principal may still be liable to third parties  
for the agents acts if those  acts were  within  the agents apparent authority.  
This type of authority was described  by  Diplock LJ in Freeman & Lockyer  v Buckhurst  Properties 
(Mangal) Ltd [1964] 2 QB 480:
An "apparent" or "ostensible" authority,  on the other hand, is a legal relationship  between the 
principal and the contractor  created by a representation, made by the principal to the 
contractor, intended to be and in fact acted upon by the contractor, that the agent has 
authority to enter on behalf of the principal into a contract of a kind within the scope of the 
"apparent" authority, so as to render the principal liable to perform any obligations  imposed 
upon him by such contract. To the relationship so created the agent is a stranger. He need 
not be (although he generally is) aware of the existence of the representation but he must not 
purport to make the agreement as principal himself. The representation, when acted upon by 
the contractor  by entering into a contract with the agent,  operates as an estoppel, preventing 
the principal  from asserting that he is not bound by the contract. It is irrelevant whether the 
agent had actual authority to enter into the contract.
In ordinary business dealings the contractor at the time of entering into the contract  can in the 
nature of things hardly ever rely on the "actual" authority of the agent.  His information  as to 
the authority must be derived  either  from the principal  or from the agent  or from both, for they 
alone know what the agent's  actual authority is. All that the contractor  can know is what  they 
tell him, which  may or may not be true. In the ultimate analysis he relies either upon the 
representation of the principal, that is, apparent  authority, or upon  the representation of the 
agent, that is, warranty of authority..
Although Diplock LJ referred to contractors, the law on apparent  authority applies to any third party 
dealing with the agents of a principal  including consumers like Mr and Mrs B.
In Hely-Hutchinson  v Brayhead  Limited  [1968] 1 QB 549, Lord Denning said (at 583)
Ostensible  or apparent authority is the authority of an agent as it appears to others.  It often 
coincides with actual authority. Thus,  when  the board appoint one of their number to be 
managing director,  they invest him not only with implied  authority, but also with ostensible  
Ref: DRN894638533authority to do all such things as fall within the usual scope of that office. Other  people who 
see him acting as managing  director are entitled to assume that he has the usual authority of 
a managing director. But sometimes ostensible authority  exceeds  actual authority. For 
instance, when the board appoint the managing director, they may expressly limit his authority 
by saying  he is not to order goods worth more  than £500 without the sanction of the board. In 
that case his actual  authority is subject to the £500 limitation, but his ostensible  authority 
includes all the usual authority of a managing  director. The company is bound by his 
ostensible authority  in his dealings with those who do not know of the limitation. He may 
himself do the "holding-out." Thus, if he orders goods worth £1,000 and signs himself 
"Managing Director for and on behalf of the company," the company is bound  to the other 
party who does not know of the £500 limitation.  (original emphasis)
So, where  a person, by words or conduct,  represents or permits  it to be represented  that an agent has 
authority to act on his behalf  he is bound by the acts of that agent  with respect to anyone dealing with 
the agent  on the faith of any such representation, to the same extent as if the agent  had the authority 
that the agent  was represented to have, even if the agent had no such actual authority.
what kinds of representation are capable of giving rise to apparent authority?
Apparent authority cannot  arise  on the basis of representations made  by the agent  alone. For 
apparent authority to operate, there must be a representation by the principal that the agent has its 
authority to act. As Diplock LJ said in Freeman, 
The representation  which  creates "apparent" authority may take a variety  of forms of which  
the commonest is representation by conduct,  that is, by permitting the agent to act in some 
way in the conduct of the principal's business with other persons. By so doing the principal 
represents to anyone who becomes aware  that the agent is so acting  that the agent  has 
authority to enter on behalf of the principal into contracts with other persons of the kind which 
an agent so acting in the conduct of his principal's  business has usually "actual" authority to 
enter into.
In Martin, Parker J quoted the relevant principle as stated in Article 74 in Bowstead  and Reynolds on 
Agency 16th edition:
Where  a person,  by words  or conduct,  represents or permits it to be represented that another  
person has authority to act on his behalf  he is bound by the acts of that other person with 
respect to anyone  dealing with him as an agent on the faith of any such  representation, to the 
same extent as if such other person had the authority that he was represented to have,  even 
though he had no such actual authority. 
In the more recent case of Anderson, Jacobs J endorsed Parker Js approach:
As far as apparent  authority  is concerned,  it is clear  from the decision in Martin  (in particular  
paragraph 5.3.3) that, in order to establish apparent authority, it is necessary  for the claimants 
to establish a representation  made by Sense  [the alleged principal],  which was intended  to be 
acted on and which was in fact acted on by the claimants, that MFSS  [the alleged agent] was 
authorised by Sense  to give advice  in connection with the scheme
I also agree with Sense that there  is nothing in the "status" disclosure  i.e. the compulsory 
wording relating to the status of MFSS and Sense  appearing at the foot of the stationery and 
elsewhere  which can be read as containing any relevant representation as to MFSS's 
authority to do what they were doing  in this case: i.e. running the scheme  and advising in 
relation to it. The "status" disclosure did no more than identify the regulatory status of MFSS 
and Sense and the relationship between them. I did not consider that the Claimants had 
provided any persuasive reason as to how the statements on which they relied  relating to 
"status disclosure"  could  lead to the conclusion  that MFSS was authorised to provide advice 
on the scheme that was being promoted. In my view, a case of ostensible authority requires  
much more than an assertion that Sense conferred  a "badge of respectability" on MFSS. As 
Ref: DRN894638534Martin shows, it requires a representation  that there was authority to give advice of the type 
that was giventhe  relevant question is whether the firm has knowingly or even  unwittingly 
led a customer to believe  that an appointed representative or other agent is authorised to 
conduct business on its behalf  of a type that he is not in fact authorised to conduct.  
Nor is there any analogy with the facts or conclusions  in Martin. That case  was not concerned  
with any representation  alleged to arise from "status" disclosure. In Martin , the representation 
by the principal that the agent was a financial adviser acting for an insurance company was 
regarded as a sufficient representation that the adviser could advise on matters (the mortgage 
in that case) which were ancillary  to insurance products.  In the present case, there is nothing  
in the "status disclosure" which contains any representation that MFSS  or its financial 
advisers could operate or advise in connection  with a deposit  scheme  that MFSS  was 
running.
The representation may be general  in character. In Armagas, Lord Keith said (at 777):
In the commonly encountered case, the ostensible authority is general in character, arising 
when the principal  has placed  the agent in a position which in the outside world is generally 
regarded as carrying authority to enter into transactions of the kind in question. Ostensible  
general authority may also arise where the agent has had a course of dealing with a particular  
contractor and the principal  has acquiesced in this course of dealing  and honoured 
transactions arising out of it.
The representation must come from the principal.  That does not mean that the conduct  of the agent  is 
irrelevant to the representation  but the principals conduct must  be the source  of the representation.
In Sino, Gross LJ said:
the foundation of ostensible authority  is the representation of the principal and "it is generally 
trite law that an employee/agent cannot purport to create his own ostensible authority".  
However, though a communication is made directly (or immediately) by the agent, it may be 
inferred that the representation is that of the principal,  arising from his conduct .
He then referred to Hely-Hutchinson,  in which Lord Pearson said (at 593):
It is, therefore, necessary  in order to make a case  of ostensible authority to show in some 
way that such communication  which is made directly by the agent is made ultimately by the 
[principal]. That may be shown by inference from the conduct of the [principal]  in the particular  
case by, for instance, placing the agent in a position where he can hold himself out as their 
agent and acquiescing  in his activities, so that it can be said they have in effect caused the 
representation to be made.  They are responsible for it and, in the contemplation  of law, they 
are to be taken to have made the representation to the outside contractor.
Gross LJ also referred  to an Australian judgement,  Pacific  Carriers,  which said (at 38):
The holding out might result from permitting a person  to act in a certain  manner without 
taking proper safeguards against misrepresentation.
In reaching his conclusion in Sino, Gross LJ referred to Gurtner, at p379, where Neill LJ said:
"The development of the doctrine [of apparent authority] has been based in part upon the 
principle that where the Court has to decide which of two innocent parties  is to suffer from the 
wrongdoing of a third party the Court will incline  towards placing the burden upon the party 
who was responsible  for putting the wrongdoer in the position in which he could  commit the 
wrong."
Ref: DRN894638535must the third party  rely on the representation?
The principals representation that its agent  has its authority to act on its behalf will only fix the 
principal with liability  to the third party (here Mr and Mrs B) if the third party relied  on that 
representation.
In Anderson, Jacobs J summarised the approach to be taken  as to whether or not there is sufficient 
evidence of reliance on the representation  as follows:
a relevant  ingredient of a case based on apparent authority is reliance  on the faith of the 
representation alleged: see Bowstead  and Reynolds on Agency  21st edition, paragraph [8-
010] and [8-024]; Martin  paragraph 5.3.3. In Martin, Jonathan Parker J. held that the relevant  
representation in that case (namely that the adviser  was authorised to give financial advice 
concerning a remortgage of the property) was acted on by the plaintiffs in that each of them 
proceeded throughout on the footing that in giving  advice [the adviser]  was acting in every 
respect as the agent of [the alleged principal] with authority from [the alleged principal]  so to 
act.
On the particular facts of that case, Jacobs J placed weight on the fact the majority of the Claimants  
had never  heard of the Defendant, and that those who had heard of it made  their decision to invest  in 
the relevant scheme  before  they saw the stationery which they later said contained  the representation 
on which they relied.
As the case law makes  clear, whether or not a claimant has relied on a representation is very much 
dependent on the circumstances of that individual  case. 
Here, I must consider  whether, on the facts  of this individual  case:
Positive Solutions made a representation to Mr and Mrs B that Mr Clark  had Positive 
Solutions authority to act on its behalf  in carrying  out the activities they now complain about, 
and
Mr and Mrs B relied on that representation in entering into the transactions  they now complain 
about.
Having considered  the law in this area, including Lord Keiths comments  in Armagas , so far as 
representations are concerned I need  to decide  whether Positive  Solutions placed Mr Clark in a 
position which  would  objectively generally be regarded  as carrying its authority to enter into 
transactions such as the Stirling Mortimer investment. Put another way, did Positive Solutions 
knowingly  or even  unwittingly  lead Mr and Mrs B to believe that Mr Clark  was authorised to 
conduct business on its behalf  of a type (namely, advising and arranging  investment sales and the 
purchase of shares  in the fund) that he was not in fact authorised to conduct?
I also need  to decide whether Mr and Mrs B relied  on any representation Positive  Solutions made. 
Having considered  Parker Js comments in Martin , if Mr and Mrs B proceeded throughout  on the 
footing that in giving advice  Mr Clark  was acting in every respect  as the agent of Positive  Solutions 
with authority from Positive Solutions  so to act, then this suggests I should  conclude that Mr and Mrs 
B relied on Positive Solutions representation.
who was Mr Clark  acting for when  he carried out the acts complained  of? 
Positive Solutions position  is that when  Mr Clark advised Mr and Mrs B to invest  in the fund, he was 
acting on behalf of Clark  Rees LLP and not on behalf of Positive Solutions.
I have only seen  two pieces of documentary evidence that suggest  Mr Clark might have been acting 
on behalf of Clark Rees LLP when he advised Mr and Mrs B to invest  in the fund:
Ref: DRN894638536The fund update, which was printed on paper marked Clark Rees. The update referred to 
our recommendation that Mr and Mrs B invest in the fund.
Mr Clarks 24 August  2006 letter to Mr B, on Clark  Rees LLPs letterhead, promoting the 
prestigious Stirling Mortimer Property Fund. (The fund Mr and Mrs B ultimately invested  in 
was a different Stirling Mortimer fund.) 
I put very little weight on the fund update  as indicative of the capacity in which  Mr Clark gave advice. 
Although undated, it appears the update  was produced some time after the advice was given. In 
addition, I think that by the time of the update Mr Clark is likely to have realised that Mr and Mrs B had 
suffered significant loss as a result of his advice  and so I treat any comments he made  at that time 
with considerable caution.
Although the August 2006 promotion letter was on Clark Rees  LLP headed paper, given the unusual 
circumstances here I dont  think that that is sufficient for me to conclude that Mr Clark was acting on 
behalf of Clark Rees LLP. I note:
In June 2005, Nicky  Calder of Positive  Solutions confirmed to Mr Rees that Clark  Rees LLP  
had been registered as a trading style of Positive Solutions. I acknowledge that Positive  
Solutions now says that permission was given in error, because  it does not usually  allow 
trading style names that end with LLP or ltd.
In October  2006,  Doug  Hudson of Positive Solutions reminded Mr Clark that Mr Clarks 
communications must show  fully that Clark Rees [without the limited liability descriptor]  is a 
trading style of Positive  Solutions . Mr Hudsons email implies  that at some point between 
June 2005 and October  2006 Positive Solutions had rescinded its permission to Mr Rees that 
he may say Clark Rees LLP  was a trading  style of Positive  Solutions. But I do not know  
when that permission was rescinded  and in particular  I have seen nothing to show that 
permission was rescinded before Mr Clarks letter to Mr and Mrs B on 24 August 2006.  
Mr and Mrs B told us they believed  Mr Clark had to set up his own company  in order to act 
as a Positive Solutions Independent Financial adviser. I think they were confused about the 
status of Clark Rees  LLP  but I also think Positive Solutions actions contributed to that 
confusion. In the circumstances,  I dont  think Mr and Mrs Bs comments  about Mr Clarks 
company amount to evidence of a belief  on their part that he was not acting on behalf of 
Positive Solutions. 
The picture  is unclear, but on balance  I consider it more  likely than not that Mr Clark  was acting on 
behalf of Positive Solutions (rather than as a member  of Clark Rees LLP)  throughout his dealings with 
Mr and Mrs B in 2006 and 2007. I say that because:
Mr and Mrs Bs complaint is about  the surrender of their existing investments as well as the 
recommendation they invest in Stirling Mortimer. In writing to other parties  in respect of the 
surrender of Mr and Mrs Bs existing  investments,  Mr Clark  identified himself with reference  to 
Positive Solutions, not Clark Rees LLP. For example,  Mr Clark  wrote to Sterling on 8 
February 2007 to enclose Mr and Mrs Bs completed encashment letter  for their Sterling 
Investment Bond.  Mr Clarks letter was on Positive Solutions notepaper, and identified him as 
an independent financial adviser with Positive Solutions.
Whether or not Mr Clark had Positive Solutions authority to use its notepaper to write to the 
product providers,  his behaviour suggests that when he did so he was acting on behalf of 
Positive Solutions rather than in his capacity as a member of Clark Rees LLP.
The documents produced  by third parties (AIG and Skandia) in relation to Mr and Mrs Bs 
previous investments name Mr and Mrs Bs adviser as Positive  Solutions (Fin.Serv.) Ltd  
Paul Clark and Positive Sols (FS) Ltd (P Clark) . They do not identify Mr Clark with 
Ref: DRN894638537reference to Clark Rees LLP. Whilst this is not determinative,  the established position was 
that Mr Clark acted on behalf of Positive Solutions in giving his advice. 
If Mr Clark had been acting for anybody other than Positive  Solutions, whether for himself or 
for a third party like Clark Rees  LLP, then he would have been  in breach of the general 
prohibition. It is of course possible that Mr Clark was breaking the law, but on balance I think it 
more likely  that he was acting on behalf  of Positive Solutions  and doing exactly what he told 
Mr and Mrs B, Sterling, and the other product providers that he was doing.
I accept Positive Solutions evidence that it did not receive commission in respect of Mr Clarks advice 
that Mr and Mrs B invest  in the Stirling Mortimer fund. Heritage told us that it believed  the commission  
was paid into an account in the name of Clark  Rees  LLP, and nobody  has suggested Heritage was 
wrong about  that. In my experience, the receipt of commission is very often an indicator of 
responsibility for advice. But it is not determinative  of the capacity in which a financial adviser  gives 
investment advice.
I have also considered the involvement of Mr Rees. At the time,  Mr Rees was both a Registered  
Individual of Positive Solutions and a partner (together with Mr Clark) in Clark Rees LLP.
The application form for Mr and Mrs Bs new Stirling Mortimer investment suggests  that at least some  
of the arrangement was done by Mr Rees, rather than by Mr Clark. That suggests  a degree of co-
operation between Mr Clark and Mr Rees in the sales process, which does  support Positive Solutions 
contention that Clark Rees LLP was involved in the sale of Mr and Mrs Bs investment in the fund.
However, on the Stirling Mortimer  application form, Mr Rees  identified himself by reference to Positive 
Solutions and not by reference to Clark Rees LLP. It is not clear whether Mr and Mrs B saw the whole  
of the application form for their Stirling  Mortimer  investment. (Positive Solutions says it is aware  of 
other cases in which Mr Clark or Mr Rees added details to forms after they were  signed  by the 
applicants; Mr and Mrs B say they believe they did see the whole form). But regardless of whether Mr 
and Mrs B saw this part of the form, I consider that it shows  Mr Rees was identifying himself to Stirling 
Mortimer as a person  acting  on behalf of Positive Solutions. 
It appears that Stirling Mortimer would  not have  allowed the investment to go ahead  at all unless it 
was satisfied  that Mr and Mrs B were investors to whom qualified investment schemes  could lawfully 
be promoted. Stirling Mortimer  was satisfied  in this case that Mr and Mrs B were  eligible to receive the 
promotion because it believed that an authorised person  had signed  the sophisticated investors 
certificate. Mr Rees  was not himself an authorised person, so I consider it highly likely that Stirling 
Mortimer believed Mr Rees  signed  the certificate  on behalf  of Positive Solutions (which was an 
authorised person).   
Overall, I am not satisfied that any of the acts Mr and Mrs B complain of were  carried out by or on 
behalf of Clark Rees LLP. My conclusion is that all of the acts they complain about were carried  out 
by Mr Clark or Mr Rees on behalf of Positive Solutions. 
did Positive Solutions represent to Mr and Mrs B that Mr Clark  had the relevant  authority?
This matter  is not straightforward. Much of the factual evidence  is conflicting. There  is no single  piece 
of evidence that I can point  to and say that because of that particular piece of evidence, Positive 
Solutions is or is not responsible for the acts Mr and Mrs B complain  of.
On the one hand, Mr Clarks actions appear to have been entirely outside the actual authority Positive 
Solutions gave him; Positive Solutions  received no commission or other benefit  for the advice; Mr and 
Mrs Bs relationship  with Mr Clark long predated either of their relationships with Positive  Solutions; 
and there  is some evidence suggesting that Mr Clark  might have been (unlawfully)  giving advice on 
behalf of Clark Rees LLP rather  than on behalf of Positive Solutions.
Ref: DRN894638538On the other hand, Mr and Mrs Bs say their investment portfolio was serviced by Positive  Solutions 
from 2003  until July 2007; Positive  Solutions provided  them with a personal investment account  on its 
website from which to view their investment status;  Positive  Solutions was fully aware of the 
liquidation of their portfolio; and the reinvestment they complain about was made  by one of Positive 
Solutions representatives  using Positive Solutions investment  name  and FSA licence. Mr and Mrs B 
do not see how anyone can argue  that we would  have understood differently to the fact that we were 
customers of Positive Solutions in relation to the acts they complain about.
But the question  I need to decide here is not just did Mr and Mrs B believe that Positive Solutions 
was responsible for the advice they received?, or even  did Mr and Mrs B reasonably believe that 
Positive Solutions was responsible for the advice they received?. Mr and Mrs Bs belief is relevant  to 
the issue  of whether they relied  on any representation from Positive  Solutions, but it is far from the 
whole story.
Having considered  all the facts in this case I am persuaded on balance that I have jurisdiction to 
consider the complaint against Positive Solutions on the basis  that Mr Clark was acting as its agent 
when he advised  Mr and Mrs B to invest in Stirling  Mortimer  by reason of apparent authority.
Briefly, I am provisionally satisfied that:
Positive Solutions represented to Mr and Mrs B that Mr Clark had its authority to act on its 
behalf as a financial  adviser, and placed him in the position which in the outside world is 
generally regarded as having authority to carry out the acts Mr and Mrs B now complain 
about.
The surrender and reinvestment  advice  that Mr and Mrs B complain about were activities 
which in the outside world are generally regarded as being activities  which financial advisers 
have authority to carry out.
Positive Solutions intended Mr and Mrs B to act on its representations.
Mr and Mrs B reasonably  relied on Positive Solutions representations that Mr Clark  had 
Positive Solutions authority to act on its behalf in recommending that they surrender their 
existing investments  and reinvest  in the Stirling  Mortimer fund.  
I give more details of those findings  below.
Positive Solutions representations  
I understand that Positive Solutions disputes the relevance of anything  that happened before  Mr Clark  
gave his surrender and reinvestment advice  in late 2006 / early  2007.  However,  having carefully 
considered the legal principles on apparent  authority  I conclude that evidence showing whether 
Positive Solutions placed Mr Clark in a position which in the outside world  is generally regarded as 
carrying authority to enter into transactions of the kind in question is relevant  to my determination  of 
whether Positive Solutions made representations to Mr and Mrs B. I also consider that evidence as to 
transactions carried out by Mr Clark  and later honoured by Positive  Solutions is relevant.  Im therefore 
satisfied that it is right for me to examine the whole  of Mr and Mrs Bs relationship  with Positive 
Solutions, as well as the whole of the circumstances  of Mr Clarks position. 
In reaching my conclusion that Positive Solutions represented to Mr and Mrs B that Mr Clark  had its 
authority to act on his behalf  as a financial  adviser, I note:
Positive Solutions placed Mr Clark in a position which would, in the outside world, generally 
be regarded as having authority to carry out the acts Mr and Mrs B complain about.  In 
particular:
Ref: DRN894638539oPositive Solutions successfully  applied  to the FSA for both Mr Clark  and Mr Rees 
names to appear  on the FSA Register  with respect  to Positive Solutions.  Mr Clarks 
name appeared between June 2003 and October 2007, and Mr Rees  name 
appeared between February 2003 and October 2007. They were approved to carry  
out the controlled function Investment Adviser (Trainee)  and then Investment 
Adviser  on behalf  of Positive Solutions. Without that approval, they could not lawfully 
have carried out any regulated activities at all (to do so would have been  in breach of 
the general  prohibition). Positive Solutions therefore represented to the world  that Mr 
Clark had its authority  to act on its behalf as an investment adviser. I consider that 
Armagas suggests this point is relevant to establishing whether or not Positive  
Solutions is fixed with liability by reason of apparent authority, but it is not 
determinative.
I consider that the giving  of investment advice  on products  such  as the Stirling  
Mortimer fund falls squarely within the class of activities that financial  advisers are 
usually authorised  to do. Positive Solutions partnership code  noted that one of the 
key activities of its IFA partners was to give impartial,  independent financial advice. 
Mr Clark was one of its IFA partners, and I therefore consider that Positive Solutions 
represented to the world that Mr Clark would give such advice.
oThe October 2006  correspondence  between  Mr Clark and Mr Hudson  shows that 
Positive Solutions had actual knowledge  that Mr Clark was promoting a different 
Stirling Mortimer fund (that is, another fund from an institution that was not on 
Positive Solutions approved list). Mr Hudsons email was expressly more concerned  
with the manner  in which Mr Clark  described  himself than it was with the advertised 
fund or institution. I see nothing in Mr Hudsons email to suggest that Mr Hudson  a 
senior member  of Positive Solutions compliance  team  thought  that promoting the 
fund was not the sort of activity he would expect from a financial adviser in Mr Clarks 
position. I consider  that is consistent with the argument  that Positive Solutions placed  
Mr Clark in a position that would  generally be regarded as having  the authority  to 
recommend investments, whether or not those investments were  on any internal 
Positive Solutions list of approved  products or institutions.
oI acknowledge that Positive Solutions says that the manner in which Mr Clark gave 
his advice  to Mr and Mrs B cannot possibly  be regarded as ordinary Positive  
Solutions business being carried  out in the usual  way. It says that because Mr Clark  
gave Mr and Mrs B oral advice  only  he did not produce a suitability  letter, or give 
them terms of business, or do any of the other things that financial advisers would  
normally be expected  to do. I entirely  accept that the manner in which  Mr Clark gave 
his advice  had shortcomings. But as the case law shows, an agents shortcomings do 
not necessarily  prevent  a principal from being fixed with liability for the agents actions 
by reason of apparent  authority. 
In recommending that Mr and Mrs B surrender their existing policies  including the 
Sterling policy Mr Clark had sold to them whilst  acting as Positive Solutions agent  I 
consider that Mr Clark was carrying out a type of activity that Positive  Solutions 
allowed him to do. Positive Solutions did give its Registered Individuals  actual 
authority to recommend  the surrender of existing  investments if the Registered 
Individuals carried out certain steps. Mr Clark  failed  to carry out those steps with 
respect to Mr and Mrs Bs existing investments. So, although  the manner  in which  Mr 
Clark gave the surrender  advice was not authorised  by Positive Solutions, the activity  
of giving  surrender advice was something that Positive Solutions authorised its 
Registered Individuals to do. But from Mr and Mrs Bs perspective  and from the 
perspective of the rest of the outside world, including  the existing policy  providers  
the steps Positive Solutions required Mr Clark to carry out would  have been invisible. 
Ref: DRN894638540In other words, Mr Clark was giving surrender  advice  in his capacity as an 
independent financial  adviser of Positive Solutions. Surrender advice is something 
that the outside  world  would usually expect an independent  financial adviser would  
have authority to give to his principals customers. Positive Solutions placed Mr Clark 
in a position  such that it appeared to Mr and Mrs B, as customers of Positive 
Solutions, that Positive Solutions  had given  Mr Clark actual  authority to recommend 
surrenders.
Mr Clarks advice that Mr and Mrs B should reinvest in a different fund is also exactly  
the sort of activity that financial advisers usually  undertake. Again, the manner in 
which Mr Clark  carried out the activity differed from the procedures Positive  Solutions 
required him to follow. Stirling Mortimer  was not on Positive Solutions list of approved 
institutions  and so Positive Solutions did not give Mr Clark actual authority to 
recommend Stirling Mortimers  products  unless Stirling Mortimer was first added  to 
that list. However, Mr Clarks failure to choose an institution approved by Positive 
Solutions would have  been  invisible to Mr and Mrs B. They did not know  and could 
not have known  precisely what the arrangements were between Mr Clark and 
Positive Solutions. They could  not have  known  which  institutions were  on Positive  
Solutions list, and so again  I consider  that Positive Solutions had placed Mr Clark in 
a position such that it appeared  to Mr and Mrs B that Positive Solutions had given Mr 
Clark actual authority to recommend Stirling  Mortimer products.     
I dont know whether Mr and Mrs B noticed in 2006 or 2007  that Mr Clark had not 
produced a fact find or suitability  letter. After this length of time  and all the 
subsequent events  there seems little point in my asking  them for their comments  on 
that issue. But in any event, I dont think Mr Clarks failure to produce documents  did 
anything to suggest to them that Positive Solutions was not taking responsibility for 
his advice.
oThe application form for Mr and Mrs Bs Stirling Mortimer investment names  Positive 
Solutions as Mr and Mrs Bs investment adviser, and quotes Positive  Solutions FSA 
number. I accept that this form was completed by Mr Clark and/or Mr Rees,  and not 
by Positive Solutions.  But I consider that in appointing Mr Clark and Mr Rees as 
Registered Individuals, Positive Solutions put them in the position  in which they could  
tell product providers like Stirling Mortimer that they were indeed  Positive Solutions 
financial advisers.  If Stirling  Mortimer  had checked the FSA Register,  it would  have 
seen that Mr Clark and Mr Rees did indeed  appear as approved by the FSA to carry  
out the controlled function of investment advice on behalf of Positive Solutions.
I do not suggest that Positive  Solutions should be held liable for all of Mr Clarks  acts or 
omissions. But I do consider  that it may be responsible for acts or omissions  involving the 
kind of transactions that Positive  Solutions had represented that he had the authority  to carry 
out.
The circumstances of this complaint are different  to the circumstances in Anderson. In 
Anderson, the regulatory position was different  because the agent was an appointed 
representative of the principal firm. That appointed representative  was operating a Ponzi 
scheme  accepting  deposits from participants in the scheme, and then using those deposits  
to make payments to other investors. Investment advisers  are not usually authorised to 
accept deposits on behalf of their principals (and they are certainly  not authorised to operate  
Ponzi schemes). But Mr Clark did not do either  of those things. Instead, Mr Clark gave 
investment advice to Mr and Mrs B to surrender  their existing investments and reinvest 
elsewhere. That is exactly  the sort of thing that investment advisers are usually  authorised to 
do. 
Accepting deposits was not within the usual  activity  of Sense Network (the principal in the 
Anderson case), and nor was operating  a Ponzi scheme. In contrast, the activity of giving 
Ref: DRN894638541regulated investment advice is very much the usual activity  of Positive  Solutions (Financial 
Services) Ltd  as even  its name suggests.
In my view,  another key difference between the circumstances in Anderson and the 
circumstances here is that several  of the lead claimants  in Anderson accepted that they had 
never heard of the defendant,  Sense  Network. Of those who did allege that they had relied on 
a representation  that Sense  Network was taking responsibility for the advice, none alleged 
that Sense Network had previously taken responsibility  for an activity  of the same type as the 
one they complained of. But in Mr and Mrs Bs case, they had not only heard of Positive 
Solutions, they had been its clients for several years.  Mr and Mrs B had previously  received 
regulated investment advice from Mr Clark in his capacity as a financial adviser of Positive  
Solutions (the 2005 Sterling  advice).  Their complaint is about further investment advice  and 
indeed some of the advice they complain about is the advice to surrender the Sterling bond.
In addition, in Anderson Jacobs J made the point that  unlike in Martin   none of the lead 
claimants were  given advice to surrender regulated  investments with a view to investing in the 
scheme. In my view, the facts of Mr and Mrs Bs case are much closer to the facts  in Martin. 
As in Martin, Mr Clark advised Mr and Mrs B to surrender existing regulated investments in 
order to reinvest in a new investment product. This complaint and Martin are both about  the 
regulated activity of advising  on investments;  they are not about the activity of accepting 
deposits. 
In addition to appointing Mr Clark as its agent,  I consider that Positive Solutions own conduct  
represented to Mr and Mrs B that Mr Clark  had its authority to carry out the acts they 
complain about. In particular:
oPositive Solutions gave Mr and Mrs B access to its website portal, listing their 
investments. As Ive said, its unclear  whether they accessed the portal directly  or 
through Mr Clark (though I note they say they accessed the portal  themselves). But in 
any event Im satisfied they knew that they could access Positive Solutions portal 
directly. As at December  2004, the portal showed Positive Solutions logo together 
with the value  of investments recommended by Mr Clark. In isolation this is not a 
strong point, but I consider it does show that Positive Solutions represented  to Mr and 
Mrs B that Mr Clark was Positive  Solutions agent in respect of their investments.
oIn 2005 Mr Clark gave Mr and Mrs B investment advice in his capacity as a Positive 
Solutions financial  adviser, and recommended  that they invest in a Sterling bond. At 
the time, Positive Solutions accepted responsibility  for Mr Clarks actions (though  
Positive Solutions does not accept that Mr Clark acted on its behalf when  he later 
recommended that Mr and Mrs B surrender that same investment bond). 
I consider Mr and Mrs B would reasonably have concluded from Positive Solutions 
conduct in 2005 that it had given Mr Clark authority to act on its behalf as an 
investment adviser. I appreciate  that a 2005 representation does not necessarily 
imply that the situation is the same in 2006 or 2007, but I still consider that Positive  
Solutions 2005 conduct is relevant to my consideration of the facts  of this case. 
Taken as a whole, I consider there is a course of dealing  in which Positive Solutions 
took responsibility for the actions of Mr Clark in respect of Mr and Mrs Bs 
investments.
I also consider  that some of Positive Solutions  omissions amount to a representation by 
conduct that Mr Clark did have  the authority  to give the investment advice  that Mr and Mrs B 
now complain about.  In particular:
Positive Solutions knew that other organisations  believed Mr Clark to be acting on 
behalf of Positive Solutions in respect of giving financial  advice on Mr and Mrs Bs 
existing policies. For example, AIG wrote  to Positive Solutions head office in 
Ref: DRN894638542Newcastle on 3 October 2003 to say that Positive Solutions  (Fin.Serv.)  Ltd  P Clark 
is the servicing agent and financial adviser for [Mr and Mrs Bs AIG] policy. That 
letter was copied to Mr and Mrs B.
I consider that the term financial adviser  in respect  of a specific policy is usually 
understood to mean that the adviser named is expected to give financial advice in 
respect of that policy.  So, the adviser  might  recommend fund switches, or indeed the 
full surrender of the policy. Positive  Solutions now says that Mr Clark did not in fact 
have its authority to recommend the full surrender  of Mr and Mrs Bs policies  unless 
he first followed a specific procedure. But it did not tell Mr and Mrs B that. Instead, 
Positive Solutions allowed  Mr and Mrs B to believe  that Mr Clark  was acting on behalf 
of Positive Solutions  as their financial  adviser  in respect of their AIG policy, without 
communicating to Mr and Mrs B any restrictions  on the authority given  to him. 
Positive Solutions therefore allowed Mr Clarks (and/or AIGs) representation that 
Mr Clark was acting on behalf of Positive Solutions as a financial adviser in respect of 
their AIG policy to be perpetuated.
I am not saying that I think Positive Solutions was required to tell Mr and Mrs B about 
the restrictions on the authority  it gave Mr Clark, nor am I saying that I believe 
Positive Solutions failure to communicate the scope of Mr Clarks  authority somehow 
caused Mr and Mrs B to suffer the losses they did. I merely make the point that if 
Positive Solutions had been clearer about the limits  of the actual authority it gave to 
its agents, it would have been far more difficult for Mr and Mrs B to have reasonably 
concluded that Mr Clark had Positive Solutions  actual authority  to give the advice  he 
did.
oSimilarly, whilst Positive  Solutions  accepted responsibility for Mr Clarks advice  that 
they invest in the Sterling bond in 2005, it did not tell them that it had placed  any 
restrictions on the scope of his advice. So, when Mr Clark  later recommended that Mr 
and Mrs B surrender that same investment bond, I consider that it was reasonable  for 
them to believe  that Positive Solutions was still taking responsibility for investment 
advice in respect  of the bond.
oIn early 2007, Positive Solutions received letters from third party  product providers  
(including Zurich and Skandia) which  clearly showed that the third parties were acting 
on the basis that Mr Clark of Positive Solutions was Mr and Mrs Bs financial 
adviser. Mr and Mrs B knew about those letters, because they were copied in to 
some of them. I therefore  consider that Positive Solutions knew that it was being  
referred to as Mr and Mrs Bs financial  adviser  in respect of those surrenders,  but it 
does not appear to have contacted Mr and Mrs B or Mr Clark to clarify  the position.
In my view, Positive Solutions conduct was the source of various representations by Mr Clark  
that he had Positive Solutions authority to carry out the acts Mr and Mrs B complain about. In 
particular:
oMr and Mrs B told us we understood  Paul Clark  was advising us in his capacity as an 
Independent Financial  Adviser at Positive Solutions. That understanding  is not 
surprising  Positive Solutions Terms of Business made clear  that Mr Clarks role 
was indeed to act as a financial  adviser. I accept that Mr and Mrs B say they didnt  
see Positive Solutions Terms of Business,  but I note that the contract between  Mr 
Clark and Positive Solutions required him to provide those  Terms of Business  to his 
clients. So, in telling Mr and Mrs B that he was a Positive Solutions financial adviser, 
I consider that Mr Clark was acting on Positive Solutions  instructions  and therefore 
Positive Solutions was the source of Mr Clarks  representation that he was an 
independent financial  adviser of Positive Solutions.
Ref: DRN894638543oMr and Mrs B completed Positive Solutions  Transfer of Servicing Request forms in 
2004 (and presumably also in 2003). I consider  those  forms  are likely  to have been 
given to Mr and Mrs B by Mr Clark.  But Positive Solutions would have provided the 
forms to Mr Clark, presumably with the intention that he used them  in precisely the 
way he did use them.
I consider that in providing the Positive Solutions branded transfer forms to Mr Clark,  
Positive Solutions caused Mr Clark  to make a representation to Mr and Mrs B that 
Positive Solutions authorised him to act on its behalf as a financial adviser.  
oMr and Mrs B say they believed Mr Clark had to set up a company  in order to be a 
Positive Solutions Independent Financial Adviser. 
I consider their belief was reasonable. I understand that at the time, the majority  
and possibly  all  of Positive Solutions Registered  Individuals gave their advice 
under a trading  name  of Positive Solutions. 
Again, I accept that that representation was given  by Mr Clark, and not directly  by 
Positive Solutions itself.  But Positive Solutions gave Mr Clark permission  to use the 
trading name Clark Rees LLP in respect of the business he did on its behalf. I 
therefore infer from Positive Solutions conduct that Positive Solutions caused Mr 
Clark to represent to Mr and Mrs B that Positive Solutions took responsibility  for 
business conducted under  the trading name Clark  Rees LLP.
I do not think  that this representation  alone  would be sufficient to fix Positive  
Solutions with responsibility for all the actions of Clark Rees LLP. But again, it does 
form part of the factual background.
I note that Positive  Solutions says it give permission for the name  Clark Rees  LLP to 
be used by mistake. But I see no reason why Mr and Mrs B should be disadvantaged  
by that mistake.
Positive Solutions provided Mr Clark  with stationery bearing its own branding. The 
letterhead included  Positive Solutions  logo, registered address and company 
number. It also included the words Paul Clark,  Independent Financial Adviser and 
the address of the Cardiff  office that Mr Clark  worked  from.  (I understand from 
responses to my first provisional decision  that although  Positive  Solutions did have a 
Cardiff office, Mr Clark did not work  from that building.)
Mr Clark used Positive Solutions stationery to write to Sterling in February 2007 to 
request that Mr and Mrs Bs Sterling investment  be surrendered.  I think it likely that 
Mr Clark also used Positive Solutions stationery to write  to the other product 
providers, including Skandia. He therefore represented  to Sterling and to Skandia that 
he was acting  on behalf of Positive Solutions in requesting the surrender  of Mr and 
Mrs Bs investments. Positive Solutions provided Mr Clark with the stationery he used 
to so hold himself out.
It is not clear whether Mr or Mrs B saw Mr Clarks letters to the product providers, but 
I know Mrs B did see Skandias response. That response was addressed directly  to 
her, confirmed that Skandia had acted on her instructions, and named  Positive  Sols 
(FS) Ltd (P Clark) as her financial adviser. 
The stationery issue is not determinative. In itself, the stationery may have done  little 
more than provide a badge  of respectability for Mr Clark and Mr Rees.  But, taken 
together with all of Positive Solutions other representations,  I consider that the 
stationery is a relevant  factor to be taken into account in assessing how Mr Clarks 
relationship with the outside world would appear to Mr and Mrs B.
Ref: DRN894638544Positive Solutions intention that Mr and Mrs B should act on its representations
I consider that it was clearly in Positive Solutions  interest for the general public, including Mr and Mrs 
B, to understand that it was taking responsibility for the advice given by its financial advisers. I am 
satisfied that Positive  Solutions  intended  Mr and Mrs B to act on its representation that Mr Clark was 
its financial adviser  as indeed they did in respect of Mr Clarks January 2005 recommendation for 
the Sterling bond.
I further consider  that the provision of financial advice was a key part of Positive Solutions business. 
It said in its terms of business that its partners would  give impartial,  independent financial advice. I 
do not see how Positive  Solutions could  have  carried out its business  activities at all if the general  
public had not treated Registered Individuals  like Mr Clark as having authority  to give investment 
advice on behalf of Positive Solutions.
I accept that not all of Positive Solutions representations were made  with the intention that 
consumers like Mr and Mrs B would rely on them.  For example, Positive  Solutions  agreement that Mr 
Clark could use the trading name Clark Rees LLP for his Positive Solutions work  appears to have 
been given by mistake   so it is very hard for me to make a finding  as to what  Positive Solutions 
intended by that permission. However, as Jacobs J noted in Anderson,  if a principal  unwittingly led a 
customer to believe that an agent was authorised to conduct business on its behalf of a type that the 
agent was not in fact authorised to conduct, the principal may still be fixed with liability  for the act by 
reason of apparent authority.
did Mr and Mrs B rely on Positive Solutions representation?
I am satisfied  that Mr and Mrs B proceeded on the footing that when Mr Clark gave surrender and 
reinvestment advice to them in 2006 and 2007 he was acting  in every respect as the agent  of Positive 
Solutions with authority  from Positive Solutions to so act. I am also satisfied that Mr and Mrs B acted 
reasonably in doing so.
In saying  that, I note:
Mr and Mrs Bs evidence is that as husband and wife investors caught  in the middle  of this, it 
was our understanding  that from 2003 until we signed another set of Authorising letters in 
October 2007  we were being  advised by representatives of Positive  Solutions. They say 
that as a result of the documents they received from 2003 onwards,  we understood Paul 
Clark was advising  us in his capacity as an Independent Financial Adviser at Positive  
Solutions. They  also drew my attention to the fact that in 2006 all correspondence from 
Clark Rees including [the mailshot promoting a Stirling Mortimer investment]  contained  the 
words at the bottom Clark Rees  LLP is a trading style of Positive  Solutions (Financial  
Services) Ltd who are authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority. I 
consider their evidence to be plausible  and persuasive, and I accept  it.
Mr and Mrs B had dealt with Mr Clark,  in his capacity as a financial adviser  for Positive 
Solutions, for some years. Unlike some of the claimants in Anderson,  this is not a case  in 
which Mr and Mrs B had never heard of the principal  firm. Instead, Mr and Mrs B had received 
correspondence over a period  of several  years, from several different entities (Mr Clark  and 
product providers) representing that Mr Clark  was one of Positive Solutions financial 
advisers. That representation was true; he was indeed one of Positive  Solutions  advisers.
Mr and Mrs B had previously purchased  a Sterling investment  on Mr Clarks advice. Positive 
Solutions took responsibility for that advice. In following Mr Clarks  advice in respect of the 
surrenders and Sterling Mortimer reinvestment, Mr and Mrs Bs behaviour was consistent with 
their previous  behaviour. 
Ref: DRN894638545I think it highly unlikely that Mr and Mrs B would  have chosen to follow Mr Clarks surrender 
and reinvestment advice if they had realised  that he was acting  outside of his actual authority.  
As Mr and Mrs B have pointed out, if Mr Clark was not acting on behalf of Positive  Solutions 
(or another authorised  firm) then he could not have lawfully given any investment  advice by 
way of business. In the circumstances, I do not believe that Mr and Mrs B would have 
followed Mr Clarks advice if Positive Solutions had not put him in the position to act as 
investment adviser.
I am therefore satisfied that Mr and Mrs B reasonably relied on Positive  Solutions representations 
that Mr Clark had its authority to give the advice  he did in respect of both the surrenders and the 
reinvestment.
Ive noted Positive Solutions comment that:
the evidence  in this case  is that Mr and Mrs [B] understood  they were  dealing with Clark 
Rees LLP and they were happy to do so. If not, we do not consider that Mr and Mrs [B] would  
have been happy to write a cheque for £300,000 in the same meeting  that oral advice only 
had been given. Any person understanding that they were dealing with a financial adviser 
authorised by network would expect a suitability and advice letter  to be given on the 
principals headed paper  setting out the rationale  for the investment  in great detail. Being 
asked to provide a cheque for £300,000 to invest in a foreign property scheme  without any 
written advice should have set some very serious alarm bells ringing.
I have explained above why I am satisfied that Mr Clark  was not acting for Clark Rees LLP when he 
advised Mr and Mrs B.
In my view,  Mrs and Mrs Bs conduct  in giving a cheque to Mr Clark in these  circumstances shows 
only that they trusted  Mr Clark   it does not say anything about who they believed  he was acting for. 
I do not agree with Positive Solutions that any person  who believed  they were  dealing with a 
network-authorised financial adviser would expect to receive a suitability letter on the principals 
headed paper. Certainly any person familiar  with the FSAs rules on the Conduct of Business would 
have had that expectation. But Ive seen nothing to suggest  that Mr and Mrs B did have any familiarity  
with the FSAs  rules.
Mr and Mrs B had many years of investment experience.  I know they received suitability  letters  in the 
past for at least some of their previous investments, and indeed Positive Solutions provided me with a 
copy of Mr Clarks suitability letter in respect of their 2005 Sterling bond.  But I dont think receipt  of 
previous suitability  letters  is enough to show that Mr and Mrs B should  have realised that a suitability  
letter was required here.
Mr and Mrs B told us that although they cannot recall Mr Clark providing  them with a suitability letter,  
he did tell them that the fund was within a few days of being closed to applicants. My view is that Mr 
Clarks comments would have put Mr and Mrs B under some amount of time pressure. I believe that 
the Stirling  Mortimer fund Mr Clark first promoted to Mr and Mrs B had indeed closed to new 
applicants by the time they made their investment. Even if Mr and Mrs B had noticed  the lack of a 
suitability letter, I consider  they are likely to have  viewed  the (apparent) imminent closure  of the fund 
as a reasonable explanation for that lack.
In addition, Mr and Mrs Bs recent investment experience had all been in reliance on advice from Mr 
Clark. Their  evidence is that, whilst they did not realise  this at the time,  Mr Clark did not always 
comply with regulatory  requirements in giving previous advice (for example, they say he did not 
provide Terms of Business  or any other disclosure  documentation before giving his 2005 advice about 
the Sterling bond).  In the circumstances,  I do not think it would be reasonable for me to conclude  that 
Mr and Mrs Bs contact with Mr Clark would have given  them  a thorough understanding of the rules  
that financial advisers  were required to follow.
Ref: DRN894638546Overall, I dont think the lack of a suitability  letter  shows  that Mr and Mrs B were  not relying  on 
Positive Solutions representations that Mr Clark was acting as Positive  Solutions agent  in giving  his 
surrender and reinvestment advice. I consider that a reasonable person in their position  without 
specific knowledge of the relevant financial services regulations  would have reasonably  believed 
that a person held out by Positive Solutions as an independent financial adviser  of Positive Solutions 
would have had Positive Solutions  actual  authority  to give investment advice  on both surrenders and 
reinvestments.
Ive also considered whether  any of Mr and Mrs Bs comments or actions suggest that they did not 
rely on Positive Solutions representations that Mr Clark  had its authority to act on its behalf as a 
financial adviser.  In particular, I note that they told us:
As you know,  Clark Rees were disbanded  and fined by the FSA so our claim to them  could 
not be resolved. We then started correspondence  with Positive Solutions. 
That comment  suggests that Positive Solutions was not Mr and Mrs Bs first thought  when things went 
wrong. Instead, they approached Mr Clark  and Clark  Rees. That does suggest  these matters were 
more associated with Clark Rees LLP than with Positive Solutions in Mr and Mrs Bs minds. That is 
not relevant to the issue of who Mr Clark  was in fact acting for, but I think it is relevant to the issue of 
reliance.
However, I dont think Mr and Mrs Bs initial  decision to approach Clark Rees LLP rather  than Positive  
Solutions is determinative of the reliance  issue. As Ive discussed in respect of the August 2006 
promotion letter on Clark Rees LLP notepaper, the trading style issue  which  Positive Solutions was 
responsible for  means I dont think a belief that Mr Clark was acting for Clark Rees LLP is 
incompatible with a belief that Mr Clark was acting for Positive Solutions.
I also note that investors very often complain directly  to the adviser  who carried  out the act they are 
complaining about. That does not necessarily imply  that they expect that individual to personally  pay 
them compensation;  often  it means only that the investor thinks  the adviser is best placed to direct 
their complaint to the relevant department  within the organisation complained  about. In the 
circumstances, I put very little weight on Mr and Mrs Bs initial decision  to address their complaint to 
Clark Rees LLP as indicative of whether Mr and Mrs B relied on Positive  Solutions  representations 
that Mr Clark had its authority to act on its behalf as a financial adviser.
is it just for Positive Solutions  to be required  to bear losses caused by Mr Clark?
I note that in the case  law, in particular Sino, the courts have taken into account  whether it is just to 
require a principal to bear a loss caused by the wrongdoing of his agent. I have considered whether  it 
is just to hold Positive Solutions responsible for the detriment Mr and Mrs B have  suffered. Here, I 
think it is just to hold Positive Solutions responsible for the consequences of its putting  Mr Clark in the 
position where  Mr and Mrs B could suffer loss as a result of his actions.  In particular, I note:
Positive Solutions was in a position to monitor Mr Clarks  behaviour (and indeed did so 
monitor him).
The October 2006  email correspondence  between Mr Clark  and Mr Hudson shows that 
Positive Solutions had actual knowledge  that Mr Clark was promoting an investment similar to 
the one he ultimately recommended to Mr and Mrs B. Positive  Solutions did take some steps 
to prevent a reoccurrence of that promotion  it told Mr Clark  that future promotions  needed to 
be approved   but I am not aware that it took any steps  to limit damage that might have 
already been done, or to remind Mr Clark of the scope of his authority as a Registered 
Individual of Positive Solutions. If Positive Solutions did take any such steps, they were 
insufficient in respect of the promotion Mr Clark  sent to Mr and Mrs B in August  2006.
Mr Clarks October  2006  promotion was not investment  advice; it was merely a promotion  (or 
advert).  However, the promotion explicitly invited investors to a seminar with Mr Clark to 
Ref: DRN894638547learn more about the investment promoted. If Mr Hudson had considered  the matter,  I think it 
would have been obvious  to him that Mr Clarks  intention was that the recipients of the 
promotion (or their clients)  would ultimately  invest in a Stirling Mortimer fund. As a minimum,  
Mr Clark therefore intended the promotion to lead to arranging deals in investments provided  
by an institution that was not on Positive Solutions  list of approved institutions. Mr Clark may 
also have intended the promotion to lead to advising on Stirling Mortimer investments.
At the time, Mr Clark only appeared on the FSA Register with respect to Positive Solutions.  
Mr Hudson would have  therefore known that the only way Mr Clark could  lawfully carry out 
regulated activities  was as an agent of Positive Solutions. Positive  Solutions had not given Mr 
Clark permission to carry out any regulated activities with respect to any Stirling Mortimer 
funds. I therefore consider that the October 2006 email exchange  represented  an opportunity 
for Positive  Solutions to carry  out further investigation into exactly what  Mr Clark was doing   
and to warn  him that he did not have its authority to recommend that its clients invest  in 
products from institutions that were not on its approved  list. It is impossible to know whether 
further enquiries or warnings on Positive Solutions  part would have prevented Mr and Mrs B 
from suffering the loss in the way that they did. But I still think this point is relevant  to my 
consideration of whether  it is just in the circumstances to require Positive Solutions to bear a 
loss caused by Mr Clarks actions. 
The October 2006  email exchange also shows that Mr Clark told third parties  that he wanted 
to introduce them to a specific  fund as an appointed distributor for Stirling  Mortimer. I dont 
know exactly what  it meant to be an appointed distributor  for Stirling Mortimer; I havent seen 
the contract. I also dont know  whether  Mr Clark meant that he personally was an appointed 
distributor, or whether he meant the distributor was Clark  Rees LLP. But Im not aware that 
Positive Solutions knew those things either, or that it took any steps to find them  out. In my 
experience, distributors  of funds usually  do have at least some involvement  in arranging deals 
in investments in those  funds.  Given  the regulatory position, in that Mr Clark could only 
lawfully carry  out regulated activities in his capacity as an agent of Positive  Solutions, I 
consider that Positive  Solutions could have done more to investigate exactly  what  Mr Clark 
was doing.    
I appreciate that it is possible that any advising or arranging Mr Clark carried  out following the 
promotion might have  fallen within an exemption to the rules on regulated activities, 
particularly as the promotion  was marked as being  to professional  intermediaries only. But  
on the basis of the information available to me now  I dont think  Positive  Solutions could  
have been confident that any such  exemptions would have applied. 
I consider that Positive  Solutions had another opportunity to intervene,  when it received 
notifications from other product providers that Mr and Mrs B had surrendered their existing 
investments. I accept that investors often surrender products without receiving  advice, and so 
the surrenders  did not (in and of themselves) say that Mr Clark had been giving surrender 
advice without  first obtaining authorisation from Positive Solutions.  But in context  with 
investors coming up to retirement surrendering  a policy  sold to them  only two years earlier, 
and with the involvement  of an adviser that Positive Solutions knew had previously issued  
unauthorised promotions  I consider  that Positive Solutions could have displayed more 
curiosity about Mr Clarks interactions with Mr and Mrs B.
To be clear,  I am not saying that I think Positive Solutions had any kind of regulatory or legal 
obligation to check whether Mr and Mrs B had been advised to surrender  their existing 
policies. I am simply  saying that, in considering whether Positive Solutions is responsible for 
Mr Clarks acts, its apparent lack of curiosity is a relevant factor  albeit  one that I put only a 
small amount  of weight on.
As Ive discussed above, Positive Solutions did not tell Mr and Mrs B that there were any 
limits on the actual  authority it had given to Mr Clark. I do not say that it was required to 
communicate those limits  to Mr and Mrs B, but I do consider its failure to do so to be a 
Ref: DRN894638548relevant factor in my consideration of whether it is just for Positive Solutions to be required to 
bear the loss caused by Mr Clarks actions.
It appears Stirling Mortimer would not have permitted Mr and Mrs B to invest  in the fund at all 
unless they fell within  one of the categories of people to whom qualified investor schemes  
could lawfully be promoted in the UK. Qualified  investor schemes could be promoted to 
certified sophisticated  investors   but only if an authorised person confirmed  that the 
investor was sufficiently knowledgeable  to understand the risks associated  with the 
investment. The application form for the fund included  a sophisticated investors certificate. 
Mr Rees  signed that certificate, and in doing so identified himself as acting for Positive 
Solutions (an authorised  person).  
I acknowledge that the fact the investment could  not have  gone ahead  in the way it did but 
for the involvement of Positive  Solutions (acting through Mr Rees) in signing  the 
sophisticated investors certificate is not determinative. The reason the investment went ahead  
at all is that Mr Clark  recommended  it to Mr and Mrs B, and it is likely Mr and Mrs B saw the 
certificate as merely an administrative step. But I still consider that Mr Rees  completion of the 
certificate is relevant to whether it is just for Positive Solutions  to be required to bear any 
losses suffered by Mr and Mrs B as a result of the wrongdoing they allege on the part of Mr 
Clark and Mr Rees. 
With hindsight, Mr and Mrs B accept that their own conduct  in giving Mr Clark a cheque  for 
£300,000 without first receiving written advice   was nave. I agree. I consider that is a 
relevant factor for me to take into account in deciding  whether it is just for Positive  Solutions 
to take responsibility  for their loss, but it is one that I put very little weight on. As Ive said,  I 
dont think Mr and Mrs B knew enough about the FSAs  COB  rules  or the financial services 
industry more generally   to have  realised that the way in which Mr Clark  gave his advice was 
unusual.
I note that this complaint  does not involve  any allegations of fraud. It simply involves financial 
advisers giving financial  advice and arranging deals  in investments  and in doing  so they 
were carrying on the normal business  activities of Positive Solutions.
Overall, I consider that it is just for Positive Solutions to be required to bear the losses caused  by any 
wrongdoing done by Mr Clark  or Mr Rees whilst  carrying  on the controlled functions  assigned  to them 
by Positive Solutions.
vicarious liability
Since issuing  my first provisional decision, I have reconsidered the law in the area of vicarious liability. 
Having done so, I think it is also appropriate  for me to consider whether Positive Solutions is 
vicariously liable for the actions of Mr Clark  and Mr Rees  independently of whether apparent 
authority also operated such as to fix Positive Solutions with liability for the actions of its agents. 
what is vicarious liability?
Vicarious liability is a common law principle of strict,  no-fault liability for wrongs  committed by another 
person. 
As Lord Sumption said in Bilta:
"Vicarious  liability does not involve any attribution of wrongdoing to the principal. It is merely a 
rule of law under which a principal may be held strictly liable for the wrongdoing of someone 
else. This is one reason why the law has been able to impose it as broadly as it has. It 
extends far more  widely than responsibility  under  the law of agency:  to all acts done within the 
course of the agent's employment, however  humble and remote he may be from the decision-
making process, and even  if his acts are unknown to the principal, unauthorised by him and 
Ref: DRN894638549adverse to his interest or contrary to his express instructions (Lloyd v Grace Smith & Co 
[1912] AC 716), indeed even  if they are criminal (Lister v Hesley Hall Ltd [2001] UKHL 22)."
Not all relationships are capable of giving rise to vicarious liability. The classic example  of a 
relationship which can give rise to vicarious  liability  is the employment relationship, and neither Mr 
Clark nor Mr Rees were employees  of Positive Solutions. However, the employment relationship is 
not the only relationship capable of giving rise to vicarious  liability.
Broadly, there is a two stage  test to decide whether vicarious liability can apply:
Stage one is to ask whether there is a sufficient relationship between  the wrongdoer and the 
principal (Cox).
Stage two is to ask whether the wrongdoing itself was sufficiently connected  to the 
wrongdoers duties on behalf of the principal for it to be just for the principal to be held liable 
(Mohamud).
There is some uncertainty  in the law as to how widely  the test in Cox should  be applied. I 
acknowledge Positive Solutions belief (expressed  in 2016) that issues of vicarious liability have 
nothing to do with principals and agents. But I note that in Frederick  (decided in 2018)  the Court of 
Appeal explicitly  declined to decide whether the test in Cox applied to Positive Solutions relationship 
with another of its Registered  Individuals.  
If the position was as straightforward  as Positive Solutions  suggests  that is, if issues of vicarious  
liability could never have anything to do with principals and agents  then I consider it likely that the 
Court of Appeal would have  simply said so. But in any event, the relationship between  Mr Clark and 
Positive Solutions was not just an agency relationship.  Mr Clark was registered  with the FSA as an 
approved person able to carry  out regulated activities on Positive  Solutions behalf, and this 
complaint is about the regulated activities of advising  on and arranging deals  in investments. I 
consider that it would  be wrong  for me to simply  ignore or set aside the regulatory background in 
reaching my decision.  
I am not aware of any case  law concerning the exact set of circumstances that Mr and Mrs B 
complain about. But that does not prevent me from applying the law as I understand it to be. In Cox, 
Lord Reed  said:
the words used by judges are not to be treated as if they were the words of a statute. Where 
a case concerns circumstances which have not previously been the subject of an authoritative  
judicial decision, it may be valuable to stand back and consider whether the imposition  of 
vicarious liability would be fair, just and reasonable.
Had Mr and Mrs B referred this matter to a court instead  of to the ombudsman  service, I consider that 
the court  is likely to have  chosen to apply the approach  suggested  by Lord Reed. I will therefore  do 
the same.
the stage one test
It is now accepted that a variety of relationships, not just those of employer  and employee, may be 
capable of giving rise to vicarious liability. In Cox, Lord Reed said:
The result [of the approach  adopted by Lord Phillips  in Various Claimants v Catholic Child 
Welfare Society [2012] UKSC 56; [2013] 2 AC 1]  is that a relationship other than one of 
employment is in principle  capable of giving  rise to vicarious liability  where harm is wrongfully 
done by an individual who carries on activities as an integral part of the business activities 
carried on by a defendant and for its benefit (rather than his activities being entirely 
attributable to the conduct  of a recognisably  independent business of his own or of a third 
Ref: DRN894638550party), and where the commission of the wrongful act is a risk created by the defendant by 
assigning those activities to the individual in question.
Positive Solutions has chosen not to answer  all of my questions about its relationship with Mr Clark. In 
particular, it did not answer my questions about the equipment it provided  to its Registered Individuals 
or about the arrangements  for locums. If Positive Solutions wishes  to provide further information  on 
these points (or indeed on any others) I will of course consider  it. But on the basis of the limited 
information I have, I am satisfied that in giving  investment advice to Mr and Mrs B, and in completing 
the Stirling  Mortimer application form, Mr Clark and Mr Rees  were  carrying on activities as an integral 
part of the business activities carried on by Positive Solutions. I say that because:
At the time, Positive Solutions stated purpose was To help our clients,  Understand,  Protect 
and Increase their Assets.  I  consider  that the provision  of, and subsequent implementation 
of, investment advice is an integral  part of fulfilling  that purpose. 
Positive Solutions business model  was that it gave financial advice itself, through its 
Partners. As set out in its partnership code, those  Partners  promised to give impartial, 
independent financial  advice.  
Positive Solutions status as an authorised firm meant that it was not in breach of the general  
prohibition when it gave investment advice to members  of the public. So, when  its Partners 
gave investment advice on behalf of Positive Solutions, carrying  out Positive Solutions 
business activities, those Partners were not in breach of the general  prohibition either.
Mr Clark and Mr Rees  were both Positive Solutions Partners. Positive  Solutions had given 
them permission to carry out the controlled  function Investment Adviser  (Trainee) and then 
Investment Adviser on behalf of Positive Solutions. Positive Solutions had therefore 
engaged Mr Clark and Mr Rees  to carry out activities that were  an integral part of its 
business.
I note that the FCA has issued guidance as to when it considers a person to be carrying on a 
business in their own right,  set out in PERG 2.3.5 to 2.3.11. Although the guidance was published 
some time after the events  Mr and Mrs B complain of took place, the relevant  parts of the legislation 
(in respect of permissions to give regulated  financial  advice) have not changed substantively. I 
therefore consider it appropriate for me to take into account the guidance in PERG,  which  says:
In practice,  a person is only likely to fall outside the general prohibition on the grounds that 
he is not carrying on his own business if he is an employee or performing a role very similar to 
an employee .
Positive Solutions clearly  intended Mr Clark  and Mr Rees to fall outside the general prohibition when  
acting on Positive Solutions behalf in giving and implementing investment advice. As Ive said,  I 
consider that the only way in which  Mr Clark  and Mr Rees could  have fallen outside the general  
prohibition would be on the basis that they were carrying on Positive Solutions business rather  than 
their own. In my view,  the guidance therefore provides support for the contention that Mr Clark  and 
Mr Rees  relationships with Positive  Solutions were  very similar to employment relationships. 
I am also satisfied that Mr Clark and Mr Rees activities were  not entirely attributable to the conduct of 
a recognisably independent business of their own or of Clark Rees LLPs. As I explained  above, in the 
section who was Mr Clark acting for?, I am satisfied that Mr Clark  was acting on behalf of Positive 
Solutions when he advised  Mr and Mrs B. Mr Clark  did operate  another business  through Clark Rees 
LLP (in respect  of accountancy services),  but the activities Mr and Mrs B complain about concern the 
giving of regulated investment advice and the arrangement of deals in investments  and those  
activities fall entirely within Positive Solutions business. I am therefore  satisfied  that the activities 
complained about were  entirely attributable to Positive Solutions. This is not a complaint where, for 
example, the activities  complained about include the running of a property investment scheme, or any 
other activity outside the business activities of Positive Solutions.
Ref: DRN894638551As Ive explained, I am satisfied  that Clark Rees  LLP was not involved in the acts Mr and Mrs B 
complain about. But even if I am wrong about that, it would be difficult  for me to make the finding  that 
Clark Rees LLP was recognisably independent from Positive Solutions.  The confusion or mistake 
over Positive  Solutions permitting  Mr Clark and Mr Rees to tell the public that Clark  Rees LLP was a 
trading name of Positive Solutions means that I do not think  it would be reasonable  to have expected 
members of the public like Mr and Mrs B to recognise that Clark Rees LLP was independent  of 
Positive Solutions.
Finally, I consider that in allowing Mr Clark and Mr Rees to give investment advice  on its behalf,  
Positive Solutions was obviously creating the risk that they might make errors or act negligently in 
doing so. Positive Solutions assigned  to Mr Clark and Mr Rees  the customer facing task of giving  
regulated financial advice to Positive Solutions  customers, and it is always  possible for that task to be 
carried out negligently.
My conclusions on vicarious liability may have  been  different if Mr Clark and Mr Rees had been  
appointed representatives of Positive Solutions. I note that in Anderson , David Richards LJ said:
In my judgment, there is no substance in the appeal  on vicarious liability.  The judge [at first 
instance] made clear  findings  that Midas [the agent]  was carrying on its own business  and it is 
not open  to the appellants to go behind  those findings. Sense [the principal]  also carried  on its 
own business  which comprised providing  the regulatory umbrella for independent  financial 
services firms. When Midas  and its advisors provided financial advice, they were  doing  so as 
part of Midas' own recognisably independent business.  In no sense could it be said that they 
were carrying out activities assigned  to them by Sense as part of Sense's business and for 
Sense's benefit.
Here, Positive  Solutions business (in respect of Mr Clark  and Mr Rees)  was not to provide the 
regulatory umbrella  for independent financial services firms. Instead, Positive Solutions was itself the 
independent financial  services firm. Positive Solutions had arranged for Mr Clark and Mr Rees to be 
approved by the FSA to perform various controlled functions in relation to regulated activities carried 
on by Positive  Solutions. Those controlled  functions  which included the giving of regulated 
investment advice  were  activities  assigned  to Mr Clark and Mr Rees by Positive  Solutions as part of 
Positive Solutions business  and for Positive Solutions  benefit. 
the stage two test
The stage two test asks whether the wrongdoers action is so closely connected with the business  
activities of his principal as to make  it just to hold the principal liable.
As Lord Dyson said in Mohamud,  the test requires a court  to make an evaluative judgment in each 
case having regard to all the circumstances  and having regard to the assistance provided by previous 
decisions on the facts  of other cases. That is not a precise test, but the courts  have recognised the 
inevitability of imprecision given the infinite range  of circumstances where the issue of vicarious 
liability arises .
In the particular circumstances  of this complaint, I consider that it is just for Positive Solutions to be 
held responsible for the actions Mr and Mrs B complain about. I note:
Mr Clark was giving investment advice,  and Mr Rees  was filling in forms to put that advice into 
practice. I consider both of those activities are clearly closely connected to the business 
activities of Positive Solutions, a firm which  provided  financial advice  and arranged 
investment transactions  for its customers (including  Mr and Mrs B).
If Positive Solutions is not vicariously  liable here, then Mr and Mrs Bs ability to obtain 
compensation would depend on whether the Positive Solutions Partner  they dealt  with was an 
employee of Positive  Solutions.  In Cox, the court  suggested it would have been  unreasonable 
Ref: DRN894638552and unfair  for Mrs Coxs  ability to receive  compensation for the injury  she suffered to depend  
on whether the worker  who injured her was an employee or a prisoner. I consider that 
argument has even more  relevance here  at least Mrs Cox is likely to have  either known or 
had the ability to find out who was an employee  and who was a prisoner. But as Mr and Mrs B 
have themselves pointed out, they had no way of knowing Mr Clark and Mr Rees  
employment status.  (I am aware that Mr Clarks agency contract said he had to make his 
status as a Registered Individual clear  but even if he had done that, the term Registered 
Individual did not imply anything about his employment  status).
It does  not appear that Stirling  Mortimer would have allowed the investment  in the fund to go 
ahead unless  it was satisfied that Mr and Mrs B fell into one of the categories of people to 
whom qualified  investor funds could  be lawfully  promoted.  In this particular case, Positive  
Solutions (through its agent Mr Rees) certified Mr and Mrs B as sophisticated investors.  But 
for that certification,  the investment would not have gone ahead.  In isolation, that is not 
determinative  but I consider  that the point is relevant to whether it is just to hold Positive  
Solutions responsible  for the acts complained about.
The agency contracts say Positive Solutions will not be responsible if Mr Clark  or Mr Rees act 
outside their authority. But those contracts also say that any act or omission of the Registered  
Individual will be treated as an act of Positive Solutions. In my view, those two terms conflict. I 
do not consider  it would be fair for Positive Solutions to be entitled to rely on one but ignore 
the other.
Positive Solutions received no benefit from the acts Mr and Mrs B complain about,  and in 
particular it did not receive any commission.  But as Lord Toulson explained in Mohamud , 
vicarious liability can apply  even where  an employee  has abused his position  in a way that 
cannot possibly  have been of benefit to his employer  such  as carrying  out a private fraud or 
assaulting a customer.  In Frederick, Positive Solutions was found not to be vicariously liable  
despite having received  commission. The commission issue  is simply not determinative.
I acknowledge that the conclusions  I have  reached are different to the conclusions reached by the 
court in Frederick . In that case, Positive Solutions was found not to be vicariously  liable for the 
conduct of a Registered Individual  named Mr Warren. I have not seen the whole of Mr Warrens 
agency contract with Positive Solutions, but from the sections quoted in the judgment the terms in his 
contract appear to be identical  to the terms in Mr Clarks  and Mr Rees contracts.
However, the facts  in Frederick are so different  to the facts here that I do not believe that case  assists 
me in determining whether Positive Solutions is vicariously liable for the acts Mr and Mrs B complain 
about. In particular,  I note:   
In Frederick, the claimants were  approached  by a Mr Qureshi  who was not a Registered  
Individual of Positive Solutions. Mr Qureshi induced  them  to invest in a property scheme, 
which he was running jointly with Mr Warren.  The claimants had no personal dealings  with 
[Mr] Warren and did not meet him or receive  any written communications from himthere 
was no semblance of an advice process. Here, Mr and Mrs B clearly had personal dealings 
with Mr Clark, Positive Solutions  Registered  Individual. They met with Mr Clark, and Mr Clark 
provided them  with advice. Mr Clark carried  out business activities of a type that had been 
specifically assigned to him by Positive Solutions, and which  he could only (lawfully) perform 
on behalf  of Positive Solutions.
 
Mr Warren submitted dishonest and fraudulent  mortgage  applications for loans on behalf of 
the claimants. Mr and Mrs B make no allegation of fraud. They simply complain about the 
mis-selling of an investment  which has subsequently failed to deliver on its promises . I 
consider that their allegations are of negligence and negligent mis-statement.  They  say that 
Mr Clark was incompetent in respect of the investment advice  he gave to them, but they do 
not say that he was dishonest. There is therefore no need  for me to consider whether Positive 
Solutions would have  been vicariously  liable for Mr Clarks dishonest acts.
Ref: DRN894638553Mr Warren was only able to submit the mortgage applications  in the way he did because  he 
was an agent of Positive Solutions. But the claimants  in Frederick did not say they had 
suffer[ed]  any loss through the actual re-mortgaging  or their receipt  of monies from [the 
lender]. Instead, they suffered losses only when they handed the money  over to Mr Warren  
(or to the company of which Mr Warren and Mr Qureshi were directors). In contrast, Mr and 
Mrs B say that they suffered losses as a direct result of the advice given to them  by Mr Clark,  
in his capacity  as a Positive Solutions financial adviser, to invest  in the Stirling  Mortimer fund. 
what if the tests in Cox and Mohamud  are not applicable to this complaint?
I recognise that a court might take the view that the specific tests set out in Cox and Mohamud are not 
applicable to Mr Clark,  Mr Rees,  Positive Solutions, and the specific acts Mr and Mrs B complain 
about. The applicability of those tests to agency relationships is unclear, as is their applicability to 
some or all of the reliance-based torts, possibly including  negligent mis-statement.  
Even if those  specific tests  are not applied, I still consider that it would be appropriate for a court to 
consider whether Positive Solutions is vicariously liable for the actions of Mr Clark and Mr Rees. The 
earlier cases, including Armagas and the Christian Brothers  case, make clear that justice is the 
courts overriding concern in such matters.  Where the claimant and the defendant are both innocent  
parties, the court will consider whether the circumstances under which  the wrongdoer committed  his 
wrong were such as to make  it just for the defendant to bear the loss.
Bearing in mind  the regulatory position, I consider that in the particular circumstances of this case it is 
just to require Positive Solutions to bear any loss caused by negligent investment advice provided by 
Mr Clark.
From a public  policy point  of view, one of the purposes of FSMA was to make provisions for the 
protection of consumers. The approved person regime was one of the ways in which  both FSMA and 
the FSA gave  effect  to that protection. Mr Clark  and Mr Rees were  both Positive  Solutions approved  
persons. In view of section 59(1) of FSMA,  I consider that when Mr Clark carried  out the regulated  
activity of advising on investments, and when Mr Clark  and Mr Rees carried  out the regulated  activity 
of arranging deals in investments, those  activities were  the activities of Positive Solutions.  Positive 
Solutions is clearly responsible for its own activities. I see no support in FSMA   or anywhere else  
for the notion that Positive Solutions responsibility  for its approved  persons was dependent on the 
precise nature of its contracts with those people  (agency/non-agency). Similarly,  I do not see anything 
to suggest Positive Solutions  responsibility  depends on whether the approved persons  conduct is 
classified in terms  of one type of tort (reliance-based) or another. I would be surprised if a court  were  
to take the view that such  taxonomic distinctions were relevant to the outcome of this complaint.
If this were a case  of fraud, the tests in Mohamud and Cox would not apply and vicarious liability 
would depend on whether the fraudulent statements  were  made  with the actual or apparent authority 
of the principal, the test for vicarious  liability in deceit laid down by the House  of Lords  in Armagas , 
which still applies (see Hockley  Mint). But this is not a case of fraud. In So, The Court of Appeal 
rejected the argument that negligent statements are treated in the same way as fraudulent ones  and 
also need to be made with the principals actual or apparent authority.   
I therefore  consider  that Positive Solutions is vicariously liable for the acts Mr and Mrs B complain  
about regardless of whether Mr Clark and Mr Rees carried out those acts with apparent authority  on 
behalf of Positive Solutions. However,  as I have said I consider that Mr Clark and Mr Rees did in fact 
act with Positive Solutions apparent authority  when they carried out the acts complained of. As a 
result, even if So v HSBC  is wrongly decided or no longer  applies,  that would not change my view that 
Positive Solutions is vicariously liable  in this complaint.
statutory responsibility  under  section 150 of FSMA
Ref: DRN894638554For the reasons  Ive give above, I am satisfied that when  Mr Clark gave the advice complained of, and 
when Mr Clark and Mr Rees arranged the associated deals in investments,  they were  both acting  in 
their capacity as Positive  Solutions approved  persons for the purpose of carrying on Positive 
Solutions regulated business. They were not carrying on a business of their own.
That means Positive Solutions is subject  to the Conduct of Business  (COB)  suitability  rules in respect 
of Mr Clarks advice. If Mr Clarks  advice  was not suitable, then (subject  to the recognised defences)  
Positive Solutions is responsible in damages to Mr and Mrs B under  the statutory  cause of action 
provided by section 150 of FSMA. I therefore consider  that section  150 of FSMA provides an 
alternative route by which  Positive Solutions is responsible for the acts complained of.
summary of my provisional findings on jurisdiction
Having carefully considered all of the circumstances  here, as well as the legal  authorities, I am 
provisionally satisfied that: 
Positive Solutions represented to Mr and Mrs B that Mr Clark had Positive Solutions authority 
both to advise on surrenders and to advise on reinvestment in the Stirling  Mortimer fund, Mr 
and Mrs B relied on Positive Solutions representations, and apparent authority therefore  
operated such as to give rise to Positive Solutions  responsibility for the acts Mr and B 
complain about.
 
In addition  or in the alternative  Positive Solutions is vicariously liable for the acts Mr and 
Mrs B complain  about. 
Positive Solutions also has statutory  responsibility under section 150 of FSMA  for the acts 
complained about.
I am therefore satisfied that Positive  Solutions is responsible for the acts Mr and Mrs B complain  
about. Even if I am wrong about one or two of the above three  conclusions, I still consider that the 
third means  that Mr and Mrs Bs complaint about Positive Solutions falls within  my jurisdiction.
my provisional  findings  on merits
Having provisionally  concluded that Mr and Mrs Bs complaint does fall within  my jurisdiction, I have 
gone on to reach provisional conclusions on the merits of their complaint. In doing  so, Ive considered 
all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances  of 
the case.
Briefly, my provisional  findings on merits are:
Mr Clarks advice was unsuitable for Mr and Mrs B.
Mr and Mrs B acted on that advice and suffered  a loss as a result of the unsuitable advice.
The fair and reasonable  outcome to this complaint  is for Positive Solutions to compensate  Mr 
and Mrs B for that loss.
Based on the evidence Ive seen so far, I think fair compensation is likely  to exceed £150,000  (our 
financial limit in this case). Subject to any further evidence or arguments I might receive,  I intend to 
order Positive Solutions to pay Mr and Mrs B £150,000 (plus interest), and make a non-binding  
recommendation that it both reimburse the rest of their losses and pay them compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience  they suffered.
I go on to explain how I reached  those  conclusions.
was Mr Clarks  advice suitable for Mr and Mrs B?
I consider that Mr Clarks advice was clearly unsuitable for Mr and Mrs B.
Ref: DRN894638555Mr Clark recommended that Mr and Mrs B surrender the vast majority  of their existing investments, 
and rely for their financial security on an investment  in a single fund.  From  a diversification 
perspective alone, I consider  that advice to be unsuitable.
It is not clear precisely what  objectives  Mr and Mrs B had for their money  I dont  know what  level of 
return they were  looking for, nor do I know how much risk they wanted to take. But in light of their 
circumstances, I think their capacity to accept  risk was low. They  were  intending to retire  shortly, and 
could not easily replace  lost capital without significant changes to their lifestyle (in effect, by going 
back to work). So I consider Mr Clark  should not have recommended anything  that exposed  
Mr and Mrs B to more than a small  amount of risk.
I understand the fund invested in right to purchase contracts for a Spanish development,  with the 
intention of reselling those contracts once construction was completed.  I consider that the risks 
associated with such  a fund were significantly higher than Mr and Mrs B were in a position  to take. 
I note that Positive  Solutions has not sought  to argue  that Mr Clarks advice  was suitable for Mr and 
Mrs B. If Positive Solutions does wish to put forward  an argument that Mr Clarks advice was suitable, 
I will of course consider  its comments. But in the absence  of further evidence  or arguments, my final 
decision will be that Mr Clarks advice  was not suitable.
I make  no findings as to whether Mr Clark  churned  Mr and Mrs Bs existing investments. Churning 
occurs when a financial adviser  inappropriately recommends that an investor surrender  a suitable 
existing investment  and replace it with another product that is either  unsuitable or essentially the 
same as the original one. But here, I do not have enough information to make findings  as to whether 
the investments  Mr and Mrs B surrendered  were suitable for them.
have Mr and Mrs B suffered a loss as a result of Mr Clarks advice?
Again, in the circumstances I think it is clear that Mr and Mrs B have suffered a loss as a result of Mr 
Clarks advice. The fund they invested in experienced  significant difficulties. Mr and Mrs B did not 
receive the 6% per year they expected, nor was their capital returned to them after two years.
I cant  be certain whether  Mr and Mrs B will eventually receive the return of any part of their 
investment. However, the funds liquidator  told me in July last year that he had not received sufficient 
fee income to be able to produce  accounts for the fund.  He also told me that the lawyer acting for the 
fund had not been in touch with him for some time. Overall, his view was that it was extremely unlikely 
that any money would be recovered for the funds investors.
On balance, my opinion  is that Mr and Mrs B have probably lost the whole  of their investment in the 
fund. If they had been  given  suitable advice, it is likely they would have either  retained their existing 
investments, or (if those investments were themselves unsuitable), been advised  to purchase low risk 
alternatives. I dont know what investment return they would have received in either  of those cases, 
but I think a total loss exceptionally unlikely.  I am therefore satisfied that Mr Clarks unsuitable advice 
did cause Mr and Mrs B to suffer  a financial loss.
I have not considered whether Mr and Mrs B made any additional losses as a result of being 
inappropriately advised  to surrender existing investments, because  I have made no findings as to 
churning.
fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider  that my aim should be to put Mr and Mrs B 
as close  to the position they would probably  now be in if they had not been given unsuitable advice.
I think  Mr and Mrs B would have invested  differently.  It is not possible to say precisely what  they 
would have done, but I am satisfied that what I have  set out below  is fair and reasonable given Mr and 
Ref: DRN894638556Mrs B's circumstances and objectives when  they invested.  
what should Positive Solutions do? 
To compensate Mr and Mrs B fairly, Positive Solutions must:
Compare the performance  of Mr and Mrs B's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value  and the actual value of the investment. If 
the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
Positive Solutions should also pay interest as set out below.  
Pay Mr and Mrs B £2,000 for the distress and inconvenience they suffered.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end date)additional 
interest
Stirling 
Mortimer 
Global 
Property 
Fund  PCC 
Limited  
Majestic 
Village No 3 
Fundstill exists  
but illiquidaverage rate 
from fixed rate 
bondsdate of 
investmentdate of my 
decision8% simple per 
year from date 
of decision to 
date of 
settlement (if 
compensation  is 
not paid within 
28 days of the 
business  being 
notified  of 
acceptance)
actual value
This means  the actual  amount payable  from the investment at the end date (that is, on the date of my 
final decision).
I cant  be sure today  what the value  of Mr and Mrs Bs investment  in the fund will be on the date of my 
final decision.  In view of the liquidators comments (mentioned above), I think it unlikely that Mr and 
Mrs Bs investment  in the fund will have any value at all on the date of my final decision. I cant be 
certain of that, but for the purposes of the compensation calculation I think it is fair for Positive 
Solutions to assume  that the actual value  of the investment on the end date is zero. This is provided 
Mr and Mrs B agree to Positive Solutions taking ownership of the investment, if it wishes to. 
If it is not possible for Positive Solutions to take ownership of Mr and Mrs Bs investment in the fund, 
then it may request an undertaking from Mr and Mrs B that they repay  to Positive  Solutions any 
amount they may receive from the investment in future.  
fair value
This is what the investment  would  have  been  worth at the end date had it produced a return using the 
benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when  using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Positive  Solutions 
should use the monthly  average rate for the fixed rate bonds with 12 to 17 months maturity  as 
published by the Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the 
previous month. Those rates  should be applied  to the investment on an annually compounded basis.  
Any withdrawal, income or other payment out of the investment should be deducted from the fair 
Ref: DRN894638557value calculation at the point it was actually  paid so it ceases to accrue  any return  in the calculation 
from that point  on. 
If there  are a large number  of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, I will accept if Positive 
Solutions totals all those  payments and deducts that figure at the end instead of deducting 
periodically. 
why is this remedy suitable?
I have chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr and Mrs B wanted  to achieve a reasonable return without risking any of their capital. 
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure  given Mr and Mrs B's 
circumstances and objectives. It does not mean that Mr and Mrs B would have invested only 
in a fixed  rate bond.  It is the sort of investment return a consumer could have obtained with 
little risk to their capital.  
I consider that Mr and Mrs B suffered distress when they discovered that they had lost a 
significant proportion of their retirement  savings. Mr B says he has also had to go back  to work 
 some years after he retired  to replace  that lost money. I consider that he has suffered 
significant inconvenience as a result. 
my provisional  decision
Where I uphold  a complaint,  I can make a money award requiring a financial business  to pay 
compensation of up to £150,000, plus any interest and/or costs that I consider appropriate. If I 
consider that fair compensation exceeds £150,000, I may recommend that Positive Solutions 
(Financial Services)  Limited pays the balance.
determination and award: I uphold  the complaint.  I consider that fair compensation should be 
calculated as set out above. My provisional  decision is that Positive Solutions  (Financial Services)  
Limited should pay the amount produced by that calculation up to the maximum of £150,000 
(including distress and/or inconvenience but excluding  costs) plus any interest set out above.
If Positive Solutions (Financial Services) Limited does not pay the full fair compensation, then any 
investment currently  illiquid should  be retained  by Mr and Mrs B. This is until any future  benefit that 
they may receive from the investment together with the compensation paid by Positive Solutions 
(Financial Services)  Limited (excluding any interest) equates  to the full fair compensation as set out 
above. 
Positive Solutions (Financial Services) Limited may request an undertaking from Mr and Mrs B that 
either they repay to Positive Solutions (Financial  Services) Limited any amount  Mr and Mrs B may 
receive from the investment thereafter or if possible, transfer the investment at that point. 
recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation exceeds £150,000, 
I recommend that Positive  Solutions (Financial  Services) Limited pays Mr and Mrs B the balance  plus 
any interest on the balance as set out above.
Laura Colman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8946385