K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2005 
alongside a credit card. Miss M says Capital One (Europe)  plc mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Miss Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Capital One says Miss M took the PPI during a phone call to activate the card. Miss M 
says she wasnt aware  she had the PPI. 
Capital One no longer  has a recording of the call which isnt surprising given how long 
ago the policy was sold. But it has given us the script it expected its representatives to 
follow during these types of calls. The script prompted the advisor  to explain PPI was 
optional and asked  for agreement  for the policy to be added  to the card.  Based on what  
we know about  how Capital One sold PPI at the time,  I think  its likely the script would 
have been followed  during the call. And I think its unlikely  Capital One would have 
added the PPI without Miss M indicating she wanted it. 
Based  on everything Ive seen,  I dont think Capital One recommended  the PPI to    
Miss M so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. But it did have to make  sure she 
got the information she needed  to decide if it was right for her.  
Its possible  the information Capital One gave  Miss M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt 
look like she was affected  by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover.  And the 
PPI wouldve paid out on top of any sick pay Miss M was entitled to, as well as helping  
her cover payments if she lost her job. And I think it would  have  been  useful for her if 
something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. 
So I dont  think better information about the PPI would have put her off taking out the 
cover. 
Which means Capital One doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss M.
But Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss M because: 
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Miss M about that. Because  Capital One didnt tell Miss 
M, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Capital One has paid back  the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN82049752my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Miss M.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have  to pay back to Miss M any commission  and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 March  2019.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8204975