K822xcomplaint
Mr U complains about instalment loans  hes taken with Gain Credit LLC (trading as 
Lending Stream).  Mr U says Lending Stream gave him these  when he couldnt afford them.  
background 
Mr U took out 9 instalment loans from Lending Stream, each one required Mr U to make six 
repayments in order to repay the loan. Ive summarised some of the information  about
Mr Us borrowing below;
loan number loan amount received date actual repayment date
1 £450 22/06/2017 26/11/2017
2 £200 19/08/2017 26/11/2017
3 £200 22/09/2017 26/11/2017
4 £130 02/11/2017 26/11/2017
5 £100 27/11/2017 06/12/2017
6 £250 09/12/2017 outstanding balance
7 £300 13/01/2018 outstanding balance
8 £300 21/02/2018 outstanding balance
9 £140 22/03/2018 outstanding balance
Mr U had some problems  repaying his final four loans and it seems  he has set up a 
repayment plan with Lending  Stream to repay  what he owes.  
An adjudicator reviewed Mr Us complaint  and thought that it should be partly upheld.  She 
concluded that proportionate  checks wouldve  likely  have shown Lending Stream, that from 
loan 2 Mr U was subject  to a debt relief  order and so shouldnt have provided this, or any of 
the later loans. The adjudicator also thought  from loan 6 a pattern had formed that indicated 
Mr U was in a spiral of repeat lending. 
Both Mr U and Lending Stream accepted the adjudicators findings. However, the adjudicator 
had some concerns  with the redress calculations that Lending Stream had provided.  She 
didnt believe the amount  that Lending  Stream wanted to deduct  to cover Mr Us outstanding 
balance was accurate.  The adjudicator contacted Lending Stream  about this, but didnt hear 
back. So she arranged  to have the case considered  for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
I want to be clear, that based  on what Ive read there  doesnt  seem to be a dispute  over 
which loans were or were  not irresponsibly given. Instead, this case has been passed to me 
because there is a dispute  about how Lending  Stream has calculated  the redress so in this 
decision I will be focussing on that. 
Ref: DRN89007642I also want to make it clear that the calculations and what  Im telling Lending Stream to do is 
based on the information it has sent us when we initially took on the case. So if Mr U has 
made further payments by the way of a repayment plan then any of these payments need to 
be taken into consideration when working  out what  to do to put things right.  
I would also add that it is disappointed that this case has needed to come for a final decision. 
Especially as both parties agree with the adjudicators findings over which loans need to be 
upheld. Moreover, weve  queried with Lending Stream about the outstanding balance figure 
and weve  not heard back from it. Again,  this is disappointing because  our approach to 
calculating compensation in unaffordable/irresponsible lending cases hasnt changed.  
It may help if I start by outlining our general  approach to cases where we find a lender has 
made an error in providing loans and what that means for the consumer.
If we decide that a lender  has made an error in providing loans to a consumer, we have to 
decide what to do to put that consumer back into the position they wouldve been in had the 
loan not been approved. And this can proved difficult, considering they had had the money  
and spent it. As the borrower will have had the benefit of the money they were  lent, in most 
cases, wed expect  the borrower  to pay it back. And we would normally  say that its the 
interest and charges paid on those loans which should be refunded, along with 8% simple 
interest (assuming the loan has been repaid). 
However, sometimes, as is the case here, it isnt always  for the lender to refund interest fees 
and charges. This is because; the consumer may have taken a loan and not repaid it and 
what they have  paid is less than what they were given in the first place.  In that situation, the 
fairest course of action, is for the borrower to repay the principal sum they were lent.  So  
wed usually  ask the lender to put any repayments  that the consumer had made  towards this 
loan(s) as if they were made towards  the principal sum, and importantly, all additional fees, 
interest and charges need to be removed  from the outstanding balance. This would ensure 
that the borrower wont have paid any interest,  fees and charges that they shouldnt have.  
And Lending Stream hasnt fully explained what, if anything it thinks  our adjudicator has got 
wrong when it was pointed out that we didnt think the redress  was correct.  So I can only 
assume that this it believes our adjudicator  is accurate in what she has explained. That 
being Lending Stream didnt appear  to have removed the unpaid interest and charges from 
the outstanding balance.  
But, there does  appear to be a dispute about how much Lending Stream should  be deducted 
from the redress to offset the principal balance due on the final 4 loans. Based on 
Lending Streams  statement of account and from what it has told us, I dont  think it has 
worked out the redress correctly for the final 4 loans. 
The adjudicator has upheld the complaint about these loans, and Lending Stream has 
agreed that these  loans  shouldnt have been  given.  And it is also clear  that Mr U 
experienced some problems repaying  these loans,  which based on the statement of account 
provided to us by Lending  Stream appears to have  resulted in additional  interest and 
charges being  added to his balance. But importantly, not all of these  charges  have  been  fully 
repaid by Mr U. 
Ref: DRN89007643It seems  to me that Lending  Stream hasnt, as it was directed to, removed the unpaid 
interest and charges on the balances for loans 6  9. And, by not removing the interest and 
charges the amount of compensation wont  be right because it will be including interest  and 
charges Mr U shouldnt  have to pay. And I think this is the crux of the matter. So I think  it is 
important, and I think key to explain why the amount Lending Stream  intends to offset isnt 
correct. And Ive explained below, in more detail what this means  for 
Mr Us complaint. 
Lending Stream says it will make a deduction of £694.80 to offset the outstanding principal 
that it says Mr U still owed it. And this is what our adjudicator didnt think  was correct. Having 
looked at the statement of account which Lending  Stream has provided,  I agree with the 
adjudicator. The amount  Lending Stream wants to deduct to offset the outstanding principal 
isnt correct.  
Had Lending  Stream followed what the adjudicator  recommended it wouldve know that for 
loans 6  9 Mr U had borrowed a total sum of £990.  So, given we dont think  these loans  
shouldve been  given, this is maximum amount Mr U needs to repay.
 
Based on the statement of account provided by Lending Stream  Mr U had paid at least £270 
towards the outstanding principal, but he had also paid £401.18, which  Lending Stream  had 
applied towards  the outstanding interest.  So in total Mr U had already repaid Lending Stream  
£671.18, which Lending Stream needs to apply  towards the principal  sum of £990 
This means,  Lending  Stream can only deduct  a maximum of £318.82, from the 
compensation it now needs to pay Mr U, in order to settle loans 6  9.  If Lending Stream  
deducts the £694.80 this will result of an overpayment  of £375.98 for loans 6  9, which  will 
in effect be interest  and charges that Ive already explained should  be paid by Mr U.
Of course,  Mr U has been making regular  payments  since we started  looking at the 
complaint, so the actual amount that Lending  Stream will need to off-set  will be lower  than 
the above figure.  
So while, Lending Stream  has accepted it shouldnt have provided loans 2  9 to Mr U, what  
it wants to do to put things  right for Mr U doesnt go far enough. And I think that it needs to 
put things right in the way Ive set out below.
Ref: DRN89007644what Lending Stream should do to put things right
Lending Stream should put things  right for Mr U by;
 
refunding all the interest and charges paid by Mr U on loans  2 - 5, 
adding interest at 8% per year simple on the above interest and charges, from the 
date they were paid to the date of settlement  ;
removing any adverse information recorded on Mr Us credit  file about loans 2 - 5.
the number  of loans taken from 6 onwards means any information  recorded about 
them is adverse.  So all entries about  loans  6 - 9 should be removed  from Mr Us 
credit file.
According to the statement of account Lending Stream  has provided there is a principal sum 
outstanding due for loans 6  9. However, when working out the below it needs to take into 
account all payments made by Mr U  including those made under the payment 
arrangement;
add together  the principal sum borrowed for loans 6  9 then rework the loan 
accounts applying  all payments made by Mr U as if they went  towards the principal 
amounts borrowed.  But importantly, Lending  Stream needs to make sure that it 
collects no more than the principal sum lent. 
If and when the amount Mr U has paid exceeds the amount he was lent, any further 
amounts paid should be treated as overpayments. Any overpayments  that may have 
been made should be refunded to Mr U with 8% simple interest from the date the 
overpayment was made to the date of settlement ;
In the event what Mr U has paid towards loans 6  9 is less than what he was lent, 
Lending Stream can deduct this amount from the compensation  that it needs to pay 
Mr U for loans  2  5. 
If after doing the above, an outstanding balance remains,  Lending Stream  and Mr U 
should come to a mutually agreeable repayment  plan in order  to pay down the 
outstanding principal sum. 
 
HM Revenue & Customs requires Lending Stream to take off tax from this interest.  Lending 
Stream must give Mr U a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. 
Ref: DRN89007645my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I partly uphold  Mr Us complaint.  
Gain Credit LLC should  put things right for Mr U as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 September  2019.
Robert Walker 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8900764