K820x#14complaint
Mr S has complained National Westminster Bank Plc will not refund payments he didnt 
make and closed his account.
background
Mr S opened  an account with NatWest in May 2017 with an agreed overdraft facility of 
£1,250. He accepts he made some payments with his card. But he disputes a further 55 
payments which  resulted  in an overdraft he says he never requested.  NatWest decided  
these transactions  were  not fraudulent so they wouldnt refund them. They  gave him 
immediate notice that they were  closing his account as they believed  Mr S had given them 
false information. NatWest sent his debt for collection  by a third party. A default was applied 
to Mr Ss credit record on 30 November 2017.
Mr S was unhappy with this conclusion as he didnt believe hed authorised  these 
transactions. His mother, Ms P, brought his complaint to the ombudsman  service on his 
behalf.
Our investigator saw that the disputed payments involved cashpoint withdrawals, point of 
sale payments using the genuine card and PIN as well as online payments. Mr S had initially  
confirmed some payments including  online  payments to a gambling company were his. 
Further payments  to this company were then disputed but Mr Ss current  account had 
received refunds from this company as well. 
Our investigator did not see how someone else could have made all the disputed payments 
nor obtained  Mr Ss card and PIN. He also believed NatWest had done nothing  wrong  in 
taking a commercial decision to close Mr Ss account. They  could do this in line with their 
terms and conditions. The issue around  Mr Ss post code being quoted incorrectly  wasnt  as 
Mr S feared as NatWest were only quoting the last digits of the post code of Mr Ss branch.
Ms P told us Mr S didnt agree with this outcome. She was adamant  there had been identity 
fraud. He wanted  his complaint reviewed  by an ombudsman.
In the period whilst  this complaint has waited  for an ombudsman to be available to consider 
it, Mr S has suffered  from severe mental health issues.  Weve had additional 
correspondence with NatWest and Ms P on Mr Ss behalf.  NatWest  has confirmed theyd put 
on hold any attempt by debt collectors to ask Mr S to pay this debt.  They wrote to Mr S in 
September 2019 to confirm this.
I completed a provisional decision on 18 February  2020. Considering  all the circumstances 
of the complaint I felt it was fair and reasonable to instruct NatWest to write off Mr Ss debt.
Ms P accepted this conclusion on behalf of her son. She disputed  some of my understanding 
how different things may have occurred but they were now keen to get this issue behind 
them.
NatWest didnt respond.
I now have all I need to complete  to complete my final decision.
Ref: DRN82826142my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive made  the same 
decision as I did when  writing my provisional decision. Ill explain  why. 
I understand that Mr S says there has been  a history of identity fraud and has provided  other  
documents about a loan he did not apply for. He was concerned  to receive  an email about a 
change to his account using a different postcode  to his  although that turned out to be 
genuine and it included the postcode of his home  branch. Im not convinced that identity 
fraud is the explanation here.  Mr S accepts he did open the bank account himself. He also 
accepts he made some  initial transactions to the gambling company in question. He 
confirmed this to NatWest when they initially questioned him about these transactions. The 
key issue is Mr S believes someone was then able to make  payments without his authority.
The Payment Services Regulations primarily  require banks to refund customers if they didnt 
make or authorise payments themselves. Certain  other circumstances do apply but nothing  
else thats had a marked impact on the decision Im making here. So when we look at 
whether a bank  has acted  fairly  in rejecting someones fraud  complaint, one of the things we 
consider is whether the customer made the transactions  themselves or allowed them  to be 
made. If they did, then we generally  wouldnt ask the bank  to refund them.
So to help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the evidence of the transactions, as well 
as what both NatWest  and Ms P, on Mr Ss behalf,  have told us. 
The disputed payments took place  between 17 May and 24 June 2017. Mr S notified 
NatWest on 27 June.  Some of these required the genuine card and PIN to be used. Mr S 
never reported his card lost or stolen. The payments to the gambling company would have 
meant someone had logged onto Mr Ss own gambling account to make  online bets.  To 
decide that these 55 disputed payments were  not made with his authority Id need to think all 
of the following are likely:
An unknown  third party was able to access his card (and discover  Mr Ss PIN) and 
was either able to take and replace it. Or alternatively they were willing to take the 
risk that Mr S would not realise  his card was missing for an extended period.
That person  somehow also discovered  the details to allow  access to his gambling  
account. And then gambled online using Mr Ss ID and requested  money to be 
refunded to Mr Ss account. 
Some of the disputed  transactions  are very unlike those wed normally see in a case  
of fraud  so payments to a media  subscription  service for example.
That person  did not take as much money from the account as quickly  as possible  as 
a fraudster typically might.
Theres evidence  of undisputed transactions between  those  that are in dispute. 
Unknown fraudsters   like those who undertake ID fraud   would not run the risk of 
replacing Mr Ss card and PIN.
Mr S didnt notice  what  was going on and didnt  use his account during the period.
All of these coincidences  seem unlikely to me. I know this will be hard to accept for Ms P 
who has argued cogently on her sons behalf. Shes  provided us with press cuttings 
explaining how fraud  similar  to what may have happened to Mr S  could take place.  
However I dont think this is what happened  here.
Ref: DRN82826143It seems  odd that Mr S only disputed transactions that happened after 17 May. That was the 
date Mr S first confirmed to NatWest gambling  transactions until then were  genuine.  I think 
Mr S found  himself in a dire situation  where  he was gambling and unable  to stop. He thought 
saying these hadnt been authorised offered him a way out. Its extremely unlikely that fraud  
only started to take place  the day after Mr S confirmed transactions were genuine. On 
balance I dont believe these transactions were unauthorised. Therefore Im not in a position 
to ask NatWest to refund any money  to him.
NatWest didnt think Mr Ss claim of fraud was genuine. So in line with its own terms and 
conditions, I dont think it would be fair to say they acted incorrectly  in closing his account.
Ms P has also forwarded to us copies of correspondence from mobile  service  providers and 
payday loan companies asking both her and Mr S to repay  debts and loans taken out with 
them. She believes this is evidence of ID fraud. I am separately  considering  a complaint  
Ms P has brought about transactions  she has disputed. That will be the proper place to 
consider some of this correspondence.
I have to say, however,  that taking into account what I know of her son and the situation he 
was in during  2017 and 2018,  I dont think it is completely out of the question that in 
desperation he may have applied for payday  loans. I am pleased  to see that shes  been able 
to sort most of these debts out on her sons behalf.
I am aware  of what has happened since 2017.  Mr S has not been  well at all. Hes not in 
employment. What  has happened has had a great  impact on his familys financial and 
mental health. I spoke  to NatWest about this situation.
They confirmed theyd  written off this debt in January 2018 and wouldnt be pursuing  him for 
the £1,348.68 that was outstanding at the time.  Mr Ss credit  record  will still have a default 
marked on it. As I believe he made  the disputed payments which  caused the debt, I dont 
believe it would be fair to ask NatWest  to remove this. Taking all issues into consideration, 
including Mr Ss health, I believe this is a fair and reasonable  conclusion  to his complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is to instruct National Westminster Bank Plc to write 
off the debt in Mr Ss name.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2020.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8282614