K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada  (U.K.) Limited  sold him an 
unsuitable savings  endowment policy in 1995  which he surrendered at a loss seven years 
later.
background
Mr Ss representative said:
There was no discussion of possibly  more suitable tax free savings options such as 
TESSAs or PEPs
Mr S had existing life cover which exceeded  10% of his income i.e. sufficient to 
achieve qualifying status; so the life cover  in the endowment was not needed
There was no advice  on the provision of deposit-based emergency savings
There was no advice  on addressing loan and overdraft payments before committing  
to a long-term contract
There was no discussion on the impact of costs on the policy which  were likely  to 
result in it returning a loss if surrendered  in the first 10 years.  So a deposit-based 
savings vehicle was more appropriate  as 6% deposit interest per year was 
achievable at the time
An investigator at this service did not believe the complaint should be upheld, highlighting 
the following  points:
Mr S was looking for a 17 year savings plan, specifically to give to his younger 
daughter on her 18th birthday. This plan met that objective
He had sufficient  income and surplus  monthly income to afford a £50 a month  
commitment
Overall, he was in a position to deal with his loan and overdraft payments while 
committing to this sum
As this recommendation was suitable, the issue of whether other options would also 
have been suitable  is not relevant
The documentation  was clear  and he felt Mr S would have understand this was a 
medium term savings commitment and included life cover  (which was paid from part 
of the premiums)
Mr Ss representative did not agree, and said:
It was the firm's  duty to offer the client the best product  from its product range. The 
firm had a superior  10 year savings contract, with an extension  option, that was 
never discussed. This type of plan would have offered higher returns  due to its lower 
charges
Mr Ss lack of deposit-based  savings and loan liabilities plus the excess  life cover  
made this sale inappropriate
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN81544602In this case I agree with the investigator  and for the same reasons. I will therefore not repeat 
all the points he made in his lengthy assessment.
Crucially, my role is to decide whether there  is sufficient evidence to safely conclude that a 
business did something wrong;  in this case offered poor or unsuitable advice. I dont  believe  
there is such persuasive evidence.
In my view the advisor identified Mr Ss clear savings objective  and the recommended plan 
was not unsuitable for this, even though it included some unnecessary  life cover.
I dont dispute  that other savings options  such as PEPs might have been  equally suitable, 
and might have proved  more cost-effective given Mr S surrendered this plan after seven 
years. But this does  not mean  this recommendation was flawed  at the time.
Given Mr Ss overall financial situation  I am satisfied he was able to make this regular 
commitment, and that the documentation  fully warned that an early surrender was likely to 
be costly.
If Mr S had wanted a much more flexible plan, and felt he might want to stop this modest 
monthly payment  at any time, I think he would  have been able to explain this to the advisor  
and/or decided he didnt want a 12 year plus commitment. I dont believe Sun Life can, in 
effect, be held responsible for his decision to go ahead  with what  was a clearly  explained  
medium  term  savings plan with life cover..
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint or make  any award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 July 2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8154460