K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  that London  and Country  Mortgages Ltd (LCM) mis-sold payment 
protection insurance (PPI)  to them alongside  a mortgage.
 
background
The PPI cover that Mr and Mrs S bought was set up to cover Mrs S only. This was a regular 
premium policy,  so they paid for it on a monthly  basis. 
The crux of Mr and Mrs S complaint is that they say they werent told the cover would end 
when they repaid their mortgage.  They say they thought theyd  bought a freestanding 
income protection policy. Our adjudicator didnt think this complaint should  be upheld.  Mr 
and Mrs S disagreed  with that view. As the parties  are not in agreement with our adjudicator, 
the matter has been  passed to me to make a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account  in deciding 
this case. 
I am grateful to Mr and Mrs S for their cogent  and diligent pursuit  of this matter. I am sorry to 
disappoint them, but after considering all of the evidence before me, I havent upheld  this 
complaint. Ill explain  why below. 
The parties agree that the PPI was initially discussed with Mr and Mrs S over the telephone. 
They subsequently completed a postal  application. I havent been  given a recording of the 
telephone call, which isnt unusual given the length of time thats elapsed since  the sale. 
Even if there  was a recording, I wouldnt expect it to be retained for so long. That means I 
cant know what was said during the call. To help me decide whats likely to have happened, 
Ive looked at what Mr and Mrs S remember about  the sale.  And Ive also considered the 
paperwork that is available from the time. 
The first thing Ive considered is whether  Mr and Mrs S would have  known the PPI was 
optional and they didnt have to take it out if they didnt want it. Mr and Mrs S agree that they 
knew they had a choice about  buying this cover. Ive still looked  at the correspondence and I 
agree that it would have been clear  they had a choice. 
From the paperwork, I can see that LCM  didnt advise  Mr and Mrs S to buy this cover. But it 
still had to make sure they had enough  information  about the PPI so they could decide for 
themselves whether it was a good fit for their needs. Wed expect LCM to have pointed out 
the significant exclusions and limitations  of this PPI policy  the factors  that would generally 
affect a persons choice to buy the cover. 
As I said above, a significant ground of Mr and Mrs S complaint  is that they say LCM  didnt  
tell them  that the cover was linked to their mortgage  so if they paid off the mortgage  they 
wouldnt be able to make  a claim. They  told us that this isnt what they thought  they had 
bought as they wanted a policy to cover  their income in the event that Mrs S had to take time 
off work. I dont doubt that what Mr and Mrs S told us is what they honestly  remember about 
the sale. But with respect  to Mr and Mrs S, I think its reasonably clear from the paperwork 
Ref: DRN80343922that the policy is linked to a mortgage. It shows that they were buying a policy  to cover their 
mortgage repayments (rather than their income) in the event that Mrs S couldnt work  or lost 
her job. It follows  that I think the person selling the cover would have also made  that clear to 
them
I say this because  looking through the key facts information, the policy is called FreeStart  
Mortgage Payment  Protection Insurance  and the first numbered paragraph indicates  that 
cover is to help protect mortgage payments and other household costs.  Mr and Mrs S say 
that they were  covered for 125% of their mortgage payment, so they thought it was an 
income protection policy. But the key facts  information says on the first page  that the 
expenses to be covered  could  be the mortgage payment, life, buildings  and contents 
insurance. Taking the key facts document as a whole, I think its reasonably clear that the 
cover would have  been  linked to their mortgage repayments  and associated  necessary 
costs, not to their income. 
Ive also been  given an email that Mrs S sent to LCM at around the time of the sale. In that 
message, she enquired  about having  cover based  on one person for 100% of the mortgage 
payment (my emphasis). Taking  the evidence in the round, I think it would have been clear  
that the PPI was linked  to the mortgage.  And Mrs S email suggests  that she and Mr S were  
aware of this at the time. I can see why they dont  remember this now given that the policy 
was sold over ten years ago. I accept that its difficult  to recall precisely what  happened  such 
a long time ago. 
Although Im satisfied  that Mr and Mrs S would  have reasonably known that the PPI was 
linked to the mortgage, in the absence of a call recording, I accept it is possible that LCM 
didnt tell Mr and Mrs S everything it should have done about the cover. So the question for 
me now is whether  they would have acted  differently  if theyd been given all the right 
information. To help me decide what theyre likely to have  done,  Ive looked at the terms and 
conditions of the cover. Ive also thought carefully  about what they told us about their 
personal circumstances at the time.
At Mr and Mrs S request, the cover  was set up only for Mrs S and shed have been covered 
if she lost her job or if she was too unwell to work. I can see that if shed had to make a 
claim, a monthly benefit of £908.58  would have been paid for a maximum of 12 months for 
each claim.  
Mr and Mrs S told us that if Mrs S had become unwell,  shed  have received six weeks full 
pay and six weeks half pay. So it is clear that the PPI would have paid out for longer  than 
her full sick pay would have lasted.
Mr and Mrs S told us that they had substantial savings that they could have relied on if Mrs S 
was out of work. I accept that they had savings  but Mr and Mrs S have accepted that they 
wanted some type of cover.  So it looks as though  they wanted to keep their savings intact. 
With PPI, they could have  also used those  savings towards their other essential expenditure 
at what would have  no doubt been  a very stressful  time for them if Mrs S was out of work. 
Ive seen evidence  of Mr and Mrs S income protection policy.  Ive thought carefully about 
whether this could  have  affected their decision to buy PPI. After doing  so, I dont think  it 
would. I can see there  was a deferral  period  of 26 weeks for this policy. And so there would  
have been a period of time after Mrs S full sick pay ended and the income protection  policy  
started. And comparing  the benefit  of this income protection  policy  to Mrs S salary,  I think it 
Ref: DRN80343923would have paid out considerably less. Its not clear to me whether it would have been 
enough to even cover the mortgage  payments, let alone Mr and Mrs S other expenses. 
Mr and Mrs S told us that Mrs S was in good  health at the time they bought this cover. So I 
dont think theyd have  been affected  by any of the policys exclusions about  medical 
conditions. I havent  seen anything unusual about  Mrs S employment  circumstances that 
would have affected her ability to make a claim if she needed to. 
It appears the policy would have been  affordable at the time that Mr and Mrs S were  sold 
PPI cover.  Im aware that theyve raised an issue about the cost of the premiums  after it was 
sold. This is not something  I can consider against  the seller  of the PPI. If they remain 
unhappy about the cost of the premiums, this would be something  they would have to raise  
with the insurer  in the first instance. 
With all of this in mind, I dont think more or better information about  the insurance  would 
have put Mr and Mrs S off buying  the PPI policy. Ive set out above how it could have been 
useful for them.  They  accept they chose  to take a policy out and so it appears they wanted 
this type of cover. It follows that I havent  upheld the complaint about the mis-sale. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr and Mrs S, but for the reasons set out above, I havent  upheld 
their complaint. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint about London and Country Mortgages  Ltd. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 September 2019.  
Nicola Bowes 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8034392