K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains that MYJAR Limited lent to him in an irresponsible  manner.
background
Mr C was given five loans  by MYJAR  between June 2016 and September 2017. Loan 1 was 
repayable in a single instalment. The remaining loans were repayable over either three or six 
months. Mr C appears to have faced  some problems repaying his final loan and MYJAR 
reduced the amount of interest he needed  to pay. But all of Mr Cs loans have now been  
closed. A summary  of Mr Cs borrowing  from MYJAR  is as follows;
Loan 
NumberBorrowing 
DateRepayment 
DateLoan 
Amount  
1 15/06/2016 01/08/2016 £   125
2 26/12/2016 11/04/2017 £   100
3 27/06/2017 29/07/2017 £   500
4 12/08/2017 31/08/2017 £   250
5 01/09/2017 04/05/2018 £   800
Mr Cs complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. He didnt think MYJAR had 
been wrong to give the first four loans to Mr C. But he didnt think the final loan should  have 
been agreed. So he asked MYJAR to pay Mr C some compensation.
MYJAR didnt agree  with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.  This is the last stage of our 
process. If Mr C accepts  my decision it is legally binding on both parties.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr C could repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that MYJAR should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These  factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
Ref: DRN89922462the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MYJAR was required to establish 
whether Mr C could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether  the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the FCAs Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines 
sustainable as being without undue  difficulties and in particular the customer should be able 
to make repayments on time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments; as well as 
without having  to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  
or it ought fairly  and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make  their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Cs complaint.
MYJAR did some checks before it lent to Mr C. It asked him for details of his income, and his 
normal expenditure. And it checked  his credit  file before agreeing  the loans. Ive seen a 
summary of those checks and I dont  think they showed anything  that should  have caused 
additional concerns to the lender.
I think that the checks MYJAR  did before  agreeing  the first four loans were proportionate. 
The amounts that Mr C needed to repay  were  small compared with the disposable  income 
hed declared.  Given  these repayment amounts, what  was apparent  about  Mr Cs 
circumstances at the time, and his borrowing history with the lender, I dont think it wouldve 
been proportionate for MYJAR to ask him for the amount of information that would be 
needed to show  the lending was unsustainable  before agreeing  the first four loans.
But I think, by the time Mr C asked for loan 5, that MYJAR should  have realised  that it 
couldnt safely rely on the information he was providing about his finances.  This was now 
Mr Cs fifth loan and hed been borrowing with little break for a considerable period of time.  
The amount  Mr C was asking to borrow had also increased significantly. So I think  MYJAR  
should have taken steps at that time to independently verify Mr Cs true financial  position. 
Ive looked at extracts from Mr Cs bank statements at the time to see what  better  checks 
would have shown  to MYJAR. From those it is clear  that Mr C was facing significant 
problems managing his money  and was spending  large amounts on what appear  to be 
online gambling transactions.  Had it seen that I dont  think  it would have been reasonable for 
MYJAR to conclude that this loan could be repaid in a sustainable manner.
Ref: DRN89922463So I dont  think that MYJAR should have agreed to give loan 5 to Mr C. MYJAR  needs to pay 
him some compensation.
putting things right
I dont think MYJAR should have  agreed to give the final loan (loan 5) to Mr C. So in relation 
to that loan MYJAR should;
Refund any interest and charges paid by Mr C on the loan.  
Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*.
Remove any adverse  information recorded on Mr Cs credit file in relation to the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires MYJAR to take off tax from this interest. MYJAR must 
give Mr C a certificate showing  how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold part of Mr Cs complaint and direct MYJAR  Limited  to put 
things right as detailed above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 December  2019
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8992246