K821x#15complaint
Mrs G complained about BISL Limiteds handling  of her car insurance policy.
background
Mrs G took out car insurance through an online comparison  website  in July 2015. BISL were  
acting as the broker. The policy was underwritten by another  company (the insurer). The car 
had been bought by Mrs Gs son-in-law  for Mrs Gs use, but her son-in-law was the owner 
and registered  keeper  of the car.
During the online application,  Mrs G stated that she wasnt  the owner of the car, but she did 
say she was the registered  keeper. She told us that as the car was bought for her use and 
she kept it at all times, she was the keeper of it. She also said she gets confused by the 
terminology and sometimes reference  is only made  to the keeper of the car. The policy  was 
renewed in July 2016.
In January 2017, Mrs G was involved in an accident where, unfortunately, she suffered life 
changing injuries. The car was a total loss and her son-in-law made a claim. Soon after the 
insurer realised Mrs G wasnt the registered  keeper of the car so they told BISL  to void the 
policy from July 2016, which  had the effect as though the policy  had never come into effect.  
The insurer  didnt pay out on the claim. Mrs G complained, but BISL  said they hadnt done 
anything wrong.
As Mrs G was unhappy with BISL, she brought her complaint  to our service. One of our 
adjudicators looked into the complaint. She felt that BISL hadnt treated Mrs G fairly. Having 
reviewed the insurers  underwriting  guidelines,  she said they should never have accepted to 
insure Mrs G on the basis that she wasnt the owner  of the car. Had the information that she 
wasnt the owner been passed on to the insurer, and had they applied  the underwriting  
guidelines correctly,  they would have  refused  Mrs G cover, which  would have meant that its 
likely she would have got cover elsewhere. Our adjudicator suggested  BISL should: deal 
with the total loss claim; pay her £250  compensation for the distress  and inconvenience she 
suffered; pay her reasonable alternative transport costs together with 8% interest; issue  her 
a letter  confirming the voidance was due to an administrative error that led to a policy being 
issued to cover an unacceptable  risk; and, given Mrs G was unable to get alternative  cover,  
BISL should assist her in getting  cover  from an insurer on their panel of insurers.
The complaint was passed  to me to decide.
My provisional decision was issued on 28 January 2019. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im intending to 
uphold this complaint.  Ill explain why.
I must decide if BISL have dealt with Mrs G in a fair and reasonable way.
Since our adjudicators  intervention,  BISL and the insurer have considered the 
position and the following has happened:
A total loss settlement  has been made  where  the pre-accident  market value of 
the car has been paid to Mrs Gs son-in-law  to his and Mrs Gs satisfaction.
Ref: DRN87068402£250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience suffered by Mrs G has 
been paid to her.
The voidance has been overturned.
Mrs Gs no claims  bonus  (NCB)  years have been reinstated.
BISL have agreed to assist Mrs G in getting insurance cover for her new car.
As those  matters are no longer in dispute I don't intend to deal with them further 
here. I understand  the only outstanding issue is the alternative travel expenses Mrs 
G has incurred during the time she has been  without a car. After the accident Mrs G 
did order a new car, but she was refused  insurance due to the voidance marker  on 
her record,  so she was unable to get back on the roads. That meant  she had to use 
alternative means of transport, which she says she kept to a minimum and utilised 
cheaper forms of transport.
BISL, in collaboration with the insurer, have told us that they will consider 
reimbursing her for those.  They  have  been in contact with our service and with Mrs G 
to gather and consider evidence of her costs. Mrs G has been helpful  and has 
provided large volumes of documentation  and information.  But as BISL hadnt 
concluded their consideration, the matter  was passed to me decide.  
One of the main issues was the dates  during  which BISL should consider Mrs Gs 
costs. The accident  happened on 9 January 2017.  Given the severity of Mrs Gs 
injuries, she spent a period of time in hospital, had several operations and had her 
right hand  in a sling for best part of the first 10 weeks. Her doctor also signed her off 
until 20 March 2017. I understand  that after that date she was fit enough to drive. So 
I think it's fair that the consideration  of Mrs Gs expenses should start from 21 March 
2017. 
I also need to think about how long BISL should  cover Mrs Gs travel  expenses for. 
15 May 2018 was a significant date because BISL confirmed that the voidance  
marker against Mrs Gs driving record had been  removed and that her NCB  had been  
reinstated. They also invited her to apply for new cover. But the total loss settlement 
of the car hadnt been paid to her son-in-law until sometime around 1 June 2018. He 
was sent a cheque which he had to bank and it had to be cleared. I understand Mrs 
G was reliant on part of that settlement  before she could buy a new car. So allowing 
for the cheque to clear, her son-in-law to give her money and for Mrs G to find a new 
car, I think  its fair to allow a period until 10 June 2018. So I think  BISLs 
consideration of Mrs Gs reasonable alternative travel  costs  should be for the period 
of 21 March 2017 to 10 June 2018  (inclusive).
Our service has provided BISL with documentary evidence from Mrs G and that they 
have been considering it. Any costs  BISL  agree to pay should  also include interest at 
8% per year simple  from the date Mrs G made  payment until the date she is 
reimbursed. BISL  should give their decision to Mrs G in writing  with a clear  
explanation and calculation. Mrs G should  be allowed a reasonable period of time to 
consider the decision before accepting or rejecting it.
The parties were invited to comment on my findings. Mrs G agreed with my provisional 
findings, but said BISL hadnt yet paid her the £250 compensation they said they would. 
BISL didnt comment.
Ref: DRN87068403my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my findings remain  the 
same. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold the complaint  and require BISL Limited to:
Consider Mrs Gs reasonable alternative  travel costs between  21 March  2017 and 
10 June 2018  (inclusive). Any costs  BISL agree to pay should also include interest  at 
8% per year simple  from the date Mrs G made  payment until the date she is 
reimbursed. 
BISL should give their decision to Mrs G in writing  with a clear  explanation and 
calculation. 
If not yet already done so, pay Mrs G £250 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience she experienced. This should  be paid within  28 days  of us telling them  
that Mrs G has accepted my final decision. If they pay later than this they must also 
pay interest on that amount from the date of my final decision to the date of payment 
at a rate of 8% a year simple1. 

Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 March  2019.   
 
Mehmet Osman  
ombudsman
 
1 If BISL consider that they are required by HM Revenue & Customs  to take off income tax from that 
interest, they should tell Mrs G how much they have taken off. They  should  also give her a certificate 
showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.  
Ref: DRN8706840