K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain  that Aviva Insurance Limited has refused to pay their cancellation 
claim under their travel insurance policy.
background
Mr and Mrs F have  travel  insurance with Aviva, linked to their bank account. 
In July 2017 Mrs F was diagnosed with anxiety  shortly  before she and Mr F were  due to 
leave for a pre-booked holiday  and they couldnt travel. Aviva paid their cancellation claim. It 
also told Mrs F about the need  to call its medical assessment line before making  any future 
travel plans.
In November 2017 Mr and Mrs F booked a holiday  for the following July 2018. But shortly  
before they were  due to leave Mrs F became  ill with severe anxiety. Her GP advised her not 
to travel,  so they cancelled the holiday and made  a claim. 
Aviva didnt pay the 2018 claim. It said Mrs F hadnt called the medical  assessment  
department to see whether it would cover her, as required  under the policy.  If she had it 
wouldnt have covered anxiety. Aviva  also said the policy specifically  excluded  claims for 
anxiety which had been diagnosed before  the trip was booked. 
Mr and Mrs F didnt  think this was fair and said that at the very least Aviva  should pay for 
Mr Fs share  of the holiday, as he had to cancel due to her illness and not his own. But our 
adjudicator thought Aviva had reached  a fair decision not to pay the full claim. As Mr and 
Mrs F didnt  agree the complaints been  referred to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think Aviva  reached a fair decision not to pay Mr and Mrs Fs 2018 claim,  so I dont uphold 
this complaint. Ill explain my reasons. 
Aviva spoke to Mrs F about  the cancelled July 2017 holiday as she had initially  indicated  her 
anxiety had started in January 2017. But Mrs F said her GP had advised her to change her 
diet  and she hadnt been diagnosed with anxiety  until July 2017. Aviva  explained then that 
if shed been diagnosed  with anxiety before she and Mr F had paid the balance of their 
holiday then the claim wouldnt  be covered.  It asked for a medical  certificate. 
Aviva paid Mr and Mrs Fs claim for the cancelled July 2017 holiday because  her GP 
confirmed that Mrs F hadnt  been  diagnosed  with anxiety until just before their departure  
date. But following the claim Aviva explained  again  that it would be necessary to call its 
medical assessment  helpline as outlined in the policy terms and conditions to be covered 
under the policy.
The policy terms required  Mr and Mrs F to call Aviva before booking a trip if any insured  
person had received advice, medication or treatment for any serious, chronic  or recurring  
illness, injury or disease in 12 months before booking a trip. 
Ref: DRN85152812I think Aviva  did enough  to bring its policy terms clearly to Mr and Mrs Fs attention before 
they booked their July 2018 holiday.  Mr and Mrs F didnt call Avivas  medical  assessment  
line before  booking the July 2018  trip. Mrs F says that when the holiday was booked  she had 
no signs of anxiety and didnt think it would reoccur. But her GPs medical certificate  
confirms that she had received medication for anxiety in the 12 months  before booking  the 
July 2018 holiday, so she did need  to call Aviva. Anxiety had led to the cancellation of the 
previous years holiday. 
The cancellation section  of the policy says clearly that any claim for a medical condition for 
which medication has been prescribed in the previous twelve  months wouldnt be covered 
unless the condition was disclosed to and accepted  by Aviva.  It had reminded her of the 
need to call the medical assessment line following the July 2018 claim. And Avivas policy 
also specifically excluded  claims resulting from any anxiety statewhich  had been  
diagnosed before the trip was booked.
Mrs F says that Aviva should at the very least pay Mr F for his share of the holiday, as the 
cancellation was due to her illness and not his. I appreciate that he wouldnt have wanted to 
travel without her. But the policy excludes any claims for a medical condition (as defined) not 
accepted by it and also for any claims resulting from anxiety diagnosed before the trip was 
booked. The cancellation was due to Mrs Fs anxiety and so this includes Mr Fs claim for his 
share of the holiday. I think Aviva made a fair decision to turn down Mr and Mrs Fs 2018 
cancellation claim, and I dont  uphold  this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 September 2019.
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8515281