K820x#14complaint
Mrs H is unhappy that Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) didnt do enough to help her when shed 
been the victim of a scam.
Miss B, the daughter  of Mrs H, acts as her representative. She has helped  Mrs H bring this 
complaint. But for ease  of reading,  Ill mostly only refer to Mrs H herself.
background
Mrs H has explained that she saw an investment opportunity advertised on social media, 
which promised large returns. She says that the social media page had many followers, 
displayed a large number of pictures  and had detailed  information on how the investment 
worked.
On 16 October 2018 Mrs H made an online transfer  of £600 with the belief it would be 
invested on her behalf  into stocks  and shares. The person  Mrs H was communicating with 
kept her updated  on the growth of her investment by a messaging  app. But when Mrs H tried 
to withdraw her profits, she was told this would only be possible if she sent more funds. 
Mrs H didnt have the funds to send, so it was agreed that the original investment amount of 
£600 would  be returned to her, which she was told could take up to 14 days to reach  her 
account. The funds  never arrived, and it became very difficult to contact the person shed 
been dealing  with  whod  also blocked her on social media. 
Mrs H first contacted Lloyds on 25 October  2018 claiming the payment of £600 was 
unauthorised and fraudulent. After investigating  the matter Lloyds rejected the claim. The 
following day Mrs H called  Lloyds back;  she told it that she remembered that she had, in 
fact, made the payment  herself. Mrs H realised that the investment was not, after all, 
legitimate and asked  Lloyds  for help in retrieving her money. Lloyds said it processed the 
payment in line with Mrs Hs instructions and tried to recovery  her funds from the beneficiary 
bank  but unfortunately no funds remained;  and that it was unable to help further and has 
done everything possible to help assist  Mrs H in the recovery  of her funds. 
When Mrs H referred  her complaint to this service, one of our investigators considered it. 
She didnt  think that Lloyds should reimburse  Mrs Hs loss as; 
-the payment  wasnt unusual  or suspicious in nature  taking into consideration her 
normal account activity;
-she didnt speak  to or interact with Lloyds staff at the time of the payment, so Lloyds 
didnt miss an opportunity to identify that the payment was being made in relation to a 
scam; and 
-she was satisfied that Lloyds did what they could to recover the funds, but no funds 
remained. 
Mrs H didnt agree with the outcome  and in response to the investigators  view made  the 
following points; 
-At the time of the incident Mrs H and her family were going through financial 
hardship. She had made the investment  in the hope  of generating a profit and she 
believes Lloyds shouldve contacted  her about  the online  transfer as it was a large 
payment.
Ref: DRN82178332-Mrs H feels  Lloyds should  refund her as; it was a scam and she didnt get the service 
she paid  for. It shouldnt matter that it was an online transfer and not a card 
payment. 
-Mrs H knows  of another victim who got scammed by the same person, whose bank 
has been able to get their money back.  
-Mrs H has said, the scammer  is still operating under different aliases and has as part 
of her submissions sent different  social media  pages where the same  photographs 
are being  used.  
Unhappy that after waiting so long for an answer,  the investigator agreed with Lloyds, Mrs H 
asked that an ombudsman review the case.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done that, Ive reached materially 
the same  conclusions as the investigator did, and for materially the same reasons. I know  
Mrs Hs been waiting  for an answer for a long time on her complaint and this isnt the 
outcome shes been hoping  for, but Ill explain why Ive reached this decision.
Firstly, Im sorry to hear Mrs H was going through  a difficult time; financially, and to hear of 
whats happened. I can understand why she wants to do all she can to try and get her 
money back and in her submissions Mrs H has made several  points about the scam itself 
and the actions of the scammers. But I must be clear, and I think its important for me to 
explain at the outset that my role isnt to investigate the actions of the recipient of the funds, 
nor would it be fair of me to hold Lloyds responsible for these. 
Ive no reason to doubt that Mrs H has, as she says, been the victim of a scam  here or her 
belief that the scammer continues to operate under another profile. But this is a criminal 
matter and one for the police and courts, should  she wish to pursue it  not this service.  I 
appreciate that this may be frustrating for Mrs H, but what I need  to decide is whether Lloyds 
has done anything  wrong that has caused  her to lose out. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules,  guidance  and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  what I consider to have been good  industry
practice at the time.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank  is expected  to process  payments
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make, in accordance  with the Payment
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions  of the customers  account. And I have
taken this into account when deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case.
But this is not the end of the story:
The law recognises that a bank may be liable to its customer if it makes a payment in 
circumstances where  it has reasonable grounds (although not necessarily proof)  for 
believing that the payment instruction was an attempt  to misappropriate  the funds  of its 
customer (known  as the Quincecare duty).
Ref: DRN82178333Regulated firms like Lloyds are also required to conduct their business with due skill, 
care and diligence (FCA  Principle for Businesses  2) and to pay due regard to the 
interests of its customers (Principle 6).
In addition, as a matter  of good industry practice, I consider firms should in any event have 
taken proactive steps to:
identify and assist  vulnerable consumers and consumers in vulnerable circumstances, 
including those at risk of financial exploitation (something  also recognised by the FCA in 
recent years  and by the British Bankers Associations  February  2016 report improving 
outcomes for customers in vulnerable  circumstances);
look to identify and help prevent transactions  particularly unusual or out of character 
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result  of a scam (something also 
recognised by the British  Standards Institutes October 2017  Protecting Customers from 
Financial harm as a result of fraud  or financial abuse   Code of Practice, which a 
number of banks and trade associations were involved  in the development of); and
in relation to branch transactions  follow the Banking Protocol when available.
This means  that, particularly with the increase of sophisticated fraud and scams  in recent
years, there are circumstances where a bank should  fairly and reasonably  take additional
steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment,  or in some cases decline to
make a payment  altogether, to help protect  customers from the possibility  of financial harm.
So in this case, I need to decide whether Lloyds acted fairly and reasonably  in its
dealings with Mrs H when  she transferred the £600 and when she reported the matter,  or 
whether it should  have  done more than it did.
It is now accepted  by both parties that Mrs H sent the payment of £600  to the third-party  
bank account  and that this was done online  without any interaction with Lloyds staff. 
Mrs H believed she was dealing with a legitimate investment business,  she did not suspect 
that the person she was making a payment to was a fraudster. The money was sent in good  
faith  for the purchase of stocks and shares.  In simple terms this means  at the time the 
payment was made  Mrs H wanted  to make  it and authorised it to be made. But there  are 
some situations in which Lloyds should  reasonably  have had a closer  look at the 
circumstances surrounding  the payment  as Ive explained. I consider that as a matter of 
good practice Lloyds  shouldve  been  on the lookout for unusual  and out of character 
transactions.
So Ive first thought  about whether the payment Mrs H made was out of character and/or
unusual. Having reviewed  Mrs Hs statements for the three  months leading  up to the scam, I 
can see shed made several  other transfers, to different payees, for amounts ranging from 
£15 to £1,000  so a payment of £600  wasnt particularly out of character or unusual , and 
there was nothing about the payment that wouldve indicated to Lloyds that it wasnt  
legitimate or that Mrs H might be at risk of financial harm.
Also, I appreciate  Mrs H has said that she was experiencing  financial difficulties at the time,  
but Ive seen no evidence to support Lloyds was aware of this. Further the account  balance 
at the time the payment was made was in excess of £2,000,  Mrs H was receiving regular 
credits  so there was nothing obvious to suggest  she was in financial hardship. And even 
after the payment  of £600 had left Mrs Hs account, her balance  still remained over £2,000. 
Ref: DRN82178334So, I dont think Lloyds  acted unreasonably in not making enquiries about the payment 
before processing  it or did anything wrong by following the instructions Mrs H gave and 
sending the money.  
I know Mrs H feels strongly about  her complaint, she has mentioned that she knows of other  
victims  where their banks have returned  the money. But this service was set up primarily to 
deal with individual complaints, so, whilst  I understand  the point Mrs H is making  here, I can 
only comment on the individual  circumstances of her complaint. And having carefully 
considered these I cant fairly conclude that either; Lloyds actions or lack of, have led to her 
loss. 
I know Mrs H believes Lloyds havent  done  everything they can to recover  her funds. But the 
issue here is that the payment Mrs H made was directly into a third-party  bank account.  Its 
often mistakenly assumed  the protection offered by payments  made by credit  or debit cards 
and the card schemes  where  goods and services  are not received apply to online 
payments  but this is not the case. 
In such circumstances  all that Lloyds can do is contact the beneficiary bank to ask for the 
money back, as it has said, on a best  endeavours basis   which  I can see that Lloyds did. 
A few days  later the beneficiary  bank  reported  that no funds remained. Sadly, with the type 
of the scam that Mrs H was a victim  of, it can take some time to realise  there is a problem  
in Mrs Hs case this was 10 days.  By which point its not uncommon for the beneficiary to 
withdraw or move the funds very quickly. This is what happened  here as I can see from the 
information provided by the beneficiary bank,  that the money had unfortunately already left 
the receiving account on the same day Mrs H had transferred it. So, Lloyds wasnt able to 
recover the money Mrs H had sent because it had already been removed from the 
recipients account.
Its unfortunate that Mrs H has lost out, and I understand that this whole experience  will have 
been very upsetting for her. But as Ive mentioned above, I cant hold Lloyds responsible for 
the scammers actions or for Mrs H having fallen victim  to a scam. Ive carefully considered  
all the circumstances  and I dont think I can fairly  say that Lloyds shouldve acted to stop the 
payment or have  not, made an effort to recover Mrs Hs funds. So, I cant  fairly ask Lloyds to 
compensate Mrs H for her loss. 
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint 
against Lloyds  Bank  Plc. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 June  2020.
Sonal Matharu 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8217833