K821x#15complaint
Mr K complains that Ferratum UK Ltd was irresponsible to lend to him.
background
This complaint is about nine payday  loans Ferratum provided to Mr K between  October  2016  
and June 2017, as follows:
loan number date taken amount borrowed date repaid
1 18 October 2016 £300 21 October  2016
2 6 December 2016 £300 30 December 2016
3 31 December 2016 £400 31 January 2017
4 2 February 2017 £400 28 February 2017
5 28 February 2017 £300 7 March 2017
6 27 March 2017 £200 28 April 2017
7 1 May 2017 £350 31 May 2017
8 4 June 2017 £450 30 June  2017
9 30 June 2017 £400 11 August 2017
Ferratum didnt agree that it lent irresponsibly to Mr K. It said that the checks it carried out, 
amongst other things,  included asking him about  his income and carrying  out identity and 
credit checks. Its review of the information it gathered didnt show there  was any reason that 
Mr K couldnt afford the repayments. It has offered  to pay £200 to settle Mr Ks complaint as 
a gesture of goodwill.
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Ks complaint in part and thought that Ferratum  needed  to do 
more. He didnt  think the loans from three onwards should have been given. Ferratum 
disagreed and the complaint was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Ferratum needed  to take reasonable steps to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr K 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
his income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I 
think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Ferratum  should fairly and reasonably have  
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr K. These factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
Ref: DRN81123942the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Ferratum was required to establish 
whether Mr K could  sustainably repay  his loans   not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Being able to sustainably  meet the repayments  is defined as being without undue  difficulties, 
on time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having  to borrow  
further to meet the repayments.  Ferratum should  realise, or it ought fairly  and reasonably  to 
realise, that a borrower wont be able to make  their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely 
to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
loans one and two
Ferratum has given  us evidence to show that it asked Mr K about her monthly income for 
these loans. Its recorded this as £2,001. Ferratum also says that it carried  out identity and 
credit checks. It says that these didnt show any problems with Mr Ks finances such  as 
delinquent accounts or county court judgements. 
Based on the information Ferratum had at the time, I think  that Ferratum  should also have  
asked Mr K about his normal monthly  living costs. Even if it had done so, with Mr Ks 
repayment amounts  in proportion to his declared income and his history with the lender, I 
think Ferratums decision to lend to Mr K was reasonable.
loan three  to six
I think proportionate checks would have shown that Mr K was having some difficulties in 
managing his money. Ferratum says it carried out credit checks each  time Mr K applied  for a 
loan. I can see that the credit checks dont show any county court judgements  or delinquent  
accounts, but it does  show  that Mr K had a number of other short term loans commitments,  
prior to Ferratum providing loan three. This should have prompted it to ask 
Mr K some very specific questions about  any other short term lending  to assess whether he 
would be able to meet its loan repayments  in a sustainable manner.
As our adjudicator explained a proportionate  check for loans three to would most likely have 
shown that Mr K had a disposable income of about £550 after meeting his normal  monthly  
expenditure. But he also had a number  of loans with other short term lenders at the time he 
borrowed for the third time from Ferratum. This meant that he didnt have enough money  to 
make the loan repayment. His borrowing  from other lenders increased in both number  and 
amount after that so I dont think Ferratum should  have  provided Mr K with loans three to six.
loans seven to nine
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Ferratums lending history  with Mr K, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Ferratum should reasonably have seen that further 
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful such that Ferratum  should have realised 
that it shouldnt  have provided  any further  loans. 
Ref: DRN81123943I think that this point was reached by loan seven.  I say this because Mr K was provided loan 
seven two days after settling a previous one. So from this point onwards I think  Ferratum 
ought to have realised it was more likely  than not Mr K was having to borrow  further to fill the 
hole that repaying  previous loans was leaving  in his finances and that his indebtedness  was 
increasing unsustainably.
Mr K wasnt  making any real inroads to the amount he owed Ferratum. Loan nine was taken 
out eight months  after Mr Ks first and it was for a larger amount than the first loan. Mr K had 
paid large amounts of interest  to, in effect, service a debt to Ferratum over an extended 
period. 
I think that Mr K lost out because Ferratum continued to provide borrowing from loan seven 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ks indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the sheer number  of loans was likely to have had negative  implications on Mr Ks 
ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market for these high-cost 
loans.
So Im also upholding  the complaint about loans seven to nine.  
putting things right
I dont think Ferratum should have agreed to lend to Mr K for loans 3 to 9, so it should:
refund  all interest and charges applied to loans 3 to 9 
add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum  to each  of these amounts from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*
remove any negative information  about loans 3 to 6 from Mr Ks credit file
the number  of loans taken from 7 to 9 means  any information recorded  about them  is 
adverse. So all entries about  these should be removed from Mr Ks credit file.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Ferratum  to take off tax from this interest. Ferratum must  
give Mr K a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Ferratum UK Ltd should pay 
Mr K compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2019.
Karen Wharton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8112394