K820x#14complaint
The partners of a limited liability partnership, P, complain  on its behalf. Briefly,  they say that 
The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc should not have  sold a swap to P in March 2008.
(The Royal  Bank of Scotland Plc is now called NatWest Markets  Plc, but I will refer to it as 
either RBS or the bank throughout this decision).
background
In early 2008, P wanted to buy a new property. It borrowed money from RBS, supported by a 
swap over a five year term. 
RBS later looked at the sale of Ps swap under the review it had agreed with its regulator,  
the Financial Conduct Authority. RBS said the swap was a legitimate condition of lending,  
and that it was satisfied it had explained  the risks of the swap in a clear,  fair and not 
misleading way.
The partners of P did not accept RBSs conclusions, and referred the matter  to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked  at the complaint. Briefly, he said:
The loan and the notional amount of the swap were  both £2 million. It was a condition 
of the loan that P took out a hedging  product with a notional amount of at least  
£1 million. He was satisfied that RBS told P about the condition  in good time.
He didnt think it was unfair or unreasonable for RBS to require P to arrange interest 
rate protection. In doing  so, the bank legitimately exercised its commercial 
judgement. If P had been unhappy  with the condition, they could have chosen to 
reject RBSs  offer and seek funding elsewhere.
He was satisfied  that RBS did not advise P to take out the swap  it merely provided 
information.
He didnt think RBS did enough  in 2008 to explain  how high break costs could be if 
the partners decided to terminate the swap early. But he thought that the partners 
would still have  taken  out exactly the same swap even if the bank had given them  
more information.  He noted  that when the 2008 swap  expired  in 2013, the partners 
chose to take out a new swap over a ten year term  and that the partners  say that in 
2013 they fully understood the risks of break costs.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments, including  Ps representatives 
letter of 14 May 2019, to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as our adjudicator, for 
broadly the same reasons.  
I am satisfied that RBS did require P to take interest  rate protection on at least half of its 
borrowing. I see nothing unfair about that condition; I consider it a legitimate  exercise  of the 
Ref: DRN89191992banks commercial judgement. I am also satisfied that RBS told P about the condition  in 
good time.  
Ps representative says that P didnt have the option not to hedge, because all other lenders 
also required  P to take a swap.  I dont know whether or not that was the case. I do know that 
some banks lent money to some  borrowers in 2008  without any interest rate protection  but 
I dont know whether that option would have been  available to P. However, even if P is right 
to say no other lender would allow it to borrow without hedging, that still wouldnt mean RBS 
did anything wrong  when it imposed a hedging condition.
So far as information is concerned, there is a dispute about  whether RBS explained the risks 
of the swap  particularly as regards  break  costs   in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way in 
2008. RBS says that it did give such an explanation; P and our adjudicator think  it did not. 
But in the particular circumstances of this case, I dont need to make  a finding on that issue. 
I say that because I would not award compensation in either case. I will explain why.
If RBS gave P enough information, then it would  be unfair for me to uphold  this complaint at 
all.
If RBS did not give P enough information,  then I would need to consider whether more 
information would have made  any difference.  If P would still have taken out the same swap  
over the same term even  if it had been  given more  information, then it would not be fair for 
me to order  the bank  to pay compensation to P. In that case, RBS error (in failing to give 
information) would not have led the partners to suffer a loss.
I note:
The partners 2008 swap ran to maturity in 2013. They  did not pay break costs in 
respect of the swap. 
The partners took a new swap in 2013, on broadly similar terms as the 2008 swap 
but over a ten year term and with an updated rate. At that time,  the bank no longer 
required interest rate protection as a condition of lending.  
The partners say that in 2013 they knew how expensive a swap  could be because of 
their previous experience, but they still wanted to take out a new swap.
I know the partners  believe their actions in 2013 have no bearing  on their complaint about 
the banks actions in 2008. But I disagree. I dont think  it is fair for me to ignore the fact that 
the partners say they understood  the costs and risks when they took out their 2013 swap. 
That makes  it difficult  for me to conclude that they would have made  a different decision in 
2008 if more information had been available to them.
Of course I accept that the partners views on likely future interest rate movements might 
have changed  between 2008  and 2013.  But the dispute here is about whether RBS fully 
disclosed information about break  costs.  The evidence  shows that in 2008, the partners 
were not intending  to repay the loan within the first five years  they had just bought  a new 
property, and they intended  to keep it for the long term.  Their  decision to take a new swap in 
2013 implies that at that point they were still intending to keep  the property for the long term. 
So I dont  think that more information  about  break  costs in 2008 would have put the partners  
off going ahead with the swap.
Ref: DRN89191993I see no other basis on which I could fairly  uphold this complaint. I know Ps representative is 
concerned that RBS only discussed the 2008  swap with two of Ps partners (rather  than all of 
them as in 2013),  but I see nothing wrong  in that. In addition,  I see nothing wrong in RBS 
failure to disclose to P the way it remunerated its staff  it had no obligation to do that.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against NatWest  Markets Plc (formerly 
known as The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc). I make  no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 July 2019.
Laura Colman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8919199