K821x#15complaint
Mr S, on behalf of the Estate of Ms S complains that FirstRand  Bank Limited  refused  to 
accept the rejection of a car.
background
In July 2016 Ms S bought a car which was funded by means a finance agreement  with 
FirstRand. The car cost £7,250.00  and Ms S paid £100.00 deposit,  £100.00  part exchange 
and the remaining £7,050.00 with hire purchase finance over 60 months. 
The car was four years old and the recorded  mileage was 14,569.  In January 2017 
FirstRand were  notified  of the passing  of Ms S and that her son Mr S, who is the executor of 
the estate, paid off the balance of the finance  of £7,184. Mr S then tried to sell the car, only 
to discover the correct  mileage when his mother had bought  it was 35,359  more  than shown 
on the sales documentation.
The dealer  which first sold the car confirmed the odometer had been changed in November 
2014. The instrument  cluster was replaced  under warranty as it was diagnosed as being 
faulty. The mileage  before the replacement was 35,359 miles,  but the repair work caused the 
odometer to return  to zero.
Mr S complained to FirstRand  and asked that it allow  him to reject the car. In due course it 
offered him £1,000 compensation, but he rejected this and brought  the matter to this service. 
The complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators who recommend it be upheld.
She considered what a reasonable person  would be likely to do when buying a used car if all 
the facts were presented to them. She concluded,  on the balance of probability,  that a 
reasonable person wouldnt have bought the car knowing  the odometer  reading was 
incorrect, even if offered a discount of £1,000.
She explained that she had taken account of the potential the problems Ms S would have 
encountered when  trying to resell the car. Potential purchasers may well believe the car had 
been clocked.  This could  also raise  suspicion about  what else could be wrong with it.
She said the mileage  was a false statement of fact that the consumer would have relied on 
when choosing the car. The car was therefore  mis-sold and she suggested FirstRand  accept 
the rejection of the car. It didnt agree and said the seller  had accepted the mileage of the 
car in good  faith when it bought it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is clear the car was mis-sold  to Ms S. All documentation supplied to Ms S at the time of 
sale shows the incorrect mileage. It may well be that the dealer was unaware of the cars  
history; though  I note Mr S was able to identify the correct mileage without much  problem.  In 
any event how the incorrect mileage arose and whether or not the dealer was aware of the 
correct mileage is of little relevance.
Ref: DRN82969742Ms S was misled about the mileage which was significantly higher that recorded.  The only 
issue for me to consider  is how to rectify  this error. I cant  say with any certainty  what Ms S 
would have done had she known, but I am inclined  to agree with the adjudicator.  It is not just 
the value for the car which needed to be adjusted in the light of the correct mileage,  but also 
the future  resale  value. Therefore I believe she wold not have chosen to buy this car.
That means Mr S, on behalf of the estate should be allowed to reject it. I appreciate some 
time has passed and Mr S has had the use of the car, but he has told this service  that the 
car has sat unused.  And I have  taken  note of the fact that FirstRand  could have accepted Mr 
Ss request to reject  it over a year ago.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct FirstRand  Bank  Limited to:
Refund the settlement amount paid in full plus 8% interest,  from the date paid until 
final settlement of the complaint.
Refund the initial deposit paid by Ms S and the part exchange value plus 8% interest  
from the date paid until final settlement of the complaint.
Arrange for the collection and return of the vehicle at no cost to the Estate.
FirstRand need not refund of any of the monthly  payments  made by Ms S as she had use of 
the car.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S on behalf  of 
the Estate  of Ms S to accept or reject my decision before 1 June 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8296974