K821x#15Complaint
Mr G has complained that Indigo  Michael  Limited (trading as Safety Net Credit (SNC)) 
loaned him an unaffordable Safety Net facility in 2017.
Background
Mr G approached SNC for a Safety Net facility in 2017. This was a running credit account  
where a consumer could either request funds up to their credit limit, or funds would be 
deposited into their bank account once  their account balance  fell below a safety net 
amount of the customers choosing. 
Mr G was initially given a facility with a £450 credit limit in December 2017. His limit was 
increased to £480  in January 2018  before once again being increased to £570 in 
March 2018, £660 in April 2018,  £780 in May 2018 and £820 in June 2018. Mr Gs credit 
limit was increased for a final time to £840  in July 2018.    
One of our adjudicators looked  at Mr Gs complaint. He thought  it was unfair  for SNC to have 
provided credit to Mr G. SNC disagreed  and asked for an ombudsman to look at the case. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time the loans were  offered.
Having carefully thought  about everything  Ive been  provided with, Im upholding Mr Gs 
complaint. Id like to explain the reasons  for my decision.
The relevant  regulations  in place at the time Mr G was given his Safety Net facility  
SNC gave  Mr G his Safety Net facility  when it was regulated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA).  And the relevant regulatory rules in place at the time were set out in the 
Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC)  section  of the FCA Handbook of rules  and 
guidance. All of the advances were provided before November 2018. So its CONC 5.2 rather  
than CONC 5.2A that applies  here.
Section 5.2.1(2) of CONC set out what a lender needed to do before agreeing to give a 
consumer borrowing of this type.  And it says a firm had to consider the potential  for the 
commitments under  the regulated credit agreement to adversely impact the customers 
financial situation  as well as the ability of the customer  to make repayments  as they fall due 
over the life of the regulated credit agreement, or for such  an agreement  which  is an open-
end agreement (like Mr Gs Safety Net facility) , to make payments within a reasonable 
period.
CONC 5.2 also includes some guidance  on the sorts  of things a lender  needs to bear in 
mind when considering  its obligations  under CONC 5.2.1.  Section 5.2.4(2) says a firm 
should consider  what  is appropriate in any particular circumstances dependent on, for 
example, the type and amount of credit  being  sought and the potential  risks to the customer.  
The risk of credit not being sustainable directly  relates to the amount of credit  granted and 
the total charge for credit relative to the customers financial  situation.
Ref: DRN88241072And CONC 5.3 contains further guidance on what  a lender should bear in mind when 
thinking about affordability. CONC 5.3.1(1) says In making the creditworthiness assessment 
or the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1), a firm should  take into account more than 
assessing the customers ability to repay the credit ..
CONC 5.3.1(2) then says The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required 
by CONC 5.2.2R (1) should include the firm taking reasonable steps to assess  the 
customers ability to meet repayments under  a regulated credit  agreement in a sustainable 
manner without the customer incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant 
adverse consequences..
In practice all of this meant that a lender  had to take proportionate steps to ensure a 
consumer wouldve been able to repay what they were borrowing in a sustainable  manner 
without it adversely impacting on their financial situation. Put simply the lender  had to gather 
enough information so that it could make an informed decision on the lending.
Although the guidance  didnt set out compulsory checks it did list a number of things a lender 
could take into account before agreeing to lend. The key thing was that it required a lenders 
checks to be proportionate.  And any checks  had to take into account a number of different 
things, such as how much was being  lent and when what was being  borrowed was due to be 
repaid.
Ive kept all of this in mind  when thinking about whether SNC did what it needed to before 
agreeing to Mr Gs Safety Net facility  and each time it increased his credit.  As explained,     
Mr G was given what was an open-ended credit  facility. So the checks  SNC carried out had 
to provide enough for it to be able to understand whether Mr G would be able to both service 
and then repay his facility  within a reasonable period of time. I dont think  that SNC did that 
here and I think that it was unfair  for it to have granted this facility  and the subsequent limit 
increases in the circumstances it did. 
I say this because  I dont enough think it is enough for a lender to simply obtain information.  
A lender also has to react to what it is seeing  in a proportionate manner. In this case, SNC 
somehow reached  the conclusion that Mr G was earning £1,000.00  more a month than he 
declared. It appears to be the case that it included  other credits  going into Mr Gs account as 
his income. And when  this additional £1,000 that shouldnt  have been included is deducted 
from SNCs own income and expenditure assessment, its clear that there was no 
reasonable prospect of Mr G sustainably repaying  what he was asked to commit to. 
Ive seen what SNC has said about  Mr G not being required to make  the full payment on the 
facility and that he could make  the payments within a reasonable period  of time. 
But I dont agree as he barely had anything left over once his true income is used  in the 
calculation. So overall and having considered everything I think  that it was unfair for SNC to 
provide this facility  to Mr G and offer any of the subsequent credit limit increases. As this is 
the case, Im upholding Mr Gs complaint.
What SNC  should  do to put things right
To put things right for Mr G, SNC should:
refund all the interest and charges applied to Mr Gs Safety Net facility; and
Ref: DRN88241073add interest at 8% per year simple  on the above interest and charges from the date 
they were paid, if they were, to the date of settlement  ;
remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Gs credit  file as a result of this facility.
I understand that Mr G has an outstanding balance remaining on his Safety Net facility. If 
after having  removed all the interest  and charges  applied from the outset, an outstanding 
balance remains, SNC can deduct this from the amount it now needs to pay Mr G. I would 
also remind SNC of its obligation  to exercise  forbearance if Mr G is experiencing financial 
difficulty should an outstanding balance remain after all adjustments  have  been  made  and it 
wish to collect on this. 
HM Revenue & Customs requires SNC to take off tax from this interest. SNC must give    
Mr G a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Gs complaint. Indigo Michael 
Limited (trading as Safety Net Credit) should  put things right for Mr G in the way set out 
above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 June 2020.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8824107