K820x#14complaint
Mr F has complained about Ageas Insurance Limiteds decision to settle a claim made  
against his car insurance policy on a 50%50% shared liability  basis.  
All references in my decision  to the underwriter  Ageas include its agents. 
background
Mr F was involved in an incident with another car in July 2018 and he reported  it to his 
insurer, Ageas. He said he intended to make a claim to the third party insurer  directly.  
Mr F came back to Ageas  as the third party insurer intended to settle the claim holding both 
Mr F and the third party at fault for the incident. It saw CCTV footage  which showed both 
drivers in a car park reversing at the same  time.
Mr F complained to Ageas. He said the footage had been edited and he wanted Ageas to 
defend his claim. He said the other driver admitted  fault at the scene.  But Ageas said it 
reached its decision correctly. 
Mr F asked  us to look at his complaint. Our adjudicator looked at the CCTV footage.  He 
didnt think it made  a difference if some  footage  before the incident had been removed. The 
footage showed the incident  and based  on this, he thought  Ageas  had properly 
investigated the claim and reached  its decision reasonably. 
Mr F didnt  agree. So the case has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
it. Ill explain why. 
We dont decide  liability. That is the role of the courts. But we can look at whether an insurer 
properly investigated  the claim and reached  its decision reasonably  and in line with the 
policy.
Mr Fs policy has a very common term which says that Ageas can decide to defend or settle 
a claim.  This means Ageas can make a decision  Mr F doesnt agree  with. We dont disagree 
with this term in principle provided Ageas  can show it treated its customer fairly when it 
applied the term.
In this case, there was CCTV footage available which recorded the incident. It showed  both 
cars reversing our of a car park space and as they did, they collided. 
I know Mr F says that the other driver admitted fault at the scene.  But that doesnt make a 
difference. The footage is evidence which shows what happened. And I dont think footage 
of what happened  either before or after the incident  makes a difference to the outcome. 
Ref: DRN89334382Ageas can decide  that its better  to settle  a claim on the best terms possible than defend  it 
with the risk of significant court costs. Based on the evidence available  to Ageas, I think  its 
decision to settle  the claim on a shared  50%50%  liability basis  was reached reasonably and 
in line with the policy. So I dont think it needs  to do any more. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 December 2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8933438