K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that due to the state of his health he didnt fully understand the terms of a 
fixed sum loan (loan)  with Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) he was sold by a 
company that I will call W including  but not restricted to  his cancelation rights and how 
much he would be required  to repay.
Mr C is represented in his complaint  by a third party. However for ease I will refer to any 
submissions made by the third party as if they had been made by Mr C.
background
In May 2017  Mr C says he was visited by a representative from W.
During this visit Mr C says he agreed to W supplying  and fitting a double  glazed window to 
his property at a cost of £5,695.
This transaction was financed by way of a loan, a loan Mr C says he, due to the state  of his 
health, didnt fully understand.
The loan was for £5,695  repayable  by 120 monthly payments (fixed  at £103.72 for the first 
60 months) making a total repayable (on the assumption of no interest  rate variation after 60 
months) of £12,446.40.
This complaint was considered by one of our investigators who came to the view that it 
should be upheld.  In summary she said that she was satisfied that Mr C had a mental health 
condition which meant  in the absence of reasonable adjustments  having  been made and 
extra time being given  the sale of the loan was inappropriate. And that by way of 
compensation Shawbrook should  treat Mr Cs loan as repaid once he had made 60 monthly  
payments of £103.72  against it.
Mr C accepted the investigators view but Shawbrook  didnt.
In summary  Shawbrook said:
Mr C has, over time,  changed his complaint after being presented with various 
documents and evidence.
A number of Mr Cs complaint points  appear  to be points that shouldnt be directed at 
and addressed  by it, in particular  Mr Cs points  that:
oat the relevant time he had enduring and severe mental health problems 
which affected his ability to understand detailed information and impaired  his 
decision making
oat the relevant time he told Ws representative about his mental  health  
condition
ohe has profound  hearing loss and is unable  to accurately hear what  he is 
being told
oinadequate steps were taken by Ws representative to ensure he understood 
the terms of the loan he was taking out
Ref: DRN89973902It only became aware of Mr Cs condition  in August 2018 and since  this date it has 
offered to adapt the way it deals  with him.
In June 2017, shortly  after the loan had been advanced, Mr C called  it to amend his 
direct debit  payment  date suggesting he fully understood the loan commitment  he 
had entered into.
Shortly after the loan had been advanced  Mr C called it to raise concerns over the 
window installation, suggesting he is able to challenge things and assert himself .
Mr C received a number of documents (many  of which he signed) confirming 
precisely what it was he had entered into and his rights  under the same.
It isnt in dispute that Mr C needed and wanted  the new window  he was supplied  with 
and that he didnt have the funds to pay for the same outright.
The investigator considered Shawbrooks response to her view but wasnt  persuaded to 
change her mind. Therefore Mr Cs complaint was passed  to me for review  and decision.
I issued a provisional decision on this case in September 2020. In summary  I said:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that both parties have very strong  feelings  about this complaint. They have 
provided detailed  submissions in support of their respective views which  I can confirm Ive 
read and considered in their entirety.  However,  I trust that the parties will not take the fact 
that my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues,  and that they are 
expressed in considerably  less detail, as a discourtesy. The purpose of my decision isnt to 
address every point  raised. The purpose of my decision is to set out my conclusions  and 
reasons for reaching them.
I would also add that where  the parties disagree,  Ive made  my findings  on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words, what I think is most likely based on the evidence  Ive seen and 
the wider circumstances.
Although it doesnt  appear to be in dispute  I would first like to say that Im satisfied, based on 
what both parties have said and submitted, that Mr C was interested  in purchasing a 
replacement window for his property. So with this in mind Ive concentrated my findings not 
on the sale of the window  but the sale of the loan to fund the purchase of the window and its 
installation.
When credit  of the type sold here is sold by a broker then the lender can be held responsible  
for what that broker might or might not have done  due to protection afforded to a consumer  
under Section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
Mr C questions whether he should have been given the loan because of his mental  health  
condition. His representative questions whether he had capacity to take out the loan,  and 
whether he was able to give proper consideration to whether he should agree to it.
Ref: DRN89973903Mr C has shared the details of his condition with us which cant have been easy. Ive also 
had sight of two letters from two different medical practitioners which both say Mr Cs mental  
health condition  impacts on his functioning,  judgement and interactions.
Now I can see how the problems that Mr C has experienced, and still experiences, may have 
had an impact on his ability to understand the nature  of the commitment  he was entering 
into. But despite what the two medical practitioners have said Mr Cs actions shortly after 
May 2017 dont  support a lack of understanding at the time he agreed to the loan.
As submitted by Shawbrook Mr C was able to contact it shortly after May 2017 to move his 
direct debit payment  date and to raise concerns about the window installation. And this, 
together with the fact that Mr C has confirmed  to our service  that he has had debt in the 
past, leads me to conclude that on the balance of probabilities Mr C understood the nature of 
the commitment he was entering into at the time he did so.
Now where businesses are aware  of existing mental  health  problems,  they should be 
considering the impact  of these and discussing it with the customer, making  adjustments  
where necessary.  Mental health conditions  can take many forms and businesses cant  
necessarily refuse credit  just based  on mental  illness as this may be discriminatory    though  
where theyre aware of it they should  make sure their customer  understands and can agree 
to the credit  agreement, making adjustments  as appropriate, and should  where  appropriate 
follow the regulators guidance on dealing with vulnerable customers. 
Ive considered whether the circumstances  here meant that Shawbrook should  have  known 
Mr C had a mental health condition.  But having taken everything into account Im not 
persuaded, on the balance of probabilities, that it should have.  And because  of my finding in 
this respect it follows that Im not persuaded Mr C told W of his condition.
Ive also considered whether there  may have been  other indicators between  May 2017 and 
August 2018 that could have indicated to Shawbrook that Mr C had a mental  health  
condition impacting his ability to take out or manage  credit. But given what I say above about 
Mr Cs actions shortly  after May 2017 and that before August 2018 (and subsequently) Mr C 
was able to make his contractual payments without any problems Im not persuaded that 
there was.
Its my understanding that Mr C isnt complaining, at least  now,  that his hearing loss is 
grounds in itself for his complaint to be upheld. But for the avoidance of any doubt I can 
confirm that Ive seen  insufficient evidence to find that Mr Cs hearing  loss (in itself) meant 
he was unable to understand  the nature of the commitment he was entering into.
Mr C says he was unaware of his cancelation  rights. Now I accept I cant say for certain what  
was discussed  between Mr C and Ws representative in this respect.  But I note that Mr C 
has signed a number of documents in which  his right to cancel (both  the goods and the 
finance) are noted.  So on balance of probabilities Im satisfied that Mr C was aware,  or ought  
to have reasonably  been  aware, of his right to cancel.
Ref: DRN89973904I would also add that even had I not been of the above view its not entirely clear on what 
basis Mr C would have secured alternative finance.  The investigator, based  on the 
compensation she proposed and which was accepted by Mr C, suggests  that she was of the 
view that Mr C could have  secured a loan for £5,695,  repayable at £103.72 a month  over 60 
months, at a rate of 3.6%. But Ive seen no, or very little evidence,  that this would have been 
possible and it could  be equally  argued  that Mr C would have been unable to secure any 
better borrowing terms than those he agreed to be bound  by with Shawbrook  in May 2017.
I appreciate Mr C will be disappointed by this provisional decision, but given what  I say 
above Im not persuaded that Shawbrook was wrong, on the grounds of Mr Cs state of 
health, to offer him the loan that it did on the terms that it did.
However, I would  remind  Shawbrook that if Mr C is now in financial difficulties it should treat 
him positively and sympathetically and that in all its other dealings with him it should have 
regard to his mental  and physical health  and any other  factors  which may make him more  
vulnerable.
Shawbrook responded to say it accepted  my provisional decision and had nothing further to 
add. 
Mr C responded to say that he didnt accept my provisional decision.  In summary he said:
He maintains that he told W of his mental  health  condition.
How can I make a decision  on whether his communication and mental  health  
difficulties would  be apparent to someone  when first meeting him when Ive never  
met him?
The medical evidence  requested  by the investigator clearly demonstrates that his 
communication and mental health  difficulties  would be apparent  to someone when 
first meeting him.
I should reconsider the content  of the medical evidence  that has been provided 
because it would  appear that Ive ignored it, or given insufficient weight to it.
He disagrees with Shawbrooks submission that he changed  his complaint after 
being presented  with various documents.
He didnt become  aware of his right to complaint to Shawbrook until he sought  advice 
from a third party.
Shawbrook is wrong to say that a number of his points shouldnt  be directed at it 
given Section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
Surely the key point I need to consider is not whether he was able to contact 
Shawbrook, but whether  W acted  appropriately  in brokering the loan that it did.
The fact that he signed the relevant documents doesnt mean he understood them 
and his submission  that he didnt understand  them is supported  by the medical 
evidence that has been provided.
Surely, given Section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974,  that its for Shawbrook to 
take responsibility for any omissions  on the part of W, not him.
He disagrees that he wouldnt have been able to secure finance on better  terms than 
those granted  to him by Shawbrook.
He had to wait over a year for my provisional  decision  and to make matter worse  this 
overturned the uphold  outcome reached by the investigator.
Ref: DRN89973905my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint,  including Mr Cs substantial response  to 
my provisional decision.
First I would like to apologise for the time it has taken for this final decision to be issued, but 
this is due to the number  of complaints that required a decision at the time Shawbrook  asked  
for one on this case. I would also like to point out that Shawbrook was entitled to ask for a 
decision just as much as Mr C was.
I would also like to make it clear that I fully understand  Mr C is unhappy with my provisional 
findings, particularly  given that they are materially different  to the findings of the investigator. 
But as Im sure Mr C is aware Im not bound by what the investigator may or may not have 
found. Instead my role is to consider the complaint afresh and to reach my own findings 
which in some cases, as here, can be different to those of the investigator.  Im also required,  
where the evidence  is contradictory or incomplete,  to make my findings on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words, what I think is most likely based on the evidence  Ive seen and 
the wider circumstances. And the fact that Ive never met Mr C doesnt  relieve  me of my 
obligations in this respect.
I note that Mr C disagrees with Shawbrooks submission that he changed his complaint after 
being presented  with various documents. But whether I agree with Shawbrook  on this point, 
and for the avoidance of doubt I make no finding  on it, this had, and has, no material  bearing 
on my findings.
Mr C disagrees  with Shawbrooks submission that a number  of his complaint points shouldnt  
be directed at it and I agree. But I can assure  Mr C that in considering his complaint Ive had 
full regard to Section  56 of the Consumer  Credit Act 1974 and how this makes Shawbrook,  
in certain circumstances, responsible for what W might,  or might not, have done.
Mr C says he would have  been able to secure  finance on better terms than those he secured 
with Shawbrook. However I remain of the view that Mr C has simply provided insufficient  
evidence for me to find, on balance, that this is the case.
I would also like to reassure Mr C that I considered  all the medical  evidence  that has been 
provided to our service  very carefully. I also accept that it could be said that this medical 
evidence, on its own, provides some weight  to what Mr C has told our service. But my role 
isnt to consider  this evidence in isolation.  Rather my role is to consider  this medical 
evidence in conjunction with all the other evidence that has been provided.  And I remain of 
the view that when all the evidence is considered collectively Mr C, on the balance  of 
probabilities, understood the nature of the commitment he was entering into at the time he 
did so.
I can see that Mr C maintains that he told W of his mental health  condition. Now I accept I 
cant say for certain that he didnt but I remain of the view,  taking everything into account, 
that on the balance of probabilities he didnt do so.
Ref: DRN89973906Finally I can see that Mr C says that he didnt  know of his right to complain to Shawbrook  
until he sought advice  from a third party. But Im not persuaded  this has any bearing on my 
findings here. I say this because what Im considering isnt whether Mr C was aware of his 
right to complain but whether he understand, at the relevant time, the terms of the loan he 
was entering into with Shawbrook.
For the reasons  given  above I remain of the view that Shawbrook  wasnt wrong, on the 
grounds of Mr Cs state of health,  to offer him the loan that it did on the terms that it did.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 November 2020.
Peter Cook
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8997390