K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs E complain  that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has rejected their claim under their 
travel insurance policy when they had to cancel a trip due to the death  of Mr Es brother.
background
On 22 January 2019, Mr and Mrs E booked a trip abroad. They  were  due to travel on 26 
March. Sadly, on 17 March Mr Es brother  died unexpectedly. Mr and Mrs E cancelled their 
trip. They were able to obtain a full refund for some flights  and hotel accommodation theyd 
pre-booked, but there were other  hotel bookings amounting to £1,548.67 for which  they were 
unable to get a refund, so they sought  to recover these costs from UKI. 
In order to consider  Mr and Mrs Es claim,  UKI asked for a medical certificate from Mr Es 
brothers GP. This showed that Mr Es brother had been diagnosed with Alzheimers  disease  
in July 2018.  It also showed that hed been  admitted to hospital on 11 January 2019  for 
confusion and aggression. He was in hospital  for three days. Mr and Mrs E say they had no 
reason to be concerned about his health  following his discharge from hospital, and felt 
comfortable in booking their trip shortly after his discharge. They say that his death on 26 
March was quite  unexpected. The direct  cause of death as shown  on his death  certificate  
was advanced  Alzheimers disease.
UKI has rejected  Mr and Mrs Es claim.  Its referred to the terms and conditions of their 
policy, and in particular  the terms relating to cancellation. The policy provides cover in the 
event of cancellation due to the death  of a close relative, which includes a sibling. However, 
the policy terms are that it will not cover:
 any claim  that is a result of a close relative,  close business associate or travelling  
companion:
 having a medical condition that has resulted in in-patient treatment or being put on
a waiting list for hospital treatment;
 being diagnosed with cancer; or
 being given a terminal prognosis;
in the 12 months  prior to you becoming  an insured person, or the date when you
booked your trip, whichever is later.
So as Mr Es brother had been an in-patient  shortly before Mr and Mrs E booked  their trip, 
UKI maintains that this exclusion  prevents a claim for cancellation.
 
Mr and Mrs E say that this is an 'onerous'  term and shouldve been  made  clear  to them. 
They also maintain that the hospital stay was due to dehydration and bore no relation to the 
cause of death, and so the restriction shouldnt apply. They say the whole experience  has 
caused them  unnecessary stress and that their claim  should be paid in full along with 
compensation for the cost of the medical certificate they were  asked to provide and also for 
the distress that they were caused by UKIs handling  of the claim at an already  distressing 
time.
UKI maintains that its rejection of their claim  is in line with the terms of the policy.  But it did 
accept that its handling  of it wasnt as sensitive as it shouldve been,  and so has paid Mr and 
Mrs E £300  compensation for the distress this caused.
Mr and Mrs E dont  agree with UKIs  decision on their claim and referred  their complaint to 
this service. Our investigators view was that UKI hadnt acted unreasonably in the 
circumstances. Mr and Mrs E dont agree with this view, and have asked that their complaint 
be considered  by an ombudsman.  Its therefore  been referred to me to make a final 
decision.
Ref: DRN83758712my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Es 
complaint and Ill explain why.
Ive looked at Mr and Mrs Es policy. They say that theyve had this insurance for a number 
of years.  In my view the wording that UKI has referred to when rejecting their claim is clear. 
It excludes a claim for cancellation if this is due to the death of a close relative whos been 
an inpatient in hospital in the 12 months preceding the date of travel.
Mr and Mrs E argue  that there  was no connection  between Mr Es hospitalisation in January 
and his death in March.  However that isnt relevant as the policy terms dont require there  to 
be any connection. The mere fact that theres  been a hospital stay in the 12 months before a 
trip is booked is sufficient to create a risk that, were a death to subsequently occur,  no cover 
would be available. As Mr and Mrs E say theyve had this insurance for some  20 years, they 
shouldve been  aware when they booked their trip that because Mr Es brother had been in 
hospital shortly before,  this risk existed,  even though  they had no reason to expect that he 
might die suddenly.
So although  I have  great sympathy  for Mr and Mrs E, I dont consider that UKI has acted 
unfairly or unreasonably as it is following the clear terms  and conditions  of the policy. I also 
think it was reasonable  for it to ask Mr and Mrs E to obtain a medical certificate,  as this was 
necessary for it to assess  whether there  was any medical history that mightve  been  relevant 
to their claim.   As to Mr and Mrs Es complaint  that their claim was badly handled, I note 
from UKIs  records  that on 3 May it paid them £300 to compensate  them for its 
unsympathetic handling  of their claim.  I think this is a fair and reasonable sum.
my final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Es complaint against U K Insurance  
Limited and Im not going to require  it to do anything further.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 November  2019.   
Nigel Bremner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8375871