K820x#14complaint
S, a limited  company, complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc closed its bank account causing it 
financial loss.
background
HSBC was carrying out a safeguard exercise  to help prevent financial crime and fraud. It 
wanted to confirm that the information  it held about S was correct.  It says it wrote to S and 
when it got no response  gave  notice that the account would be closed. S says it did not 
receive the letters or see pop up banners  about  this when it logged into online banking.
Our investigator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that:
-HSBC had shown  that the address provided by S when the account was opened did 
not include a door number.  This was the address that had been quoted for online 
statements. And the one used  for some post which a director of S had confirmed had 
occasionally been received.
-There was no record of any mail being returned  during  the time of the safeguard 
exercise. 
-He accepted the possibility the mail might  not have been  delivered without the door 
number. The director of S said that there  were four cottages with this address and 
that two had become unoccupied.
-HSBC had also provided screenshots showing that when S logged  onto online 
banking a pop up banner should  have set out the requirement  for information. And 
that there was large text in red above the main account balance.  HSBC had shown 
that S had logged  in during the period of the safeguard exercise and also after the 
notice to close the account had been given.
-Although a director of S had said that the pop ups were  blocked on the computer 
shed told him that shed seen some messages but did not appreciate  the 
significance of them.
-He thought that HSBC had taken reasonable steps to contact S. And it had then 
given the correct notice period of the closure of the accounts.
-When the current account was closed HSBC  applied the credit balance  towards  the 
debit balance on the commercial card account.  The terms and conditions of the 
account allowed  it to set off this balance  in this way.
-HSBC had been trying to recover the outstanding balance on the commercial  credit 
card. The directors  said that they were not in a position to repay this and he 
suggested that they contact HSBC about this.
S did not agree and wanted  the complaint to be reviewed.  A director  of S said she had asked  
someone with expertise  in computer science about pop ups. Hed told her that such 
messages are often  restricted even  without pop up blockers. The message shown in the 
screen shot was in a new window and S maintained that this would not have been  seen  and 
was not a reliable  method of communication.  S thought that our investigator had said that 
hed relied on the evidence  about  online banking from HSBC. S had provided  a proof of 
address when the account was opened. And HSBC  should have noticed  that this had the 
door number  as it had scanned  the full address. It had a duty of care to contact S directly 
rather than keep sending  mail to the wrong  address. S did not think that all the information 
had been considered.
Ref: DRN82228122my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im going  to focus first on the disputed areas  and then make my assessment of HSBCs 
actions.
the letters
HSBC has shown that the application form for S account did not include a door number for 
the address. It has not been  able to provide now a copy of any information it used to verify  
that address.  It may well not have picked up the missing door number then but only 
considered that the evidence of the address was sufficient to confirm  what it had been told. 
HSBC wrote to S at that address on occasion before  the safeguard review. It has provided  
file notes to show  that at times the post was returned. And that it then contacted  S to ask it 
about this. I note in particular  a record of 17 February 2017 when it said it had contacted  S 
about a returned item and that the address had been confirmed as correct. I think  the 
difficulty at that time reasonably alerted S to a potential issue  with its recorded postal 
address. And that HSBC received confirmation that the details it had were  correct.
HSBC has no record of any of its letters being returned during 2018  when  the safeguard 
process was taking place  for S. I dont think it had reason to think that these letters were not 
delivered. And I think it could fairly rely on the address S had given it as the one to use
the online information
I cant know exactly what was visible to S when it logged onto online banking. I dont have 
actual screen shots of S account at that time.  And nor do I have specific  evidence  about S 
computer settings. I dont  discount the possibility that pop up messages were blocked. The 
director of S has indicated to our investigator that she may have seen some messages.  And 
if so I think the most likely ones were  those above  the account information  and which did not 
rely on a pop up to deliver them. The test screenshots  Ive seen, and which  I know  our 
investigator sent to S, have a message  in large print in red stating Action  Required:  Please 
review and update  your business details and then Click here to get started.
my assessment
HSBC has shown it sent four letters to S between January and May 2018. It first explained 
the safeguard  exercise and the deadline.  And I cant say that its requests were unreasonable  
as they related to ensuring it complied  with relevant regulations to know your customer. It 
then wrote to say it intended  to close S account as it had not responded. 
I think that it made reasonable efforts to alert S about the safeguard exercise. It had also 
shown that it gave S the required period of at least two months notice of the closure of its 
account. Ive dealt with what I think about the address HSBC used above. I dont think it was 
unreasonable for it to use this address without the door number. And I dont see there was 
any obligation for it to use any other means  of communication.
Having said that, HSBCs  position is that it also alerted S online about the requirements. And 
the way in which it wanted S to enter the information  was through  an online form. Im not 
Ref: DRN82228123relying on this as a way that S was actually alerted to what  happened.  But I think it was 
another way in which HSBC attempted to bring  this information to its attention.
Given the impact the account closure  had on S I think  it most  likely that it would have 
contacted HSBC had it realised the importance of this exercise. But Im afraid  for the 
reasons Ive given  I dont  think  that HSBC is responsible  for it not realising this. 
HSBC said with its notice  of closure that it expected S to clear any borrowing when the 
accounts were closed. And that it would apply  any credit  balances to repay borrowing. Thats 
in line with the terms and conditions of the account.  My understanding is that when the 
account was closed on 20 August 2018 the credit balance of just over £450  on the current 
account was paid into the commercial card account.
That still left a balance  to repay  on that card. And HSBC  contacted  the directors  of S about 
this. I emphasise here that it was doing  so in their capacity  as directors of S. This is a debt 
owed by S to HSBC  not by them. But I fully understand  why they personally found this 
contact stressful. And that it underlined for them the difficult financial position S was in  
after theyd invested  so much money into it.
As our investigator says it would be necessary for them  to contact HSBC to discuss the 
financial position of S and this debt which I understand had been  passed to HSBC  
recoveries department.
I know that the directors of S are going  to be disappointed when I say that I dont have a 
basis to require HSBC  to compensate S for the consequences  of the account being closed.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 August 2019. 
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8222812