K820x#14complaint
Mr As unhappy that TransferWise Ltd has closed his account.
background
Mr A says he tried to transfer some money abroad. But he couldnt do so as 
TransferWise said itd closed his account because  hed breached its terms and 
conditions. He says hes been treated unfairly  as he hasnt been  told why or been given 
the opportunity  to provide  evidence about  the transactions  hes made. He says hes 
happy to use other  money transfer  services  but wants TransferWise to tell customers  
why it deactivates accounts  and give them a chance to prove the transaction  was legal.
TransferWise said in its final response that Mr As account was deactivated. Hed 
accepted its terms of use when first using its service including  those about suspending 
or terminating the account. In accordance with these  terms its unable to provide  its 
services to Mr A.
Our adjudicator felt this complaint shouldnt be upheld. She said she cannot provide 
more clarity  to Mr A on why TransferWise closed his account. Its entitled  to make a 
commercial decision to close  a customers account  if it wants  to. And on the confidential 
information we have shes satisfied it had sufficient  justification to take the action it did. 
Mr A remains unhappy and has asked for an ombudsman  review. He says he still 
doesnt know his crime. He didnt get the chance to clarify his position. And he asks if 
TransferWise will not offer their service to him for the rest of his life. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators conclusions  for the same reasons.
TransferWises terms, which Mr A accepted  when  he first used its service,  make clear it 
can close his account without notice in certain  circumstances. 
I understand Mr As frustration at not being given a detailed reason for his account  being 
deactivated. But Im satisfied TransferWise  acted  reasonably and in line with the 
accounts terms by doing  so when  it did.
Mr A says hed like TransferWise to tell customers why it deactivates accounts and give 
them a chance  to prove the transaction was legal.  But this service isnt a regulator. We 
cant fine or punish a business or require  it to change it practices and procedures. 
General issues about how the banking industry works are a matter for the Financial 
Conduct Authority.  
 
Overall, I dont  see any reason to change the proposed  outcome in this case.
Ref: DRN86266912my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 March 2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8626691