K820x#14complaint
Ms A is unhappy with the compensation HSBC  UK Bank Plc (HSBC) has offered to settle 
her complaint about a mis-sold payment  protection  insurance (PPI) policy  associated  with a 
store card.
background
Ms A took out a store  card in October 1995 and at the same time purchased  a PPI policy.  
Ms A has now complained the PPI was mis-sold.  
HSBC agreed to uphold Ms As complaint and offered  to pay her compensation of 
£2,191.39. HSBC said this included all the premiums and  interest on those premiums that 
Ms A had paid. It also included some compensatory interest for any time Ms A has been  out 
of pocket for the costs of the PPI.
HSBC said it didnt  have  full records for the time Ms A had the PPI on her account.  So it had 
worked out an average credit card balance and used this to estimate  the possible costs  of 
the PPI for the time before its actual data records started. It also said the PPI was cancelled 
in January 2009 and the account was closed in August 2009.
Ms A wasnt happy that HSBC had worked  out the premiums correctly.  She said it had only 
worked out the premiums from 1997 instead of 1995  and also that the PPI didnt end before 
the credit  on the account ended. 
Our adjudicator said HSBC had used correct dates  and what it had offered was fair.
Ms A still wasnt happy and asked for an ombudsman  to look at her complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC has agreed the PPI was mis-sold, so Im not looking at how it came to be sold to 
Ms A. In this decision Im only considering if what HSBC  has offered as compensation 
covers the full period the PPI was on the account  and if the offer is fair.
The parties agree that the PPI started when  the account was opened in October 1995. 
HSBC only knows the actual premiums paid from July 1997. But it has worked out the 
average balance  on the account and used this to estimate what  Ms A may have paid for the 
period between October 1995 and July 1997.
So although  it doesnt know the exact  amount that was paid in premiums from 1995  to 1997 
it has made assumption to estimate  what may have been paid. I think what HSBC  has done 
is fair in all the circumstances and Im satisfied it has worked out the compensation from the 
date the card account opened in 1995.
The records  of HSBC  indicate the last PPI premium was charged in January 2009, although 
the card account  had a small balance that wasnt cleared until the card account closed in 
August 2009.
Ref: DRN81299012Ms A says she doesnt  recall cancelling the PPI and she feels  it ran until August 2009. 
However HSBC do have records showing all the transactions  on the account in 2009  and I 
can see from these that no PPI premiums were  added  to the account after the one in 
January 2009.  There is no other evidence to show that any premiums were charged  after 
this date.
Although HSBC cannot provide any evidence  to show why the PPI was cancelled in January 
2009, the records show no further  premiums  were added after this date.
Overall I think  that HSBC has worked out the costs of the PPI for the correct  period it was 
paid, that is from October 1995 to January 2009.  Looking at its calculations I also think  the 
cost of the premiums,  the interest paid on them and the compensatory interest has been  
worked out as I would expect. Therefore HSBCs  offer looks fair.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  set out I think what HSBC  Bank UK Plc has offered as compensation 
for the mis-sold PPI to Ms A is fair and Im not telling it to do anything  more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 February  2019.
Christine Fraser
ombudsman.
Ref: DRN8129901