K820x#14complaint
Mrs K has complained to us about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  which 
Financial Insurance  Company Limited (FICL) sold to her. The policy  provided repayment  
cover on a store card. 
As FICL has taken responsibility for this sale, Ill refer to it as the seller throughout this 
decision. 
background
Mrs K opened a store card account in a shop  in February 2002. FICLs records  show that 
PPI was added to her account in May 2002 following a phone  call.
The policy provided  Mrs K with repayment cover  on her card if she was unable  to work 
because of an accident, sickness or unemployment. It would have paid out 15% of the 
outstanding balance on the card each month for up to twelve months.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs K disagreed with the adjudicators view, so 
the complaints been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  Having done so, Im not upholding it for 
reasons that Ill explain.
Mrs K cant  remember the phone call when she was sold the PPI policy  and doesnt think 
she agreed to take it, or was made aware that it was optional.
No recording of the call is available. Thats not that surprising given how long ago this sale 
took place. But from what we know of how FICL sold these PPI polices over the phone  at 
this time, I think its most likely that it would have made Mrs K aware that she didnt have to 
take it. And as the sale took place  some months  after the card account  had become  active,  I 
think that Mrs K would, in any case,  have realised that she didnt  need  to agree to take the 
PPI to get her card if she didnt want to. 
So on balance, I think its most likely  that Mrs K actively  agreed  to the PPI knowing she had 
a choice. But I can understand  why she may not remember  this now.
I dont think that FICL recommended the policy to Mrs K, so it didnt need to ensure that it 
was suitable for her circumstances at the time.  But it still needed to ensure that she was 
given enough  information for her to decide if it was right for her. I think  its likely that the 
information FICL gave  Mrs K wasnt as good  as it should have been. But I dont  think that 
better information would  have  changed  her mind  about taking it. I say this because:
Mrs K appears to have been  eligible for the policy and not affected by any of its main 
exclusions and limitations.
Ref: DRN84505842Mrs K doesnt think she needed the policy. She says she had generous  sick pay for her 
employer and could  also have relied on her husband for financial support if shed needed  
it. But this policy would  have paid out in addition to any sick pay entitlement she had and 
for longer  than this would have lasted.  And it would have given her better security than 
relying on others for help. So I still think she would  have thought the policy  gave her 
useful protection  at an affordable  cost.
The cost of the policy wasnt more than £1.00  per £100 of the outstanding monthly 
balance on Mrs Ks card.  This was more  expensive  than some other policies  Ive seen. 
But it also paid out a higher-than-average monthly  benefit - 15% of the outstanding  
balance. Ive no reason to think the policy was unaffordable for Mrs K. And as the 
premiums were  paid monthly,  she could  have cancelled it if it no longer  met her needs.
So having  carefully considered all the information  available to me, I dont think that Mrs K 
has lost out by anything that FICL  may have done  wrong when it sold her this PPI policy.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  Im not upholding this complaint against 
Financial Insurance  Company Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 May 2019.
Simon Furse
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8450584