K820x#14complaint
Mr B makes  a number of complains about MBNA Limited, following letters  it sent him and his 
attempt to increase  his monthly repayments.
background
Mr B says he received  threatening  letters  from MBNA  telling him that if he continued to just 
make minimum monthly repayments  then that would be reported  to the Credit Reference 
Agencies (CRAs). He says he increased  the monthly repayments but was then told the 
payment wasnt taken and he would have  to make a payment by another method. Mr B says 
he contacted MBNA  and found out the payment had gone through and was told he would 
receive £10 for what had happened.  He says he then received an e-mail  from MBNA telling 
him the payment he made of £10 had gone  through when he hadnt  made  it. Mr B says he 
then received a letter  from MBNA telling him the matter was sorted  out and gave him a 
contact number which he couldnt get through to MBNA on.
Mr B would like further compensation and says the call to MBNA cost him over £3. He says 
the letter from MBNA was a lie and hes been caused stress by whats happened.
MBNA says the letters it sent Mr B explained the benefits of increasing his monthly 
repayments and were not threatening and says Mr B chose to increase  those  payments.  It 
says Mr B changed the repayment amount too close to the date of the direct  debit for it to be 
amended and so wrote  to Mr B. MBNA says Mr B contacted it and it agreed to pay him £10 
as a gesture of goodwill  and calls to it are free.
Mr B had already  brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold Mr Bs 
complaint. The investigator didnt think MBNAs  letter about increasing  repayments was 
threatening and didnt  think  MBNA made a mistake by saying it wasnt able to take the direct  
debit. The investigator  thought the £10 gesture of goodwill  offer was fair and reasonable but 
accepted MBNA could  have communicated that offer differently. But didnt think  it was our 
role to tell a business how to communicate with its customers.
Mr B doesnt  accept that view and says he was told he had missed a payment which  wasnt 
true. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the investigator for similar  reasons. I realise Mr B will be disappointed by my 
decision and I appreciate how strongly he feels about whats happened.
Ive looked at the letter Mr B received from MBNA  that he says was threatening. Whilst Im 
sorry to disagree with Mr B, I dont think that it was threatening and was sent some  time 
before Mr B decided to increase  his monthly repayments. Im satisfied that letter simply 
explained that Mr B could  benefit from making increased repayments.  And that there wasnt 
any threat that if it wasnt acted upon,  that MBNA would report that fact to the CRAs. So I 
dont think MBNA acted unfairly by sending that letter and agree with the investigator  that it 
was sent to assist  Mr B with no obligation  for Mr B to increase the repayments.
I can see that Mr B decided to increase the amount he repaid MBNA by changing his direct 
debit. Im satisfied that was his choice and I think that by making the change so close  to the 
Ref: DRN89400492date of the direct debit,  that MBNA correctly told Mr B that he would need to make a 
payment by another method. I appreciate the payment  was taken. But I dont think  MBNA 
made a mistake by raising the issue. And I think the letter was sent in Mr Bs best interests 
as I think there was a strong possibility the direct debit may not have been taken. 
I appreciate Mr B then contacted MBNA and found out the payment had been taken. I accept 
that Mr B would have  been caused some  inconvenience  in having to contact  MBNA.  But Im 
satisfied MBNA has acted fairly by paying  £10 as a gesture of goodwill. Im also satisfied that 
payment fairly reflects what  took place and the level of inconvenience  that was caused. I can 
see that MBNA says calls to it are free and Ive not seen any evidence from Mr B that he did 
pay any call costs.
I accept that MBNA then told Mr B that his payment of £10 had been  received. I accept  that 
was wrong and it was MBNA that paid Mr B the £10. But whilst I accept the information 
should have been clearer I dont think that mistake justifies any compensation. I also accept 
Mr B spent some time trying to speak to MBNA  but couldnt get through  But again I dont 
think that justifies compensation.
Overall Im satisfied MBNA has dealt fairly  with this complaint and I dont  require it to do 
anything further.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 August 2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8940049