K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Lloyds  Bank PLC mis-sold Mr and Mrs S payment protection 
insurance (PPI). Mr and Mrs S were also unhappy with how Lloyds handled their PPI 
complaint. 
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 1995. 
Mr and Mrs S also said Lloyds  were late in sending its decision on their PPI complaint. And 
that, when Lloyds phoned Mr S as part of the complaints process, it asked personal 
information whilst using  a withheld  phone number. This made Mr S immediately  suspicious.  
Our adjudicator said the complaint about  the sale of the PPI shouldnt  be upheld. 
Mr and Mrs S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion and so the complaint was  passed to 
me. I agreed  with the adjudicator but also wanted  to make clear  my view on some particular 
points. So I wrote a provisional  decision and asked  everyone to comment. I said:  
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general 
approach to complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into 
account in deciding this case.
Ive considered Mr and Mrs Ss comments. However, Ive decided  not to uphold this 
complaint. I will explain  why.
Mr and Mrs S say they originally decided  against taking PPI when they applied by 
post for the mortgage. However  they then received  a letter  from Lloyds which they 
feel coerced them into taking PPI. They sent us a copy of the letter,  and Ive read it. I 
know that different  people  will react to such things differently to some  others.  But I 
dont think most people would regard the letter as coercive, and I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Lloyds to have sent it. It just sets out the facts about the limitations 
of state welfare  benefits for covering  mortgages,  and explains  the benefits  that PPI 
could pay, with information  about  the monthly cost. I think  it makes clear that they are 
recommending the benefits of the PPI, but that it is the customers  choice. It was a 
little pressurising to suggest the customer should  fill in a form and post it back, 
explaining if they would be relying  on savings instead of PPI. But the overall tone of 
the letter was one setting out the advantages of PPI and the risks it would avoid. The 
information on those  points seems reasonable and accurate. 
I think Lloyds Bank  recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs S, but it doesnt look as if it 
was unsuitable,  based on what Ive seen  of their circumstances  at the time.  Its likely 
Mr and Mrs S were  eligible  for the policy. And finding yourself unable to pay a 
mortgage can lead to significant  difficulties.  The PPI would have paid benefits at the 
same time as Mr and Mrs S received  any employer  sick pay, and potentially  for 
longer. It would have  paid unemployment  benefits in addition  to any redundancy pay. 
And it would have put off the time when they would need to fall back  on any savings  
or other means they may have had for paying  the mortgage. This all would have put 
Mr and Mrs S in a more secure position,  if theyd eventually lost income due to long 
term sickness or unemployment. And Ive not been  told anything to suggest they 
couldnt afford the PPI when they took it out. So I think the PPI would have been 
Ref: DRN80095092potentially useful, and so a recommendation was suitable. 
 
The monthly price of the policy  was shown. So I think Mr and Mrs S would have 
understood how much it would cost. 
Its possible Lloyds Bank didnt clearly point out the main  things  the policy didnt 
cover. But its unlikely Mr and Mrs S would  have been affected  by any of these. And 
theyd be paying  for it monthly, so they could cancel it at any time without further cost 
if their situation changed.
So I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.
Ive also thought about the points Mr and Mrs S made about  the way Lloyds handled  
their PPI complaint. 
It looks as though the banks decision letter was sent within  the timeframe promised. 
Mr S said it didnt  arrive. But I agree that Lloyds cant be held responsible  if a letter  
goes astray once  its been posted. Mr S said he then asked  Lloyds to send a copy  of 
its letter to him by recorded  delivery.  I think that was a reasonable request. But I also 
think it was reasonable  for Lloyds to decide  that it would follow its usual process  and 
not send the copy by recorded delivery. 
Mr S was unhappy that he received  a call from an unidentified  number which turned 
out to be Lloyds investigating  his complaint,  and which asked personal information  as 
a security check. He says he was at a sports match and was not offered an 
alternative call time.  
I can see that this would be disconcerting and potentially concerning. But it would  be 
usual, and proper,  for a financial  organisation  to make sure it was speaking to the 
right person   even  though it sounds  as though it may not have handled the call as 
well as it should have.
 
Overall, looking at Mr and Mrs Ss complaint, I can see that Mr S was caused some  
inconvenience in pursuing the PPI claim, although not necessarily entirely  by Lloyds. 
But I dont think it would  be of such significance that Lloyds should  be taking steps to 
compensate Mr S as he has requested. 
Finally, Mr and Mrs S have said Lloyds is wrong  to say they came into the bank to 
make a complaint,  and that this casts  doubt  on the rest of the information Lloyds 
have given. However, it seems Mr and Mrs S have misread  what  Lloyds said. It said 
complaint came into bank, not complainant came into the bank. 
I didnt receive any comments on my provisional decision. 
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I confirm my provisional decision,  as set out above.  
Ref: DRN80095093my final decision
Im not upholding Mr and Mr Ss complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 October  2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8009509