K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains about how Aviva Insurance  Limited dealt with his plumbing and drainage  
insurance policy claim. My references to Aviva  include  its agents.
background
Mr A contacted Aviva in March 2018 to repair a dripping bath mixer tap. Its contracted 
engineer attended and told Mr A the tap was beyond repair  and a replacement needed.
Mr A didnt want a basic tap and wanted Aviva to install a like for like replacement. He says 
the engineer told him the basic  replacement  tap was inappropriate.
Aviva told Mr A it only provided standard tap fittings,  not like for like replacements,  but he 
could buy a tap of his choice which it would fit.
Mr A complained to us. He said the policy wording  Aviva relied on wasnt  fair. If Aviva  only 
replaces parts with those it supplies that contradicts that it will cover  a claim up to £4,000.  
He said Avivas stance meant  effectively  he was unable to use the policy  to make  a claim. 
Hes also unhappy he didnt receive  Aviva's  final response to his complaint until mid June 
when hed complained in mid March. He wants Aviva  to fit an appropriate tap and 
compensate him for its delay in dealing with his complaint.  
Our investigator thought Aviva had acted fairly  and although its response to Mr As complaint 
was late he hadnt  been disadvantaged.   
Mr A disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A has asked  that I speak to him about  his complaint before making a decision.  I havent  
called Mr A as I already  have enough information to make a decision.
I note Mr As mentioned  the previous problems hes had with Avivas service on another  
matter. For the avoidance  of doubt,  this decision is just about  his complaint about the tap. If 
the other matter is still unresolved he can make a separate complaint to Aviva and ultimately 
make a separate complaint  to us if need be.
I dont uphold this complaint.  Ill explain  why.
The policy says it provides cover in relation  to emergencies and in relation to other domestic  
incidents - please  see the "What is Covered section  of these terms and conditions. The 
cover is up to £4,000.
Mr A says he doesnt have a home  emergency policy but in effect he does. The matters  the 
policy covers are essentially of an emergency  nature.  For taps the cover is that the engineer 
will resolve the immediate  problem byrepairing taps. The policy  specifically excludes 
replacement of a tap unless necessary as part of a repair. So the purpose  of the policy  is for 
Ref: DRN83472862Aviva to carry out a repair to resolve  the immediate emergency/issue. Aviva offered Mr A a 
tap which would have resolved his claim. 
There's nothing  in the policy that says Aviva  has to offer a like for like tap. The policy  doesnt  
cover:
any parts  not supplied  and chosen  by us Subject to any applicable regulations,  our engineer  
can fit an alternative part (that complies with British Standards) supplied  by you at the time of 
the visit (e g a switch or tap) however this part will not be guaranteed.
So the policy  is clear  enough that Aviva wont repair a claim issue with parts that it doesnt 
supply or choose.  The policy says it will fit an alterative part supplied by Mr A and Aviva  has 
offered to do that. 
Im satisfied that Aviva has acted  fairly  and reasonably in not supplying a like for like 
replacement tap for Mr A under  its policy.
Mr A says Avivas policy wording means  in effect  hes not able to make  a claim and unlikely 
to reach  a claim limit of £4,000. But the policy covers various issues and depending  on the 
problem its possible that the repair cost may be near the policy limit. The £4,000 limit 
doesnt mean Aviva has to provide  a tap of his choice. Its a matter  for Mr A as to whether he 
wants to continue with the policy cover.
Avivas final response was outside  the eight weeks the relevant rules say it has to respond to 
Mr As complaint before he can complain to us. But after the eight weeks  passed Mr A could 
complain to us and he hasnt been disadvantaged in making his complaint. I dont award 
compensation just because  a business response  is late and theres no basis for me to 
award compensation to Mr A.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 April 2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8347286