K821x#15complaint
Mrs B complains about the way Vanquis  Bank Limited dealt with her account  after some 
payments were incorrectly refunded as part of a chargeback investigation. Mrs B complains 
that she wasnt told when  the refunds had been received and remained on a payment plan 
for several  months. 
background
In July 2017 Vanquis was contacted by a bank to say that payments that had been made to 
Mrs Bs credit  card should be refunded  as part of a chargeback investigation. As a result, in 
August 2017 Vanquis refunded April, May and July 2017s payments back  to the debit card 
they were made from. Mrs B has advised  the payments had been made by her husband  and 
that the chargeback request was made in error.  
As the chargeback put Mrs Bs account  into arrears  she agreed a payment arrangement in 
October 2017 to pay £153 a month and that the credit limit would be reduced in stages. 
Mrs B paid £153 on 4 October 2017 but no payment was made for November 2017.  
Vanquis received  the chargeback refund on 22 November  2017 and applied the payments 
back to the account  in a way that meant  Mrs B didnt have to pay any additional interest. 
That meant Mrs Bs account  returned  to the position it was in before the chargeback refunds 
had been made. Mrs Bs next payment of £153 was made on 1 December 2017. 
Vanquis didnt  tell Mrs B that her payments had been refunded  and she continued  to make 
the agreed £153 payments each  month. In June 2018 Mrs B checked with Vanquis to see 
what had happened  to the disputed  funds and in July 2018 she complained.  
Vanquis responded on 23 July 2018 but didnt agree an error had been made. Mrs B 
referred her complaint  to this service  and it was passed to an investigator to look at. The 
investigator recommended Vanquis pay £150 because it didnt tell Mrs B about  the refund. 
Another investigator looked at the case and agreed  that Vanquis shouldve  told Mrs B about 
the refund  but said that as the account was in arrears her position hadnt been affected.  
Vanquis agreed to pay Mrs B £150  in line with what the adjudicator said.
Mrs B didnt agree and has asked for her case to be appealed so its been  passed to me to 
make a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive paid particular  attention to the statements and contact information in this case.  I can see 
that Vanquis was asked  to refund the April, May and July 2017 payments  to the bank they 
were received from and that happened  in August  2017. I appreciate that the chargeback 
request was made in error but Vanquis  acted fairly  by following the instructions it received. 
Vanquis received  the chargeback refund on 22 November  2017 and applied them to the 
account in a way that meant  Mrs B didnt have to pay additional interest. So Mrs B hasnt lost 
out by paying more  interest as a result of the chargeback investigation. 
Ref: DRN88683662Vanquis has said that because of the way the refund was applied to Mrs Bs account it 
wasnt obvious that it had been  received.  And whilst I understand that Mrs B is upset she 
wasnt specifically told the chargeback  refunds had been  received, the information  is shown  
on the December  2017 statements Vanquis  sent her. The process  is largely automated so I 
wouldnt expect someone to specifically contact Mrs B to let her know.  
The issue  here is that before the chargeback refund was received, Mrs B agreed a payment 
plan. On 4 October  2017 Mrs B agreed  to pay £153  a month and that the credit limit would 
come down in stages. At the time, I think that was the right thing for Vanquis  to offer as it 
hadnt received  the chargeback refund.  
Mrs B didnt make a payment at the start of November 2017 as agreed the month  before. 
The next payment  Mrs B made to the account was on 1 December 2017  for £153. I know 
Vanquis received  the chargeback refunds on 22 November  2017 and credited them  back to 
the credit  card.  But that only cleared the three  incorrectly refunded payments from April, May 
and July 2017. Mrs B still needed to make up the missed payment for November 2017. 
Mrs B is upset  that she wasnt told that the chargeback refund had been received and I 
agree that Vanquis shouldve done  that. But I think its more  likely than not that her account 
still wouldve been subject  of a payment arrangement because of the missed payment  in 
November 2017.  
Vanquis has agreed to pay Mrs B £150 because it failed to contact  her and advise the 
chargeback refund had been received in November  2017. Ive carefully considered  
everything Mrs B and Vanquis have said in bringing the complaint and Im satisfied the £150  
offered is fair in all the circumstances. As Vanquis has agreed  to pay a fair settlement Im not 
telling it to take any further action. 
 
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and direct  Vanquis Bank Limited  to pay Mrs B 
£150. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 April 2019.
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8868366