K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about some debts  Mr and Mrs F used  to have with The Royal  Bank of 
Scotland Plc (RBS).  Mr and Mrs F are unhappy  that RBS wont  refund to them directly the 
sum due under a remediation exercise.  Instead, it has set off that amount against the 
shortfall that arose  when Mr and Mrs F and RBS agreed a short  settlement.
background
I issued my provisional decision on 10 January 2020, a copy  of which  is attached and forms 
part of this final decision. In my provisional decision I explained why I wasnt minded to 
uphold Mr and Mrs Fs complaint. I invited both parties to let me have any further 
submissions before I reached a final decision.  
Neither party made any new submissions. Ive reviewed everything  carefully  and considered 
the case afresh, but my opinion hasnt changed.  Ive reached the same findings  and for the 
same reasons as I set out in my provisional  decision.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im 
required to ask Mr and Mrs F to accept or reject my decision  before 3 March 2020.
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN88606602COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
This complaint is about some debts  Mr and Mrs F used  to have with The Royal  Bank of 
Scotland Plc (RBS).  Mr and Mrs F are unhappy  that RBS wont  refund to them directly the 
sum due under a remediation exercise.  Instead, it has set off that amount against the 
shortfall that arose  when Mr and Mrs F and RBS agreed a short  settlement.
background
In 2008 Mr and Mrs F entered into a payment plan in respect of their debts.  Amongst these 
were two debts with RBS,  which at that time - I understand - totalled around £27,000.
In January 2017 RBS agreed  to accept £15,000  in settlement of the debts, said it would 
mark them as partially satisfied and said that it wouldnt  pursue Mr and Mrs F for the 
outstanding amount. In the letter sent to Mr and Mrs F about the settlement the outstanding 
debt was said to be £21,832.56, so the amount Mr and Mrs F owed but didnt pay back  was 
£6,832.56.
In July 2018 RBS carried  out a remediation exercise and as part of that it identified it hadnt  
met the requirements  of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA)  for Mr and Mrs Fs account  
between 14 January 2009 and 30 March 2017.  Due to that it said it would refund the interest 
charged for that period.  This came  to £6,422.52. On top of that there was £340.48 interest 
due. However, rather than refund the full amount to Mr and Mrs F directly, RBS set off the 
£6,422.52 against the shortfall (just sending them the £340.48 interest).  Mr and Mrs F think  
thats wrong, because  RBS agreed  to accept  £15,000 in full and final settlement of the debts.
Our investigator wasnt satisfied with the information RBS provided and so upheld the 
complaint. RBS didnt  agree and so its been passed to me to decide.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I trust Mr and Mrs F wont take it as a 
discourtesy that Ive condensed their complaint  in the way that I have. Although  Ive read 
and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what  I think  is relevant. If I dont 
comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but because I dont 
think I need to comment  on it in order to reach the right outcome. 
The Financial Ombudsman  Service is independent and impartial. My roles to look at whats  
fair and reasonable. Were not the regulator, and Ive no power  under  our terms of reference 
to comment on, or otherwise determine, how financial  businesses operate in general terms.
If a business makes a mistake, we expect it to put the customer back  in the position theyd 
have been in if it hadnt made the mistake.  Here,  RBSs mistake  was charging interest on the 
loan for the period it hadnt met its obligations under the CCA as identified  by the 
remediation exercise.  If it hadnt  done  that, Mr and Mrs Fs loan account wouldnt have been  
charged that interest, and the outstanding balance (when RBS accepted the short settlement 
from Mr and Mrs F) would have been correspondingly smaller. 
Ref: DRN88606603Thats the position Mr and Mrs F now find themselves in as a result of the remediation  
exercise. The fact that RBS agreed to accept  a short settlement doesnt change  that. Thats  
because accepting a lower amount in full and final settlement on the understanding  the 
remainder of the debt would  still be owed  (hence partially  satisfied) but wont  be actively  
chased doesnt mean what Mr and Mrs F seem to think it does. It doesnt mean the debt 
ceases to exist; it just means  a lender has taken a commercial decision not to pursue the 
debtor for it.
RBS hasnt tried to recover any of the shortfall debt from Mr and Mrs F; all its done is 
acknowledge that, as a result  of historic errors, the shortfall should have been crystallised at 
a lower amount  than it was, and taken the necessary action to correct the recorded position.  
Mr and Mrs F might find that unwelcome,  but its not unfair. What would be unfair  would be 
for me to order RBS to refund  over £6,400 to Mr and Mrs F that they hadnt  actually paid.
It may be Mr and Mrs F will argue they would have offered a lower  settlement amount to 
RBS in 2017 if the debt had been lower  at that time,  but thats not something I would 
consider reasonable as they clearly had the means to pay the £15,000 (as they paid it) so it 
would be entirely  inappropriate for me to now find that RBS should have accepted a lower 
amount.
my provisional decision
For all of the reasons  Ive set out above, but subject  to the further submissions of the parties 
by the due date,  my provisional decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Julia Meadows
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8860660