K820x#14complaint
Miss J complains  that agents  acting on behalf  of Mercedes-Benz Financial Services  UK 
Limited (MBFS) failed  to collect her car at the end of the agreement. Shes also unhappy 
about end of contract damage charges.
background
In October  2014 Miss J entered into a contract purchase agreement  with MBFS. The 
contract reached maturity  on 29 October 2018.
On 4 October 2018 Miss J contacted agents  acting on behalf of MBFS to arrange collection. 
A collection date of 29 October  2018 was booked.
Miss J says the agents failed to collect the car on the arranged  date.  She says she had to 
wait in all day and she wants  compensation.
MBFS says the agents tried to contact Miss J on the morning of the collection to advise her 
that because the car had no MOT it wouldnt be possible  to collect it that day.
The car was re-booked to be collected  on 7 November 2018.  Following collection and 
inspection, MBFS sent Miss J an invoice for damage charges totalling £920. MBFS 
subsequently offered  to reduce these to £690 as a gesture of goodwill.
Miss J wasnt happy with MBFSs response so she complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He said the car didnt have an MOT  on the 
initial collection date and that the agent hadnt  done  anything wrong in rearranging the 
collection. The investigator also said that the end of contract  charges  had been  applied 
correctly because the damage exceeded  fair wear and tear.
Miss J didnt  agree. She said the agents had arranged the initial collection date knowing  that 
the car had no MOT.  She said she wasnt responsible for some  of the damage because it 
had been caused by a third party.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Collection
MBFS says the collection  agents couldnt  collect the car on the initial date because the car 
had no MOT. It explained that a car with no MOT  cannot be driven  legally. It also explained  
that a car with no MOT  can be collected but the customer is required to notify the agent that 
the car has no MOT when booking the collection so that an off-loader  vehicle  can be 
arranged. 
Ref: DRN81616522Miss J says she was told by the agents when she called to arrange collection that it wouldnt 
matter whether the car had an MOT or not.
Ive listened to the call between Miss J and the agents. In the call, the agent confirmed a 
collection date of 29 October 2018 and asked Miss J whether the car was driveable with a 
valid MOT at the point  of collection. Miss J replied that the car had a valid MOT.
Having listened  to the call, its clear that Miss J told the agent that the car had a valid MOT at 
the point of collection. But this wasnt correct. I think Miss J would have known that her MOT 
was due to expire  before  the collection date. In those circumstances, it was up to Miss J to 
make the agent  aware of this, or to make  sure that the car had a valid MOT. 
If Miss J had made the agent  aware that the car didnt  have a valid MOT at the point of 
collection the agent could have arranged  an off loader for 29 October 2018. Taking all the 
circumstances into account,  Im unable to say that the agents or MBFS did anything wrong 
or that they should accept  responsibility for the rearranged collection.
End of contract charges
Ive looked at the agreement. This says that the car should be returned  in good condition  
and that damage  which  exceeds fair wear  and tear is the customers responsibility.
Fair wear and tear guidelines have been  issued by the BVLRA  and these guidelines are 
often used by finance companies  in determining whether damage exceeds fair wear  and 
tear.
Ive looked at the inspection report. This identifies  damage which  MBFS says is more  than 
fair wear and tear and therefore chargeable.
Ive carefully considered  all of the damage, taking into account the industry  guidelines. The 
investigator has commented on each item of damage in detail.  I wont  repeat those 
comments but I agree with them and Im satisfied that all of the damage exceeds fair wear  
and tear and has been correctly charged  for. I think the offer by MBFS to reduce the charges 
by 25% was fair.
Ive taken into account Miss Js comments about  how the damage was caused.  I appreciate  
that some  of the damage occurred at a difficult time for Miss J and Im sorry to hear this. Its 
also unfortunate that a third party caused  some damage to the car. However,  this doesnt 
alter the fact that Miss J is contractually responsible  for any damage  to the car. In the 
circumstances, Im unable to ask MBFS to waive the charges.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 May 2019.
Ref: DRN81616523Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8161652