K820x#14complaint
Mr Q complains about a number of problems he has had with HSBC Bank plc. He says his 
account was closed unfairly, HSBC lost payments into his account and its letters are taking 
too long to arrive. Mr Q also complains about  how hes been treated by HSBC.  
Background
Mr Q says he agreed in February 2018 to repay HSBC  £50 a week  to clear his overdraft. He 
says he kept to that agreement. But HSBC closed  his account and broke  the agreement. 
And transferred the balance to its payment services  department and registered a default. Mr 
Q also says he asked  HSBC to send letters by e-mail not post as they were taking too long 
to arrive. But HSBC  incorrectly told him he wasnt set up for online banking. Mr Q also 
complains about  payments into his account  that went missing. He would like HSBC  to write 
off the account  balance  and pay him compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  its 
action have had on him.
HSBC says it twice agreed  a temporary  repayment  plan with Mr Q but he broke the terms of 
it. It says it sent Mr Q letters  about  it and about  the default but cant be held responsible for 
the delay in Mr Q receiving his mail. But it accepts making a mistake about the online 
banking and has paid Mr Q £25 compensation. HSBC  says it told Mr Q that he needed to 
raise the missing payments with the bank that made  them.
Mr Q brought his complaint to us but our investigator  thought  overall HSBC had dealt fairly 
with it. She thought  the repayment  agreement had been started in October 2017 but HSBC 
had agreed to delay it due to Mr Qs circumstances. She also thought there was a record of 
a number of conversations between the parties and that HSBC had fairly agreed to freeze  
interest and charges as long as £200  a month was paid into the account. The investigator 
looked at the repayments  and produced a table which showed that Mr Q hadnt made  those 
repayments. So she concluded HSBC hadnt made a mistake by closing  the account and 
sending Mr Q a default notice.
The investigator thought the compensation was fair and reasonable about the online banking 
mistake and thought  HSBC wasnt responsible  for the delivery of the mail. She thought some 
letters such  as default letters- were required to be sent by post.
Mr Q doesnt accept  that view and says he reduced  the overdraft balance  by about 50%. He 
maintains HSBC is responsible for the mail and if he couldve dealt with staff within a branch 
then the outcome here wouldve been  different.  Mr Q says HSBC lost his money.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall conclusions  as the investigator  for the same  reasons. I realise  that Mr Q will be 
disappointed by my decision and I appreciate how strongly he feels  about  whats  happened.
Ive looked at HSBCs  records  about the agreement to repay the overdraft. And Im satisfied 
it was agreed in October 2017 and not February  2018  as Mr Q told us. I can see that the 
agreement didnt start due to Mr Qs circumstances  at the time.  Banks  and building  societies  
should treat cases  of financial  difficulties positively and sympathetically.  And I think  HSBC 
did act in such a way by agreeing to Mr Qs proposal  and by freezing interest and charges as 
well as providing him with details of organisations that could help him.
Ref: DRN81994572Im satisfied that agreement was for repayment  of £200 a month.  But I can see that Mr Q 
didnt keep to the terms of that agreement and over five months, only made the required 
payment once. I appreciate that Mr Q says the overdraft was reducing significantly.  But I 
dont think HSBC made a mistake by concluding  the agreement had been  broken and the 
account should be closed and passed to its recovery department. I also dont think in those 
circumstances it made  a mistake by sending the default letters and if it has, by registering a 
default on Mr Qs credit file.
I appreciate that Mr Q wouldve liked HSBC to have sent him letters by e-mail and not the 
post. I think its up to HSBC how it communicates  with its customers.  And those sorts of 
decisions are commercial  decisions for a business  to decide when exercising its commercial 
judgement and not something I can fairly interfere in. I also make it clear  that I dont think  
HSBC is responsible for the delivery  of mail and I cant  hold it responsible for the delay in Mr 
Q receiving his mail from it. Ive not seen  any evidence that HSBC hasnt promptly  sent Mr Q 
correspondence.
Its difficult to know  why Mr Qs payments into his HSBC account went missing.  Ive not seen 
any evidence HSBC  made a mistake  and I dont think it acted unfairly be telling Mr Q that he 
would need to raise  it with the sending bank first. I think if the sending  bank then confirmed it 
had sent the payment to HSBC then I wouldve expected HSBC to investigate. But I cant  
see that Mr Q did involve  the sending bank or if he did Ive not seen any evidence of that. So 
I cant fairly conclude HSBC made a mistake or lost Mr Qs money.
I appreciate Mr Q says some of these problems couldve been avoided  if he couldve spoken  
to staff within a branch  and not over the phone. But for the reasons  Ive explained I cant 
fairly tell a business  how it runs its affairs. There is no doubt here that HSBC  did make  a 
mistake about the online  banking  but I can see its paid a fair and reasonable amount of 
compensation of £25. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Q to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 March  2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8199457