K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that they were told by Scottish Widows  Limited  that the policy  was 
linked to the stock  market  (FTSE 100) but it hasnt performed in the same way. When  
surrendering the policy  in June 2018  the value should have been higher.  They  also complain  
call handlers couldnt provide Mrs G with our offices information. 
background
Mrs G called Scottish Widows in February  2018  as they were thinking of surrendering  their 
policy. She wanted to ensure they wouldnt lose any bonuses by surrendering  before the 
maturity date in January  2019. Mrs G was told to surrender the policy  she would need to 
confirm in writing signed  by both policyholders as it was jointly held.  She was also given the 
value as at that date,  told it was connected to the stock market  through the funds but wasnt 
connected directly to the FTSE. It was also explained that if she kept the policy  going the 
value wasnt guaranteed. 
Mrs G called back in June  2018  seeking information about the loss of bonuses and was 
again told there were  no bonuses so she wouldnt lose anything  if they surrendered the 
policy. She asked for the value of the policy, which was given and as it hadnt risen in line 
with the stock market,  Mrs G asked for an explanation. Not happy Mrs G complained and 
asked for details for this office. Mrs G also asked to surrender the policy and was given the 
process for this. The call handler needed to look up the information for our office, but Mrs G 
wasnt happy information wasnt provided in full.   
Scottish Widows  looked into the complaint. They agreed Mrs G hadnt been provided  with a 
clear explanation about where their policy had been  invested. And an explanation was 
provided about the performance of the fund. And although front line staff arent usually 
expected to have details  to hand  for our service  this had been  fed back. Scottish Widows 
offered £120 compensation  for the poor service. 
Not happy with that Mr and Mrs G asked us to look into the matter.  Our investigator felt 
Scottish Widows  had already fairly resolved the complaint about the service. She also 
concluded the business hadnt done  anything  wrong  with regards to the performance of the 
policy. Mr and Mrs G have asked for the matter  to be referred  to an ombudsman.  They  
remain dissatisfied they werent  given correct information about the fund despite the duty of 
care to provide  correct  information. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments, including  Mrs Gs calls with 
Scottish Widows, to decide  whats fair and reasonable  in the circumstances of this 
complaint. Having done so, Ive decided that Scottish Widows has already  fairly resolved this 
complaint. I explain why below. 
Information about the fund
Mrs G wanted to know whether or not she would  lose out if surrendering the policy  early.  It 
was correctly explained that their policy was unit linked, so there were no bonuses added  at 
maturity or lost on early  surrender. Mrs G asked whether  the policy was linked to the FTSE. 
The call handler explained  performance was based  on the funds invested into which  were 
Ref: DRN89713702connected to the stock  market but it wasnt directly  linked to the FTSE. The call handler 
explained the fund was the Homebuyer fund. 
Scottish Widows  accepts  this information  wasnt entirely accurate. The policy was invested 
into a number of different  areas including assets and equities, amongst others. And Mrs G 
has since been sent a fund performance  sheet which sets this out more  clearly. Although the 
information wasnt entirely accurate it wasnt entirely wrong either.  The performance of 
various stock markets (not just the FTSE 100) will have an effect on fund values and 
whether thats  direct  or indirect will depend  on what fund is invested into. Scottish  Widows 
has provided feedback about  providing better explanations  which I would expect  it to do. 
So I think it has taken on board what has gone  wrong and taken steps to prevent that 
happening again in the future.
Mrs G says she relied on the information  she was given  in the call. But she hasnt shown 
they have suffered a financial loss as a result.  The policy continued for about another four 
months, for which Mr and Mrs G paid an additional  £175 in premiums  (approx.).  I understand 
the fund increased  by about £750.  So although they may have relied on the information, in 
the absence of any actual financial loss, I wont be asking Scottish Widows to do anything 
further about that. 
Performance of the policy
Mrs G is unhappy that the FTSE increased by about  7% but her fund only increased  by 
about 3%. She believes better fund choices ought  to have been made  and that the fund has 
been managed  negligently. 
Mr and Mrs Gs policy was a unit linked policy and as explained  above  was invested into a 
number of different  areas including assets and equities. This meant  the value of the fund 
could rise and fall on a daily basis. Mr and Mrs Gs policy wasnt  only building  up a sum of 
money but it also provided life cover of £42,000. That means  Mr and Mrs Gs premiums  were 
going towards life cover  and the investment. And because it was invested into a number of 
different areas, its unlikely there  will ever be a direct  correlation between it and a particular 
stock market such as the FTSE  100.
That a policy or fund has not performed well is not, of itself, reason  enough  to uphold this 
part of the complaint. In order to uphold a complaint about the performance of the policy, I 
would need to conclude that the business  has been  negligent in its management  of the 
underlying investments, or in some way mismanaged the fund. Such a complaint is very 
unlikely to succeed. I say this because investment decisions  necessarily involve subjective 
judgments by professionals and decision makers about the best or most  prudent  course of 
action open to them. That another set of professionals may have  made a different set of 
investment decisions,  or the judgements may have turned out to be wrong  (in the sense that 
they do not produce the desired returns) is not in itself evidence of negligence. 
In order to uphold  this part of the complaint,  I can only safely do so where I am satisfied that 
the business has got something wrong and that it is fair and reasonable to do so in all the 
circumstances of the complaint. Whilst I appreciate this will disappoint Mr and Mrs G, I am 
not persuaded there is sufficient evidence  to do so in this case.
Not providing information  about our service
Ref: DRN89713703Mrs G is unhappy that a member of Scottish Widows call centre wasnt immediately able to 
provide details for contacting our office. Under  the regulators rules there is a requirement to 
provide information  in a clear, comprehensible and easily accessible way about us, but Im 
not aware of any requirement for call handlers to have this immediately to hand.
However, that said, I do agree with Mrs G that this could  easily  have been searched by the 
call handler rather than them becoming  difficult about finding  our address information. I 
understand that as a result of Mrs Gs experience  Scottish Widows has now made our 
details more accessible for its staff. I consider this to be a positive  step so that future 
customers dont suffer the same difficulties. 
Its clear that Mrs G in particular, hasnt received the best customer  service from Scottish 
Widows. And she spent some time on the telephone  discussing this issue. So she has been 
put to some  inconvenience  pursuing this matter  and as a result  of not receiving entirely  
accurate information.  Its right that Mrs G receives  compensation  for the service she has 
received and the impact that had. In considering that, I have also taken into account that 
Scottish Widows  responded to the complaint and provided explanations within a matter  of 
days. In all Im satisfied the £120 Scottish  Widows  has already paid is fair compensation for 
what went wrong. So I wont be awarding  any further compensation.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  I dont uphold this complaint as Scottish Widows  Limited  has already 
fairly resolved it. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 June 2019.
Claire Hopkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8971370