K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain  that Barclays Bank UK PLC has failed to extend  their interest only 
mortgage.
background
Mr and Mrs P took out an interest only mortgage with Barclays in 2006. The mortgage was 
for a term of 12 years and five months  and expired towards the end of 2018.
Mr and Mrs P complained to Barclays about the term extension process in early  2018. But 
Barclays didnt uphold  their complaint. It said, in summary, that in order to extend  the 
mortgage term Mr and Mrs P would need  to go through an application  with a mortgage 
adviser. And it said that, although it appreciated that they were longstanding  customers it 
was unable to offer a term extension without them following this process.
Mr and Mrs P also complained that the mortgage had been mis-sold in 2006. But Barclays 
said that this aspect of the complaint had been brought too late. And when the complaint 
came to this service one of our ombudsmen issued a jurisdiction decision. This confirmed 
that we couldnt look at the mis-sale complaint but that we could look at Barclays  failure to 
extend Mr and Mrs Ps interest  only mortgage.
Our investigator looked into Mr and Mrs Ps complaint regarding the term extension.  She 
didnt feel that Barclays had done anything  wrong. She said,  in summary:
Where a borrower has taken out an interest only mortgage they agree to repay  the 
capital to the lender at the end of the term. And the lender  is entitled to the funds at 
the end of the mortgage contract;
In order to assess whether a term extension is appropriate a lender needs to look at 
things such as the term requested, the borrowers income and their overall 
circumstances;
This service expects a lender to give a reasonable amount of forbearance  to enable 
the consumer  to seek independent financial advice and weigh up options.  Barclays  
had already given Mr and Mrs P over 12 months  grace  without taking any action 
and had advised them to seek independent financial advice. She felt this was 
reasonable;
 If Mr and Mrs P had a plan to repay the mortgage  Barclays  would need to give this 
fair consideration and allow them reasonable time to complete.
Mr and Mrs P do not agree with our investigators  view and have asked  for their complaint to 
be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision. They  remain  unhappy that their mis-selling 
complaint cannot  be reviewed. And they say that Barclays has been unfair  and 
unreasonable. They want Barclays to extend  the term of the mortgage for ten years on the 
same terms.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I should make  it clear that this decision deals only with Mr and Mrs Ps complaint that 
Barclays has not granted them a term extension now that their interest only mortgage  has 
expired. While I am aware  that they remain of the view that their mortgage  was mis-sold that 
Ref: DRN84798042aspect of their complaint  has already  been  the subject of an ombudsmans decision,  and I 
have therefore  not looked at it further.
Having carefully considered all the circumstances of this complaint I agree with our 
investigator that Barclays has not acted unreasonably. I appreciate  that this will come  as a 
disappointment to Mr and Mrs P so Ill explain why Ive reached this decision.
As our investigator has explained, it is reasonable for a lender to expect a loan to be repaid 
at the end of the term. But where  there isnt a repayment vehicle in place  as in this case   
the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has made it clear that the lender 
should give fair and reasonable consideration to any requests made  by the borrower  to help 
them.
I appreciate that Mrs P says that she tried for a year before the maturity date to get an 
extension to the term of the mortgage. But Barclays has explained that in order to consider 
the issue Mr and Mrs P need to make a full application. From the evidence Ive seen, theyve 
not yet done so. 
Im persuaded that it is reasonable that Barclays should have a process in place to deal with 
term extensions.  And, although I appreciate that Mr and Mrs P are long-standing customers 
of Barclays I dont find it unreasonable that Barclays should require Mr and Mrs P to go 
through the application process.  So Im not persuaded that Barclays  has done anything 
wrong. And, in the circumstances, Im not persuaded it would be fair to require Barclays  to 
extend the term of the mortgage  without  an application  being made.
I strongly suggest that Mr and Mrs P should  now speak to the relevant team  at Barclays  and 
that they should make a full application  if they still wish to extend the term of their mortgage. 
Barclays should give fair consideration to any proposals that they might make, taking 
account of their overall circumstances  and what is in their best interests. Barclays should 
also treat Mr and Mrs P in accordance with the regulators latest  guidance in light of the 
current coronavirus pandemic.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 October  2020.
Alison Cribbs
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8479804