K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2004 
alongside a home  loan.  Mr T says Northern Bank Limited (Danske Bank  at the time) mis-
sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr T case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Mr T says he wasnt aware the PPI was optional and it was added without his knowledge or 
consent. But hes not told us much more  about what happened  at the time, and Ive not seen 
any other information to support what Mr T has said. Unfortunately  Mr Ts application form is 
no longer available for me to consider. And as this sale took place  around  15 years ago its 
difficult to rely on what Mr T has said alone to conclude  that something  untoward happened. 
But Ive taken what Mr T has said into account  and Ive also looked  at the evidence Northern 
Bank has provided to come to a decision on what I think is more  likely to have happened. 
Northern Bank says the PPI wouldve been  discussed at length at the time.  It says that it 
wouldve presented  the PPI as optional, and Mr T wouldve had the choice  to accept or 
decline it. Northern Bank has also supplied a copy of the type of application form it says Mr T 
wouldve seen and signed. And looking at the sample provided, Ive not seen any reason to 
think that this isnt the type of form that wouldve been used for Mr Ts sale. In the sample 
application theres a section  for PPI which includes options to accept or decline the cover, 
and to specify what elements of the cover the applicant wishes to have. The sample shows  
that the applicant wouldve had to sign in this section to confirm the choices made  here. So 
even if the form was completed by the Northern  Bank sales person,  I think Mr T wouldve 
seen this section  when signing in here. 
So based  on all the evidence Ive seen, I think its more likely than not that Northern Bank 
made it clear  that Mr T didnt have to take out the PPI and that he chose to take it out  
although I can understand why he cant remember this now.
Mr T says that he would not have put an x in the box prior to his signature.  So I think  Mr T is 
suggesting that the Northern Bank  sales person selected PPI on his behalf after he had read 
and signed the paper work. But this is a serious allegation of fraud  which is a criminal 
offence - and one which I cant investigate in this final decision. So if Mr T would like to take 
this further he will have  to do so with the relevant authorities.   
Mr T says Northern  Bank didnt give him any advice or recommendation when  selling him 
the PPI. Northern Bank says it did recommend the PPI to him. As things stand, there isnt 
enough information to determine  this point. But being able to do so isnt crucial  to the 
outcome because, had Northern Bank recommended  the policy,  I think it wouldve been a 
suitable recommendation to have made for the reasons I set out below. As a result,  Ive 
considered the complaint on the same basis as Northern Bank.
Ref: DRN82313082As a recommended  sale, Northern Bank  had to check that the PPI was right for Mr T  and 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time,  I think that it was, and Ill explain 
why. 
Northern Bank says Mr T was employed at the point of sale and has provided a copy  of his 
credit card application form which was completed  and signed  around the same time. This 
shows that when  asked about  his employment status Mr T ticked  the box to say his 
employment status was full-time, he did not tick the box to say he was self-employed. 
Northern Bank says this is evidence that Mr T was not self-employed  at the time the PPI was 
sold alongside his loan. Mr T says he was self-employed at the time and he has provided a 
copy of his HM Revenue registration card. But, this card is not dated,  and is not persuasive 
evidence that Mr T was self-employed at the time. 
However, Ive looked at the policy documents available from around the time Mr T took out 
PPI with his loan. This shows  that had Mr T been either employed or self-employed he 
wouldve been able to benefit from this cover and it wouldnt  have been  any harder for him to 
make a claim as a self-employed person compared to an employed person. Looking  at his 
other circumstances  from the time, I also dont think he was affected  by any of the other  
exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover.  
Mr T says he wouldve  been able to rely on his family to help him make his repayments  if 
hed been unable to work. But help from others  cant  always  be guaranteed, as their 
circumstances can also change over time.  Mr T provided evidence  of other policies he had 
at the time which he says couldve  been used to help him keep up his repayments. However, 
Ive considered the evidence provided  and I think  the other insurances Mr T had in place 
wouldve covered  him for different eventualities  to the PPI. So I still think  he had a need for 
this cover 
Its possible the information Northern Bank gave Mr T about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But it seems like it would have been useful for him if something went  wrong.  
So I dont  think better information about the PPI would have put him off taking out the cover.  
Which means Northern Bank doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr T. But 
Northern Bank will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr T because : 
Northern Bank got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr T about that. Because Northern Bank didnt tell 
Mr T, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Northern Bank  has basically  offered to pay back the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that 
offer is fair in this case.
what the business needs  to do
Northern Bank has to pay back to Mr T any commission  and profit share  it got that was more  
than 50% of the PPI premium. Northern Bank should also pay back  to Mr T any extra 
interest he paid because of that.
Northern Bank should pay back to Mr T the extra he paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. Northern Bank 
should also pay Mr T 8%* simple interest  on each  payment.
Ref: DRN82313083*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr T can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Northern Bank  Limited does not have to pay back  all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr T.
But Northern Bank Limited does  have to pay back to Mr T any commission  and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2019. 
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8231308