K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that Lloyds Bank  PLC should  not have allowed fraudsters to withdraw 
money from his account.  He wants to be compensated accordingly.
background
In August  2017,  money was transferred from Mr Ds current and saving accounts into his 
business account.  A number of ATM transactions and a CHIP  and PIN debit card 
transaction were  then made from his business account.  Mr D told Lloyds he had not made 
these. Just under £850 was withdrawn and spent.
Mr D says he first realised  something  was wrong  when he tried to use a debit card for his 
current account and was unable to.  He  then complained to Lloyds.  He told Lloyds he had 
opened the business account approximately two weeks earlier.   He had been sent a PIN 
(which he had not yet opened) but was still waiting for the card to arrive.
In its initial  response,  Lloyds did not uphold his complaint.   It said it could see no point of 
compromise on the account and so, would not be refunding Mr D his lost money.
The day after making this discovery, Mr D says he left for holiday with his wife and daughter.  
He had not been away for some years   but the holiday  turned out to be stressful as he 
spent so much time on the phone to the police and Lloyds.
After he had returned, and some  months later, Lloyds reviewed its decision not to uphold  Mr 
Ds complaint.  It said that a second PIN had been  requested on Mr Ds account after the 
card had been sent and so, it was likely that the card had been intercepted by a fraudster  
who had then requested a new PIN before intercepting that also.
Lloyds offered to refund  Mr Ds lost funds and offered a further  £250  for the distress and 
inconvenience caused to him.  But Mr D was not happy.  He said his holiday has been  
ruined and so he wanted  Lloyds to reimburse the cost of that  some £2750.  Lloyds refused  
to do that and so the matter came to our service.
Our adjudicator thought that the offer of £250 was fair and reasonable  as well as the full 
reimbursement of the lost funds.  She told Mr D but he disagreed and asked that an 
ombudsman make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint  and based on what  I have seen, I think the 
offer of £250 is a fair and reasonable offer.
Broadly speaking, I agree  with the comments already made by the adjudicator and there is 
very little that I can add.  However, I do differ on one point  and that is how this fraud  was 
allowed to happen.
I accept that Mr Ds card and PIN were intercepted and that this allowed the fraudster the 
opportunity to transfer Mr Ds funds  through the automated system.  But, Mr Ds funds were  
lost because Lloyds  allowed  someone to access and use his account and this person was 
not authorised  to do so. So, the fault does not simply lie with the fraudster here  but Lloyds 
also.
Ref: DRN82457662That said,  I am pleased  to see that the matter was reviewed  and decision  was made to 
reimburse Mr D along with £250  compensation.   And whilst it must have been a very 
stressful time for Mr D, especially taking account  of his holiday  period, the matter  was 
resolved relatively  swiftly.
In the circumstances, I dont think Mr Ds request for compensation is one which would be 
fair here.
my final decision
My final decision is that the offer of £250 in compensation from Lloyds Bank PLC is a fair 
and reasonable one.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 December 2019.
Shazia Ahmed
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8245766