K820x#14complaint
Mrs P says she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.  Financial 
Insurance Company Limited  (FICL), as the insurer, have  taken  responsibility  for the sale.  To 
keep things simple, Ill only refer to FICL in this decision, rather than any other business.
background
I sent my provisional decision on 8 April 2019. A copy of my provisional decision is 
attached and forms part of this final decision.
My provisional decision sets out the background of this complaint. It explains why I thought 
it was most likely that this PPI policy had not been  mis-sold.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted  to send me  so long as I received it by 
8 May 2019.  But neither Mrs P nor FICL have sent me anything new to consider.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side sent me any new evidence or arguments. So having reconsidered the case, Ive 
come to the same conclusion as before: that I dont  think this policy was mis-sold.
my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold  Mrs Ps 
complaint about  Financial  Insurance  Company  Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 June  2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN81667412COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mrs P says she was mis-sold  a payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy. Financial  Insurance  
Company Limited (FICL), as the insurer, have taken  responsibility for the sale.  To keep things simple,  
Ill only refer to FICL in this decision, rather than any other business.
background
Mrs P bought the policy for her store card in 1997.  It covered her card repayments in case  she was off 
work sick or lost her job.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. FICL disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the 
complaints been passed  to me to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Mrs Ps case.
Based on what Ive seen so far, I dont  think this PPI policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Mrs Ps store  card application had a section for PPI. It briefly explained  what the policy was for, and 
then had a box Mrs P could tick if she wanted to buy the policy, or which could be left blank if she 
didnt want it. The box to buy PPI was ticked, and Mrs P signed  the application  form.
Its not clear what happened  next, but it looks like her card was actually approved and set up without 
PPI, then Mrs P was later sold the policy over the phone. If that is the case, then I think  it wouldve  
been clear  that Mrs P didnt have to have PPI to get approved for her store card. And while it is too 
long ago to know what was said on the call, Ive not seen any wider problems  with FICLs telephone 
sales process from the time. So I think its most likely that Mrs P was made  aware  she had a choice 
about buying the PPI, and that she chose to take it at the time  though I can understand if she 
doesnt remember doing so after so long.
FICL didnt give Mrs P a personalised recommendation about buying  PPI, so they didnt have to 
check if it was right for her. They did have to give Mrs P enough information to decide  if the PPI was 
right for her.
Its possible that the information FICL gave Mrs P about PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been.  The 
question, then,  is whether I think better information was likely to have changed her mind. Here,  it 
looks like Mrs P chose to take out the policy, which suggests she wanted this type of cover. While 
Mrs P had some sick pay through work, the PPI covered her for longer and it paid out on top of her 
work benefits. She said she also had some savings, though its not clear how much or how accessible 
these were, or whether they could  be relied  on. We asked her representatives but weve not been 
given these details, and Ive not seen any evidence of her savings. And Mrs P doesnt seem  to have 
had any other  cover in case she lost her job. So it looks like the PPI couldve been useful for her in 
case something went wrong. And if Mrs Ps circumstances changed, she could cancel the PPI at any 
time without a penalty.
Ref: DRN81667413Mrs P says that at the time of the sale she had a medical condition, which might not have been 
covered by the policy. FICL questioned how the condition  mightve affected her ability to work, and we 
asked her representatives, but they havent given  us any more  details. So they havent mentioned her 
suffering any complications, or said it affected  her ability  to work in any significant  way. And they 
havent told us when it was diagnosed or how it was being managed. All theyve said is that Mrs P 
never took time off work for her condition. Its worth bearing in mind  that the PPI was there to cover 
extended time off work,  and I havent been told anything that makes it seem likely  Mrs Ps condition 
wouldve caused that.
So based on what Ive received so far it doesnt sound like, at the time of sale,  Mrs P wouldve 
thought it likely  shed ever need to claim  for her condition. Further, she could  have claimed  for time off 
for other  conditions  or if she lost her job, and she wasnt affected by any of the policys other  
exclusions or limitations. So I still think the policy couldve  been useful for Mrs P in her circumstances. 
And so I dont currently think that better information was likely  to have put her off taking out the PPI.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont plan to uphold Mrs Ps complaint.
Please could  Mrs P and FICL send me any more  information  or comments to look at by 8 May 2019.  
After that, Ill reconsider the case.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8166741