K820x#14complaint
Miss W complains that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited has unfairly
declined a claim she made through her pet insurance policy.
background
Miss W bought a Lifetime pet insurance  policy  for her dog B on 11 November 2018. The 
policy start date was 23 November 2018.  In January 2019 a claim was made for a type of 
auto-immune disorder,  namely Pemphigus Foliaceus  (PF) that covered treatment from
9 November 2018.
Red Sands  originally declined the claim on the basis that the condition being  claimed  for was 
first noted  in January 2015. But it later said the condition was excluded from cover because  
the vet said signs  existed from 9 November 2018   before the policy  began.
The vet then told Red Sands that it made  an administration  error and that the condition 
hadnt shown  signs before. A new claim form was submitted with claimable dates between
December 2018  and March 2019.
Red Sands  also said if it had known about  Bs illnesses between 2015 and 2018  it would  
have applied  exclusions from the start of the policy for any claims involving allergies,  skin 
conditions and auto-immune diseases and resulting  conditions. It has now applied  these 
exclusions retrospectively.
Miss W argues that Red Sands has not been  clear  in its reasons for declining the claim.  So, 
she brought her complaint to us. Our investigator  thought Red Sands acted reasonably  when 
refusing the claim. She thought that Bs symptoms from November 2018 were most likely 
linked to the PF being claimed for. On that basis  Red Sands fairly  applied its policy  exclusion  
to refuse  a claim because  the condition was pre-existing.
Miss W did not accept the investigators  view. In response, she said  in summary:
-Bs paw lesion  in November 2018 was due to a cut and treated as an infection.  The 
symptoms cleared up before he attended  the vets in December;
-Auto-immune disease cannot be treated with antibiotics as it is not an infection, it can 
only be treated with steroids. Since  treatment,  B has had no further problems  with his 
paw to date;
-It has been legally proven that that it is impossible to link an infection to auto-immune 
disease.
As an agreement couldnt  be reached the complaint was passed  to me to decide.  I issued a 
provisional decision. In summary I felt Red Sands decision to decline the claim was fair and 
I was satisfied  the policy exclusions had been applied  fairly.
Red Sands  didnt respond to the provisional decision. Miss W responded to say she didnt 
agree. Miss Ws response in summary  said:
-The treating  vet has provided  clinically  proven evidence that suggests PF could not 
lay dormant for the time suggested by Red sands;
Ref: DRN85794732-She couldnt have  possibly  informed  Red Sands  of any pre-existing medical 
conditions if she was unaware. She informed Red Sands of Bs previous breathing 
issues;
-Red Sands have refused the claim on several  different basis. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide what  is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive also given careful consideration to 
all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision, including those in response to 
the provisional decision.
Red Sands  is of the view Bs condition  from December 2018 is linked to the condition  in 
November 2018.  So, it declined the claim on the basis that its pre-existing. Ive considered  
whether on balance theres  enough  evidence to suggest a link between the two and 
whether Red Sands  acted reasonably in declining to pay the claim.
pre-existing condition
Red Sands insurance  policy has a significant  exclusions or limitation  section. It says 
the policy excludes any claim or costs for or relating to a pre-existing condition(s) or for 
an accident, injury or illness that first showed clinical signs at any time before the 
commencement date of the policy or within 14 days of the commencement date.
During the online application  process Miss W needed to click to confirm  she understood the 
definition of pre-existing  to mean any condition, injury or symptom, whether or not treated 
or diagnosed  by your vet. So, the policy terms are clear that there is no cover  for pre-
existing conditions.
Ive considered the vets notes from 9 November 2018. The note suggests the reason  for 
the visit was due to a swollen paw. B was recorded to have very angry skin on his paw with 
a lesion, purplish  in colour. The vet suspected an infection and antibiotics were prescribed.  
This was to be reviewed in a weeks time.
B returned  to the vets on 15 November 2018.  The notes suggest the lesion was 
looking better, not weepy and no longer sore. It was advised that B should continue to 
take the antibiotics for a further week, to be reviewed.
B did not return  to the vets until 22 December 2018.  Its records say that B suffered a flare  up 
of the skin condition  start of the week. PF was suspected  and treated shortly  after,  during 
further visits. Its this treatment thats being claimed for.
Both parties  disagree  on whether  B previously  showed clinical signs of the condition linked to 
this claim.  Ive considered whether, on balance, it was fair for Red Sands to conclude  that 
the two episodes of sickness were the same. 
Bs veterinary records show multiple visits between 2015  and 2018,  some of which were 
related to ongoing skin related conditions. In particular  sores,  scabs  and puss-filled 
spots, which are all possible clinical signs of PF. Red Sands vet report states that the 
blistering mentioned in 2016 is too long to be connected. 
Ref: DRN85794733But the main issue  here is whether the condition from December 2018 is linked to the 
condition in November  2018.The treating vets letter  dated 21 February 2019 is crucial 
here when  deciding whether this is likely the case. It says:
initially  suspected B had superficial Pyoderma which was treated with antibiotics, pain 
relief and anti-inflammatories.  B however  failed  to respond to the treatment and continued 
to deteriorate. This raised suspicion  that the diagnosis was incorrect.  Further  tests were 
carried out and the results  were consistent with PF
Its important  to mention  here that the vets notes suggest Pyoderma was suspected 
before the start of the policy. The vets letter confirms this was a mis-diagnosis and Bs 
illness was later confirmed as PF. This confirms  that B was showing clinical  signs  before 
the start of the policy.
Miss W argues its not possible  to link an infection  to an auto-immune disorder. The 
evidence suggests  that PF was mis-diagnosed  as other conditions  previously, so I think its 
less likely the symptoms  shown in early November 2018 were  signs  of an infection.
The policy terms state there doesnt have  to be a diagnosis for something  to be considered 
as pre-existing.  Whats required is for the pet to be showing signs  of illness  or injury.  The 
notes show that Miss W went to the vets about  Bs skin related problem two days before 
applying for the policy. This treatment was then included as part of the original  claim,  albeit 
an error on part of the vet. But, I can why this would have raised concerns for Red Sands.
Red Sands  has refused  the claim on the basis that the condition  is excluded from cover.  This 
is because signs existed  from 9 November 2018   before the policy  began. I appreciate  Red 
Sands originally said something  different,  but this is not unusual in the circumstances of a 
pet insurance claim, as and when new medical  evidence comes to light during the process. 
Its also worth mentioning that the treating vet also provided the insurer  incorrect  information 
that initially invalidated the claim. So, whilst this was overturned  when the treating  vet said it 
had made  a mistake   it contributed  to Red Sands previously refusing the claim for another  
reason.  
Based on the above, its more likely than not that there was something wrong with B before 
the start of the policy, which continued to get worse and led to Miss Ws claim.  I think the 
notes do suggest  that B was showing similar clinical signs before. So, because  of this, I 
cant say that Red Sands have been unreasonable in declining the claim.
exclusion on cover  for claims with respect  to allergies of any cause, skin conditions  and all 
auto-immune diseases
During the course of this matter Red Sands applied retrospective exclusions to Miss Ws 
policy. These retrospective exclusions are not the reason the claim was rejected. But, 
as they are connected  to the policy in question, Ive considered the application of these 
exclusions and Im satisfied theyve been applied  fairly. I will explain why.
Red Sands  said if Miss W had told it about Bs previous conditions  when the policy was 
taken out, it would  have added certain exclusions.  Miss W says she couldnt have 
possibly informed Red Sands of any pre-existing medical conditions if she was 
unaware.
Ref: DRN85794734The law that sets out the remedies available to insurers where a policyholder  
misrepresents information is the Consumer Insurance  (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (or CIDRA). CIDRA  sets a duty on consumers  to take reasonable care not to 
make a misrepresentation in response  to an insurers clear questions. 
Ive not seen any evidence that Red Sands asked Miss W a clear question  before she took 
out the policy. Its referred to a list of presumptions  and assumptions that she had to agree 
to. Whilst this on its own isnt enough to show that it asked a clear question, Ive also 
considered whats  fair and reasonable based  on the individual facts of this case. 
Following her internet  application Miss W called Red Sands. She says she was prompted to 
call by the declaration  question  that asks whether she had ever taken B to the vet for 
anything other than routine vaccinations. Miss W told Red Sands about Bs breathing 
problems that he suffered  from four years  before the inception of the policy.  
The advisor said theyd  refer this to the underwriters whod likely consider  this as a PEMC 
and add an exclusion. Miss W says she was aware of the process as shed previously 
insured B and the same terms applied. Following a discussion with the underwriters, it was 
confirmed that an exclusion had been  applied in relation to respiratory  problems, in line 
with its underwriting  criteria.
From listening to the discussion that took place during  the call, Im satisfied Miss W was 
aware of the need to disclose information  about any visits to the vet apart from 
vaccinations and didnt  provide the full picture on this. Bs vet notes  show  he had been  
to the vet on several other occasions  (for skin conditions and allergies) in the last four 
years and this was not mentioned to Red Sands. Red Sands underwriting  criteria 
confirms that if it had been aware  of these conditions it would have added the 
exclusions to the policy.
Under clause  1.2.4, Red Sands terms reserve the right to apply exclusions to the policy in 
respect of any illnesses, injuries,  symptoms or conditions it subsequently learns were  pre-
existing or existing at the start of the policy (or within the first 14 days).
All in all, I think  Red Sands decision to decline the claim  is fair and I am satisfied the policy  
exclusions have been applied fairly.  As a consequence, it doesnt have to do anything 
further in respect  of this claim.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above,  my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 February  2020.
Arazu Eid
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8579473