K821x#15complaint
Mr K has complained on behalf  of L that Arthur J. Gallagher (UK) Ltd (AJG) mis-sold it a 
commercial property insurance policy and as a result a claim under that policy wasnt  settled 
in full by its insurer.
background
L is a pension  scheme  and its only asset is a public house. L used Arthur  J. Gallagher  (UK) 
Ltd (AJG) as its insurance broker and it arranged insurance of the pub for the first time at 
the end of January 2015. The insurance was subsequently renewed by AJG with the same 
insurer on an annual basis in 2016, 2017  and 2018.  
In April 2018 there was a fire at the pub. L made  a claim to its insurer. The insurer 
accepted liability  for the loss and damage  but claimed that the pub was only insured for 
half the true reinstatement cost. That meant under the terms of the policy  the insurer was 
only responsible  for half of the cost of the repairs. 
L complained to AJG that under-insurance and the effect of it (averaging) was not 
something it was aware of prior to it being  raised by the insurer.  It didnt think  AJG had 
adequately advised it that the sum insured for the pub needed to be enough  to rebuild it. L 
wanted AJG to pay the difference between what the insurer had paid out in respect  of the 
claim and the full extent  of its loss. 
Mr K brought Ls complaint to this service. Our investigator upheld  the complaint. She 
didnt think AJGs advice to L had been  clear.  As AJG didnt agree, the matter has been 
referred to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at whether the partners of L can properly be considered as the sort of buyers of 
insurance who could  be expected to know about averaging. By way of comparison a large 
business with a more complex structure with in-house professional advisers could clearly be 
expected to have been advised about  this. Here there was a relatively small business  which  
owned one asset.  Two of the partners of L are solicitors and they do have interests in other 
commercial properties  but I havent seen anything to suggest they were particularly 
experienced in matters  of insurance. In taking  out this insurance they werent acting in the 
course of their business or profession. I think its reasonable to treat them  and/or L as 
though they were ordinary consumers for this purpose.  
So the question  for me to consider is whether AJG made  sure that the policy was suitable 
for Ls needs. It had a duty to do that because it advised L regarding  its insurance policy and 
recommended the policy  to it. 
One of the most important considerations in making sure a policy  is suitable is the sum 
insured, particularly if, as in this case, the policy allows the claim settlement to be reduced 
for under- insurance.  That doesnt mean  AJG had to calculate  the rebuild cost itself or decide 
the sum insured. But, as it recommended the policy,  I think  it had to tell the partners of L:
Ref: DRN80341702that it was their responsibility to decide  the sum insured;
that the sum had to represent the full rebuild cost of the pub;
where they could  get further information  or advice on how to calculate the rebuild cost; 
and
that if they didnt  insure for the full rebuild  cost, any claim settlement  from their insurer 
might be reduced. Thats  because  there  was a clause in the policy  entitling  the insurer  to 
reduce its liability in the event of a claim to a sum that bears the same  proportion to the 
loss as the sum insured  does to the full value of the property insured (an average  
clause). For the avoidance of doubt, I dont think its sufficient for a broker on an advised 
sale to expect  the policyholder to be aware of the impact of an average clause just 
because its set out somewhere in the policy (page 21 in this case).
I cant see that AJG covered off the last two points  sufficiently  when  it recommended  the 
policy to L. It doesnt offer to value property  and isnt qualified  to do so. But it didnt give any 
guidance as to where it could get professional information or advice on the rebuild cost. It 
could, for example, have referred  L to a website  which would help it work out its rebuild 
costs.
With regard to the last point, namely the average clause, on renewal in 2017 a partner of L 
contacted AJG to say he wanted  to reduce the sum insured from over £590,000 to £500,000. 
Theres no evidence that in response to this AJG drew Ls attention to the average clause. 
Not all policyholders by any means  are aware of the way average clauses work.  I dont  think 
solicitors are any different  in this respect  unless they specialise in insurance law. So I think it 
was particularly important  for AJG to explain this accurately  in writing.
What AJG actually said when it invited  L to renew the policy  in 2017 was:
Please  ensure that all sums insured represent  the full value  of the property or level of profit 
at risk to be insured.  If the sum insured is not adequate to cover  the full value of the claim, 
the insurer may reduce any claim settlements proportionately.
Similar wording  was used on the 2018  renewal.
I dont think that advice was correct. The sum insured needs to be adequate to cover  the full 
rebuilding cost not the cost of a claim, which  can be considerably less. 
Ref: DRN80341703Looking back through the file I see AJG had explained the average clause correctly and with 
a helpful worked  example when the policy was first taken out in 2015. At that time it said:
Important Information
We would  like to draw  your attention to the following: -
Average Condition : Insurance policies  contain the condition of Average.  This condition 
requires that where  the sum insured is less than the full value at risk, the insured would be 
considered their own insurer for the uninsured part of the risk, therefore any claim settlement 
will be scaled  down proportionately.
Example  Mr Smith  insurers his building for a £100,000 with xyz insurers.  The correct sum 
insured for this property is £200,000. Mr Smith  is therefore 50% underinsured.
Mr Smith makes  a claim to his insurers for damage  to his property following a flood (for 
example). The value  of the claim is £20,000. The insurers apply the condition of average and 
will only pay £10,000.
It is your responsibility to ensure that the sum insured is kept up to date and remains  
adequate throughout the life of the policy.
I dont think AJG has been  able to show that it gave  clear advice to L on renewal specifically 
with regard to the average clause. For that reason  I think the policy  was mis-sold.  
But in order to require  AJG to make good the loss L has suffered, the mis-sale must also 
have prejudiced it. In this case  I think its likely  that the mis-sale has prejudiced  L. Thats 
because if the partner arranging Ls insurance, had been told about the true effect of under-
insuring, I think hed probably  have taken steps to find out the true reinstatement value of his 
property and then increased the sum insured to reflect that. Mr K said that they thought the 
property wasnt worth more than £500,000, so they believed  they had adequate cover  for all 
eventualities, even  if the building were  completely  destroyed. So on balance I dont think its 
likely that to save a relatively small amount of insurance premium  hed have risked the 
possibility of a claim  for any amount being  reduced if hed been advised about  the possible 
impact of the average clause in the event of a claim.
It follows that in my opinion its only fair and reasonable  for AJG to pay L the amount by 
which its claim is/was  reduced due to under-insurance.  I note that by under-insuring, L paid 
less in premiums. Its only fair that L shouldnt benefit from that. I think the savings it made 
on the premiums should be deducted from the amount to be paid by AJG.
Ref: DRN80341704my final decision
Where I uphold  a complaint, I can award  fair compensation to be paid by a financial 
business of up to £150,000, plus any interest  and/or costs that I think  are appropriate. 
Decision and award: For the reasons  set out above,  my final decision is that I uphold this 
complaint. I require Arthur J. Gallagher  (UK) Ltd to pay L compensation equal to the under-
insurance deduction made by its insurer less any saving on premiums L made  by not 
insuring the building for the full rebuilding cost up to a maximum of £150,000. If the claim 
has already been  settled,  interest at the annual simple rate of 8% (less tax if properly 
deductible) should be added to the amount due from the date the insurer  made  the claim 
payment to the date of settlement.
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of compensation above  is more 
than £150,000, I recommend that Arthur J. Gallagher (UK) Ltd pays L the balance.
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award.  Arthur J. Gallagher (UK) Ltd 
doesnt have to do what I recommend. Its unlikely that L can accept my decision and go to 
court and ask for the balance. L may want to get independent legal advice before deciding 
whether to accept  this decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K on behalf  of L 
to accept or reject my decision before 29 February 2020.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8034170