K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains on behalf of his wife, Mrs B, about  faults with a car that Mrs B obtained 
through a Conditional Sale Agreement with Santander Consumer (UK) Plc trading as 
Santander Consumer  Finance (SCF). Also that the car was sold as new when it wasnt.  Mrs 
B would like either a new car at the same price she is currently paying. Or a used car at a 
lower cost.
background
Mr B says Mrs B took out a Conditional  Sale Agreement with SCF on 13 April 2018.  He says 
Mrs B believed the car was a new one. He says she only became aware the car was a used  
one at the cars first service on 18 September 2018. At that point she discovered  the first 
year service  hadnt been carried  out. Mrs B believes  she was charged for both the first and 
the subsequent service.
Mr B also says there have  been  various  problems with the car. He say within two days of 
having it broke down.  In December 2018  there was a problem with the battery and on 30 
January 2019  a water blockage. On 15 February 2019 corrosion was found on the sensor 
cable and in March 2019 the window screen needed calibration.
Mr B says Mrs B no longer has any confidence  in the car.
SCF said there was no evidence the car was sold as new.  And it explained that if issues  
occur six months after the point  of sale it was up to the consumer to show  these issues  had 
been present  or developing at the point of sale. 
It didnt fee there was any evidence to show the issues  that happened  after Mrs B had the 
car for six months had been present  or developing at the point  of sale. And the issue that did 
arise just after Mrs B got the car hadnt been reported  to it at the time. And didnt seem to 
have resulted in any repairs.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. She found no evidence  the car was sold as new. 
She found the finance agreement Mrs B signed  stated the car was a used one. And Mr B 
had acknowledged  that Mrs B was aware that the odometer showed approximately 11,000 
miles when  she got it.
She found Mrs B hadnt been  charged  more as the car had missed its first service.  SCF had 
confirmed that Mrs B had been charged the set price for the vehicle on reaching 20,000  
miles.
Finally she found no evidence of a problem  at the point of sale for which  SCF would be 
responsible.
SCF accepted  this view but Mrs B didnt.
Mr B said the car had now been written  off in an accident. And that even with the insurance 
pay out there would  still be a shortfall  of approximately  £8,000. He felt this evidenced the car 
had been sold as new. And that Mrs B had been overcharged for the car.
.
Ref: DRN89380432my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It seems  to me there are three issues for me to consider here. Firstly  if there was any 
misrepresentation in the sale of the car to Mrs B. Secondly if the faults with the car are 
SCFs responsibility. And finally if Mrs B has been over charged  for the car service.
With regard to the sale of the car Mrs B says she understood  she bought a new car. 
Unfortunately I have found  no evidence to support this. Ive seen the Conditional Sale 
Agreement that Mrs B signed. This clearly states  the car is used on the first page  of the 
agreement. The car is always noted as used under point two of the key features section. 
In addition to this Mr B has told our adjudicator  that Mrs B was aware that the car had just 
over 11,000 miles on the clock when she got it. This matches the sales invoice which  states 
the car had a mileage of 11,205 miles when Mrs B got it. I am not sure how Mrs B could 
have concluded  the car was new given she seems  to have  been  aware  of the mileage.
Taking all of this information together its clear  to me that the agreement Mrs B took out was 
for a used car.
Mr B has now told us that the car has been written off in an accident. And that the insurance 
pay-out wont cover  the cost of the car. He says there will be a £8,000 shortfall. Mr B hasnt  
given us any evidence  of this. But I have no reason not to believe him.
He feels this, and the fact he says a sales person told him the car Mrs B got was overpriced, 
shows that Mrs B was paying  too much for the car.
As I have already  noted I have no evidence  of the insurance pay-out. Nor anything to 
confirm the conversation Mr B says he had with a sales person telling him that a new car 
would only have been a few hundred pounds more  than Mrs B paid for a used one. 
There might  be any number  of factors that influence the price of a vehicle - age, usage, the 
condition of the car, market rates as well as offers that dealerships  may chose  to make.  
However if Mrs B wasnt happy  with the price of the car she didnt  have to take out 
agreement.
I have no evidence to show  that Mrs B took out an agreement  for a new car.  So  I dont think 
I can reasonably expect SCF to give her a new car on the basis of the same finance  
agreement. Or to give her a used car at a lower  price as she would like.
Looking at the issues with the car we usually say that issues  that arise within the first six 
months are likely to have been  present  or developing at the point of sale. And in those 
situations the finance provider has responsibility for resolving any problems. We usually feel 
its fair to allow one opportunity to repair.
I can see that within two days of Mrs B getting  the car it broke down. The roadside recovery  
report noted a problem with the battery and recommended Mrs B to run the car for a further 
hour and if necessary take the car to the dealership for a further  check.
Ref: DRN89380433This would have been an issue  I would  have expected SCF to deal with. but I cant see any 
evidence that the car was taken back to the dealership, that SCF or the dealership were 
made aware  of the problem at the time, or that Mrs B paid for a repair  herself at this time. 
I can only conclude that either the problem didnt continue or Mrs B arranged for the car to 
be checked and possibly repaired elsewhere. I dont  feel one issue,  that doesnt  appear to 
have needed repair, would now be grounds  for me to say that Mrs B could reject the car at 
this stage even  though  the issue arose within  thirty days of having  the car when Mrs B could 
have exercised her right to reject it.
The next time a problem  was noted  with the car was in December 2018.  But as this was over 
six months after Mrs B took out the agreement she would need to show that whatever the 
problem was in December 2018 that it was present or developing at the point of sale. But I 
cant see that she has done so.
I also understand that in July 2019 Mr B told our adjudicator  that the car was working fine. 
So I can only assume that whatever problems there had been had been resolved.
Whilst I accept  Mrs B has had some problems with the car I have  no evidence of issues  that 
were present  or developing at the point of sale for which SCF would be liable.
Finally Mrs B says she when she took her car to be serviced she discovered it hadnt had its 
first years service. If I have understood her correctly she feels  she was charged for this 
service which  she doesnt feel was fair. 
Our adjudicator has checked with the business who have confirmed that Mrs B was only 
charged for a service at 20,000 miles.  Not for the service that the car should have had at 
10,000. Given  the car had more than 10,000  miles on the clock when Mrs B got it, I dont 
think it would  have  been fair for her to have been charged for this first service.
 But looking  at the invoice in relation to this it seems  to me she wasnt.  She was charged for 
one service  the one for 20,000 miles. So on this basis I dont feel there  is any cost 
associated with the service that I can reasonably ask SCF to refund.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 May 2020.
Bridget Makins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8938043