K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains that Provident  Personal Credit Limited gave him doorstep loans which he 
could not afford. He complains that it lent to him irresponsibly.
background
Loan Date Amount
(total to 
pay) Weeks and 
instalment amount/week Repaid Amount carried forward 
Early settlement rebate
1 25 March 
2011£200
(£310)31 x £10 31 August 
2011£82 £8
2 30 August 
2011£400
(£620)31 x £20 4 January 
2012£264 (rounded)
£36 (rounded)
3 30 December 2011  taken 
4 January 
2012 £600
(£1,050) 50 x £21 9 January 
2015
Declared weekly income  for Loan  1 was £326,  for Loans 2 and 3 it was about £287.
One of our adjudicators looked  at this complaint and thought that Provident  should put things 
right for Loan 3. Provident has not responded, and we have not had any additional points or 
comments from Mr B. 
It remained an unresolved  complaint and was passed to me for a decision. 
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what I consider  to be 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. We have set out our general 
approach to complaints about  short-term  lending - including  all of the relevant rules, 
guidance and good industry  practice  - on our website. 
Provident needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it did not lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr B 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Provident should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include: where a customers income  is particularly low; where the repayments  are 
particularly high; and/or  where the frequency of the loans and the length  of time over which  a 
customer has been given  loans need  to be looked  at: repeated  refinancing could signal that 
the borrowing  had become, or was becoming,  unsustainable.
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ref: DRN87954052I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Provident was required to establish 
whether Mr B could  sustainably repay  his loans   not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication  a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments.  But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. The 
Office of Fair Trading Guide on Irresponsible Lending was available  at the time Mr Bs loans 
were approved. That Guide defined sustainable  as being the ability  to repay without  undue  
difficulties. In particular  the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time, while  
meeting other reasonable commitments,  and without having to borrow to meet  
the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower will not be able to make their repayments sustainably if they need to borrow further 
in order to do that.
I have carefully considered all the arguments,  evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Bs complaint.
As Mr B has not disagreed with our adjudicators opinion  then I take it from that Loans 1 
and 2 are not disputed. So I plan to look at Loan 3 only in this decision. 
By the time he took loan 3 Mr B had been  Providents customer for several  months, and he 
had an erratic repayment record with large  gaps between the weekly  payments for Loans  1 
and 2. I do see from the credit agreement  details that Mr Bs net declared weekly  income  
had gone down since Loan 1 and yet his weekly repayments had doubled  for Loan  2 and 
were due to increase again for Loan  3. Plus,  the Loan 3 time period was extended to almost  
a year and had increased to 50 weeks from 31 weeks. So Mr Bs indebtedness  was going to 
be extended. And looking at the principal sums applied  for these were increasing a lot  
Loan 3 was for a sum three times the amount of Loan 1. 
It appears that a large proportion of Loan 2 was effectively rolled  into Loan 1 as the day Mr B 
took Loan 3, Loan  2 is shown as having  been repaid with an early settlement charge. So the 
balance of the previous loan onto which the interest  had been added  at the beginning was 
now part of Loan  3 with further interest added on top. 
So I think Provident shouldve realised that Mr B was finding it difficult to make the loan 
repayments sustainably  and this was likely to continue going  forward. Because of this 
I would have expected Provident  to have carried out additional checks. I do not think  it did 
that. If it had it would have  realised  that Mr B was in debt to other  lenders  and recently had 
been paying into a debt management plan. 
All of these factors lead me to think that a responsible lender would not have approved Loan 
3 for Mr B in December  2011. I uphold Mr Bs complaint for Loan  3.
putting things right  what Provident  needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr B paid on Loan 3;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year* on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
Ref: DRN87954053remove any negative information  about Loan 3 from Mr Bs credit  file;
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Provident to take off tax from this interest. It must give 
Mr B a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I am upholding Mr Bs complaint in part. Provident Personal 
Credit Limited should do as I have set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 December 2019.
Rachael Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8795405