K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs Cs complaint  concerns a whole of life policy sold to them  by a predecessor of 
Scottish Friendly Assurance Society Limited in 1981. They  are unhappy that the deduction  of 
costs has led to the policys current surrender value being much less than the value shown 
in their illustration.  This is despite the fund in which  their premiums have been  invested 
performing at only just below the rate used for the illustration.
background
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint, a copy of which is attached  and forms part 
of this final decision. In it I explained  why I didnt think the complaint should  be upheld. 
In brief,  I said that although the wording of the illustration on the face of it indicated that Mr 
and Mrs C would receive the amount indicated, on balance I thought they wouldve been 
provided with some  additional  information. And this wouldve given some context to the 
figures and explained that they were  projections  and that the full costs  of the policy  couldnt 
be predicted. I didnt  think I could  fairly  conclude that Scottish  Friendly could be held to a 
handwritten illustration provided  nearly  40 years ago.
Scottish Friendly accepted my view, but Mr and Mrs C didnt, saying; 
The written illustration  clearly states what the value of the fund would be if it achieved  
an average performance of 7.5%. Scottish  Friendly had confirmed the fund has 
returned an average performance of 7.24%, yet the policy's  value doesnt  reflect  this.
They were in receipt of information  about the policy via statements  and reviews.  But 
these didnt demonstrate how the fund was performing in relation to the illustration. It 
was only when requested that they were  told the fund had returned an average of 
7.24%. Only then were  they able to make a comparison  and question  why the value 
was so low. 
They were not provided with documentation  that explained the ongoing costs and the 
effect these would have on the fund value, even when achieving  expected  
performance. Why would  they buy this type of policy, which  was more  than three  
times more expensive than a level term policy?
The policy document itself failed to explain the negative effect of rising  costs. 
The fact that there  was no regulation  of financial services  in 1981 shows  that 
salesmen were at liberty to mislead clients and sell products that were not what  they 
seemed. They were mis-sold this policy for the benefit of Scottish  Friendly, not for 
their benefit.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments, including  the further submissions, 
to decide whats  fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, 
Ive not been persuaded to change my view of the complaint. 
Ive noted Mr and Mrs Cs reiteration that they were never made  aware of how the costs 
associated with the policy, particularly the cost of it providing life cover, would  impact  the 
fund value. But while Ive no reason  to doubt  their recollections I do have to take into 
account the very considerable time thats passed  since the sale of the policy and the fact 
that the rules  around selling life cover  were very much less stringent 40 years  ago. 
Ref: DRN86737402Although there was no regulation, there was a requirement for a salesperson to act with due 
care and attention  and not mislead. I appreciate  Mr and Mrs C will say they were misled. But 
as they were sold a policy that provided them with both long-term  life cover that they clearly 
wanted and also the potential to accrue a lump sum,  which  the policy has accrued (albeit not 
to the level illustrated at the point  of sale) I dont feel I can reasonably make a finding that 
Scottish Friendlys predecessor acted, in effect,  illegally in 1981 by misleading  Mr and 
Mrs C.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 January 2020.
James Harris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN86737403COPY PROVISIONAL  DECISION
complaint
Mr and Mrs Cs complaint concerns a whole  of life policy  sold to them by a predecessor of Scottish 
Friendly Assurance Society  Limited in 1981.  They are unhappy that the deduction  of costs has led to 
the policys current surrender value being  much less than the value  shown in their illustration. This is 
despite the fund in which their premiums have been invested performing  at only just below the rate 
used for the illustration.
background
Mr and Mrs Cs policy has provided them with around £40,000  of cover for a monthly premium of just 
over £20. The policys been reviewed on regular  occasions  but has always  passed those reviews.  
However, when they were sold the policy they were provided with a handwritten illustration  that 
suggested that if the fund in which their premiums  were  invested performed at an average of 7.5% 
yearly the policy would have a value of around £19,000 at Mr Cs 65th birthday, which falls in a couple  
of years. However, although  Scottish  Friendly has confirmed that the fund has returned an average of 
7.24%, the policys value is only just over £7,600.
Scottish Friendly explained  that the value of the policy has reduced primarily  because  of the cost of 
providing life cover. And that wouldve  been explained in the documentation provided at the time of 
the sale.  But Mr C says that they werent  provided with that information and so were mis-sold  the 
policy because they were persuaded by the figures used  in the illustration, which made  no reference 
to any deductions. 
The complaint was referred to this service where our adjudicator reached a similar  conclusion to 
Scottish Friendly. He said, in brief; 
At the time of the sale in 1981 there was no regulation of financial services, so the rules were 
different  the policy only needed to be a reasonable fit for Mr and Mrs Cs needs.
He felt the policy was a reasonable  fit and met their requirement for flexible life cover.   
He could  understand that having been  attracted  by the potential  for building up a cash-in  
value they would be disappointed that it was significantly less than had been illustrated. 
But the illustration was just a projection   it couldnt predict precisely the costs associated with 
the policy  over the next 40 years.
It was difficult to know what was discussed in 1981  and the adjudicator  acknowledged that Mr 
C had said theyd  never received a brochure. But he felt it likely they wouldve received some 
information about  the costs. 
And it was these increasing life cover costs that had impacted the cash-in value.
Scottish Friendly wasnt required to highlight  the point  at which the life cover costs began to 
exceed the monthly premiums. But Mr and Mrs C had been provided with annual  statements 
and regular  review documentation.
Mr and Mrs C didnt accept the adjudicators view. They said his conclusion  that the policy appeared  
appropriate for what theyd wanted in 1981  failed to recognise what they were  told at the time, which 
was backed up by the illustration. 
The adjudicator wasnt persuaded  to change his opinion  that the policy was appropriate for
Mr and Mrs C at the time it was sold. And he remained satisfied Scottish  Friendly had administered it 
in line with its terms and conditions. He said he didnt  think  they were given incorrect or misleading 
information about the policy by the adviser.
As no agreement could  be reached, the matters been referred to me to review.  
Ref: DRN86737404my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as the 
adjudicator and for broadly  the same  reasons. But I wanted to expand  slightly on what has been said 
about the illustration, as this document and the information contained in it has very much been at the 
heart of Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. 
The document  that Mr and Mrs C have provided  and which they feel has misled them was a printed  
generic illustration document that allowed the adviser to handwrite values specific to the individuals 
receiving the recommendation. For instance;  their names, ages,  sum assured  and proposed 
premiums. This information was then followed by some values of the benefits  if you live. 
It is this part that Mr and Mrs C feel was misleading.  It says; 
If units grow in value at the assumed rate of 7.5% p.a.net (including reinvested net income)  the cash  
value of your plan would be, at age 65
Following this the adviser has handwritten  a figure of £19,332 (although the third column isnt entirely 
clear).
I accept that on the face of it this is quite a bold statement. There is no direct reference to the costs of 
the policy  and what impact they might have. So, I can see why Mr and Mrs C have made  the 
argument that they were effectively told theyd have  circa  £19,000 if the policys  investment element 
achieved an average 7.5% return. And having  managed just less, at 7.24%, a current cash-in value of 
only just over £7,600 could suggest  they were  misled.
But the illustration document is clearly a single  page that I think  would  most likely have formed part of 
a larger package of information. I appreciate Mr C has said they never received a brochure or terms 
of the policy. But on the balance of probabilities, I think they wouldve received  some sort of 
information that would have set a context to the illustration. 
Clearly the adviser  performed some calculation  to produce  the £19,000 figure, as its considerably  
less than the figure wouldve been if it was simply the amount produced  by investing £20 per month 
for 40 years  at 7.5%. So, I think  its more  likely than not some sort of discussion took place about 
costs and reductions. Its simply the case, as the adjudicator indicated, that actual costs couldnt  be 
predicted with any certainty for a period of 40 years. 
So, in all the circumstances, I dont think I can reasonably make a finding  that the cash-in  value of Mr 
and Mrs Cs policy is wrong. And I think the policy seems to have been generally appropriate for them  
given their clear desire for life cover  over an extended term.   
I can understand the disappointment of not receiving  what was illustrated at the outset. But Im 
conscious that Mr and Mrs C have been in receipt of ongoing information about the policy, via 
statements and reviews.  And further,  I think it likely  that even if the amount  quoted in the illustration 
had been lower  and more akin to the actual figure as it stands  today, Mr and Mrs C would most  likely 
still have chosen  to proceed with the policy, as it wouldve worked  in the way they wanted it too  
providing both flexible life cover and the facility to attain a cash-in value. 
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  given,  but subject to any further submissions I receive,  Im currently minded to not 
uphold the complaint. 
Ref: DRN8673740