K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that he didnt receive £100  from The Royal  Bank of Scotland  Plcs (RBS) 
switch service and that it subsequently  credited his account with £20 to say sorry which he 
hadnt accepted.
background
Mr M is an existing  customer  of RBS and had a basic  current  account.  In June 2018 he 
opened an additional current account with it. He completed the application  online.  He 
thought hed receive £100 for opening  the account  and has said this was confirmed to him 
by RBS. 
In October  2018 Mr M called RBS to ask it when he would receive the £100.  The RBS 
adviser told him that he should have already received the payment and transferred him to 
the switch team. Mr M has told our service that during  this part of the call he was told that 
he didnt qualify for the £100 payment.
Mr M complained to RBS.  It looked into his concerns. It said that he didnt qualify for the 
£100 as he hadnt switched to the new account. It said sorry that hed been  told he would 
be entitled to the £100  and credited his account  with £20 to recognise  the trouble and upset 
it had caused.
Unhappy with this Mr M brought his complaint to our service.  One of our investigators looked 
into what had happened. She thought  RBS had responded to Mr Ms complaint fairly and 
didnt think it should do anything further.
Mr M didnt  agree and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint.
     
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be asking RBS to take any further steps to resolve this complaint. Ill 
explain why.
RBS have provided the terms and conditions that were  applicable  at the time Mr M opened 
his current account  to qualify for the £100.  They state:
Whos eligible for the offer?
New and existing Royal Bank of Scotland (RBS) customers are eligible for this offer if you 
meet the following  conditions:
1.New customers must:
(a)apply for a Select, Reward, Reward  Silver, Reward Platinum or Reward  Black  
account (eligible  account)  via rbs.co.uk  between  30 May 2018  and 9 July 2018.  As 
part of that application,  you must transfer a non-RBS account  to your new eligible 
account (which includes  closing  your non-RBS account and moving all your payment 
instructions to your eligible account) using the online  Current Account Switch  
Service; and
Ref: DRN81462392(b)after your eligible account is opened, you must also:
(i) deposit £1,500 into your eligible  account; and
(ii) log into our online  or mobile  banking  service, before 24 August 2018.
2.Existing customers who already have a RBS Select, Reward, Select Silver, Reward 
Silver, Select Platinum, Reward  Platinum, Black or Reward Black account (eligible 
account) opened prior to 30 May 2018,  must:
(a)transfer a non-RBS  account to your existing eligible account (which  includes closing 
your non-RBS account and moving  all your payment instructions to your eligible 
account) using the online Current Account Switch  Service;
(b)deposit £1,500 into your eligible  account; and
(c)log into our online  and mobile banking service, before 24 August 2018.
This means  that, to qualify for the £100 payment, Mr M would  have had to satisfy all the 
above criteria.  From the information that Ive seen from both parties Mr M transferred  his 
salary and his direct  debits from his basic RBS account to his new RBS current  account.  I 
think the terms and conditions are clear  on what a customer needed to do to qualify for the 
£100. And as he wasnt transferring a non-RBS account to his new account  Im satisfied that 
he wasnt eligible for the £100  payment.
Mr M has said that when he spoke to someone at RBS he was told that he would qualify for 
the £100. RBS havent  been able to find this call. But in its Final  Response Letter it didnt 
dispute that Mr M may have been given  the wrong information. And to recognise  the mistake  
it may have  made, it credited his account  with £20. Mr M thinks  that it should  increase this to 
£100.
Ive thought carefully about this and whether  the payment already made by RBS is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Although  RBS havent been able to find 
the call I dont think this is relevant. I say this because RBS have acknowledged that if it did 
give the wrong information, it would have caused  some trouble and upset  when Mr M found 
out he wasnt eligible  for the £100. Whilst I can understand  the frustration being given the 
wrong information wouldve caused,  I think the £20 already paid is sufficient recognition for 
this. Although Mr M hadnt accepted  the £20 when it was paid into his account I dont think it 
was unreasonable for RBS to do so.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against The Royal Bank  of Scotland 
Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Michael Fisher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8146239