K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that Bank  of Scotland  plc (trading  as Halifax) mis-sold them a
regular premium payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
In 1987 Mr and Mrs R took out a PPI policy with their mortgage. The policy covered both Mr
and Mrs R for accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mr and Mrs R disagreed with the adjudicators
opinion so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Rs case. I have also taken account  of the
law and good industry practice  at the time the PPI policy was sold.
Where the evidence is incomplete  or contradictory  as some of it is here  I make my
decision on the balance  of probabilities, that is, what I consider most likely to have happened
given the evidence available and the wider circumstances.
The main  questions I need to consider are:
- If Halifax  gave  any advice or recommendation, did it make  sure the product it
recommended was suitable  for Mr and Mrs Rs needs?
- Did Halifax give Mr and Mrs R the information they needed to decide whether to take out
the policy?
If there were shortcomings  in the way Halifax sold the policy, I need to consider whether Mr
and Mrs R are worse  off as a result; that is, whether they would have done something
different  such as not taking out the policy  if there had been no shortcomings.
The PPI was sold to Mr and Mrs R during a meeting with an adviser  from Halifax, who was
recommending a mortgage  and insurance  products.
I cant know for certain what was discussed between Mr and Mrs R and Halifax  when they
were discussing  the mortgage  and PPI. And, given  the mortgage was repaid about 15
years ago I wouldnt expect either  party to have many records  of that meeting. Thats
unfortunate, but hasnt prevented me from deciding this complaint based on the information
and evidence we do have.
Mr and Mrs R says they dont recall the PPI being discussed  and thats understandable
given it was so long ago. But from what we know about how Halifax sold policies like this at
the time its more likely than not that Halifax made Mr and Mrs R aware that the PPI was
Ref: DRN89174882optional and they chose to take it. Im also aware that Mr and Mrs R had previously had a 
mortgage with Halifax without PPI, which the mortgage in 1987  replaced. So its likely  they 
would have been aware they didnt have to have PPI.
Mr and Mrs R also say that the policy wasnt suitable because they both had generous  work  
related benefits.  And theyve also told us recently that had they known they had PPI, theyd 
have claimed on it when Mrs R was ill. 
Im satisfied the policy was suitable  given Mr and Mrs Rs circumstances and I say this
because:
- Both Mr and Mrs R were eligible for the policy given their circumstances and the PPI
terms and conditions.
- The policy  was split in order to cover  both Mr and Mrs R, and appears to have been
done so in line with their respective earnings  at the time. That seems  appropriate  to me.
- Mr and Mrs R had generous benefits,  but the policy would have  paid out in addition  to the 
occupational benefits and would do so, it seems, for longer. Overall I think Mr
and Mrs R would have  had some use for the policy despite their existing arrangements.
- Mr and Mrs R werent affected by any of the conditions limiting  the policys main benefits,
such as those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing medical
conditions. As they could  have benefited from the full extent of the cover I think  it unlikely
Mr and Mrs R needed better advice or information about the policys exclusions  and
limitations.
- I dont  know  exactly when Mr and Mrs R were told the cost of the PPI  it may well have
been in the original meeting. But  even if Mr and Mrs R didnt know  the exact amount of
the premium when they bought the policy  I think they might  have  known approximately
what it was. Ultimately, I think  Mr and Mrs R were  aware they had to pay something  for
the policy and Ive seen nothing to suggest  it was unaffordable or that the benefit was
insufficient to meet  their total monthly mortgage repayments.
Its possible that some of the information  the bank gave Mr and Mrs R about the PPI wasnt
as clear as it should have  been. But they chose  to take out the policy and so appear to have
wanted this type of cover. As Ive already said Mr and Mrs R werent  affected  by any of the
exclusions or limitations and the policy seems to have been affordable, I think it unlikely Mr
and Mrs R would have  made a different decision if better information had been  provided 
overall, I think they would  still have taken out the policy.
Mrs R has told us about an illness she suffered that led to her having to give up her job. Its 
possible she and Mr R might be able to make a retrospective claim if they have the 
necessary evidence. Theyd need  to contact  the insurer if they want  to explore this further. 
Ref: DRN89174883my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to
accept or reject my decision  before  3 July 2019.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8917488