K820x#14complaint
Mr U complains that Aviva Insurance Limited  declined his travel insurance claim. 
background
Mr U took a flight abroad. Items in his bag were damaged.  He made claims  to the airline  and 
to Aviva,  the insurer  of his travel  policy.  He told Aviva that the items  were in his checked in 
baggage. 
Aviva said the damaged  items werent in Mr Us hand baggage  so there was no cover  under 
the policy for the items  defined  as valuables, which included  Mr Us higher value items. It 
was also concerned that after it declined  the claim Mr U told it the bag was with him in the 
plane cabin, which was different to what he had initially said. Aviva  declined the whole claim.
Mr U complained to us. He said the items  where  damaged while in his hand  baggage in the 
cabin and he sent an email from the airline  which said his cabin bag had been  damaged.  
Our investigator thought Aviva had fairly  declined the claim. She explained why she thought 
there was a discrepancy over whether the items claimed for were in Mr Us checked  in 
baggage or hand baggage.  Aviva  had sent us new information from the airline  which 
supported the claim decline.
Mr U disagrees  and wants an ombudsmans  decision. 
Before I made my decision I saw that Mr U has served Aviva  with an affidavit,  a letter  of 
claim and a Civil Procedure Rules  Part 36 offer for personal injury damages relating to Aviva 
declining Mr Us insurance  claim. I told the parties  that I was considering  dismissing the 
complaint under the Financial Conduct Authority Rules,  DISP  3.3.3A which  says a complaint 
can be dismissed if:
the subject matter of the complaint is the subject of current court proceedings, unless 
proceedings are stayed  or sisted (by agreement of all parties, or order of the court)  so that 
the matter may be considered under the Financial Ombudsman Service.
I asked for the parties'  comments so I could consider if I should consider the complaint. Mr U 
said he hadnt issued  a claim at court yet. Aviva  said it hadnt been served with court 
proceedings.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On the basis of what the parties have told me I understand  there are no current court  
proceedings relating to this matter.  Im satisfied that I should consider this complaint.
I have to decide whether Aviva fairly and reasonably declined the claim and on the evidence 
I have I think it did. I dont  uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr U took out optional baggage cover so he had cover for loss/accidental damage to his 
baggage. But the policy is clear theres no cover for:
Ref: DRN85295962Loss, accidental damage or theft of valuables not carried in your hand baggage and fully
accessible to you while you are travelling.
There is inconsistency in the evidence, which Ill summarise below, about whether  Mr Us 
damaged items were  in his hand baggage
Shortly after the damage occurred Mr U told Aviva:
Something happened  to my personal possessions. They were damaged. I have arrived 
(location and flight details) this morning. My checked  in baggage is given to me in damaged  
condition All Items  in my checked in baggage  are completely wet, very cold condition  
like freeze.
The airline did pay a settlement for the claim he made to it. Its email  to Mr U of 12 February 
explained it wouldn't make any further payment as any fragile, valuable or perishable items 
should be carried in your hand  luggage. This means we can't reimburse you for your 
damaged laptop  and other personal  electronic  items.
Aviva said Mr U also sent it a copy of the luggage  tag for his checked in bag in support of his 
claim and the tags werent issued for hand  baggage.
From the above evidence  Aviva could reasonably understand that the damaged items 
werent in Mr Us hand baggage. It declined the claim  at that point.
Following the decline  Mr U told Aviva  the bag wasnt  checked  in but was in the plane with 
him in the overhead cupboards. Aviva told Mr U it had concerns that he had given it different 
information about the location of the bag and quoted the following the policy  term to him:
If your claim is in any way dishonest or exaggerated we will not pay any benefit  under this 
policy or return any premium to you and we may cancel your policy  immediately and 
backdate the cancellation  to the date of the fraudulent claim. We may also take legal action 
against you.
Aviva said unless Mr U provided evidence from the airline to confirm the bag was with him 
on the plane when the items were  damaged  it wouldnt consider any part of his claim, even 
for these  items which the policy didnt define as valuables.
Mr U then sent Aviva an email from the airline dated 27 February  which said:
I can't change the PIR (property irregularity  report) as this is something that comes directly 
from the airport. However, I can confirm that your bag was a cabin  bag that was damaged 
during your flight (details).
Mr U says that email from the airline  is enough  to show that his items were  damaged  in his 
hand baggage. But that evidence isnt enough  to support the claim.  There's  no explanation 
from the airline as to why the airline initially registered the bag as a checked in bag. And very 
importantly, Ive seen  the airline  has subsequently  directly told Aviva that Mr Us claim with 
the airline related to his hold bag and its email dated  27 February was sent by a call centre  
agent who wrongly sent the email in support  of Mr Us insurance claim.
Ref: DRN85295963Aviva can reasonably understand from the airlines direct evidence  to it that the damaged 
items were in a bag placed in the planes hold, not in Mr Us hand baggage.
I note Mr Us latest information; that the airline  told him it acknowledges if a cabin bag has 
become wet but it doesnt open  the bag. That doesnt help support his claim.  
Having weighed up all the evidence the much  stronger evidence  is that Mr Us damaged  
items were in a bag in the planes hold,  so not covered  by the policy.
Overall, Aviva fairly  and reasonably declined the whole claim.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 August 2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8529596