K820x#14complaint
Mr Js complaint is about a sell trade limit order in his Alliance Trust Savings Limited (ATSL) 
account not being executed. He says the relevant market price exceeded the limit he set, so 
the trade should  have been executed.
background
Mr J placed his limit order for the sale of 1,047  shares in Ocean Wilsons (OCN)  stock  at the 
price of 1170. The order was effective from 6 May to 11 May 2019 and he says there is price 
chart evidence which shows that the trade price for OCN reached a high of 1180 on 8 May 
and a high of 1178 on 9 May  both above  his limit and within the order  period  so his order 
should have been executed.
ATSL disputes the complaint and says execution of Mr Js order was dependent on the bid 
prices available  during  the order period and that the bid prices did not exceed 1150 in that 
period  so it did not meet  or exceed his price limit of 1170.
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  and agreed with ATSL.  He noted that the 
ask price for OCN did reach a high of 1180 on 8 May, but he said that was not the price  
relevant to execution  of Mr Js limit order  and that the bid price,  which  never reached 1170 
during the order  period, was the price relevant to his order.
Mr J did not accept this outcome. He said his order should have been made public and 
offered to the market, given that buyers in the market were  being quoted prices above 1170 
for the same shares he was willing to sell at 1170.  The matter was referred to an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It does not appear  to be in dispute  that the bid prices in the spreads that were available, 
through ATSL, during the order  period did not reach  1170. Available evidence appears  to 
support this and I have  not seen evidence  to the contrary. The issue  in dispute is mainly 
about the point Mr J made in response to the investigators view.  He essentially says: 
There is evidence of market activity in OCN during  the order  period in which OCN 
shares were being offered to buyers  at prices  above  1170;
In the interests  of Mr J (and, arguably,  of the potential buyers)  his order should have 
been made public;
Had that been done, and given evidence that suggests there were buyers for OCN at 
1180, it is more  likely (than not) there would have been buyers  for OCN at the 
cheaper price of 1170 and Mr Js order would have been executed.
I understand the logic in Mr Js argument.  However, due regard must be given the order  
execution policy applied  by ATSL  to his account  under  the agreed terms for the account.
The order  execution policy confirms that ATSL was not obliged to make a limit order public,  
but it also provides  for ATSLs discretion to do so. The policy  says that the relevant scenario, 
in which  this discretion  could  be applied,  is where the limit order is not immediately executed  
Ref: DRN81454392and either  ATSL considers  it in the customers interest to make the order public or the 
customer expressly instructs it to do so.
Mr Js order was not immediately executed.  I have  not seen evidence  that he expressly 
instructed ATSL  to make his order public during the order  period.  In terms of making the 
order public  in his best interests  I consider, on balance,  that the matter is evenly split. 
It could be argued that it would have been  in Mr Js interest to make  the order public on 
either 8 or 9 May, given  the ask price  highs for both dates. However, the order period was 
not due to expire until 11 May and the price movements could not have been  predicted 
between 8/9 May and 11 May. I am not persuaded that it was unreasonable  for ATSL  not to 
have manually intervened  by making  the order public  on 8 or 9 May. There  were still two 
days to go in the order period, during which the price movement could not be predicted. The 
argument that it would have been in Mr Js interest  to make his order  public on 8 or 9 May 
benefits from hindsight  that ATSL did not have the benefit of at the relevant time. 
Overall and on balance,  I am not persuaded that ATSL  should  have  made the order  public 
on the above dates and I do not consider that Mr Js complaint should be upheld. Primarily, 
his order was subject  to the available  bid prices and it appears  that at no time during  the 
order period was there a bid price for OCN that met or exceeded his limit order price.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold Mr Js complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or reject  my decision 
before 28 February  2020.
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8145439