K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua have raised the interest rate on his credit  
card.
background
Mr C has had an Aqua credit card for a number  of years. In 2017, Aqua increased  the 
interest rate on the card. They wrote to Mr C two months before the increase was due to 
take effect and gave  him the chance  to opt out by a particular date.
Mr C didnt want to accept  the new interest rate and he complained to Aqua. They didnt 
uphold his complaint and re-iterated that he had the option of accepting  the increase  or 
opting out of it. 
Mr C then wrote to Aqua and said he didnt think the new rate was acceptable. His letter  was 
sent after the deadline for opting  out of the rate increase. He sent a cheque  for that months  
repayment but said he expected Aqua to reduce the interest rate. Aqua cashed the cheque  
but the interest rate increase took effect.   
Mr C wasnt happy with that, so he brought his complaint to this service. While  the complaint 
has been ongoing, Mr C says that Aqua have  increased the credit  limit on his card. He says 
thats inconsistent  with the interest rate increase, which Aqua told him was due to him being 
a credit risk.
Our adjudicator thought that Aqua had acted fairly and in line with their policies, so he didnt 
ask them  to do anything. But Mr C didnt agree and asked for his complaint to be reviewed 
by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Lending  Code  sets out standards of good  practice for banks to follow  when dealing with 
consumers. It contains  guidance in relation to credit cards, including best practice standards 
for dealing  with interest rate increases,  or credit card re-pricing. The UK Cards Association 
has also published a Statement of Principles  relating  to Credit  Card  Re-pricing. These  
contain guidelines on issues such as when a customers account may be selected for re-
pricing, the amount of notice which must be given, the method of communication  of the 
increase to the customer and the customers right to reject the increase. Im satisfied that 
Aqua followed  these best practice guidelines when re-pricing Mr Cs card.  Ill explain why 
below. 
Aqua say they regularly review customers accounts in line with their terms and conditions, 
which allow  them  to increase or reduce  the interest rate. They say these reviews are risk 
based assessments and that they take external information into account  (such as 
information from credit reference agencies) as well as their own risk strategies when making  
decisions.
The letter which Aqua sent to Mr C in August 2017 informing him of the interest rate increase 
said: There  were a number of factors that we considered when setting your individual  rates  
Ref: DRN89715942of interest on this occasion. These  included the way you managed and used your card and 
may have  included the records held for you at the Credit Reference Agencies on other  credit  
products you have. So Im satisfied that the change in interest  rate was a risk-based re-
pricing, specific to Mr C, rather  than a general re-pricing. This is permitted by Aquas terms 
and conditions as well as the Lending  Code.
Aqua say the decision to increase the interest rate was made at the highest level and that 
they cant reveal the detailed reasons because the information is commercially sensitive. But 
theyve explained  that it was based on both internal and external  data. Following their own 
risk assessment criteria,  their conclusion was that Mr Cs interest  rate needed to be 
increased. Its for Aqua as a business  to decide what they consider to be high or low risk. 
But, based on the information  Ive seen, Im satisfied that they carried  out a risk assessment 
in line with their terms and conditions and that they were entitled to re-price  the account.
Im also satisfied that Mr C was given enough  notice of the change.  And the options he was 
given are those set out in Aquas terms and conditions, which  comply  with the best practice  
guidelines. So I think Aqua acted fairly in the way they carried  out the rate increase. 
I realise that Mr C wanted to deal with the situation differently, either by keeping  the account  
open on a reduced interest rate or by paying  off the balance over two years with no interest. 
But he knew  what he needed  to do if he didnt  agree to the higher rate because  that was set 
out clearly in the letters from Aqua.  The effect of opting out of the new rate was that his 
account would be closed and he would have to pay off the balance at the existing rate over a 
reasonable period of time.  Thats a reasonable approach and it follows  the Lending Codes 
best practice for dealing with customers who reject a rate increase. So the options Aqua 
gave Mr C were  fair and they werent  under any obligation to accept his alternative  
proposals. 
I realise Mr C feels strongly about the situation. But Im satisfied that Aqua were entitled to 
select his account  for re-pricing and that they complied with their terms and conditions and 
the best practice guidelines in the way they carried out the rate increase.
Turning to the credit limit increase,  Aqua  say their policy is not to increase a customers 
credit limit within six months of their account  being  selected for re-pricing. Mr Cs account  
was selected for re-pricing in August 2017  and he was offered a credit  limit increase in 
February 2018. So Im satisfied that Aqua followed their policy here.
They say they offered  to increase Mr Cs credit  limit because there was continued 
improvement in the management of his account as well as positive external data showing 
decreasing debt. I think thats  a reasonable explanation based  on the information Ive seen. 
And I dont  think its inconsistent with the account re-pricing as six months is long enough  to 
make a difference to a customers  profile, particularly where they are making regular 
repayments towards other debt, as Mr C was. In any event, Mr C opted  out of the credit  limit 
increase, so it didnt  take effect.
So I think Aqua  have acted fairly here and Im not going to ask them to do anything.
Mr C says that he has very recently  received a letter from Aqua saying they will freeze his 
card as he is in persistent  debt. I would urge Mr C to contact Aqua to discuss this and try to 
agree a way forward.  But it doesnt change my mind  that Aqua acted fairly  in connection with 
the interest rate increase in 2017.
Ref: DRN89715943my final decision
For the reasons  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 July 2019.  
Katy Kidd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8971594