K821x#15complaint
Mrs Rs complaint is about the handling  of her central heating insurance  policy  with 
British Gas Insurance Limited.
background
I issued a provisional decision on this matter in February 2019, part of which is copied 
below: 
Mrs R has held a policy with British Gas for around  nine years. The policy includes an 
annual service of her boiler but she says she has never received any communication from 
British Gas about booking a service.  In addition, she says the premiums  had gone from £17 
per month, to £20 per month  and then recently to £27 per month without any notice to her. 
She says she has never received any documentation or correspondence from British  Gas 
over the years about the policy, and only ever received her utility bills. She complained to 
British Gas when  she received  marketing material about a similar policy which  cost only £10 
per month.
British Gas confirmed  that no annual service  has been carried out since 2009. However, it 
says that it sent three reminders each year to Mrs R to ask her to contact it and book an 
annual service; and the policy specifically states  that no refunds will be provided. It offered 
£65 and then increased to £100  compensation for the missed  service for last year and 
offered a discount  on the years premium,  as she said she was also unhappy with the 
premium charged.  
One of our investigators  looked into the matter and didnt recommend it be upheld. She was 
satisfied that British Gas had made  a reasonable offer, as she was satisfied that British Gas 
had written to Mrs R about her annual  services each year and with renewal terms. She also 
saw that the base rate premium for the policy had increased across  the entire book of 
business (i.e. for all customers) and so the increase in premium for Mrs R was not unfair. 
The investigator said the alternative  policy Mrs R had referred to was apparently  for a 
maintenance contract and not the same as the policy she has. 
British Gas accepted the investigators  assessment but Mrs R does not, so the matter  has 
been referred to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The price  increase is mainly due to the base  rate increasing[and therefore as the 
investigator said Mrs R was not treated unfairly  compared to other customers].  
The policy documents issued in February  2017 policy  say: 
When your annual service is due well send you or your authorised contact an email,  letter,  
text message or call you to arrange it. Well try to get hold of you up to three times. If we 
dont hear back from you after the third time,  we wont  try again and wont refund the cost of 
the missed annual service. But you can still contact us at any time to book it.
Ref: DRN85301032However, British Gas has not demonstrated  that this same policy  wording was in every 
policy from 2009 onwards. It is my understanding that it was not in some  of the earlier  
policies. In any event,  even if it was, it seems  to me that British  Gas was aware  the boiler 
had not been serviced  for around nine years  and so should have made  other attempts to 
contact Mrs R about this. I dont consider it enough to have sent the same reminders in the 
same way year after year;  this meant not only that Mrs R was not getting the full cover  she 
was paying for but also that the integrity  of her boiler  might have been affected). 
So while I have no reason to doubt the reminders  were sent, it seems fair and reasonable to 
me that at least after a couple of years, British Gas should have tried to contact Mrs R by 
other means  to see why she was not booking  the service visits. 
The cost of the annual service is apparently £65. Overall  it seems to me that a refund of 
three years annual service fee would be fair and reasonable, which would  equate to £195.  
This should be paid in addition to the £100 already offered. 
my provisional decision  
I intend to uphold this complaint against British Gas Insurance limited in part and require it to 
pay Mrs R £195 compensation, in addition to the £100 already offered.
 
responses to my provisional  decision
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional  decision with any further information or 
evidence they want considered. 
British Gas has responded and confirmed it does not accept my provisional  decision. It has 
provided records of a telephone call with Mrs R in September  2012 in which the annual 
service was discussed and Mrs R said she would call back  to arrange  this. British Gas has 
also provided copies  of its terms from 2012, 2013  and 2015,  which  state that it will contact 
the policyholder  around the time the annual service is due, which  it did. It says it has fulfilled 
its obligations in contacting Mrs R each year but she failed to make arrangements for the 
services to be carried out. 
Mrs R has also responded  and confirmed she does not accept  my provisional decision.  
Mrs R has made a number of points, summarised below: 
the amount  I proposed to award  is not enough, given the amount she has paid for the 
policy since she has had it. 
She questions how the figure of £65 was arrived at.
She never received any reminders.
She questions why she would have been sent marketing material  for similar cover, 
when she believed  it was already  part of her cover.
She remains unhappy with cost increases  - especially on the basis  that she is
paying more for the same  service  than a new customer. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments again to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant  extracts provided by British  Gas from the earlier policy  terms are as follows: 
Ref: DRN85301033August 2012:  I think  my Annual  Service is due but I havent heard from you.
A On or around the anniversary  date of your last Annual Service we will contact  you in 
writing, by email or by phone to arrange  a suitable  appointment.  This may happen  earlier or 
later than you expect if there  has been, or we expect there to be, a lot of demand  for 
breakdown repairs.
August 2013:  "Q I think my Annual Service is due but I havent heard from you?
A On or around the anniversary  date of your last Annual Service we will contact  you in 
writing, email or by telephone to arrange a suitable  appointment ." 
October 2015: "When your annual service is due well send  you an email,  letter,  text 
message or call you to arrange it. Well try to get hold of you up to three times. If we dont 
hear back from you, we wont make  another attempt,  but you can contact us at any time to 
arrange your annual service."
British Gas says it fulfilled its obligations and contacted Mrs R each year around the time the 
services were due and it didnt need  to do anything else. Mrs R says she never received any 
reminders or any communication about the policy cover at all but I consider this unlikely and 
there is some evidence to support what British Gas says about  this. I accepted that it was 
likely British Gas had therefore contacted Mrs R regarding the annual  services but I set out 
in my provisional decision why I thought it should  have  done more, given its records would 
have shown that no service had been  carried out for a number of years.
The policy extracts  above  also show that until 2017,  the policy didnt say anything about  any 
refund for the cost of the annual service  if it were not carried  out. 
Having considered all the evidence again, I remain of the opinion that it would be fair and 
reasonable for British Gas to refund the cost of three annual  services. The 2015 and 2017 
policies set out that the cost of the annual service  is £65 and so this is a total of £195.  
With regard to the price  increases, as the investigator confirmed these were mainly as a 
result of a rise in the base  price of the cover and so Mrs R had not been treated unfairly 
compared with other  customers in similar positions  as hers.  Mrs R says that new customers  
would be charged  less but businesses  are entitled to offer incentives, such as discounts, to 
attract new customers. I am also satisfied that Mrs R was informed when the price was 
increased and would therefore  have  had the option to decline the policy, if she didnt want  it 
at the price proposed. 
Ref: DRN85301034my final decision
I uphold this complaint  against British Gas Insurance  limited  in part and require it to pay 
Mrs R £195 compensation, in addition to the £100 already offered.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 May 2019.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8530103