K820x#14complaint
Miss B complains  that British Gas Insurance Limited  (BGI) cancelled  her home emergency 
insurance policy without  justification.
background
Miss B has had a home emergency  policy  with BGI for many years. In October 2018, she 
thought the thermostat controlling the underfloor heating in her lounge wasnt working.  So 
she called  on BGI under  her policy.
The BGI engineer  who attended checked the lounge thermostat and said it was fine. He said 
the problem was with the underfloor heating which wasnt covered by Miss Bs policy.  
Miss B says that in the course of checking  the kitchen thermostat, the engineer  broke this. 
This caused all the downstairs heating to stop. Miss B told the engineer that as he had 
broken the kitchen thermostat he should  fix it. The engineer denied  he had broken the 
thermostat; he said it was broken when  he arrived.
There is disagreement about what happened  next. Miss B says she didnt want  the engineer 
to leave without  fixing the kitchen thermostat  because  she now had no heating in the 
kitchen. But she denies she was abusive  to the engineer.
BGIs records say that one of its managers  spoke  to the engineer while  he was on the 
property. He had called  the police  because Miss B wouldnt open the gates to allow him to 
leave the property. The record says Miss Bs partner then came to the property and 
physically threatened the engineer, and the engineer  was verbally shaken on the call.
Following the incident,  BGI said it wouldnt return to the property, and cancelled Miss Bs 
policy. Miss B complained  to BGI. She said the police  who attended had viewed her CCTV 
recording of the incident and said nothing  had happened.  BGI paid her £50 towards the cost 
of replacing the kitchen  thermostat but wouldnt reinstate her policy. So Miss B complained 
to us.
Miss B said she had now arranged for a third party  to attend the property. It had replaced  the 
kitchen thermostat at a cost of £60, and had rebalanced the underfloor heating which was 
now working. She wanted her policy to be restored. She said both she and her partner had 
medical issues. She said neither of them had raised their voices  or been aggressive.  They  
just asked the engineer to fix what he had broken.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld.  She said BGI had 
considered what  its manager  had said about his phone call with the engineer, and the fact 
that the police had been called. BGIs policy terms said it could cancel your agreement or 
product if you put our peoples health  and safety at risk, for example, physical or verbal 
abuse.
BGIs had made a business decision which was in line with this. So she didnt think  BGI had 
acted unreasonably.
Miss B responded to say, in summary,  that it was wrong of BGI to make the accusations it 
had, and to cancel her policy, without proof that the accusations were  true.
Ref: DRN88655832She acknowledged that she had wanted  to keep  the engineer there while  she spoke on the 
phone to his manager because she wanted  him to fix what he had broken. If he left without 
fixing the thermostat  she felt it would compromise  her and her partners health because  they 
would be left without  any heating.
She asked  for her complaint to be reviewed. So it has been passed  to me to issue  a 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The investigator asked  BGI if any recordings were  available of the calls that had been made. 
It said they had been  made on mobile  phones  and such calls werent recorded. She asked if 
Miss B could produce  the CCTV recording she said had been made. But she hasnt been 
able to do so.
It isnt possible for me to say exactly what happened at the time of the visit. Miss B denies 
that she or her partner  were abusive  towards the engineer. However its clear from BGIs  
records that the engineer felt they were at the time,  and the manager he called says he 
heard abusive comments on the phone.
BGI decided  that there had been abusive  conduct  which entitled it to cancel the policy under 
the term Ive quoted above. On the evidence available, I cant  say BGI acted unreasonably in 
coming to this conclusion.  So I cant reasonably require BGI to do anything  more.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint,  and make  no order  against British Gas 
Insurance Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 May 2019.
Lennox Towers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8865583