K820x#14complaint
Mr Fs unhappy  about the way Santander  UK Plc handled  a transfer of money abroad.  
background
Mr F made a transfer from his Santander  account  to an account abroad.  He says he 
authorised this payment on 15 November 2018 on the basis  of an indicative quotation from 
Santander suggesting an exchange rate of $1.28 to the £ sterling. But when the payment 
went through the next day it was at a much lower  rate of $1.24989. This left him with a 
shortfall of $1,283.80 and he wants Santander to refund  this sum to him and for it to be 
restricted from advertising inflated exchange rates in the future.
Santander said in its final response that no errors  were made. At the time of Mr Fs request 
to transfer £50,000 into $ he was quoted  an exchange rate online of 1.28.  But these rates  
are indicative  and the actual rate on the day the payment was made was 1.24989.
Our investigator felt this complaint  shouldnt be upheld.  He said: 
Mr F arranged the transfer  online on the evening of 15 November 2018 and the 
indicative rate quoted  online was $1.28 to the £ sterling. But as hed missed the 3pm 
cut off time for same  day overseas transfers  it was actually processed the next day.
Santanders explained that on 15 November  2018  it was using an actual rate for 
transfers of 1.275 and showed  an indicative rate of 1.28 which  wasnt substantially 
different.
Mr Fs unhappy  that after being quoted a rate of 1.28 he was given the lower rate of 
1.249 the next day when the market  spot sterling  to dollar exchange rate had actually 
gone up. But its up to Santander to set its fluctuating exchange  rate for each 
currency taking into account its business  needs  and various conditions  including the 
market exchange  rate. And there can be a gap between the market rate changes  and 
the actual rate the bank uses.
The website pages on which  the transfer is arranged  and later confirmed both say its 
quote is based on its current exchange  rate and a different one may be used and 
thats likely if the payment  is requested  outside  the working day. 
In this case the transfer was requested outside of business hours  and wasnt  
processed until the next day. Santander  acted fairly quoting 1.28 and this indicative 
rate was based  on the best information  it had at that time based on its current  
exchange rate. It did enough  to warn Mr F that the transfer could be carried  out at a 
different and potentially lower  rate than the indicative one quoted.  It also hasnt 
violated Mr Fs consumer  rights.
He wont be asking  Santander to do anything more.
Mr F doesnt agree and has asked for an ombudsman review.  In summary he says the rate 
offered on 15 November 2018  was in fact in line with market rates. This made  him believe he 
would be offered a rate that matched the market rate rather  than that this was a just a 
coincidence. On the 16 November 2018  Santanders  rate actually went down when the 
market rate went up. Theres  nothing on Santanders website that says this could happen  
Ref: DRN85613582and its rate could move  in the opposite  direction  to the market  rate. No reasonable consumer 
would expect this to happen.  He wants to see evidence of numerous other transactions  
Santander made at the advertised rates and how often its rate moved significantly in the 
opposite direction to the market. He also thinks,  in accordance with section 50 of the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015, that Santander  should  honour its written term to give him a rate 
of 1.28 as he took it into account when entering  into the contract.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr F has provided  detailed submissions to support his complaint. Ive read and considered 
them all. But my findings are expressed in considerably less detail. And they focus on what  I 
think are the main issues.
I agree  with the investigators conclusions for the same reasons.
The terms and conditions  of the account make clear that there  is a 3pm cut off time for 
online requests  for same  day international transfers. And they say an online request 
received after that time will be deemed to have been  received the next working day. In this 
case Mr F missed the cut off time on 15 November 2018 and his transfer request was dealt  
with on the next day. Thats fair and in line with the terms  and conditions.
When Mr F requested the transfer Santander says he was shown a message which said the 
illustrated exchange rate was indicative and based on its current  exchange rate. And it said 
a different exchange  rate may be used and that was likely  if the payment was requested  
outside of the working day. That is what happened here and the exchange  rate used on the 
16 November 2018 was lower than the previous days indicative or actual rates.  This 
information was also repeated when  the transfer was confirmed.  
Mr F also says Santander shouldve specifically made clear that its rate might go down  even 
if the market rate went up. But I think its general warning about rates changing was 
sufficient. I dont think Santander can reasonably be expected to outline every possible 
scenario that might  happen. On balance  I think Santander did enough to warn Mr F that the 
rate it showed on screen was indicative and that it may change  if the transfer took place the 
next day. 
I understand how frustrating its been  for Mr F to find out the transfer  was worth less Dollars  
than hed anticipated. But Santander never guaranteed a particular exchange rate. And if 
hed been particularly concerned about the rate hed get, Mr F couldve at very least  waited 
until before  3pm on 16 November to request  the transfer to see what the indicative rates  
were online that day or called Santander  to find out. He couldve  also looked around  the 
market for a business  that could offer him a guaranteed exchange rate.
Mr F is also unhappy that the exchange rate Santander used on 16 November 2018 had 
been reduced and didnt  follow the market rate. He also says the fact the rate on 15 
November 2018  generally matched the market rate led him to believe the rate the next day 
would do so as well. 
The setting of the exchange  rates Santander  uses is a matter of it exercising its commercial 
judgement in which we wouldnt normally get involved. And as Santander  has said it sets its 
Ref: DRN85613583rates on a daily basis based on prevailing  market conditions and using a formula which  
meets its commercial appetite. There may also be delays before market  changes are 
reflected in the rates it uses. That doesnt  seem  unreasonable. And theres nothing  in its 
terms which say that it will match or guarantee to be tied to market rates or movements. It 
also says different rates will apply  depending on the size of transactions.
Mr F wants us to restrict Santander from advertising  inflated exchange rates  in the future. 
But this service isnt a regulator.  We cant  fine or punish a business or require  it to change its 
practices and procedures. General issues about how the banking  industry  works are a 
matter for the Financial  Conduct Authority. 
Mr F also says hes protected  by section 50 of the Consumer Rights Act 2015. In effect he is 
saying that as a result  of that provision  the 1.28 exchange rate quoted  became a term of his 
contract with Santander because  he took it into account when deciding  to enter into the 
contract. And Santander  should  give him the 1.28 indicative rate. But Im afraid I dont agree.
Section 50 does give consumers protection when  dealing  with traders. But that section also 
says the protection is subject to anything  that qualified what  was said or written at the time or 
was expressly agreed before entering  into the contract. Here I think  the accounts  terms and 
conditions and online message clearly warn  that the 1.28 rate is indicative, theres a 3pm cut 
off time for same day transfers  and if the transfer  is carried out the next day the rate will 
likely be different. So, even if section 50 is applicable in this case  I dont  think  on balance 
that the 1.28 indicative  rate would become a term of the contract. 
Taking everything into account  I dont think Santander has done  anything wrong. As a result  
I dont think I can fairly  require it to use a 1.28 exchange rate for this transfer or pay anything  
towards the suggested shortfall of $1,283.80 as Mr F would like.
I recognise Mr Fs frustration and strength of feeling. But overall  I think the investigators 
proposed resolution  of this complaint is fair and reasonable.  And I dont see any compelling  
reason to change  the proposed outcome  in this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 May 2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8561358