K820x#14complaint
Ms J has complained that Zenith Insurance Plc unreasonably refused to continue to cover  
her claims for an illness her dog suffered  under her pet insurance.
background
Ms J bought her policy through  a well-known pet charity in 2011,  which  was then 
administered by a broker who I shall call M. Originally her policy  was underwritten by an 
insurer which I will call A. In 2013, the underwriter changed to Zenith  on the same  terms. 
These terms were that under this policy (provided  it renewed each year), each separate 
condition the pet insured suffered from was covered up to a maximum of £7,000. And once 
that maximum was reached  for that condition, no further cover would be provided for that 
condition. So it was in effect a lifetime  policy, but with a limited pot of £7,000  cover  for each 
different condition suffered and claimed for.
In 2016, Zenith changed the terms of the policy. It was still a lifetime  policy  and the benefit 
level increased to £8,000.  But this was £8,000 per year instead  of being limited  to each 
condition over the life of the policy. So in effect, it was an enhancement of the cover  then 
being provided. But this enhanced cover did not cover any conditions suffered or claimed  for 
before 2016, cover  for those conditions remained based on the previous terms. 
Ms Js dog sadly suffered  from seizures for which she started to have to claim vet fees in 
June 2014. In April 2018, Zenith told Ms J her limit for claims for her dogs seizures  had 
been reached and no further  cover would now be provided for claims relating to his seizures.
Ms J complained but Zenith didnt change its stance. So she brought her complaint to us. 
The investigator didnt  think Zenith  had done anything wrong. Ms J didnt agree so her 
complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 11 January and said the following:
Ive carefully considered  all the points Ms J has made  and will concentrate on those 
issues, which I consider to be important. However,  this policy  in line with almost all 
other pet policies was not sold on an advised basis. That means the seller of the 
policy including here the pet charity, the administrator(s) and the underwriter(s) have 
no duty to advise a consumer,  such as Ms J, if this particular product is best for her 
circumstances. This is also explained  in the Terms of Business and Important 
Details.
Instead, their collective duties are to ensure the policy  terms are comprehensible and 
clear. And I dont think this policy and/or its terms are clear enough or 
comprehensible enough to have permitted Ms J to know  that she hadnt bought the 
more standard  lifetime  policy,  which provides  the amount of the cover  stated  per 
year, which then renews the next year. And instead,  she had bought this type of 
more limited one pot per incident  lifetime cover.
the cover  provided  initially in 2011.
When Ms J bought her policy in 2011,  the policy summary said it was only a 
summary of what the policy provided  and that the policy  contained the full terms and 
conditions.
Ref: DRN85059422 
Those terms and conditions in the document sent in by Ms J for the 2012/2013  cover  
period state the following:
Incident
A specifically  identifiable  Accident, Injury or Illness. Recurring and/or long 
lasting conditions shall be considered as one loss. Such conditions  being 
defined as:-
a)clinical signs resulting  in the same  diagnosis (regardless of the number of 
Incidents or areas of the body affected)  to which Your Pet is susceptible 
and which are in any way related to the original claim;
or
b)conditions which are incurable and likely to continue for Your  Pets life.
Further under  the heading  Applicable to all Levels of Cover  it says the following:
Section 1:
Veterinary Fees Cover
We will pay You for all reasonable and customary charges made for 
Treatment carried out by a Vet. Cover  is provided  for an Accident,  Illness or 
Incident occurring to Your Pet subject to the indemnity limit of £2,000  (PDSA  
Petsurance 2000) or £3,000 (PDSA Petsurance 3000) or £7,000  (PDSA  
Petsurance 7000) dependent on the cover selected and Excess as specified 
below and subject  to written notice of such Accident, Illness or Incident 
having been given to PDSA Petsurance Cover within 60 days of occurrence. 
The limit of cover and Excess are on a per Incident basis.
Cover remains  in place  for each  Incident  until the Policy limit is reached 
subject to payment  of relevant premiums.
More importantly the policy summary,  schedule, summary of policy  benefits doesnt  
make clear  how this policy operates, instead it says the following:
Renewal
..
If you pay your premium by instalments, your policy will automatically 
renew on an annual  basis for your convenience.
..
Period of Insurance
This is an annual insurance  contract providing  twelve months  continuous 
cover. Your  policy  schedule will show the date your cover starts and ends.
Significant Features and Benefits   
Veterinary Fees.
Significant and unusual exclusions and limitations
Ref: DRN85059423Indemnity limit - £2,000,  £3,000, £7,000
I consider all the above points to this policy providing cover of £7,000 per year (for 
Ms J) instead of describing more coherently how her cover would actually work. 
Further, neither  the administrator nor Zenith can show  Ms Js journey on buying this 
policy on the internet,  due the passage of time.  However, that then means  we must 
simply rely on how the policy summary  and policy terms was worded.
the present cover  now provided since 2016.
The policy summary  here clearly says that for premier, (which Ms J was given, when 
Zenith decided to change its policy terms so substantially)) Veterinary Fees  are paid 
up to £8,000 per policy year**. The ** explains as long as you keep you policy  
renewed, your premiums up to date and the insurer invites  renewal, there is no limit 
on how long you can claim for each illness or injury up to £8,000 per year.
This clearly is more in line with what Ms J thought she had bought  originally. And in 
my view, is far clearer  and more  definitive  on how the cover  for vet fees works.
my conclusions.
I think the original terms of the policy Ms J bought in 2011 were unclear and lacking 
in sufficient clarity about how cover for vet fees operated  for a long term and 
recurring condition.  They didnt explain adequately  that whilst an ongoing condition 
was covered for any number of policy years, such cover was limited to a maximum of 
£7,000 per Incident or rather per condition.   
Therefore, due to such lack of clarity,  its fair and reasonable that such lack of clarity 
is construed in Ms Js favour, which means  I consider her cover for vet fees is £7,000  
per year, raising to £8,000 per clearly in 2016.
So on the basis of both Ms Js and Zeniths list of the fees claimed (and I realise 
there are differences between the two) its clear  to me Ms Js claims never reached 
£7,000 per year in any one policy year. So I consider Zenith  should  now refund Ms J 
for any vet fees she claimed for her dogs seizures, which it had refused adding 
interest of 8% simple  per year. I would hope this now deals with the discrepancy 
between Ms Js list of claims and Zeniths, but if it doesnt I think Zenith  should  make 
contact with Ms Js vet and get the matter  clarified coherently.
I also consider that as Ms J effectively has a lifetime policy, her dogs conditions  both 
for his seizures and otherwise  should  continue to be covered up the yearly limits and 
remaining policy conditions. This should  therefore  effectively  deal with Ms Js 
concerns about  premiums  levels. 
Mrs J agreed  with my provisional  decision.  Zenith did not. It thought the policy  wording was 
clear. It also noted that the charity didnt provide any other type of cover other than one 
where a condition was covered up to a maximum sum. 
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ref: DRN85059424I remain of the view the policy wording wasnt clear enough  as I detailed above.  Those  
quotes of the policy  wording makes various references to the level of cover but didnt 
crucially add the word  per incident or preferably per condition,  instead it called it an 
indemnity limit and that it was annual contract.
So in the particular circumstances of this complaint  I see no reason to change the reasoning  
I gave in my provisional decision.
my final decision
So for these reasons, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint.
I require Zenith Insurance Plc to the following: 
Refund Ms J any vet fees she had paid for her dogs seizures which Zenith  
has refused to pay.
Interest of 8% simple per year should added from the date Ms J paid those  
fees to the date Zenith refunds her.*
Continue to provide  cover for the dogs seizures  and any other conditions 
subject to the present policy limits and remaining policy conditions.
*If Zenith Insurance  Plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Ms J how much its taken off. It should also give 
her a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 March 2019.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8505942