K820x#14complaint
Ms H complains that Vanquis  Bank  Limited (VBL) declined her claim about a faulty car 
under s75 Consumer Credit Act.
background
Ms H says she acquired a car using her credit card with VBL.  She says the supplying  
dealership misrepresented the mileage. And she says the car broke  down twice  with serious 
issues, indicating it isnt of satisfactory  quality.  But she says VBL wrongly declined  her claim 
for a refund under s75 Consumer Credit Act (s75).
VBL says Ms H told it she wasnt provided  with a contract or terms and conditions  by the 
supplying dealership. And it says without evidence to show  the agreement she made it was 
unable to demonstrate theres been  a breach  of contract.
VBL also says Ms H was unable to provide evidence to show  the advert  for the car or the 
warranty period that was agreed. It says this meant it was unable to determine whether 
thered been any form of misrepresentation. 
So, VBL says,  based on the information  Ms H gave it, its s75 team  was unable to find the 
supplier of the car to be liable for a breach of contract and/or any form of misrepresentation. 
And it says this means it was correct to decline  her claim.  
Our investigator thought Ms Hs complaint shouldnt be upheld. 
Ms H disagreed with the investigators conclusions.  She said the screenshots of the text 
messages between her and the supplying dealership  show  it admitted the car was faulty and 
was going to fix it. And she said unfortunately she doesnt have everything  in black and white 
and thats why shes been waiting  for her refund.  
So, the matters  been referred  to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Ms Hs complaint and Ill explain why.
VBL provided the finance Ms H used  to buy her car. So, this means she has an equal right to 
seek redress from it for any breach  of contract or misrepresentation as she has from the 
supplying dealership.
I need to decide whether VBL handled  Ms Hs s75 claim fairly and reasonably.
I see VBL asked  Ms H to give it various  documents to enable  it to consider her claim, 
including her contract to buy the car, any applicable terms and conditions,  the advert  for the 
car and the complaint letter she told it shed sent to the supplying  dealership.  VBLs told us it 
asked for this information to establish  whether the supplying  dealership  had breached the 
terms of its contract with her or if it had given  her any incorrect  information that led her to 
buy the car.
Ref: DRN81334952I understand Ms H didnt  give VBL any of the requested information, other than a copy of a 
typed letter with a hand written date on it, but nothing to confirm the letter  had been sent to 
the supplying  dealership.  I also understand  she didnt give it any information confirming what 
car shed  bought, that the contract was in her name, or the issues shed experienced with it.
In these circumstances Im satisfied VBLs conclusion that it didnt have sufficient information 
to establish that thered been  a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplying  
dealership was entirely fair and reasonable.
I acknowledge Ms H has produced some  additional information during the course of our 
investigation, including screenshots  of text messages  about  the car between her and the 
supplying dealership. But even if this information had been available  when VBL was 
considering this matter  Im satisfied it wouldnt have been sufficient to make  it reasonable for 
me to expect  it to have  upheld Ms Hs s75 claim.
So, for these reasons,  I cant fairly  and reasonably  uphold her complaint.   
my final decision
I dont uphold Ms Hs complaint against  Vanquis  Bank Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 August 2019.                     
Robert Collinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8133495