K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2002. Mrs M says Bank of Scotland plc (BoS), Halifax at the time, mis-sold her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Mrs M says it wasnt clear  the policy was optional  and it was added without her knowledge.  
But Ive seen a copy of her credit  card application form which  I think  was completed in 
branch. I say this because  the form includes a branch  name and branch code at the bottom, 
and was signed by Mrs M and BoS on the same day. In this application form I can see 
theres a section with some additional  products available. These products were listed  under 
the words: If you want  these services  please  mark the relevant boxes - and theres  a cross 
in the box for PPI. But there isnt a cross  in the box for the other product on offer. So I think  
its likely  both these products were discussed  and Mrs M agreed to take out the PPI, 
knowing it was something she didnt have to have.  Mrs M then signed  the form, consenting 
to the information contained within it. So based  on all the evidence Ive seen I think  BoS 
made it clear  that Mrs M didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to take it out  
although I can understand why she cant remember this now. 
Mrs M says BoS didnt recommend the PPI to her, but BoS says it did. As things stand, there 
isnt enough information to determine this point. But being able to do so isnt crucial to the 
outcome because, had BoS recommended the policy, I think it wouldve been a suitable  
recommendation to have  made for the reasons I set out below. As a result, Ive considered 
the complaint  on the same basis as BoS.
 
As a recommended  sale BoS had to check that the PPI was right for Mrs M  and based on 
what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. I say this because she 
wasnt affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover.  Mrs M says she didnt 
have any sick pay or savings at the time so its likely  she wouldve struggled  to keep up her 
repayments, along with all her other expenses, had she been unable  to work. And so she 
seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mrs M about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted  this type of cover. And it 
seems like it would have  been useful for her if something went  wrong.  So I dont think  better 
information about the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mrs M has said - including what shes  said about BoS taking 
advantage of her when  she was of a young  age and about having a secure income, so she 
didnt need the policy. But as Ive already  outlined  above, I think  she did have a need  for this 
type of cover  as Ive not seen any evidence  that she had any means of keeping  up her card 
repayments in the event  she was unable to work due to an accident, sickness  or 
Ref: DRN81440452redundancy. And even though Mrs M was young  at the time,  I dont  think BoS did anything  
wrong by advising  her to take out this cover. So these points dont  change  my decision.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So BoS doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mrs M paid for it. But BoS has already offered to give Mrs M back  some  of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  BoS will make arrangements to pay Mrs M 
now Ive issued my final decision.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs M to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 March  2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8144045