K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
In 1995 Mr and Mrs M bought PPI at the same time as they applied  for a mortgage  in one of 
the banks branches. The policy  was in Mr Ms sole name and gave him protection against 
accident, sickness and unemployment. They paid a monthly amount for it.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs M disagreed  so the complaint was 
passed to me. 
my findings 
Our general  approach to complaints about  PPI is on our website and Ive followed it here.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
 
Halifax had to make it clear to Mr and Mrs M that the PPI was optional, and they had to 
agree to take it out. Mr and Mrs M say the PPI was more than likely explained as a condition 
of the mortgage.  Halifax  disputes this. I cant know what was said in the meeting or how the 
PPI was presented.  So Ive thought  carefully  about Mr and Mrs Ms comments  and looked at 
the paperwork from the sale. Mr and Mrs M indicated that they wanted PPI on their mortgage  
application and Mr M then completed and signed  a separate PPI application  form. There was 
nothing I can find on either form that I think could reasonably have led them  to believe the 
PPI was mandatory. Overall, I think its most likely they agreed to take out PPI knowing they 
had a choice.  I can understand  they might  not remember this given how long ago the sale 
was.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr M and I think it seems to have been right for him based
on what Ive seen. Mr M was entitled  to between three and six months  sick pay but the PPI 
would have paid out in addition to his work benefits  for up to 24 months for all accident and 
sickness claims. It also gave him redundancy protection for up to 12 months. Mrs M said 
they had savings of around £15,000, but the PPI would  have  allowed  them  to use these for 
other living costs whilst Mr M wasnt working,  or to keep them  intact for their future  needs.  Mr 
and Mrs M had borrowed quite a large sum over a long period, secured on their home. Given  
how serious the effects of not keeping  up with their mortgage repayments could have been, I 
think the PPI would have been  useful for them  if Mr M was sick, had an accident  or lost his 
job. 
Its possible Halifax didnt give Mr and Mrs M all the information they needed before they 
decided to buy PPI. The cost was made clear on the PPI application  form, and the PPI was 
competitively priced and apparently affordable. And Mr M doesnt appear to have been 
affected by any of the main exclusions or limitations  (such as those affecting people  with 
pre-existing medical conditions or on certain  types  of employment contract). Overall, I dont 
think better information wouldve changed  their decision.
It follows I dont think Mr and Mrs M have  lost out because of any problems with this sale.
my final decision
Ref: DRN88276522My decision  is I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 November  2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8827652