K821x#15complaint
Miss M is unhappy because CIGNA Life Insurance Company of Europe  SA-NV have 
declined a claim she made on her private  medical insurance policy. 
background
Miss M suffers  from Gastro-oesophageal reflux disease (GORD).  She asked CIGNA to 
authorise treatment for the insertion of a magnetic titanium ring following a recommendation 
by her treating  consultant. 
CIGNA declined the claim on the basis the treatment was experimental. Miss M went ahead 
with the surgery  but she wants CIGNA to pay for it. Shes provided  a lot of information from 
her consultant in support of the treatment not being  experimental. Hes confirmed its 
available on the NHS in 11 Trusts and it doesnt fall within the categories use only for 
research or do not use.
Our investigator upheld  Miss Ms complaint. She didnt think  it was reasonable for CIGNA to 
say the treatment was experimental. CIGNA didnt agree on the basis that the treatment was 
listed as Special Arrangements and they have  a duty to ensure that the treatment being 
reimbursed is for reasonable care and safe. 
So I need to make a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
CIGNA has a responsibility  to handle claims promptly  and fairly.  And they shouldnt 
unreasonably reject a claim. 
The relevant  policy term says CIGNA wont cover:  
Any form of experimental  treatment (or procedure)  that does not amount to orthodox  
treatment or does not adhere to the commonly accepted, customary  or traditional 
practice of medicine in the United Kingdom.
Orthodox treatment is defined as:
a procedure  or treatment  that is medically accepted  in the United Kingdom at the 
time of commencement of the procedure or treatment, in that it accords with that 
upheld by a respectable, responsible and substantial  body of medical opinion, 
experienced in the particular field of medicine.  
I dont think CIGNA has handled the claim fairly  and I dont think  its reasonable to decline 
the claim in the circumstances  of this case. I dont think CIGNA have adequately 
demonstrated in this case that the procedure is experimental. I say that because: 
Ref: DRN80234352Miss M told CIGNA  on the 9 November 2018 that her surgery was scheduled for the 
16 November 2018. Miss M lived in Dubai at the time and her surgery was due to 
take place in London. She phoned  CIGNA a number of times chasing  up 
authorisation and they were aware  she had surgery scheduled.  However, they didnt 
tell her until the night  before the surgery she wouldnt be covered. This was after 
shed arrived in the UK and just hours before  she was due to attend the hospital for 
the surgery;
I dont think CIGNA have sufficiently demonstrated the treatment is experimental. 
The treatment is available in a number of NHS Trusts and the treating consultant  
outlined information  about the peer review  data in a letter to CIGNA. He also 
confirmed that over 670 patients have had the procedure in the UK. CIGNA hasnt 
provided any persuasive evidence demonstrating the information set out in the 
treating Doctors letter in inaccurate  or incorrect.  So, on balance,  I dont think its 
reasonable to say this treatment is unorthodox and not commonly accepted 
medicinal practice;   
The NICE guidelines say special arrangements should be used for this treatment. 
This recommendation means there are uncertainties about  the procedure  being safe 
and effective.  But, I note this is distinct from the other  categories  of the guidelines 
which say a procedure  should only be used in research or shouldnt  be used at all. 
The NICE guidelines for interventional  treatment define should only be used in 
research as where the procedure  is still considered to be experimental or because  
there are uncertainties  that need  to be resolved. In this case  the more detailed 
guidance about Miss Ms procedure  says there are no major safety concerns. The 
guidance goes  on to say there is limited evidence of short term effectiveness but the 
evidence of long term effectiveness is inadequate in quality and quantity. The 
committee comments also noted that the procedure  is being used in the NHS. So Im 
not persuaded that CIGNA have sufficiently demonstrated this procedure falls within 
the policy definition  of experimental in the circumstances of this case;
Miss M had taken steps to adapt her lifestyle and tried other medical  options, such as 
a proton pump inhibitor,  without success. She had an endoscopy which  showed  she 
had a hiatus hernia  and erosive oesophagitis. Consequently, the diagnosis of GORD 
was made. So she had attempted to manage the condition before having  surgery 
which reflected some  of the steps outlined  within the NICE  guidance;  
Our service contacted  another private  healthcare provider who confirmed they had 
covered the treatment  and will consider claims for this treatment in some  
circumstances.
Ref: DRN80234353putting things right
CIGNA needs to put things right by paying  the claim,  subject to the remaining policy terms. 
CIGNA should add 8% simple interest  from the point at which  the claim should have been 
accepted to the date of settlement. 
my final decision
Im upholding Miss Ms complaint about  CIGNA  Life Insurance Company of Europe  SA-NV. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 May 2019.
Anna Wilshaw
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8023435