K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  the mortgage they took out with National Westminster  Bank Plc was 
mis-sold to them.
background
In around November 2007 Mr and Mrs M agreed an interest only offset  mortgage  facility of 
£487,875 with National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) for a term of seven years.  
Mr and Mrs M say the mortgage  was unsuitable  for them. And when they took out the 
mortgage, NatWest didnt discuss with them how theyd repay it at the end of the term. They 
thought they could continue to renew  their mortgage  each time the term, or extended term, 
came to an end.
At the end of the term NatWest  gave Mr and Mrs M an extension of two years.  But when the 
two years was up NatWest refused to let Mr and Mrs M extend the term any further. NatWest 
was worried about  the affordability of the mortgage  going forward and it said Mr and Mrs M 
had to repay the loan. 
Mr and Mrs Ms complaint to NatWest wasnt upheld  so they brought it to this service. Our 
investigator thought  NatWest had advised  Mr and Mrs M about  the mortgage,  but she didnt 
think the advice  had been unsuitable or that the mortgage had been mis-sold to them.  
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy with our investigators opinion, so Ive reviewed everything 
afresh to come  to a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ill explain, and whilst I know Mr and Mrs M will be disappointed,  I agree with our 
investigators outcome  for broadly the same  reasons.
Mr and Mrs M have  brought  their complaint through a representative  whos provided the 
information and made  the arguments I refer to in this decision on Mr and Mrs Ms behalf. For 
ease, Ill refer to what  the representative has told us as having  been said by Mr and Mrs M.
Mr and Mrs M have  made some detailed arguments.  Id like to reassure them Ive 
considered what  both they and NatWest have said, and the documents theyve provided,  
even though I may not mention everything  specifically  here.  
Some of the information Ive seen is conflicting.  Since the events complained  about  
happened many  years ago, in 2007,  I think its reasonable to put greater weight on 
documents that were created at the time rather than what NatWest or Mr and Mrs M may 
remember about events.  Thats  not because I have  any reason to doubt what they say, but I 
need to bear in mind that memories can fade over time and become less reliable. Where  
necessary, I reach my conclusions based  on what I think is more likely than not to have 
happened.
Mr and Mrs M say theyd  always  separated  their domestic and commercial  activities. Theyve 
explained they bought  their property in 1981 for £30,000 funded through a loan. They say 
Ref: DRN81143032initially they took out further loans, always on a capital and repayment basis, to take 
advantage of relatively cheap borrowing and to help supplement their family business. So, 
whilst their activities may have been  separate, their borrowing was for both domestic  and 
business reasons  even  before discussions about  their business requirements took place with 
NatWest in 2007. They say NatWest advised  them then to change  how they planned their 
finances. 
I understand Mr and Mrs M ran a groundworks company and, from around 2007, they 
started working together  with a view to doing  some  property  development. They  also owned 
some buy to let properties, which were  subject to NatWest mortgages.  
Mr and Mrs M have  told us they had a close relationship with a representative  at NatWest 
whom they trusted  and relied upon  for advice.  In the months  leading  up to them  taking out 
the offset mortgage, Mr and Mrs M say theyd had a number of discussions with NatWest 
about how to arrange their financial  affairs. And they say it was on the advice and 
recommendations of the representative and NatWest generally that they decided to take the 
offset mortgage out.
NatWest says it didnt give Mr and Mrs M any advice about  taking the offset mortgage and 
the documents show that. It says since the sale was non-advised, it didnt carry out a fact 
find. And it says Mr and Mrs M made  up their own minds based on the information NatWest 
provided, whether  or not to go ahead with the mortgage.
Mr and Mrs M point  to the discussions they were having with NatWest about their overall  
financial situation as evidence NatWest advised  them on the offset  mortgage.  
Ive only seen limited  written evidence about any discussions  that took place. Mr and Mrs M 
rely on a letter NatWest sent to Mr and Mrs M in February 2007 as evidence of their close 
relationship with the NatWest representative. The letter refers to a business loan facility  
agreed by the NatWest  representative. And it follows  up on a meeting to discuss  business 
financial planning and a recommendation about  life assurance for the business lending.  
I think the letter supports  that Mr and Mrs M had a pre-existing working relationship  with the 
NatWest representative  theyve told us about and that they were discussing their business  
financial planning with NatWest. 
As Ill explain later, I think the offset  mortgage probably formed  part of their financial planning 
as it included a facility to borrow more money  than NatWest advanced to them  initially,  which 
Mr and Mrs M used  quite  soon after the mortgage completed.  And Mr and Mrs M took further 
loans from NatWest for business  ventures  in 2008.  
On balance, I think NatWest did advise them in relation to the offset mortgage. Ill therefore 
consider Mr and Mrs Ms complaint about  the sale of the offset  mortgage  on the basis 
NatWest advised  them on it and taking into account the rules, regulations, guidelines and 
best practice that applied at the time,  which Ill refer to collectively as the rules.
Mr and Mrs Ms complaint about  the sale of the offset mortgage  can be summarised  as 
follows:
They say they were told, both orally and in the documents  NatWest  gave them,  
theyd benefit  financially  from taking the mortgage out. The information  about making 
a saving was misleading. They would only have benefited  if theyd  been  regular 
Ref: DRN81143033savers, which they werent. And NatWest failed to establish that by carrying  out a full 
fact find. 
NatWest gave Mr and Mrs M the impression extending the term of the mortgage  
would be a formality  and failed to advise  about  a suitable repayment vehicle. They 
say they were told not to worry about  that as NatWest would discuss  a refinance 
option with them.  They understood  that meant the facility would be renewed, that is 
the term of the mortgage would be extended.  And they say this persuaded them to 
take the mortgage out.
NatWest failed to warn them property prices  could  reduce and didnt  consider          
Mr and Mrs Ms ages  when agreeing  to lend to them. They  say it if it had, it would 
have been obvious  giving  them  a short-term interest only mortgage was unsuitable 
for them and would be unaffordable.  The term has ended,  property prices have 
fallen, and Mr and Mrs M are at an age at which they cant raise enough funds to pay 
off the mortgage.
Under the rules  NatWest  had to take reasonable care to make sure the advice it gave 
Mr and Mrs M about the offset  mortgage was suitable and to get from Mr and Mrs M the 
information it needed to make  sure it was. That would include checking the mortgage was 
affordable for them and suitable for their needs.
Generally, NatWest could  rely on information  Mr and Mrs M gave it about their finances 
unless there  were reasons to doubt  what theyd said.  Although  Mr and Mrs M say they 
werent sophisticated borrowers and relied on NatWests advice, I think they had some 
understanding of finance  given they ran their own business. So, I think it was reasonable for 
NatWest to accept what Mr and Mrs M told them about their financial situation.
Mr and Mrs Ms offset mortgage worked  by linking the mortgage to their savings or current  
accounts, or both, (including business accounts), so that interest was only charged on the 
difference between  the amount they borrowed and the balance of those accounts.
Mr and Mrs M say NatWest gave them a leaflet that explained how the offset mortgage 
worked. They argue the leaflet represented there  were benefits to taking out the offset  
mortgage  linking the accounts with the mortgage  but they say there is only a benefit if it 
is established the borrower  is, in addition, a regular saver. And they say illustrations NatWest 
gave them about that were misleading. Mr and Mrs M say they werent regular savers and 
NatWest didnt assess the suitability of the mortgage for them on that basis.
Im satisfied the explanatory booklet  set out clearly  how an offset  mortgage  would work. I 
think the illustrations made  clear  they were  only examples of savings that might be possible 
depending on a number of factors. 
The mortgage offer explained the mortgage contract was made up of the offer letter, the 
offer details document and the offset flexible mortgage conditions.  I think  these documents  
also explained how Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage would operate in a way that was clear, fair and 
not misleading, as they should.  
I dont think NatWest had to establish  what Mr and Mrs M might be able to save. And given 
Mr and Mrs Ms business plans were being  developed, I think  its unlikely they would have 
been able to give clear information  about that. I think NatWest gave Mr and Mrs M enough 
information for them to be able to consider themselves whether the mortgage would help 
Ref: DRN81143034them save  or to seek  independent financial advice if they were  unsure. NatWest also 
encouraged them to take legal advice.
From the evidence Ive seen, I think Mr and Mrs Ms motivation for taking out the offset 
mortgage was less so they could benefit  from the savings opportunities, and more so they 
had flexibility to draw  down additional funds.  The amount they took initially was enough  to 
pay off their existing mortgage.  But, as Ive mentioned, they took out additional borrowing on 
the account very soon after the mortgage  had completed. This suggests theyd already 
planned to take the additional  funds, for other reasons, when they were discussing the 
mortgage with NatWest. So even if the information  theyd been  given  about  the savings 
opportunities hadnt been clear  although I think it was  I dont think it would have  affected  
Mr and Mrs Ms decision to go ahead with the offset mortgage. 
The documents NatWest  gave  to Mr and Mrs M before they took the mortgage out set out 
very clearly that Mr and Mrs M needed to make  sure they had a way to repay  the loan at the 
end of the term and that they could  cover the cost of paying for the repayment vehicle if they 
needed to. And NatWest  gave examples of what suitable ways  of repaying might  be such  as 
an ISA, endowment policy or pension plan. 
The mortgage offer indicated  Mr and Mrs M planned  to repay the mortgage  with Other 
savings/investments of £625,000. NatWest  understood  Mr and Mrs M owned a second 
unencumbered property  valued at £625,000 as well as a builders yard valued  at £325,000. I 
think its more likely  than not Mr and Mrs M gave NatWest this information. Under the rules 
at the time, NatWest  could rely on what  Mr and Mrs M told them about how theyd  repay the 
mortgage. So, I dont  think it had to ask Mr and Mrs M more questions  about that. 
Mr and Mrs M say they thought that, as theyd  been told they could extend the term, they 
didnt need to worry about repaying it, so it makes  no difference  how clearly  the documents  
pointed out the importance of having the means to repay the mortgage.
The starting point  here is that the mortgage  was for a limited  term and there  was an 
obligation under  the mortgage for Mr and Mrs M to repay the loan at the end of the seven 
years. 
NatWest would always have had to consider any application for a term extension at the time 
it was made.  There are several  factors a lender would  fairly take into account in coming  to a 
decision about extending a mortgage  term. Those  factors include extensions the lenders 
already given, whether the borrower  has funds available  to pay off the mortgage  as required 
under the terms  of the mortgage and the affordability and risks for both parties  of lending 
further into older age. These things can only sensibly be considered  at the time an 
application is made, not several years beforehand,  because circumstances change over 
time. 
Theres no clear evidence  NatWest  told Mr and Mrs M that theyd definitely be able to extend  
the term of the mortgage when it came to the end of its term. I accept  Mr and Mrs M got the 
impression theyd be able to and, in fact, NatWest agreed an initial extension of two years.  
But I dont think it was reasonable  for Mr and Mr M to think, from what  they say NatWest told 
them  that it would  discuss a refinance  option with them - that theyd be able to extend the 
term automatically or indefinitely. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs M are unhappy  they werent allowed a second term extension,  but 
any complaint they have  about that isnt part of what I am considering here.
Ref: DRN81143035Mr and Mrs M say the mortgage  was unaffordable for them and NatWest didnt properly 
assess that or consider their ages  when it lent to them. 
I can see the application form required Mr and Mrs M to provide bank statements, business 
statements and accounts and contained information about income from their business.  They  
were also asked for information about  financial commitments and debts. Theres evidence  
NatWest thought a 2003 county court judgment  shouldnt prevent the application going  
ahead. So, I think  NatWest carried out an assessment of Mr and Mrs Ms financial situation  
even if it didnt do a full fact find, although I would expect it to have looked in more detail at 
their outgoings than Ive seen  evidence about. 
If, as I think and Mr and Mrs M say, they were  taking the mortgage out as part of their overall 
financial planning, its possible NatWest held more detailed financial information elsewhere. 
But, even  if it didnt,  bearing in mind  that Mr and Mrs M were able to pay the mortgage until 
they unfortunately fell into financial difficulties from around 2010, I think it was affordable  for 
them when they took it out.
 
I acknowledge that a down turn in the property market may have affected Mr and Mrs Ms 
income, particularly given they were operating as property developers and landlords. But I 
wouldnt expect NatWest  to have foreseen a downturn in the property market or to have 
advised Mr and Mrs M that this might  be a possibility. This isnt something the rules at the 
time required them to take into consideration in assessing the suitability of the mortgage, or 
that I could  expect NatWest realistically  to foresee.
I think the seven-year term was consistent with Mr and Mrs Ms retirement plans. The 
application form notes  they planned to retire at age 70 and a term of seven years  fits broadly 
with Mr M being 70 at the end of the term. For reasons Ive explained, I think  NatWest  
reasonably thought Mr and Mrs M had the means  to repay the mortgage  at the end of the 
seven-year term. So I think  it had properly considered their ages when it advised on the 
mortgage.
 
I understand this will be a disappointing  outcome for Mr and Mrs M. However, bearing 
everything in mind,  for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 February  2021.
Julia Wilkinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8114303