K820x#14complaint
Ms T says The Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc (RBS)  mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in January  2002. The policy was 
added to Ms Ts credit card account  after she completed an application form and sent it to 
RBS in the post.
Ms T believes  RBS mis-sold her PPI. She says she was not aware  PPI was optional.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Ms T disagreed  with the adjudicators  opinion  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Ts case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Ms Ts complaint because:
 I think RBS made Ms T aware that the PPI was optional  and she chose to take it. I say 
this because, although I cant be sure what was said between both parties, I can see 
on an application form, PPI is presented  as optional.  On this form a box is ticked to 
indicate that Ms T wanted to take the policy out. It says for cover  just tick this box. So 
on seeing this and also considering what I know of RBS sales at that time, I am 
satisfied Ms T was given  a choice to have PPI.
 RBS didnt recommend the PPI to Ms T so it didnt have to check if it was suitable for 
her. RBS did have  to ensure that the information it gave Ms T was clear,  fair and not 
misleading. 
 It is possible the information RBS gave Ms T about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it should 
have been. But I think she would have taken the policy anyway. I say this because     
Ms T has told us that she was entitled  to at least  6 months  full sick pay within her 
employment at the time of sale. But the policy would have paid more than her minimum  
credit card repayments  in addition to this sick pay, for up to 12 months  if she couldnt 
work, providing  a useful extra benefit at a difficult time. She doesnt appear to have had 
significant other  means to make her credit card repayments if she couldnt work,  at 
least not enough  that it would have put her off from having the insurance. 
 I also dont think on this occasion Ms T was affected by any of the exclusions or 
limitations within the policy such as those given  for pre-existing  medical conditions.  
 The PPI policy was competitively priced  and affordable. 
Ref: DRN82884882So I think it unlikely Ms T would have made a different  decision  if better  information had 
been provided. On balance  I think  she would  still have taken out the policy.
Which means RBS doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms T.
But RBS has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms T because: 
RBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Ms T about that. Because  RBS didnt tell Ms T, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, RBS has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share  that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms T.
But The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc does  have to pay back to Ms T any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont  award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 June  2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8288488