K820x#14Complaint
Mrs W, who is represented by a third party, has complained to us that Cheltenham  & 
Gloucester Plc (C&G) mis-sold her payment protection insurance (PPI) alongside a 
mortgage in January 1987. 
Background
Mrs W said she did not know she had a PPI policy and it wasnt  properly explained to her. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Through her representatives, 
Mrs W disagreed  with that view. 
As Mrs W didnt agree  with our adjudicators view, the matter has been passed to me to 
make a final decision. 
To be clear, this decision is about  the PPI Mrs W took out in January 1987. It isnt about PPI 
cover she took out later, in October 2004.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account  in deciding 
this case
I havent upheld  this complaint. Ill explain the reasons for my decision below. 
Mrs W and C&G agree  this policy was sold to Mrs W during a meeting in a branch. I cant 
know what was said during that meeting.  So to help me decide whats  likely to have 
happened, Ive looked at what Mrs W and C&G  told me about the sale. And Ive considered  
the paperwork thats available from the time.  I think what was discussed  in the meeting 
probably followed what Ive seen in the available sale paperwork. 
The first thing Ive considered is whether  Mrs W ought to have known she was buying PPI at 
the time.  Mrs W said she didnt know shed been sold a policy. But the evidence  Ive seen 
suggests she probably knew shed agreed  to buy PPI at the time  even  if her recollection 
about it now isnt great.  
Ive seen a copy  of the mortgage application  form that Mrs W completed. Although  the copy 
Ive seen isnt as good as Id like, I can see Mrs W ticked a box to she wanted to buy PPI. So 
it seems to me she knew, or ought  to have known, that she was buying PPI to go with her 
mortgage. 
C&G have  agreed  to treat this as an advised  sale. That means  Ive looked at it on the basis 
that  C&G  had to make sure that the PPI was suitable for Mrs Ws needs. To help me decide 
whether it was suitable, Ive looked  at what Ive been told about  Mrs Ws personal 
circumstances at the time. And Ive also considered the terms and conditions of the PPI 
Ref: DRN81340132policy. From  what  Ive seen I dont think the main terms and conditions  of the policy  would 
have made  it difficult for Mrs W to make  a successful claim if she needed to.
Looking at Mrs Ws circumstances at the time, I see she was entitled to only limited benefits 
from her employer if she wasnt  able to work due to an accident  or sickness.  The policy, on 
the other hand,  would  pay out for up to 12 months if she wasnt able to work   or if she lost 
her job. Mrs W told us that she was able to rely on friends and family to help with her 
mortgage repayments. But being  able to do so very much depends on other having the 
financial means to help out, which  cant always be guaranteed. So there  was a real risk to 
her home if she couldnt keep up with her repayments. 
Taking all of this into account,  I think the policy probably was suitable for her. 
Even so, Ive kept in mind that Mrs W says the policy  wasnt properly explained to her at the 
time. C&G had a duty to give Mrs W enough  information  about the PPI so she could decide 
for herself  whether it was a good fit for her needs.  That information  had to be clear,  fair and 
not misleading. As I said, I cant know exactly what was said to Mrs W during the meeting. 
And so its possible that the information C&G gave her could have been clearer.  
But I dont think more  or better information  about  this policy would have  made Mrs W change  
her mind  about the PPI. For the reasons  Ive set out above, I think the policy  was suitable 
and I think she probably thought she had a need for it at the time she bought  it. 
With all of this in mind, I havent upheld  the complaint, so I wont be asking C&G  to do 
anything more. 
Finally,  whilst Im sorry to have to disappoint  Mrs W after all this time, Id like to reassure her 
that Ive given careful consideration  of everything  on the file, dating back to when her 
complaint first came to us. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint and I dont require Cheltenham & Gloucester Plc to take any 
action to put things right.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 September 2019.
Michael Goldberg
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8134013