K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy taken out online 
alongside a credit card in 2009. Mr B says Tesco Personal Finance  PLC (Tesco) mis-sold 
him the PPI.
background
I issued my provisional decision on 7 August 2019. A copy  of my provisional decision is 
attached and forms part of my final decision. 
My provisional decision set out the background to this complaint. It explained why I wasnt 
intending to uphold Mr Bs complaint.
To summarise my provisional decision, I said in this that I didnt think that the PPI had been 
mis-sold to Mr B by Tesco, so it didnt have to pay back  all of the cost of the policy to him. 
But I said that, if it hadnt already done  so, Tesco  did have to pay back to Mr B any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premiums. 
Neither party responded to my provisional  decision with anything further for me to consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Mr B nor Tesco have provided me with any further comments or information 
following my provisional decision,  I see no reason to change the conclusion I reached  in it. 
So I still dont think the complaint should be upheld. 
This means  that Tesco  doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
But Tesco will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr B because:
When the policy was sold,  Tesco expected  to get a high level of commission  and profit  
share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should  have  told Mr B about that. 
Because Tesco didnt tell Mr B, that was unfair.
To put that right, Tesco has basically  offered to pay back  the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
Ref: DRN82424552what the business needs  to do
If it hasnt  done  so already, Tesco should  pay back to Mr B any commission and profit  share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. Tesco should also pay back to Mr B any 
extra interest Mr B paid because of that.
So Tesco should re-work  the credit card account and pay back  to Mr B the difference 
between what he owes and what he would have  owed  if the commission and profit  share it 
got hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Tesco should also pay Mr B 8%* simple  
interest if he paid off the credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr B can claim back  the tax if he doesnt pay tax
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given here and in my provisional decision, Ive decided this PPI policy  
wasnt mis-sold  - so Tesco Personal  Finance  PLC doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of 
the PPI to Mr B.
But, if it hasnt already done so, Tesco Personal Finance PLC does have to pay back to Mr B 
any commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premiums.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 November  2019.
Simon Furse
ombudsman
Ref: DRN82424553copy of my provisional decision
complaint
This complaint is about  a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken  out online alongside  a 
credit card in 2009. Mr B says Tesco Personal Finance PLC (Tesco) mis-sold him the PPI.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in my provisional decision on this case.
Tesco needed to make  Mr B aware  that the PPI was optional  and gain his consent before adding it to 
his card account. Mr B has told us he was unaware  hed been sold the PPI policy. Tesco  has sent us 
a copy of the information and options it says Mr B would have been presented with when he applied 
for his card and PPI online. And I have no reason to doubt that this does reflect what Mr B would  have 
seen when he made  his card application.
The online  process gave  Mr B equally  prominent  options to take the PPI or decline it. The credit 
agreement produced after the answers  to these questions were given shows an electronic signature 
tick has been  entered to confirm Mr B was agreeing to PPI, with a separate signature  tick for the 
credit agreement as a whole. 
Tesco says it would also have sent Mr B copies  of the policy summary and its terms and conditions  
after the sale.  And I think  that Mr B would  have been likely to have queried why he had been sent 
these and was being charged PPI premiums on his card statements if he hadnt  agreed to the PPI 
being added to his account.
So from the information Ive seen, I think Tesco made it clear that Mr B didnt  have to take out the PPI 
and that he actively decided to do so. But I can understand why he may not be able to recall this now.
Tesco didnt recommend the policy, so it didnt need to ensure that the policy  was suitable for Mr B. 
But it did still need to give him enough information for him to decide  if he wanted to take it. I think  its 
likely that the information Tesco gave him could  have been  better  than it was. But I dont think better 
information would have changed his mind about taking it. I say this because:
Mr B appears to have  been eligible for the policy and not affected by any of its main exclusions or 
limitations.
Mr B say he was entitled  to sick pay from his employer; was in receipt of a pension, and had 
savings and other valuable personal  possessions at the time of the sale.  And he says he would 
have been able to use these to make his monthly card repayments if he couldnt  work. He also 
says he would have been able to rely on financial  support from a relative in need.  
But the PPI would have  paid out in addition to any other means he had available. And Mr B chose 
to take out the PPI knowing  his own personal circumstances at the time,  so he seems to have 
valued the extra security  the policy gave him. I also dont think that relying on relatives or having 
to sell personal possessions is as secure as having specific protection  from the policy  if things 
went wrong. Excluding these, the policy could have paid out for longer than his other means  
would have lasted. So I dont think his other means would  have meant that he didnt need the 
extra cover  the policy offered him.
Ive no reason to think the policy was unaffordable for Mr B. And as the premiums were paid 
monthly, it could have  been cancelled if it no longer met his needs.
Ref: DRN82424554This means  that, on the information currently available to me, I dont think that Tesco  has to pay back 
all of the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
But Tesco will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr B because:
When the policy was sold, Tesco expected to get a high level of commission and profit share  
(more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr B about that. Because Tesco  
didnt tell Mr B, I currently think that was unfair.
To put that right, Tesco  has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission and profit  
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I currently think that offer is fair in this case.
what the business needs to do
If it hasnt done so already,  I currently think  that Tesco should pay back to Mr B any commission and 
profit share  it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. Tesco should also pay back to Mr B 
any extra interest Mr B paid because  of that.
So Im intending to tell Tesco to re-work  the credit card account and pay back to Mr B the difference  
between what he owes and what he would have owed  if the commission and profit share it got hadnt 
been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Tesco  should also pay Mr B 8%* simple  interest if he paid off 
the credit card at some  point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr B can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont currently think that the PPI was mis-sold  so Im not intending to 
direct Tesco Personal Finance PLC to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr B. Im intending to 
direct Tesco Personal Finance PLC to do what Ive said above.
Ill now wait to see what  other information and comments I receive by 7 September 2019 before 
making my final decision.
Simon Furse
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8242455