K820x#14complaint
Miss H complains about a car finance agreement  she has with Secure  Trust Bank Plc 
(Secure Trust).  She says the vehicle it funded was not of satisfactory quality; that the 
business werent sympathetic to her financial  difficulties; the finance  agreement isnt 
enforceable and shes  not been  given a satisfactory  answer to the amount outstanding.
background
Miss H took receipt of a used vehicle in October 2012. The car had covered 25,136  miles 
and was three years old at the point of supply. Miss H financed the deal through a hire 
purchase agreement  with Secure Trust.
But Miss H complains that:
she was told shed  broken an arrangement to pay arrears  on the account before the 
payment promise date had been  reached
shes not been told what the arrears  are on the account and disputes  the outstanding 
balance
the vehicle  wasnt of satisfactory quality as it had been  subject to safety recalls
the business should have asked her to complete  an income and expenditure analysis 
in November when  she told them  about an impending redundancy. Theyve not 
assisted her in her financial difficulty
the business used aggressive practices during phone calls in November 2015
the finance agreement is unenforceable as its not signed by both parties
Secure Trust accepted they had made  a mistake when telling her in mid November 2015 
that shed broken a promise to pay the arrears on the account. They said it was clear  that 
the promise was to pay the arrears at the end of the month and theyd entered  the 
information incorrectly on their system.  But they noted that Miss H was able to pay off the 
arrears on the date she originally promised.
They didnt agree that they hadnt  told Miss H about the arrears on the account. They 
explained that theyd sent many letters and had made unreturned  calls to explain the 
position. And they said they hadnt been  made aware of Miss Hs financial problems so 
couldnt be expected to have taken further  action.  
They said that there had been  a safety recall on the vehicle in January 2014 but didnt think 
this was evidence  that Miss Hs car had been effected by a fault and they didnt agree this 
was a reason  to reject the vehicle and terminate the contract.  Overall, they didnt think  theyd 
done anything  wrong. But Miss H disagreed  and she referred  her complaint to this service.
Our adjudicator reviewed  the evidence but didnt think it would be reasonable to ask Secure 
Trust to take any further action. He noted that there  was a mistake made when chasing 
Miss H for payment before the promise was due but he didnt think  Secure Trust needed to 
take any further action.  He thought  the arrears had been explained to Miss H and he went on 
to consider whether her car had been of satisfactory quality.
He identified that Miss H had provided  details of safety recalls  in January 2014  and June 
2018 and other recalls  and remedial action in February 2016 and October 2011. But he 
explained that he didnt believe this was evidence her vehicle had been  faulty  at the point of 
supply. The recalls  referred to issues that might be prevalent on a batch of cars not her 
Ref: DRN82575202specific vehicle. He reviewed the mileage Miss H had completed in the car and thought it 
was clear shed had good use of it so he didnt think there was sufficient evidence the car 
was of unsatisfactory quality. He noted  shed provided invoices for other work required to the 
car but he wasnt satisfied  this work  showed  there  was a fault with the car at the point of sale 
and he thought it was reasonable to suggest there would  be some wear  and tear in a 3 year 
old vehicle that had completed  about  40,000 miles in Miss Hs ownership.
He noticed that the business  had asked  for income and expenditure details but none had 
been received  and in the calls Miss H had with the business shed  explained that the 
redundancy may not take place and that shed be able to afford to pay the arrears. He 
thought this information would have been  likely to have led the business to conclude Miss H 
wasnt in financial difficulties.
He explained  that whilst  the business had been unable  to provide a copy of the finance 
agreement; signed by both parties, he thought it was clear  there  had been  an agreement; 
that Miss H had been making payments to. He didnt think  it was fair to say the lack of a 
signature would invalidate it. And he didnt agree that there was ever a payment 
arrangement in place on the agreement.  He noted  that the Citizens Advice Bureau had 
contacted Secure Trust about this but as the contract had already been terminated this was 
not agreed. Overall, he didnt think it would be fair to ask Secure Trust to take any further 
action.
But Miss H disagreed. Amongst other point she insisted the vehicle  recalls  were proof of a 
fault with her car and she said there had been  a payment arrangement  in place. She 
therefore asked  for a final decision  by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Miss H but I agree with the adjudicators  view and for similar  
reasons.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Theres been a lot of information provided  and Ive read it all but Ill concentrate my 
comments on what I think is relevant. If I dont comment  on any specific point its not 
because Ive failed  to take it on board and think  about  it but because I dont think  I need to 
comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome.
breaking the payment agreement
Secure Trust were  wrong to tell Miss H shed broken her payment promise in November 
2015. But theyve  apologised  and the payment was made as promised by Miss H. Whilst I 
understand this mustve  been frustrating for her, I dont think  shes been  overly 
inconvenienced and Im persuaded that the business dont need to take any further action.
information about the outstanding balance
Ref: DRN82575203I dont agree that the arrears on the account  were  unclear. Secure Trust tell us, for instance,  
that they called but calls were not returned  and that they sent annual statements; provided 
letters in February,  April, September 2014  and talked to Miss H about the arrears in March  of 
that year. They provided annual statements in September 2014  and 2015 which  detailed  the 
arrears position and Ive heard them explain the outstanding  balance  to Miss H during a call 
in November 2015. I think thats sufficient  in the circumstances. Ive reviewed the information 
they provided to Miss H and her solicitors  and it seems to me that the account has been 
calculated correctly and that the initial credit was also correctly calculated  having taken in to 
account the part exchange  and cash deposit.
the vehicle quality
Miss H acquired her vehicle under a hire purchase  agreement. The vehicle shouldve  been 
of a satisfactory quality  when supplied and if it wasnt then Id think it reasonable to ask 
Secure Trust to take further  action. 
But Secure Trusts responsibility  is for the quality of the vehicle  at the point  of supply and not 
for faults  that develop afterwards or those related to fair wear and tear.
Im not persuaded that the vehicle recalls  Miss H refers to are evidence  that her car was 
faulty when supplied. Recalls apply to a group  of cars and some cars in the group may not 
be affected by the issue  at all. The recall is a pro-active measure by the manufacture to 
prevent a fault occurring and Im not persuaded, in these instances, that its a demonstration 
there were faults with Miss Hs specific vehicle.
I can see that Miss H has had good use of the car and whilst shes  had some  work 
completed on it Im not persuaded  this work  was a consequence of anything  wrong  with the 
car at the point  of supply. So I dont think theres sufficient evidence to say it was of 
unsatisfactory quality.
income and expenditure and assistance  with financial problems
Payment issues began  in February 2014 but arrears  began  to amount in early  2016. Ive 
reviewed the business  contact  file and cant see that they talked to Miss H until November 
2015. I dont think  the business  wouldve considered  Miss H was in financial difficulties at 
this point or at any point  before this. Whilst she told them in November  that she may be 
being made redundant, she later explained  there  was a possibility but she was now fine and 
that shed have no problem paying the arrears. I dont think  it would be fair to suggest the 
business had done anything wrong  or been unsympathetic  to financial distress  as they 
dont appear to have  been  made  aware of any and in those circumstances I dont think  they 
wouldve needed to assess  income  and expenditure.
aggressive practices
Ive listened to the calls Miss H had with Secure Trust in November but I didnt find evidence  
of aggressive practices. The agents clarified the arrears position and there were discussions 
about deadlines for payments but I dont think the agents were  pushy, rude or aggressive.
enforceability of the agreement
I can see that Secure  Trust have been unable  to provide a copy  of the agreement signed by 
both parties. 
Ref: DRN82575204The appropriate forum  to decide  technical  arguments as to whether a credit agreement  is 
enforceable is not the Financial Ombudsman  Service, but a court. But, we are able to decide  
whether Secure Trust are being fair in pursuing  Miss H for the debt.
Miss H has been paying instalments towards  her agreement for a few years. Shes not 
disputed those payments  until recently  so it seems fair to suggest she understood there  was 
a contract in place. Those instalments are the same as the ones  documented in the 
agreement which she signed  but Ive not seen evidence the business did. So it wouldnt 
seem fair for the business to continue to pursue her for the debt.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 July 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8257520