K820x#14complaint
Mrs D complains, on behalf of her business  A, that Lloyds Bank PLC has unfairly  closed the 
business accounts and put a marker  against it, when she made a transfer from the wrong 
account. 
background
A had a Euro account and a GB sterling  account  with Lloyds. Both accounts were used for 
running the business. On 28 December 2017  Mrs D intended to initiate a transfer from the 
Euro account. But she mistakenly transferred £34,449.98 from the sterling account. 
She realised  her mistake  and contacted Lloyds to stop the payment.  But she was told it had 
already been paid and so couldnt be stopped. Mrs D was unhappy about this as she didnt 
realise Lloyds would allow the payment when there were insufficient funds in the account. 
Lloyds asked Mrs D to transfer funds from the Euro account to meet the overdraft  on the GB 
account. But Mrs D refused as she didnt want to incur any exchange rate fees; she didnt  
think the error was hers.  And she complained about  this matter. As Mrs D refused to transfer 
funds to repay the overdraft Lloyds gave her 60 days notice of closing the accounts and 
suspended them in the meantime; she wasnt  running them in accordance with the terms 
and conditions. 
A subsequently  tried to open  accounts  elsewhere but was unable to do so because of a 
marker against it. Mrs D complained about that also. 
Whilst Lloyds was looking into her complaints, Mrs D asked us to get involved. 
Subsequently, Lloyds  upheld the complaint about  the transfer as it said all of the account  
holdings are considered  when  deciding  whether  to allow a payment. It offered £25 for calls 
made, £100 for the inconvenience and £1009.08 to cover the exchange  rate if Mrs D agreed 
for the funds to be transferred  over.  Mrs D finally agreed to the transfer at the end of January 
2018. Lloyds also considered the complaint about  the marker but didnt uphold it.
Mrs D says A has been caused considerable inconvenience  because of Lloyds error. She 
says a substantial  amount  of business has been  lost; many thousands of pounds. She also 
said she has been caused considerable distress and inconvenience  and A hadnt been able 
to open business accounts elsewhere   two banks had turned A down. 
When Lloyds transferred money from the Euro account to the sterling  account,  it transferred 
the whole  balance. This was available for withdrawal but Mrs D didnt think  the amount was 
right. But she eventually withdrew the remaining balance of £5108.23 on 12 April 2018. 
Our investigator made  enquiries  with the two banks  that had turned A down  for business 
accounts. One bank had actually provided business accounts and the other confirmed it 
didnt decline the application because of any marker. 
Our investigator took that into account  and concluded that although he couldnt  agree the 
business losses had been substantiated, he didnt think Lloyds had paid sufficient 
compensation for its actions as he didnt think suspending  the accounts until closure had 
been reasonable. So he asked Lloyds to pay an additional £400  compensation. He also 
didnt think the balance was right and so asked Lloyds to rectify that. 
 
Ref: DRN80000972Lloyds didnt agree  it had done anything wrong. Mrs D didnt accept the outcome either and 
still believes  the business has suffered substantial losses. 
I issued my provisional decision on 11 February  2019, explaining why I was minded to find 
Lloyds had already fairly settled this matter.  I said:
Mrs D intended to make a transfer from the Euro account on 28 December 2017. Instead 
she mistakenly asked for the funds to be transferred from the GB account. At the time, the 
account already  had a debit balance of £11.64.  £350 was paid to the account the same day 
as the transfer  out, bringing the total debit  balance to £34,111.62. 
I accept Mrs D was unaware that all the businesses accounts are taken into consideration 
when the payment request was made.  As there were sufficient funds when combining the 
Euro and the GB accounts the payment was made.  Lloyds gave Mrs D the benefit of the 
doubt that this was something she wasnt aware  of. But its hard to see how As position 
would have been any different had this been something Mrs D had been told at the time of 
opening the accounts or any time since; she still would  have  made the payment request from 
the wrong account. 
Mrs D could have rectified  her error very quickly, by simply transferring the sum needed  to 
repay the overdrawn balance that now existed on the GB account.  But she refused. I do 
understand she didnt want to pay the exchange  rate fees, but that was something  she could 
have raised later. By not agreeing to transfer the sum over she was leaving the account in a 
substantial debit balance  that she didnt have  agreement for. It seems  to me that everything 
that followed was as a result  of this. 
Lloyds suspended the accounts and gave Mrs D 60 days  notice that it would be closing  
them. I do understand this caused  some disruption to A. But this action stemmed from      
Mrs Ds refusal  to rectify the debit balance. Given the circumstances, I dont find the bank 
was acting unfairly in suspending use of the accounts. And it is entitled to cease doing 
business with a customer if it wishes to do so. 
I understand A had problems opening  accounts elsewhere, and when it did succeed,  an 
account was suspended  for a period of time. Mrs D has put this down to a marker being 
placed against the business or her. But the investigator made  enquiries  about this and was 
told that neither  the declination to offer an account,  nor the temporary  suspension of the 
opened account were due to any marker.  So like the investigator,  I dont agree this had any 
impact.  
Mrs D considers A has lost a substantial sum by having access to the accounts suspended. 
But as I have found Lloyds didnt do anything wrong,  I dont find there is any basis  on which 
to make an award even  if any losses had been substantiated. Overall, I consider  Lloydss  
offer to more than fairly  compensate A for it not knowing a business full account holding  can 
be taken into account when a payment request is made. 
I turn now to the balance Mrs D withdrew in April 2018. From the information  provided, once 
Mrs D finally  agreed to transfer money from the Euro  account  to the GB account, Lloyds 
transferred the full balance. At the time the Euro account held 44,390.09 Euros. This full 
amount was exchanged and transferred to the GB account. As the GB account had a debit 
balance of £34,141.62 and the exchanged amount was £38,175.17, this resulted in a credit  
balance of £4,033.55. Lloyds then added the compensation amounts to this bringing the total 
to little over £5,162. Mrs D withdrew just over £5,108 on 12 April 2018, a difference £60, 
Ref: DRN80000973which I understand was due to two service charges which  Lloyds arranged  to refund. So the 
balance was correct.  
I know Mrs D thought  the balance was wrong because of the exchange rate. But there was 
no requirement for Lloyds  to use the exchange rate as it was on 28 December  2017.  And as 
Lloyds has shown the full balance of the accounts has been withdrawn I find no basis  on 
which to ask it to increase  that sum. I appreciate Mrs D is unhappy that she received all of 
the funds in GB sterling but I dont consider it reasonable to ask Lloyds to now change some  
of those funds  to Euros or cover any exchange rate costs.  
Lloyds has confirmed receipt of the provisional  decision  but hasnt provided anything  further  
for me to consider.  A has also received the decision and Mrs D tells us she has provided all 
she has and has nothing  further to add. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any further evidence  or arguments  to consider, I see no 
reason to depart from my provisional findings as set out above.  I find that Lloyds has already 
fairly settled  this complaint and so I dont  ask it to do anymore. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D, on behalf  of 
A, to accept or reject  my decision before 1 April 2019.
Claire Hopkins
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN8000097