K822xcomplaint
Mr S complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (Amex) declined  his claim 
made under section  75 of the Consumer  Credit Act 1974 (CCA). The claim was about three 
hotel rooms given  to him and his family when they went on holiday in 2016.  
Mr S says he didnt get everything that hed paid for. 
background 
In September  2016, Mr S paid £1,015 as a deposit  for an all-inclusive package holiday for 
himself and ten other members of his family.  The deposit was paid using his wifes additional 
card on his account with Amex. He paid the rest of the holiday  balance using a different 
account. Mr S paid an extra £614  for an upgrade, so that three  of the four hotel rooms he 
booked, would have a sea view and a balcony. The remaining room would have a garden 
view.
When Mr S arrived at the hotel, he says he found  that none of the three  rooms  had the sea 
view he was expecting.  Mr S says he tried to resolve the problem with the onsite  
representative of the travel  agent  and directly  with the hotel. However,  he says they didnt 
manage to help him in changing the three  rooms  he was unhappy  with.
Mr S continued with his holiday, but complained to the travel agent  after he returned home. 
The travel agent  said the hotel rooms  he was given were in line with their definition  of a room 
with a sea view.  Mr S wasnt happy with this response and raised a claim with Amex  under 
section 75 of the CCA for a breach  of contract.
Amex looked at the section 75 claim,  but declined to refund any money to Mr S. They said 
they were satisfied that the travel agent had given Mr S what hed paid for and hed not given  
them sufficient evidence  to say otherwise. Mr S didnt agree with Amexs approach to his 
claim, so brought his compliant to us.
Our investigator found that Mr S and his family didnt have  the sea views they paid for. He 
based his conclusions on a photograph Mr S took from the balcony of one of the rooms  and 
from what hed seen  on a map of the hotel. The investigator also looked at online reviews  
about the part of the hotel complex where Mr S stayed. He concluded that Amex should 
refund the £614 Mr S paid to upgrade the hotel rooms.
Amex didnt accept  the investigators conclusions and said theres no proof that Mr S and his 
family actually stayed in rooms without a sea view. They  also said Mr S originally asked for 
the cost of the whole  holiday back, rather than just the cost of the hotel room upgrades. The 
investigator didnt  change his findings and was persuaded  that Mr S and his family stayed in 
the rooms they said they did.
Because Amex  didnt  agree, the case has been referred to me to make  a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
section 75 and who paid for the holiday
Ref: DRN83147212When considering  if Amex acted fairly in declining Mr Ss claim, Ive taken into account the 
relevant law. In this case, section 75 of the CCA makes Amex responsible for a breach  of 
contract by the travel  agent.  Mr S claim for a breach  of contract here is that the travel agent  
did not provide  the upgraded rooms which he had paid an extra  cost for. Ive also taken into 
consideration The Package Travel and Linked  Travel Arrangements  Regulations 2018. 
£1,015 was paid using  Mrs S' additional  card on Mr S account  with Amex. The booking is in 
the name of Mr S wife. Although the booking  of the holiday uses Mr S wife as the lead 
passenger, Im satisfied  Mr S was part of the travelling group. So, I think  there was a 
contract between Mr S, Amex and the travel  agent  for the payment and supply of the 
holiday.
 
the rooms the hotel  gave  Mr S.
Amex have said that they need more proof that Mr S and his family  stayed  in rooms which 
didnt have a sea view. Weve asked the travel agent and the hotel where Mr S stayed for 
confirmation of the room  numbers. The hotel told us that they changed their booking 
systems in 2018 and any information prior to this date is no longer available. Also, the travel 
agent was unable to confirm the room numbers Mr S was given. 
So, Ive considered the information we do have about the hotel rooms.  Mr S has told us the 
room numbers he says his family stayed in and that the three rooms which were sold as 
having a sea view, were  next to each other. Mr S has provided photographs from one rooms 
balcony and another from the front door to the room which shows the rooms number.
I dont think it is likely  Mr S took a photograph from the inside  of a room  that he didnt stay in. 
The photographs have  allowed us to cross  reference the location of the room, using the map 
of the hotel complex and other  pictures weve used from an internet based map application.  
So, I think the front and balcony photographs are from the same room.
Mr S has also been consistent  in what hes said about the two other  rooms  which  he was 
told had a sea view.  And hes been able to tell us the numbers of those rooms. So, taking 
this into consideration,  I am persuaded by Mr Ss account that the other rooms he booked  
with a sea view are similar to the room shown in the photographs hes sent to us.
the travel  agents  definition  of a sea view
When Mr S complained to the travel agent,  they replied and sent him a copy of their 
definitions of a sea view and a limited sea view, taken from their website. The definition of a 
sea view says:
If you book  a room with a sea view, it may be partially blocked by trees  or smaller  buildings, 
or across a road, but youll still be able to see the sea.
The definition of a limited sea view says:
If we describe a room as a Limited  Sea View, this will generally mean that your view of the 
sea will be to the side rather than directly  in front of you. There may also be more 
obstructions like trees  between your room and the sea than with a sea view room.
Ref: DRN83147213Ive agreed that Mr S and his family stayed in the rooms they say they did. So, Ive 
considered if the photographs Mr S took from the balcony and the other information Ive 
used about the resort,  are similar to the travel agents definition of a sea view.
The view of the sea from the hotel rooms is to the right, rather  than in front.  Additionally, 
between the balcony of each room and the sea, are obstructions like trees. But, there are 
also buildings of the same  height,  the garden  area of the hotel and a road.  So, I dont think  
Mr S was given rooms with either a sea view or a limited sea view. Taking everything into 
consideration, I think Mr S was given four rooms with a garden view.
the cost of the upgrade
Mr S paid £614 for room upgrades, which is itemised on the travel agents booking  
confirmation form. Ive spoken to the travel agent  and theyve told me that they dont  itemise  
each individual  room  cost or room type.  Rather, the room upgrade is the total cost for a 
room(s) at a hotel  which  can change depending on the time of the year.  
The travel agents  website suggests  that they sell upgrades to rooms with a limited sea view 
and theres no upgrade  cost for a room with a garden view. Ive considered  that Mr S took 
his holiday in 2016. But, in all the circumstances, I dont  think  there were any upgrade  costs  
for rooms with a garden view when he and his family went  to the hotel. So, I think  all of the 
£614 he paid was to upgrade three of the rooms  to rooms with a sea view.
Ive found Mr S didnt  get the hotel  rooms the travel  agent sold to him. So, I need to consider 
what would  be a fair remedy to resolve the breach of contract. In all the circumstances, I 
think its fair that Amex  should pay Mr S £614  for the loss of the enjoyment of a sea view for 
three of the four rooms  he booked.  Amex  have told us that Mr S pays his balance  in full 
every month. So, hes not paid any interest or charges on the room  upgrade  amount paid to 
the travel  agent.  Because of this, I dont think Amex  need  to make any refund of interest and 
charges to Mr S.
Ive also considered that Mr S didnt have access to the amount paid to the travel  agent for 
the room upgrade. So, Mr S couldnt  use the amount of £614 for other purchases.  I think  that 
from the date the £614 payment was made  until the date of settlement, Amex  needs to add 
8% simple  interest a year to the amount and also pay that to Mr S 
I know Mr S has been waiting an extremely long time for his complaint to be considered  by 
an ombudsman. Im sorry for this delay.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. American 
Express Services Europe Limited should:
-Repay £614  to Mr S for the cost of the room upgrades; and
-Add 8% simple interest a year to this amount and pay this to Mr S for the period 
when he repaid this amount to Amex  until the date of settlement.
Ref: DRN83147214If Amex considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income  tax from 
that interest,  they should tell Mr S how much theyve taken off. Amex should also provide 
Mr S with a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 August 2019.
Sam Wedderburn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8314721