K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that Mapfre Asistencia,  Compania Internacional De Seguros y 
Reaseguros, S.A. (Mapfre) declined their travel insurance claim. My references to Mapfre 
include its agents.
background
Mr and Mrs D were on a multi trip holiday. They missed a flight from New Zealand to Bali as 
they said they were  stuck  in traffic. They  claimed  for additional overnight  accommodation,  
meals and alternative flights.
Mapfre declined the claim. The policy didnt cover  flights  outside 36 hours of Mr and Mrs Ds 
initial flight and before the last 36 hours  before they returned home. Mapfre accepted  its 
initial explanation for the decline of the claim  was unclear and it paid Mr and Mrs D £75 
compensation for their inconvenience.
Mr and Mrs D complained  to us. They didnt think the policy was clear.
Our investigator thought Mapfre had fairly declined the claim.
Mr and Mrs D disagreed  and wanted an ombudsmans decision.
my provisional decision
I made  a provisional decision  explaining  why I was intending to uphold this complaint and 
say Mapfre must reassess the claim in line with the remaining policy  terms, conditions and 
limits. I said:
The policy says under section G - Missed departure:
What you are covered  for
We will pay up to the amount shown in the table of benefits for the extra reasonable costs of 
travel and accommodation you need to continue your trip if you cannot reach the departure  
point of any part of your outward or final return journey  which is due to commence within 
36 hours of the start of your outward  or return journey, as a result ...the vehicle you are 
travelling in being stuck in traffic.
Mr and Mrs Ds missed flight wasnt within the relevant 36 hours.
However, the 36 hours requirement is a significant  restriction on cover.  It should be clearly 
highlighted in the policy documentation for Mapfre to be able to fairly rely on the term. The 
policy keys facts summary doesnt  highlight the 36 hours requirement for missed  departure.
A similar requirement for section F  Delayed departure or abandoning your trip is in the 
key facts. It says:
Flight coverage
We only provide cover  under section F  Delayed departure  or abandoning  your trip for 
flights that form part of your outward and final return international journey  of your trip (i.e. 
any flight that commences  within 36 hours  of your initial flight  of your outward or return 
Ref: DRN89391422international journey). No cover is provided for any claim which relates to any subsequent 
flights during your trip/holiday.
But that wording  only refers to the cover for delayed departure/abandonment, not missed 
departure.
It may well be that Mapfre meant  to include missed departure in that wording, but it hasnt. 
And I dont  think Mr and Mrs D would reasonably understand  that just because the 36 hours 
requirement was highlighted for delayed departure/abandonment it applied  to missed 
departure too.
I think Mr and Mrs D have been disadvantaged  by the 36 hours requirement for missed  
departure not being highlighted in the policy. They could have bought an alternative  policy  
without the restriction.  Given  their flight itinerary I think it more likely than not they would 
have done so had Mapfres policy highlighted the restriction.
I dont think its fair and reasonable for Mapfre to rely on the 36 hours requirement to decline 
Mr and Mrs Ds claim.  It must reassess the claim for missed departure  in line with the 
remaining policy terms, conditions and limits.
responses to my provisional  decision
Mr and Mrs D and Mapfre accepted my provisional decision
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties agreed to my provisional  decision I have no reason to change  my mind.  For 
the reasons Ive given in my provisional  findings and these findings I uphold this complaint. 
Mapfre must reassess the claim for missed  departure in line with the remaining policy terms, 
conditions and limits.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and require Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y 
Reaseguros, S.A. to reassess the claim in line with the remaining policy  terms, conditions  
and limits.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 August  2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8939142