K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains Barclays Bank UK PLC blocked  his cash  and stocks  ISA. And wouldnt allow  
him to deposit any more  cash into it before  he transferred  his account to a new provider. 
Mr S also complains that Barclays provided  incorrect information when he arranged to move 
his account to another bank. He believes  he has lost money due to the block and closure of 
his account. And he wants  Barclays to pay him compensation. 
background
Mr S had a flexible cash and stocks  ISA with Barclays. 
On 24 January 2018, Barclays  sent Mr S a letter to say that following a review it was no 
longer able to support his account. This meant  Mr S wasnt able to make  any deposits  into 
the account. Barclays also told Mr S that it would be closing his account and offered him 
alternative options, which included transferring his ISA to another  bank. Barclays gave Mr S 
60 days to let them know what  option  hed chosen. 
Mr S chose to transfer his ISA to another bank,  but before doing so he wanted to credit the 
account with funds. Barclays told Mr S that following its review and decision to close  his 
account it wasnt able to accept further  deposits into the account. Mr S wasnt happy with 
this response.  He says because Barclays prevented him from topping  up his ISA, hell lose 
out on a valuable tax free allowance, which he was intending to use once hed retired.  
Mr S is also unhappy with the service Barclays provided during the transfer process. He 
says Barclays made  mistakes when it completed the necessary paperwork and caused 
delays, which he says meant he wasnt able to set up a new ISA account  before the end of 
the 2017/2018 tax year.  
On 15 March 2018 Barclays received Mr Ss ISA transfer forms from his new provider, which  
I will refer to as bank  B. Barclays records show that on 19 March  2018 the transfer  was 
cancelled due to its internal systems not allowing the transfer to complete. So it had to be 
resubmitted. Barclays turned this request  around  by 26 March  2018 when it sent the cheque  
and ISA declaration  to bank B. However the declaration showed  an incorrect  negative 
balance. Barclays realised its mistake  and sent bank B corrected forms on 30 March 2018.
Barclays letter (dated  26 March 2018) was received by bank B on 28 March 2018.  The 
transfer process was completed on 29 March 2018  when  bank  B deposited  the funds sent by 
cheque to Mr Ss new ISA account.  The process to this point took 11 working days  which 
Mr S was told was within the 30 working  day industry guidelines. However,  Barclays  
acknowledged it shouldve provided Mr S better service and offered him £50 as a gesture of 
goodwill. Mr S wasnt  happy  with this response  and brought his complaint to us. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Ss complaint. She said Barclays  werent required to provide 
their reasons  for the block and closure  of Mr Ss account. She was satisfied Barclays  had 
acted fairly  and in line with the terms and conditions of the account.  And that it had followed 
its legal  and regulatory obligations when it blocked and closed the account. She also said 
Barclays had completed the transfer of Mr Ss ISA within 30 days.  So she didnt uphold  the 
complaint.
Ref: DRN83462282Mr S disagreed. Hes still upset Barclays blocked his account and wouldnt allow  him to top 
up his ISA before he transferred his account  to another  bank. As no agreement could be 
reached the complaint has come to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
it, for the same reason  as our investigator. Ill explain  why.
account blocks
Mr S is unhappy that Barclays wouldnt allow him to deposit cash  into his ISA after it had 
completed a review. And told him it was closing his account. He says as a result hes lost out 
on tax allowances  and will incur financial losses for years to come.  
Whilst I understand Mr Ss strength of feeling,  businesses have a legal obligation to protect 
the security of their accounts and also to comply  with various laws and regulations. Mr S 
agreed to this term as a customer, and it is a reasonable  term. Im satisfied that Barclays 
were acting in line with its legal and regulatory  obligations and in accordance  with the terms 
and conditions of the account  when it reviewed Mr Ss account. Having looked  at the 
information about how Mr S was using his account, I can see why Barclays  had concerns 
and decided to review his account.  So I dont think its done anything wrong or treated Mr S 
unfairly when it blocked  his account  and didnt allow him to make  further  deposits  into the 
account. 
ISA transfer
The ISA wrapper which allows the underlying investment to be held tax free is a 
government/HMRC incentive. So the operating regulations are set by the government and 
can be found on the www.gov.uk website.
The timescales for transfers between providers are set out as no longer than 30 working 
days for stocks and shares  ISAs, and to contact the provider if it takes  longer  than this. 
It  was 11 working days from when Barclays letter to bank B was received, to Barclays 
sending the funds to bank  B, which is within this timescale. 
Section 6.6 of Barclays own terms and conditions relates to Transferring  to all or part of 
your ISA held with us to another ISA manager and says You  need  to contact and make the 
necessary arrangements  with your new ISA manager in accordance with its 
requirementsthe ISA regulations allow us up to 30 calendar days  to complete an ISA 
transfer.
Mr S says he was concerned that his money  wouldnt be invested before the end of the tax 
year. And that hed lose out on his tax allowance. But from looking at the timeline of events  I 
can see that Mr Ss money  was invested by 29 March 2018, which was before the end of the 
tax year.  And well within the 30 day timeframe. So overall, I cant  see that Barclays  unduly 
delayed things.
Having said that I can see that Mr S made  several phone  calls and sent emails  to Barclays 
to try and sort things out. And find out what was going on with the transfer.  So I can accept 
this must have been frustrating and time consuming for him. I note Barclays accepts it 
Ref: DRN83462283shouldve provided  Mr S with better service in keeping  him updated about what  was 
happening with the transfer. 
I cant say why Mr Ss initial transfer  form was cancelled. And why Barclays  sent a transfer 
form showing a negative  balance. But Ive seen that Barclays  corrected this mistake quickly. 
This is the only point  where I think things couldve gone better. Barclays has offered Mr S 
£50 to reflect its poor service. So while I appreciate Mr S feels  his transfer took too long and 
he had to chase  things up, I consider it was completed within  the 30 working  day timescale. 
And I think £50 is enough to reflect  any trouble and upset Barclays may have caused Mr S. 
So Im not going to ask Barclays to do anything more. 
account closure
A bank  is entitled  to close an account with a customer just as a customer may close  an 
account with a bank. But before a bank closes an account, it must do so in a way, which 
complies with the terms and conditions of the account.
The terms and conditions  of Mr Ss accounts  confirm Barclays can close the account 
immediately in some circumstances and by providing Mr S 30 days  notice. I can see that 
Barclays wrote to Mr S on 24 January 2018  to let him know that following a review of his 
account, it had decided to close Mr Ss account.  So Im satisfied Barclays  complied with the 
terms and conditions of the account.  
I appreciate that the closure of the account has caused Mr S inconvenience. But the bank 
can make  commercial decisions about  who it offers banking services to. They  cannot unfairly 
discriminate against  a customer.  But they can say they no longer wish to do business with 
individuals. Thats because theyve got the commercial freedom to decide  who they want to 
contract with. And Im satisfied that Barclays has exercised its commercial  decision 
legitimately when it decided to close Mr Ss account. So I cannot fairly and reasonably say 
its done anything  wrong.
In summary,  whilst I acknowledge  Mr Ss frustrations with the situation  relating to his 
account. And that the account  being blocked and subsequently closed impacted on him. I 
dont think Barclays failed  to properly follow its own procedures.  So Im not going to ask 
Barclays to do anything.
I appreciate that my decision will come as a great frustration  and disappointment  to Mr S. 
But Mr S is entitled to reject my decision.  If he does reject it then it is not binding on him or 
Barclays. And it is then open  to him to raise  these issues in any legal proceedings he wishes  
to instigate.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 September  2019.
Sharon Kerrison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8346228