K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain about the way in which U K Insurance Limited  (UKI) dealt with their 
travel insurance claim. 
The complaint has been brought by Mr and Mrs Ws relative on their behalf. But for ease  
Ill refer to all comments as being from Mr and Mrs W.
background
Mrs W fell seriously  ill abroad, so she and Mr W made a claim under their travel  insurance 
policy with UKI. They  complained about  its delay in dealing with and settling the claim and 
about poor communication. It failed to give them a breakdown of the payments it had made  
and there  was confusion about which policy the claim  should  be made under. And UKI didnt 
give call backs  when requested, arrange for them to speak to a manager and it failed to 
update them. 
UKI agreed  that it had given Mr and Mrs W poor service. It paid them  total compensation of 
£425 for distress  and inconvenience. Mr and Mrs W remained unhappy and came  to us. 
Our adjudicator thought that UKI had paid a fair amount of compensation for its admitted 
poor service. But she said it should pay 8% simple interest on the claim in line with our usual  
awards. 
Mr and Mrs W accepted our adjudicators  findings  but UKI did not. In summary it said the 
£425 compensation payment included  compensation  for its delay. Wed said the 
compensation amount was fair and so it shouldnt have to pay interest in addition  to that 
amount. So the complaint came to me for review. 
developments
Following an initial review  I asked for more  information about any interest  Mr and Mrs W had 
paid on their credit card, which potentially was higher than the interest  settlement wed 
proposed. They responded to say that theyd repaid their credit card bill from their savings 
on their return  to the UK. They also sent evidence to show  theyd submitted their claim to 
UKI on 8 June 2018.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The only issue that remains in dispute  is whether UKI should pay interest  on the claim 
settlement. 
As I understand it UKI says it shouldnt have to pay interest on the claim settlement because 
our adjudicator previously  said that its £425  compensation payment was fair and reasonable. 
It says that the compensation payment was generous and that it included  an element for 
the delay in settling the claim.
Ive thought about UKIs comments, together with all the evidence and its complaint 
responses. It seems  to me that the compensation  payment it made for its overall  poor 
Ref: DRN89721202service to include the delay in settling  the claim was for the distress and inconvenience this 
caused to Mr and Mrs W. Having  reviewed  UKIs  claim  handling I think  the total 
compensation payment was fair rather than generous. Mrs W had suffered a serious illness 
while on holiday, and the delay and poor claims handling caused her additional and 
unnecessary distress at an already difficult time. The additional stress was such that she and 
Mr W had to ask their relative to deal with UKI on their behalf. 
I dont think the compensation payment goes far enough to resolve the complaint because 
UKI didnt  settle  the claim promptly. This meant  that Mr and Mrs W have also had a financial 
loss.
As our adjudicator has said we generally make  a separate award for interest  where a claim 
payment is delayed and I think its fair to do so in this case. The interest compensates  a 
consumer for being out of pocket because  of the delay. This is different from and in addition  
to the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr and Mrs W by the delay (and other  poor 
service). Here the claim was for a fairly substantial amount. Mr and Mrs W had to pay for 
their medical and additional  expenses using their credit card.  They submitted the claim on 
8 June 2018 and have  sent us evidence of that. In line with our usual approach I think  its fair 
that UKI pays interest  on their claim from 8 June  2018 until the dates it paid the various 
elements of their claim. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I uphold this complaint in part. I require U K Insurance Limited 
to pay to Mr and Mrs W interest* on the claim payments at the simple  rate of 8% per year 
from 8 June 2018 until the dates  it paid the various elements of their claim.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 September 2019.
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
*If UKI considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income  tax from 
that interest,  it should tell Mr and Mrs W how much  its taken off. It should also give Mr and 
Mrs W a certificate  showing  this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim  the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN8972120