K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that Lloyds Bank  PLC (Lloyds)  mis-sold  him a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
The full background to this case is set out in my provisional decision, issued in April 2019.  
Ive attached that decision here and it forms part of my final decision.
Both parties  were invited  to comment on my provisional decision. Neither party responded. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party had any comments  to make or further evidence  to provide I dont see any 
reason to depart from my original findings.  
my final decision
I am not upholding  Mr Gs complaint, so Lloyds Bank PLC doesnt have to pay any further 
compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2019.
Sally Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN86213332Copy of Provisional  decision
complaint
Mr G complains that Lloyds Bank  PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance  (PPI) 
policy.
background
Mr G took out a credit  card with Lloyds in 1995.  At some  point PPI was added  to the account.
Mr G says he was led to believe hed be more  likely to be accepted for the credit card if he took the 
PPI.
The adjudicator didnt think Mr Gs complaint should  be upheld.  Mr G disagreed,  so his case has been 
passed to me to make  a decision.
 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website and Ive taken this into 
account when deciding this case. Having done so, Im not intending to uphold  the complaint. Ill 
explain my decision; and Id welcome comments from both parties  on the evidence I have considered 
and the conclusions I have  drawn.
From what Mr G has said to this service, it seems like he has a good recollection of the sale.  He 
explains that he was sold the PPI in an office (presumably at a branch  of Lloyds) by a female  advisor. 
He says that he was told Lloyds preferred  to lend money to people  who took out insurance and if he 
took it out the application would be more  likely approved. He says he agreed to buy the PPI on this 
basis. He also explains that the wasnt told anything about the insurance other than it would  help 
protect his card repayments.  
However, Mr G has supplied  two questionnaires  to this service : one states the sale took place in 
2008; the other says it took place in 1995. Theres a considerable difference  between  these two 
dates, and I think  its likely the sale didnt  take place in either  of these  years, so I have treated Mr Gs 
recollections with some caution.
Lloyds says that it doesnt know when the PPI was sold. It only has records from the beginning  of 
2000. But it has provided a number  of credit card statements in relation to Mr Gs account.  
From these I think its likely that the PPI was added at some  point between  April 2000 and October  
2000. The statements show that Mr G used his card in March and April 2000 and yet didnt pay PPI 
on the balance. The next available statement  is October 2000 when the PPI appears.  Given  that I 
dont think the PPI wasnt  sold alongside the card, I think its likely the sale took place by phone   
which seems  to be the only way PPI was sold by Lloyds after a card had been issued. 
As I dont think the PPI was sold at the same time the card was taken, I dont think I can safely  rely on 
Mr Gs statement that he was led to believe  hed have a better chance of being  accepted for the card 
if he took the PPI. Mr G hasnt suggested he didnt  agree to take the PPI, or that it was added without  
his consent.  And I think its more likely  than not that Lloyds obtained Mr Gs permission  to add the 
PPI. 
Lloyds has said that it wouldve given Mr G a personal  recommendation to buy the PPI, so it had to 
take reasonable  steps  to make sure it was right for him. I dont think  its clear that a recommendation 
was made, but I dont  think it makes a difference in this case, because I think if a recommendation 
had been made that it was a suitable  one. I say this because, looking at Mr Gs circumstances at 
around April to October 2000:
Ref: DRN86213333Mr G was eligible for the policy and wouldnt  have been affected by any terms which mightve  
made it more difficult  for him to make  a successful claim, such  as those  related to existing 
medical conditions or self-employment;
Mr G had some sick pay, but the policy wouldve paid out in addition to this and for longer 
than his full sick pay wouldve lasted;
Mr G says he was entitled  to redundancy pay. But, again, the policy wouldve  still paid out, 
and for up to 12 months at a time, leaving any redundancy pay to cover other uninsured 
expenses;
The cost of the policy  was comparable  to other similar policies on the market  around the 
same time. It was flexible,  because it could be cancelled at any time without a financial 
penalty. And I havent seen anything to suggest the PPI was unaffordable  for Mr G.
Its possible Lloyds didnt give Mr G all the information it shouldve done. But I dont think  more, or 
better, information wouldve made Mr G act differently and not buy the policy, because I think it was 
suitable for him. So I dont think Mr G has lost out as a result of anything Lloyds mightve done wrong.  
My assessment of the suitability  would remain the same whether the policy was bought  in 1995, 2000 
or 2008 as essentially Mr Gs circumstances  were the same at each point.
This means  Lloyds doesnt  need  to pay back all of the premiums Mr G paid.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr G because:
When the policy was sold, Lloyds expected to get a high level of commission and profit 
share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr G about that. 
Because Lloyds didnt tell Mr G, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back  the amount of commission and profit  share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium (based on an assumption the PPI was taken  out in 
1995)- and I think  that is fair in this case.
my provisional  decision
I dont think the PPI policy  was mis-sold  so if my decision becomes  final  Lloyds Bank Plc does not 
have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to Mr G.
But Lloyds Bank Plc does  have  to pay back to Mr G any commission  and profit share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I dont award any further 
compensation. 
I will consider any further information provided by either party which  I receive before 23 May 2019 
before I make my final decision.
 
Ref: DRN8621333