K821x#15complaint
Mr K complains about the way in which Lloyds Bank PLC have dealt with the allocation of 
payments he made to his credit card accounts with them during a promotional  period.
background
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in January  2020.
The background to this complaint, and my provisional findings,  can be found in my 
provisional decision which forms part of this final decision. I invited both parties  to make any 
further submissions by 23 January 2020 before I finalised matters.
In summary,  Lloyds had upheld  Mr Ks complaint, but I wasnt  satisfied that they had offered 
Mr K enough  compensation for the loss that he incurred as a result of the incorrect 
information they gave him.
Briefly, Mr K had asked for his payments to be re-allocated to his promotional rate accounts 
to enable him to clear  his balances before they reverted to the standard  rate, and Lloyds told 
him on the telephone that they could do this for him. 
They said he could make the payment and then call them to complete  the re-allocation.  After 
Mr K made his payments, he saw that the money hadnt been  re-allocated as he had asked. 
For Mr K, this meant  that he would have to pay interest  at the standard rate on his 
promotional accounts.
For reasons set out in my provisional decision, Lloyds made  an error when they said they 
could re-allocate Mr Ks payment. By doing  so they would have been in breach of their terms 
and conditions and the guidance  in the CONC rules  (6.74R)  which  says that payments must  
be allocated to the debt which has the highest rate of interest first. 
Lloyds accepted their error and made an offer of compensation to Mr K in the sum of £75 
and interest of £1.90.
In my provisional decision,  I recommended  that Lloyds pay Mr K £350. 
This was because I had calculated  Mr Ks loss as follows: 
18.20% (the highest rate of interest) - 4.94% (the promotional  rate) = 13.26% (the 
difference) x £2668.54 (the amount paid by Mr K) = £356
Both parties  had an opportunity to respond to my provisional decision.   
Lloyds responded to say they had further information they wanted me to consider. 
They said that
1.they agree with our investigators findings not to uphold  the complaint
2.that the terms and conditions  of Mr Ks account confirm  the way in which payments 
are allocated
3.their systems will always allocate payments to the highest  bearing account first.
Ref: DRN843648224.the monthly statements issued to Mr K also confirm how payments are allocated,  and 
therefore Mr K would have been aware at the outset that his payment would be 
allocated to the plan with the highest rate of interest
5.in the telephone call to Lloyds  on 15th March 2019, Mr K explained  that he had made 
a payment that day and was told that it would be allocated  to the payment of his 
choice. Lloyds were  unable to find any record of calls prior to this date.
6.there has never been a policy in place to re-allocate payments, so the reference to 
policy change in the provisional  decision is incorrect. Payments could only ever be 
allocated as a result of a bank error  or in exceptional circumstances. So they say, 
they havent withdrawn a service that was previously available  to customers.
7.they didnt  provide  incorrect information  leading to Mr K making a payment to the 
wrong plan, as he made the payment prior to the date of his call on 15 March.
8.accept that they did however, incorrectly advise Mr K that they could re-allocate his 
payments.
I am being asked  to reconsider  the compensation payable to Mr K. Mr K hasnt provided any 
further evidence  for consideration.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Ive considered Lloyds  comments  and, having  done so, Im not persuaded to depart from 
what Ive said in my provisional decision and I will give my reasons for this. 
Lloyds havent  provided me with any new evidence since my provisional decision, and they 
havent persuaded me why compensation should remain at the £75 they have offered  I 
havent been given any justification for why they think this compensates  Mr K for the 
incorrect information he received.
Lloyds say that there wasnt a change in policy and theyve never  offered a payment re-
allocation service. But having listened to Mr Ks telephone call with an operator after the 
balance transfer,  she can be heard  saying  that they cant  allocate payments after 18 March, 
indicating that it would  have been possible  to do so before this date.
 I can only conclude that there may not have  been a policy change,  but this was not made  
clear to Mr K, and led him to believe that there  had been a policy change in the intervening 
days between the payment,  his call to the bank  and him discovering  that the payment hadnt 
been allocated  as he had asked. 
So, although  there hadnt been a policy change, Lloyds gave the impression that there had 
been to Mr K.
In my provisional decision I considered the terms and conditions and the information on the 
statements that Mr K already had. But Mr K telephoned Lloyds to specifically ask them  to 
allocate his payments and it was at this point that Lloyds should have told him they couldnt 
and referred him to his terms and conditions. 
Lloyds have already accepted that they incorrectly advised Mr K that they could re-allocate 
his payments, and so all that remains then is to calculate the compensation that he should 
be paid to put things right. 
Ref: DRN84364823When I issued my provisional decision,  I set out the amount of compensation I thought was 
fair and why.
I therefore dont  find it necessary  to add to what Ive set out in my provisional  decision. As no 
further arguments have been made  other than those mentioned above  and given that 
neither of the parties has submitted any further  evidence for consideration  I see no reason 
to depart from the conclusions set out in my provisional decision.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require Lloyds Bank  PLC to pay the 
sum of £350  to Mr K.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2020.
Sejal Karia
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8436482