K821x#15complaint
Mrs F complains that Oodle Financial Services Limited refused to let her reject a faulty car.
background
In February 2019  Mrs F acquired a second  had car funded by a hire purchase  agreement 
with Oodle. It was some  11 years old. Within  days of collecting the car it had problems. It 
was taken back to the dealer and repairs were  carried out. However, it suffered further  faults 
and Mrs F took it to a specialist garage which identified several major issues. She authorised 
the garage to carry out repairs and says she did so because  she needed the car and she 
didnt get a constructive response  from the dealer or Oodle. These cost £2,725 plus VAT.  
Oodle responded  to say that the dealer took the view the car had been altered by another 
garage and so it wasnt responsible for any repairs. As no agreement could be reached  
Mrs F brought her complaint to this service. Oodle  offered a goodwill sum of £500.  However,  
our investigator suggested  her complaint  be upheld  and that Oodle cover  the cost of the 
repairs. In the meantime the car remained at the garage until the bill was paid and it began  
to charge £20 per day for storage. 
This left Mrs F without  a car while the matter was disputed. The investigator recommended  
Oodle pay for the storage also. She accepted that Mrs F would have been better to wait for 
authorisation, but having spoken to the garage  which repaired the car she was satisfied that 
it been faulty at the point of sale. The mechanic also noted that the repair  carried out by the 
dealer hadnt been done  properly. Oodle  didnt accept the investigators recommendations 
and so the matter  has been referred to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
The finance  agreement, that is the hire purchase  agreement, in this case is a regulated  
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
Oodle is also the supplier of the goods  under this type of agreement, and responsible for a 
complaint about  their quality.
The relevant  law says that under a contract to supply goods,  there  is an implied  term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory .
The relevant  law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person  would consider satisfactory taking into account  any description of 
the goods, price  and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case  
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might  
include things like the age and the mileage  at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Ref: DRN81562462Under the relevant law the quality of the goods  includes their general state and condition and 
other things  like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects  of the quality of the goods.
It is unfortunate that Mrs F pre-empted  matters  and went ahead with the repairs. However, I 
can see she was concerned about being left without a car and trusted  Oodle to agree to 
meet the cost.  If she had delayed matters an independent report could have been  obtained  
as to the state of the car. However, given the faults  arose almost  immediately  after she took 
delivery I am satisfied  that they were present at the point  of sale.
This has been confirmed  by the garage which carried out the work. It also said the initial  
repairs done by the dealer were not satisfactory. It sent full details including  photographic  
evidence of the work it had carried out. The dealer was given the opportunity to make  the 
necessary repairs and I am satisfied that it didnt  do so as I would have expected. Therefore 
I agree  with our investigator that the car wasnt fit for purpose  at the point of sale and Oodle 
should cover  the cost of the repairs. 
While I appreciate Oodle  took a different  view I believe it was fairly  obvious the car wasnt of 
a suitable quality and that either it or the dealer would have to pay for the repairs.  As such I 
believe most of the delay  in getting the car back on the road lies beyond  the control  of Mrs F. 
I note Oodle says that as Mrs F authorised the repairs  she should pay for them and for the 
ensuing storage costs.  I dont think that would produce a fair or reasonable outcome.
Oodle believes the charge  of £20 a day is unreasonable. That may be so and it is open to it 
to negotiate with the garage,  but I believe it is responsible for the costs. I note Mrs F has 
incurred travel costs given she has been without  a car, but I dont believe Oodle should 
cover those. I believe the proposed resolution put forward by the investigator is reasonable.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Oodle Financial Services  Limited 
to:
pay for the repairs to the car of £2,725 plus VAT
cover  the storage  cost
refund  half her payment for February 2019 
refund  her full monthly payments for March 2019  until the car is returned to her,
pay Mrs F interest at 8% simple  from the date the payments were made until they are 
repaid.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 September 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8156246