K820x#14complaint
Mr V2 complains on behalf of the late Mr and Mrs V1 (his grandparents), that Aviva Life 
Services UK Limited mis-sold them a lifetime mortgage. He said there were cheaper and 
more suitable  options available to them  to raise the funds  they needed.
background
The late Mr and Mrs V1 took out a lifetime mortgage with Aviva in 2001.  They  borrowed 
£10,800 to pay for double-glazing,  new carpets,  and a holiday. Mr and Mrs V1 have since 
passed away and the mortgage  was redeemed in 2018.
Mr V2, their grandson, complained to Aviva on behalf of his grandparents about the sale of 
the lifetime mortgage.  He said that other more suitable options  were available at the time,  
specifically a personal loan. Hes not satisfied  they needed to take out a lifetime mortgage  to 
raise the funds they wanted. So he feels the advice  was unsuitable.
Aviva provided the fact find that was completed  during the sale of the mortgage. This 
showed that Mr V1 was earning an income at the time, but was planning to retire two years  
after the sale. Mrs V1 was not working and wasnt eligible for the state pension for another  
two years.  Their disposable income at the time was £747 per month. The fact find also said 
that Mr and Mrs V1 didnt  have any savings or investments available. They didnt want to 
consider moving  to a smaller home.
Mr V2 brought  the complaint to our service. Our investigator explained that, in her view, 
Aviva hadnt  mis-sold the lifetime mortgage. Mr V2 disagreed so the complaints been 
passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Aviva advised the late Mr and Mrs V1 to take out a lifetime mortgage. So what I need  to 
consider is, whether this advice was suitable for the late Mr and Mrs V1 when they took the 
mortgage out in 2001. 
Mr and Mrs V1 applied to borrow money  to double-glaze their conservatory, buy new 
carpets, and go on holiday. Following a valuation of Mr and Mrs V1s home, Aviva were  
prepared to lend a maximum of £10,800. The notes show that Mr and Mrs V1 said they 
wanted to borrow  the maximum amount.
Aviva have sent us the paperwork that was completed during  the sale. Looking at this, I note 
that at 63, Mr V1 was planning to retire in two years time, when both Mr and Mrs V1 would 
be able to claim their state pension.  Until then,  they had £747 disposable income per month 
from Mr V1s salary.  Looking at the notes  from the sale, it shows  that a discussion was had 
about the options Mr and Mrs V1 had to raise the funds they wanted. 
It was noted that Mr and Mrs V1 didnt want to move  to a smaller home, and they also had 
no savings or investments  they could use. I appreciate that Mr V2 says they could have  
applied for a personal loan instead  of a lifetime mortgage, which  would have been cheaper 
in the long term. However,  Im not persuaded this would  have been  a more suitable  option at 
the time.  
Ref: DRN86401752Mr and Mrs V1 did have some disposable income available  to them  in 2001, but this was 
only going to be for a short period of time,  before they planned to retire.  Aviva asked for 
details of their pensions. Based on the information  Mr and Mrs V1 provided  - this showed 
there would be an expected  shortfall of around  £5,000 per year considering  the income Mr 
and Mrs V1 felt they needed, and the pension income they expected to receive. So for any 
loan to have been affordable it would have had to have had a very short term for repayment 
 with a maximum of two years. This would have resulted  in very high monthly payments 
(assuming a loan application would have been approved), leaving Mr and Mrs V1 with little, if 
any, disposable income left over. Taking a lifetime mortgage instead meant they didnt  have 
to make any repayments. So considering the records Ive seen of the discussions had at the 
time, Im not satisfied the advice was unsuitable  for Mr and Mrs V1s needs.
It was also Avivas responsibility to provide Mr and Mrs V1 with information that was clear,  
fair and not mis-leading,  so they could make  an informed  decision themselves about whether 
the mortgage was suitable  for them. Having looked  at all of the documentation, Im satisfied 
Aviva made it clear  what  Mr and Mrs V1 were agreeing to when taking out this mortgage.
I appreciate that Mr V2 lacks confidence  in the credibility  of the discussion notes Aviva have 
produced. But Ive seen nothing to suggest  theyre not accurate. Unfortunately Mr and Mrs 
V1 have passed away so we dont have any testimony from them about  what happened,  or 
what they told Aviva. But given  the detail in the documents, and that the application and 
agreement documents  are signed  by Mr and Mrs V1, Im persuaded its likely the contents 
are accurate.
Mr V2 has also said that his grandparents did in fact take out a personal loan after 
retirement, and Mr V1 managed to save some of his pension.  But this doesnt necessarily 
mean that Avivas advice  was unsuitable at the time they gave it. Considering  all the 
evidence, Im satisfied that given  the information  Aviva were provided  with at the time, their 
advice to take out a lifetime mortgage  was suitable  for Mr and Mrs V1. So Im not upholding 
this complaint.
my final decision
Considering everything, for the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr V2 to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 April 2019.
Kathryn Billings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8640175