K821x#15complaint
Miss D complains that kitchen units and appliances  she bought with a loan provided  by
Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc (Hitachi) werent what she had ordered, werent delivered 
altogether, or correctly,  or when  promised, and some broke after a short time.  She brings 
this complaint under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
background
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 11 December  2018,  a copy of which  is 
attached to and forms part of this decision.
Miss D responded  to say, in summary, that:
after she placed the order, all the items werent delivered together as agreed at the time 
the order was placed;
in addition  to the lower  unit plinths, the tall bridging cabinet  units  also didnt have  the 
finish shown in the brochure;  and
while she agreed that the kitchen installed was functional, it wasnt the design  that she 
purchased, a fact of which  she was sadly reminded every day.
She said she would like to be refunded  100%  of the cost so that she could purchase  the 
kitchen she wanted  to have and to use. 
Hitachi responded to say, in summary, that:
R believed a full set of the plans prepared for Miss Ds kitchen would have been 
supplied to, and agreed with her, at the point of sale. So it thought Miss D would have  
discussed and agreed with Rs designer  all aspects of the design; and
R didnt make  bespoke units. It was expected  that a customers  installer would 
complete a pre-fit  survey which should  have flagged  up any issues before the kitchen  
began to be installed.
findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although R has explained  how the design  process should have worked, Miss D says she 
wasnt given the plans Rs designer  prepared,  and the designer  didnt  point out to her the 
differences from the units as shown in the brochure.  Im not sure what  Miss Ds fitter carried 
out in the way of a pre-fit  survey. But in any event  Im not sure this would have shown up the 
design differences.
I understand that Miss D remains unhappy with the differences  between  the kitchen  as 
installed and the brochure she saw, and would prefer to have the whole cost refunded and to 
start again.
However I remain of the view that fair compensation in the circumstances is that Miss D is 
reimbursed 50% of the cost of buying  the units, that is £3,050,  inclusive of the £310  goodwill 
payment she has been offered. I think its fair and reasonable that Hitachi  should  pay this 
amount under section 75.
Ref: DRN80672742my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part, and order Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc to pay 
Miss D compensation  of £3,050, inclusive  of the £310 goodwill payment she has been offered.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 February  2019.
Lennox Towers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN80672743Copy of Provisional Decision
complaint
Miss D complains  that kitchen units and appliances  she bought  with a loan provided by Hitachi Capital 
(UK) Plc (Hitachi) werent what she had ordered, werent delivered altogether,  or correctly,  or when 
promised, and some  broke after a short time. She brings  this complaint under  section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit  Act 1974.
background
Miss D placed  her order for the kitchen units and appliances with a retailer Ill call R in August 2016. 
Rs designer had provided a design  for the units and appliances  to fit Miss Ds kitchen,  and Miss D 
selected the make of units she wanted from a brochure R showed her. However  the order was for the 
supply of the items only. Miss D arranged  for her own fitter to install them  in her kitchen.
After the order was placed,  it seems the delivery  date was brought forward. However this meant all 
the items werent delivered together, and the fitter started the installation before everything was to 
hand. Miss D says she had to chase  R for items the fitter was waiting for, and had to pay his charges 
for attending but being  unable to work. She says the installation took much longer than it should have 
because of this which caused her upset and expense.
Unable to get a satisfactory  response from R, Miss D complained to Hitachi. Hitachi intervened with R, 
following which representatives  of R attended at Miss Ds house to try to resolve  the outstanding 
issues. But Miss D said some parts of the order were still unfulfilled.
R said some  of the issues had arisen  because Miss Ds fitter wasnt expert in kitchen fitting. It didnt 
accept it was responsible  for all the expenses Miss D said she had incurred. But it offered her 
compensation of £310 as a gesture of goodwill.  Miss D said this wasnt enough. She also said that the 
kitchen as installed  didnt  match the pictures in the brochure she had been shown, or the design she 
had agreed  with Rs designer.
Our adjudicator recommended  that this complaint should be upheld. She didnt think the kitchen 
supplied to Miss D was the one she was shown by R in the brochure. Although R had said Miss Ds 
fitters hadnt installed  the kitchen  correctly,  the adjudicator hadnt seen any evidence of this.
The adjudicator recommended that Hitachi should arrange for the correct kitchen to be supplied to 
Miss D and should cover  the costs of installing this.
Hitachi responded to say, in summary:
the pictures in the brochure were  intended to be used  as a guide or representative image, and 
the kitchen  supplied wouldnt be exactly the same. This was made  clear in the brochure;
Miss D hadnt mentioned  that the kitchen supplied  was incorrect when she first contacted  Hitachi 
although fitting  was underway by then;
R had supplied copies of the design plans  for Miss Ds kitchen which it said its designer  had 
prepared for, and shown to, Miss D before  she ordered the kitchen units. These showed  the 
panels that divided  the plinth creating a cubing effect. This was necessary because  Miss Ds 
kitchen included  an integrated dishwasher and washing  machine which  needed the support 
provided by the panels.  This wouldnt have been the case with the brochure  pictures, which  
allowed a smoother  design;  and
R believed,  as was usual,  that its designer would  have  shown the design drawings  to Miss D 
when they met, and discussed these with her, before she ordered the units.
Ref: DRN80672744Miss D responded to say, in summary, that:
she had complained in an email to R on 8 December 2016 that looking at your design in your 
booklet .. the skirting looks completely different to that in your magazine for the same . 
design. For clarity the booklet displays a smooth finish all round  and I have a finish that displays 
section outlining  each  width of the unit almost cubing the section which makes  it hard to clean in 
these areas .
at no time was she ever presented with the detailed information R had now offered explaining 
that the plinth  would have  a cubing effect and the reasons  for this. If she had been, she 
wouldnt have bought these units from R. She had been  sent some design  pictures at the end of 
August 2016 when she asked for these, but they didnt show the cubing effect; and
she recalled sitting down with Rs designer in early August, and she designed the kitchen,  based 
on what Miss D had seen in the brochure, on her computer  screen. Miss D was given a diagram 
showing the dimensions  of the units along with the Hitachi  loan agreement  which  she signed the 
same day,
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Miss Ds main  complaint is that the kitchen units she bought were misrepresented to her. She says 
the cubing effect of the plinth between panels on either side of units wasnt as shown  in the brochure  
R showed her, and Rs designer didnt  explain  to her that this is how they would look.
Miss D says she didnt see computer design drawings  showing this effect before she bought the units. 
If she had, she wouldnt have bought them.  The plinths werent fitted until towards the end of the 
kitchen being fitted. So it seems it was only then, in December 2016, that she became  aware of what 
had been supplied, and she then complained to R and to Hitachi.
R says that its designer would have produced all the computer drawings and shown them  to Miss D 
before she placed her order for the units. Miss D acknowledges that she did sit down with Rs 
designer in front of her computer screen while she designed the kitchen, based on what she had seen 
in the brochure. However the dramatic difference in the way the kitchen would look as compared with 
the brochure, or the reasons  for this, werent  pointed  out or explained to her.
The photos in the brochure are very different from the kitchen as it was supplied and fitted.  I think its 
unlikely that if this had been pointed out to Miss D she would  have proceeded to buy the units. The 
differences go beyond the possible slight variations envisaged by the brochure wording.
I accept that Miss D had told R that she wanted to buy the units  shown in the brochure. So I think Rs 
designer had a duty to point out how the units to be supplied would differ from these. Its not clear  
what computer drawings Miss D saw, or what Rs designer told her. However,  on balance,  I conclude 
that R misrepresented the final effect  of the units as supplied, and that under section 75 Hitachi is 
equally responsible to Miss D for this misrepresentation.
As well as the misrepresentation, R also failed  to deliver  the order correctly or in a timely manner. 
Some items had to be replaced.  This caused  Miss D upset and inconvenience for some time. R has 
blamed Miss Ds fitter for causing some of the problems,  but even if this is the case, it is clear R didnt 
provide the service Miss D was entitled to expect. It offered her a goodwill payment of £310 which she 
said was insufficient.
I have considered carefully how it would be reasonable to compensate Miss D for the 
misrepresentation and poor service, and for the distress,  inconvenience  and other costs this caused 
her. The adjudicator recommended that Hitachi  should arrange for the kitchen   Miss D thought  she 
was buying to be supplied,  and should pay for its installation. I think this is going too far.
Ref: DRN80672745For one thing,  it isnt clear from what R has said if this type of kitchen could  be fitted with Miss Ds 
appliances or kitchen layout, or whether it is still available  to buy. Also, in spite of the difficulties she 
has experienced  and her dislike of the cubing effect, Miss D does  now have  a functioning  kitchen 
fitted and operating.
The cost of Miss Ds order to R was £6,100. I think fair compensation in the circumstances, taking into 
account all she has suffered,  is that Miss D is reimbursed 50% of this cost, that is £3,050,  inclusive of 
the goodwill payment she has been offered. I think its fair and reasonable that Hitachi  should pay this 
amount under section 75.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, but subject to any further comments and evidence I receive from 
either Miss D or from Hitachi by 11 January  2019, I intend to uphold this complaint  in part. I intend to 
order Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc to pay Miss D compensation of £3,050.
Lennox Towers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8067274