K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that Santander UK Plc acted unfairly and unreasonably  when  dealing  with 
the expiry of his mortgage product. He wants matters put right.
background
Mr W had a mortgage with Santander, together with a product that gave him the benefit of a 
fixed interest rate until February 2018. When  the product ended,  the mortgage moved onto 
the standard variable rate (SVR). Mr W didnt contact Santander to arrange  a new product 
for about four months and felt that it was unfair hed paid extra  interest in the meantime. He 
accepted that he had been told in the mortgage offer when the fixed  interest  rate would end 
and received a letter  about the change in December 2017, but said Santander shouldve 
explained to him how much being  on the SVR would cost him. Mr W felt Santander 
shouldve ensured  that he was on a good  rate.
Mr W complained  to Santander. It said that both the mortgage offer and the yearly  
statements told Mr W when the fixed interest  rate was due to end. Santander  also said that 
there was a hold on correspondence being  sent to Mr W as mail had been returned,  but it 
shouldve checked  his address in March 2018 when he called  to ask for a copy  of his yearly 
statement (and paid £30 compensation for this failure).  But it refused to refund any interest 
as Santander  pointed out that Mr W shouldve  noticed his monthly payments had increased.
Mr W complained  to us. The adjudicators  view was that Mr W had accepted that he received 
a letter  in December  2017 telling him that the product was ending  in February 2018 and that 
the end date was also in the mortgage offer. He pointed out that this meant that when the 
fixed interest rate ended, the offer made  it clear  Mr Ws mortgage would move onto the SVR 
and Mr W had accepted  this. The adjudicator said that the SVR was something Santander 
could set at the rate it chose and it was a commercial decision. The complaint wasnt  upheld.
Mr W disagreed.  He said while he felt the adjudicator  had understood his complaint and 
been clear in his reasoning, he fundamentally felt that the terms of the offer he accepted 
were unfair.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im going to focus on the core of this 
complaint, which  is about Mr Ws mortgage  being  moved onto the SVR.
Lenders have to act fairly and reasonably when dealing with consumers. And in Mr Ws 
case, I think Santander has acted fairly and reasonably for the reasons given by the 
adjudicator. Mr W was given an offer, which he accepted, and it stated clearly when the fixed  
interest rate would end and that it would be replaced  with the SVR.
Mr W also says that he received a marketing  letter  in December 2017, telling him that the 
product was coming to an end. However,  Im satisfied that he didnt  receive any yearly 
statements due to the hold put on his correspondence to ensure confidential data wasnt  
sent to an address where Mr W wasnt receiving post. Its not unusual  for such holds  to fail to 
stop marketing  letters, such  as ones about products  ending, as such letters  are less 
confidential. But theres no doubt that Mr W knew when his product was ending.
Ref: DRN81654042Mr W says that it isnt fair to automatically move his mortgage onto the SVR. But thats  
what he agreed to when he accepted the mortgage  offer and he was reminded about it in 
December 2017.  And its worth remembering why consumers  get the benefit of cheaper 
fixed interest rates  theyre given  in return for the consumer agreeing not to repay the 
mortgage within the relevant period or to pay an early repayment charge as a penalty. It 
would be unfair  to automatically  renew  such a product  without the consumers consent. Its 
also the responsibility of the consumer to contact  the lender  and find out about the products 
available.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or reject my decision before 
18 April 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8165404