K822xcomplaint
Mr H complains about the way Landmark Mortgages  Limited has administered his mortgage  
account. He complains that Landmark  has been  inflexible  in the way it sets up and maintains 
arrangement plans and it has incorrectly apportioned his payments across his mortgage and 
his unsecured loan.
Mr H would like Landmark to reinstate his previous arrangement  plan, rework his mortgage 
and loan account and stop charging him arrears fees each month.
background 
Mr H has an interest  only mortgage with Landmark. He also has a together loan which  is an 
unsecured loan stapled to his mortgage.  The two loans were  sold alongside each other and 
they both operate alongside each other. Only the mortgage is secured on Mr Hs property.
Mr H has had difficulties meeting his debt repayments in recent years.  Hes had a series of 
arrangements to pay (ATP) his mortgage and loan since 2014, set up with the agreement  of 
his mortgage lender.  For most of this period Mr H has been paying £5 per month towards his 
together loan.  Landmark also agreed  not to apply an interest to this loan while Mr H was 
struggling to pay his debts. Mr H has largely managed to stay up-to-date  with his mortgage, 
although his Together Loan  is in arrears of around £8,000.
In early 2018 Mr H got a letter  saying he was in arrears. He called Landmark to try to sort out 
what was happening with his mortgage payments.  He suspected  the problem was due to an 
IT issue  with Landmarks systems. After several months of querying what was happening, he 
complained. Landmark issued a final response letter dated  29 May 2018,  not upholding 
Mr Hs complaint. The problems continued into 2018  and Mr H complained again. Landmark 
issued a separate final response letter dated  26 September  2018. It didnt uphold  Mr Hs 
complaint. Mr H brought the matter to us.
Our investigator thought part of Mr Hs complaint should be upheld.  He thought Landmark 
had told Mr H that his mortgage interest rate was going up, and that his monthly payments 
were increasing as a result. He thought  Mr H had misunderstood that this new monthly  
payment didnt include the £5 payment agreed  as a concession to his Together  Loan. And 
he thought it was reasonable that Landmark  wanted to talk to Mr H again  before it would 
reinstate an arrangement to make lower  payments  to the together  loan. However,  he thought 
it had taken Landmark a long time to sort out what was going wrong with Mr Hs payments. 
In November 2019 Landmark had told Mr H that he needed to set up his payments  to a 
different Landmark  account. If he did this, it said the apportionment problems hed had for 
the last two years should be resolved. Our investigator thought this could have been 
identified by Landmark sooner. He recommended that Landmark should backdate the 0% 
interest rate applied  to the together  loan to 2018.
Mr H accepted the investigators findings  on his complaint,  but Landmark didnt. It asked for 
an ombudsman to consider the matter again and reach a final decision on the matter.
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision on 14 January 2020. In it I said:
Ref: DRN84806502Both parties accept  the facts that surround  Mr H paying less than he needed to by standing 
order. That led to him breaking his payment arrangement.  Im persuaded by Mr Hs account 
that the arrangement was broken by mistake  and I note it was only broken by a modest  
amount. Once  Mr H was clear about  what he needed to pay to the mortgage, Im satisfied he 
was committed to making that payment.  I also think he fully intended  to make his £5 
payment each month to the Together Loan  as agreed by Landmark  as a forbearance 
measure in recent years. 
I think this complaint turns on what steps  Landmark  took when the mix up happened.  Mr H 
found himself falling into arrears on his mortgage  largely due to a misunderstanding with 
Landmark. Ive thought  carefully about what steps  were taken by Landmark at this point to 
try to resolve  the problem with Mr H. 
Early in 2018 Landmark appears to have taken  some steps to try to resolve things, such as 
reinstating the interest forgiveness arrangement, where it agreed to a 0% interest rate on 
the together  loan. However, by May 2018,  its final response made it clear that it held Mr H 
responsible for the problems paying  his mortgage  in full and breaking his arrangement  with 
it. As soon as the payment  arrangement  was broken, Mr Hs payments started to be 
apportioned across both his loans again - not primarily  towards his first charge mortgage  
loan. 
Im satisfied there was genuine misunderstanding about the amount that Mr H needed to pay 
in early 2018. Mr H ended up paying a little less each month  than he needed to after the 
interest rate changing. I dont think Landmark  could be held responsible for this confusion. 
But I do think Landmark could have done more to sort out the problem. Instead, the situation 
escalates over the following months, with an emphasis on Mr Hs payments being  the cause 
of the issue.  
Mr H remained  confused  about exactly what was happening, and he clearly thought the fault 
rested with Landmark.  I note Mr H was also upset to be told by Landmark  that hed need  to 
pay around £40 per month as an arrears management fee when he thought  he was paying  
his full contractual payment each  month. I can see why Mr H felt he had no choice but to 
complain.
Landmarks explained to us that, once  the arrangement had been  broken, it couldnt stop 
some of Mr Hs mortgage payments being proportionately redirected to his together loan.  Its 
said this is because of the way its payment system works. This explains why Landmark, on 
more than one occasion, identified there was an error  with the way payments were being  
allocated to Mr Hs mortgage  and loan. Upon realising the error, Landmark would transfer a 
sum from the together  loan back  to the mortgage account but then the issue would continue  
the following  month. Landmarks said this has continued to be a problem because Mr H has 
stayed out of an agreed payment arrangement while pursuing his complaint. 
Im also aware that in November 2019,  Landmark  proposed a solution to this problem.  It 
identified that Mr Hs payments were  being  sent to the wrong Landmark account.  Mr H has 
now been told to make payments to another Landmark account and that this should  stop the 
apportionment issues happening again.  Its disappointing  that this solution wasnt  suggested 
sooner in 2018 when there  was first confusion about the mix up with his mortgage payments. 
I believe that if Landmark had worked  with Mr H to try to sort things out sooner, hed have 
been able to stick to his arrangement to pay his first charge mortgage payments and to pay 
£5 each month towards his Together  Loan.  
Ref: DRN84806503Landmark has said that Mr H should have got in touch to complete an income  and 
expenditure and try to set up a further payment arrangement in May 2018. I appreciate that 
Landmark wanted to make  sure that a new payment arrangement was affordable for Mr H, 
and that it was trying to act as a responsible lender. However, I can also understand why 
Mr H had lost confidence with this process following recent exchanges with Landmark. I also 
dont think Landmark  seemed receptive to helping Mr H in his situation and it held Mr H 
responsible for his issues making payments. And thats why I think Mr H felt the need  to 
complain and ultimately bring the matter to us.
As Ive said,  I think if Landmark had been more open to understanding  the issue with Mr Hs 
mortgage, and getting things back on track, he would have been able to pay his mortgage 
interest in full each  month and pay the £5 agreed under his together loan. And if Mr H had 
maintained these payments, I consider that its likely hed have been  able to keep the 
interest applied  on his together loan at 0%. This was the rate Landmark had been  applying 
to his loan in previous years. 
Im pleased to hear from Mr H that his financial situation has now improved. Hes now able to 
make his full contractual monthly payment  towards both his mortgage  and his together loan. 
what do I think should happen now?
To put things right, I think its reasonable that Landmark reworks Mr Hs together loan as if it 
had applied  a 0% interest rate for the whole of 2018  and 2019. This would put him back  in 
the position he would have been  if Landmark given  him more help and support with the 
administration of his mortgage and together loan earlier on when he first asked for help.
Mr H has also said hes been charged arrears management fees of £40 per month  while his 
mortgage was deemed  to be in arrears. I consider that these arrears were  a technicality, due 
to part of his Mr Hs mortgage payments being applied to his unsecured loan in error. I think  
its fair that Landmark  refund any arrears  management fees applied during this dispute (from 
January 2018  to the date Mr H accepts this decision) and any interest applied  on the fees.
As Ive said,  I think this issue could have  been  resolved much sooner if Landmark had been 
more open to discussing options  with Mr H and trying  to find a solution to the administration 
of his mortgage account. As it is, Mr H was given little choice but to make a series  of 
complaints and to pursue the matter through us. I consider  this to be poor customer service 
by Landmark.  I think  it caused  Mr H unnecessary frustration and hes had the inconvenience 
of making his complaints. I consider that its fair that Landmark  should pay Mr H £400 for the 
trouble and upset  it has caused him through its poor customer  service.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Both Mr H and Landmark have accepted 
my provisional decision. As such, I see no reason  to change my earlier  findings.  
Landmarks also said it will update Mr Hs credit file from January 2018 to December  2019  to 
make sure it correctly reflects the reworking  of the mortgage and loan. This is a very helpful 
extra step from Landmark to resolve  the matter  going forward for Mr H.
Ref: DRN84806504my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Landmark  Mortgages  Limited.  
To settle  the matter, I direct Landmark  Mortgages Limited to:
-Rework Mr Hs together loan as if a 0% interest rate had been in place throughout 
2018 and 2019;
-Refund all arrears  management fees applied  to the mortgage account and together 
loan account between 2018 and the date at which Mr H accepts my final decision on 
the matter (and any interest charged on these fees);
-Pay Mr H £400 trouble and upset for the inconvenience  and upset caused  to him by 
its poor customer service.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 March 2020.
Emma Peters 
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8480650