K820x#14complaint
Mrs V complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Birmingham Midshires (BM) wouldnt 
extend the term of her mortgage on maturity for a further three years to allow her time to 
renovate and sell her property. Mrs V wants an extension on the mortgages until 2021 by 
which time she hopes to sell the house and repay the mortgage.
background
Mrs V has an interest only mortgage  in two accounts. The first loan was taken out in April 
2004 for a term of 14 years.  The second further advance was taken  out in May 2008 for 10 
years. The loans matured in April and May 2018.The outstanding balance  is about £450,000.  
Mrs V owns  a property with six bedrooms. Mrs V had a mortgage  that brought  her to her 
intended retirement age when she took it out but wanted an extension of the term for a 
further seven  years  to her new retirement date or, in any case, for as long as possible to 
allow her to prepare the house for sale, to sell it and downsize. Mrs V understood from 
discussions her husband had with a friend and from a financial intermediary that this would 
be possible.  
When Mrs V says she spoke to BM she was told that it would  do a stress test to see what 
she could afford but even  if she failed this that she would  get a three-year extension in any 
case. Mrs V says she was happy with this as she intended to sell the house and buy 
something smaller in the near future.
Mrs V and her husband had discussions with BM about a five-year repayment  mortgage, but 
this wasnt affordable. In September  2018,  Mr and Mrs V spoke to BM and said that they 
wanted to sell the house and were getting  it ready  for sale but felt they needed three years to 
sell. BMs process was to allow 6 months  to get the property on the market  and 12 months to 
sell. Mrs V says that the house  is very large and requires extensive renovation and that the 6 
months offered  didnt  give enough time.
Mrs V complained and BM issued  a letter in response in October 2018 saying that her 
application for a longer extension didnt  meet  their lending policy. Mrs V made a number of 
further points  to BM and it responded by letter  dated 23 November  2018  and said that it 
noted Mrs Vs intention to repay the mortgage  within three years and that it had already 
extended the mortgage term from April 2018 to June 2019  (I believe  this is a typo and should 
have referred to June  2018) and that it was offering a six month extension to complete the 
renovations and 12 months  to sell the property. It said that it would conduct a further  review  
at the end of that period  if the property had not then been sold. The letter  ended  by 
proposing a way forward  by asking Mrs V to prepare  a schedule of works to show the scale 
of the renovation, the time scale needed and the estimated sale price of the property.  The 
letter then said that when it received this information  BM would make  a decision whether to 
allow an extension.
BM received a schedule  of works  from Mrs V in February 2019  and says that it contacted  
Mrs V to ask her to contact the End of Term  team to complete a full income/expenditure 
assessment, but this doesnt appear  to have happened and the matter rested there.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld  and believed that 
BM had acted reasonably in not agreeing a three-year extension but allowing Mrs V eighteen  
Ref: DRN84782162months to market and sell the property. Our investigator  requested that BM allow  Mrs V a 
reasonable time to market the property. Mrs V disagreed and asked for a review.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Mrs V also asked me to listen to a 
number of phone calls which I have  done.  Some of these were  conducted  by Mrs V and 
some by her husband who isnt a party to the mortgage.
When Mrs V took out this mortgage, her intention was to retire at 60 but her circumstances 
changed. I understand she suffered  an illness and her income  declined.  When  she spoke to 
the BM adviser about her circumstances in March  2018, she had a net income of £1,118  per 
month and was paying about £860 per month  to BM. From listening to the phone calls,  I 
understand that whilst  Mrs V was paying  the mortgages, her husband  was assisting with 
other bills.
  
Mrs V had understood from a friend that she could get a seven-year extension  to her 
mortgage until her retirement. Im unclear how similar her friends circumstances were to 
Mrs V. But I can only consider Mrs Vs individual case and whether BM dealt with it fairly.  
Mrs V hoped that BM would give her that extension but, in any case, a period of time to allow  
her to prepare the house for sale to maximise the potential sale price of the property. 
In the initial  phone call, in March 2018,  the BM adviser discussed at length  the options  on 
offer. The problem was that this mortgage  was coming to an end and for any new mortgage 
that might  replace  it, Mrs V was likely to fail BMs affordability stress  test. There was clearly 
anxiety on Mrs Vs part that her property  might be repossessed but the adviser  suggested 
that they take time to look at other  options  such as equity release or a buy to let mortgage  
and that BM would deal sympathetically  if they wanted to prepare the house for sale and sell 
it. The BM adviser says that BMs sale of property process was for six months to get the 
property on the market and 12 months  to then sell it. Mrs V wanted longer as they thought it 
would take two years to prepare the property for sale - it appeared to require substantial  
redecoration - and then a year to sell. Mrs V asked what would happen at the end of the sale 
of property process period and the adviser  said that BM would then review  it. 
Mrs Vs original  understanding seemed  to have been that BM would allow her to continue 
paying the mortgage at interest only, which Mr V says a BM adviser had previously told him, 
and on that basis  the conversation was a shock to Mrs V. But I thought that the mortgage 
adviser clearly and at length explained  what Mrs Vs options were and BMs post maturity 
process involved an initial assessment of her income, a period to allow her to look at 
alternative options and BMs sale of property  process.
Mrs V says in her complaint form that in this conversation she was told that a three-year 
extension would not be a problem. Indeed, she refers to BM reneging  on their original 
promise of up to three years to repay . Ive carefully  relistened to the tape of this 
conversation and can find no such promise although I hear the advisor referring that BM 
would potentially grant 2-3 years  interest  only. My understanding of that is that is not that BM 
promised a three-year  extension  but that the way the process would unfold that it could take 
two to three  years to work itself out. 
Mrs Vs problem  in looking for a new mortgage,  was that under the stress  test that BM 
applied, because of Mrs Vs earnings, any new mortgage  was unaffordable. Even without a 
Ref: DRN84782163stress test, Mrs V would have difficulty paying the mortgage and her other bills without the 
financial assistance of her husband who wasnt a party to these loans. As these mortgages 
were interest only, BM didnt have to rely on an affordability assessment if an extension in 
any case was in Mrs Vs best interests. Although affordability would also be a consideration 
in that assessment because if Mrs V couldnt  afford  to pay it, it wasnt likely to be in her best 
interests. In any case Mrs V has indicated that she wants  to sell the house. I dont consider 
that Mrs Vs best interests would be served by a 5 year or seven year extension. Mrs V was 
reliant on selling the property  to release monies and its difficult  to say what state  the 
housing market would be like in five years time whereas in the meantime she would have a 
large property to maintain which would stretch her resources. I believe her best interests 
were in being given adequate time to prepare the house for sale and then selling it.
Mrs V wanted some  time to prepare the house for sale and not just the six months  that was 
in BMs policy. It appears that Mrs V convinced BM to consider an extended period. BM 
wrote to her in November  2018 and asked her to send in a schedule of the proposed works 
to the property. There is a note dated 28 February 2019 that these documents were received 
and read and a note that the end of term team wanted Mrs V to contact them to complete a 
full breakdown of I&E and if there  were  no other  options it would look to extend the term. 
This is followed  by a note dated 1 March 2019 saying that an adviser called Mrs V to ask her 
to make contact with the end of term team for that purpose. It seems that at that stage both 
parties were  aiming for the same purpose. Unfortunately, there was no contact  between  the 
parties about this thereafter. Mrs V made her complaint  to us shortly  afterwards  but doesnt 
refer to this in her complaint. Since that time, Mrs V has been able to bring the house up to a 
standard where she can put it on the market and told us on the 29 September2020 that it 
was going to be on the market shortly afterwards. 
My view on this complaint is that in general  BM has acted as we would expect it to act where 
an interest-only mortgage was coming to an end. In particular, I found the conversation in 
March to be informative  and sympathetic to Mr and Mrs V. Mr V had apparently some 
previous conversation with a BM adviser when he says he was told that they could continue 
to live in the house as long as they paid the mortgage. I have no recording of that 
conversation but the conversation in March 2018  gave  a fair picture of how BM would act 
after the interest-only period ended.  For the reasons set out earlier I dont believe that it was 
in Mrs Vs best interests  to get a further interest-only mortgage on the property.  I was 
concerned that BM may have been  applying its sale of property process too strictly and that 
Mrs V wouldnt have  had time to adequately  prepare  this fairly unusual  property  for sale. But 
BM did in fact ask for a schedule of works and seemed prepared  to discuss  this with Mrs V, 
but this complaint seems to have diverted attention away from that and, in any case, Mrs V 
has got the time she wanted.
So, I dont intend  to uphold this complaint. There is one other issue  that seems  to have 
caused some confusion.  Mrs V refers to an unidentified  friend who got a new seven-year  (or 
five year- Ive seen different time periods  referred to) mortgage whereas  Mrs V didnt. The 
BM writer responding to Mrs V suggested that her unidentified friend may have had an 
unregulated mortgage account  which the writer says may have been  dealt with under 
different and less stricter criteria than applied to Mrs V. Later Mrs V is told that she had an 
unregulated mortgage account  in 2004  but the second loan in 2008  was regulated and that 
this meant  that the 2004 mortgage became regulated. This attempt to explain may have led 
to unnecessary confusion.
Whether the loans are regulated or not, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) has set out 
guidelines on how lenders should deal with customers whose mortgage has come to an end 
Ref: DRN84782164and I have examined this complaint with these  and other considerations in mind and find that 
BM dealt fairly with Mrs V. Mrs V now has the house up for sale.  I would expect BM to give 
her a reasonable period  to sell the property and I would expect Mrs V to provide BM with 
such information as it would reasonable require on the progress of the sale. But for the 
reasons set out above I dont uphold  this complaint.          
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 December  2020.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8478216