K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs O say Santander  UK Plc (trading as Abbey National at the time) mis-sold them a
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out to protect  Mr and Mrs Os mortgage
repayments in 1999. The policy was in Mr Os sole name and provided  him with accident,  
sickness and unemployment cover.  They paid a monthly amount for it.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs O disagreed with the adjudicators
opinion so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete  (as
some of it is here)  Ive made  my decision based  on the balance of probabilities  so based
on what I thinks most likely given the information I have, and what  we know about how
Santander sold PPI at the time.
Our general  approach to complaints about  the sale of PPI is on our website  and Ive followed
it here.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Os complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs O say they didnt know that the policy was optional. Santander no longer has the 
paperwork from the sale but thats not surprising or unreasonable given how long ago it took 
place. I cant know what was said to Mr and Mrs O at the time, but based on what we know  
about the banks sales process at the time Mr and Mrs O would  have been  given  a booklet 
about the cover and then needed to sign a separate PPI application form and direct debit 
mandate if they wanted to go ahead.
Overall, without stronger evidence to the contrary,  I think its most likely that it was made 
clear to Mr and Mrs O that they had a choice about  whether to take the PPI, and that they 
agreed to take it out for Mr O.
Santander recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs O so it had a responsibility to check
that the cover was right for them. But it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable for them,
based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time. They told us Mr S was
entitled to at least six months full pay and six months half pay if he was sick. But the PPI 
would have paid out in addition to his work benefits  and for up to 12 months for all accident, 
sickness and unemployment claims.
They also told us they had around £6,000 in savings  at the time. But the PPI would have  
allowed them to use these  to cover other  living  expenses whilst Mr O wasnt  working, or to 
keep them intact for their future needs.  Mr and Mrs Os borrowing was secured on their 
home. So the effects of not keeping  up the repayments could have been serious  for them.  
Overall, I think the PPI would have  been useful for them if Mr O was sick, had an accident or 
lost his job.
Ref: DRN83663502Its possible Santander didnt give Mr and Mrs O all the information  they needed before they 
decided to buy PPI. I dont know when it made the cost clear, but the PPI was competitively 
priced and apparently affordable. I also dont  know that it pointed  out the main  things the 
policy didnt cover. But Mr O doesnt  appear  to have been affected by any of those  things. 
This means,  overall, I dont think better information wouldve changed their decision.
It follows I dont think Mr and Mrs O have lost out because of any problems with the sale.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Os complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs O to
accept or reject my decision  before  5 August  2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8366350