K820x#14complaint
Miss B complains  that Lloyds Bank PLC unfairly registered a default on her credit file and did 
not help her with financial  difficulties. She also complains about  problems using  online 
banking.
background
Miss B says she didnt  receive any help from Lloyds with her overdrafts and says the 
charges kept increasing. She says she asked Lloyds for help.  But it wouldnt agree any 
repayment plans  with her and has now registered a default on her credit file and passed her 
debt to a third party company. Miss B also says she had problems using online banking.
Lloyds says Miss B did use online banking and says any problems  were  not its fault. It says 
it made the decision to close  Miss Bs accounts  and says it was clear  she was unhappy with 
it and that it considered the relationship to have broken down. Lloyds says it tried to agree a 
number of repayment plans with Miss B but without success and says it made the decision in 
line with the account terms and conditions  to ask for the overdrafts to be repaid. It also says 
it accurately reported  the account  position  to the Credit Reference Agencies (CRAs).
Miss B brought her complaint to us but our investigator didnt uphold it and thought Lloyds 
had dealt fairly with her. The investigator  looked at Lloyds records and thought  it had agreed 
a number of payment plans with Miss B that she didnt keep to and thought Lloyds had 
given breathing space when she lost her job. So the investigator thought  overall Lloyds had 
tried to help Miss B and had acted  positively and sympathetically to her position and was 
entitled to close  the account and report the position  to the CRAs.
Miss B doesnt accept  that view and remains unhappy a default has been  registered.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to a similar 
overall view as the investigator for similar  reasons. I realise Miss B will be disappointed  by 
my decision.
I have looked  through  Lloyds records and Im satisfied  overall  that it acted positively and 
sympathetically to Miss Bs position. I can see that repayment plans were set up in early  
2018 that Miss B asked to suspend,  which Lloyds fairly  agreed  to do. I can also see that 
further plans were agreed that I dont think Miss B kept to. I appreciate that Miss B lost her 
job. But I think Lloyds acted fairly by agreeing to allow  her breathing  space before continuing 
with the repayment plan.  I cant  see that Miss B kept to the terms of the plan and so I dont 
think Lloyds acted unfairly by asking Miss B to repay  her overdrafts.
Im satisfied that in line with the account  terms and conditions Lloyds was entitled  to ask 
Miss B to repay the overdrafts on demand. And I think by that stage Lloyds fairly concluded 
that there  was no real prospect  of Miss B keeping to the terms of any repayment  plan. Banks  
and building societies should treat customers in financial difficulties  positively and 
sympathetically and Im satisfied Lloyds  acted in such  a way here by trying  to agree a 
repayment plan and by placing a number  of holds on the account. 
I appreciate that Miss B says that Lloyds should  not have registered a default on her credit 
file. But I think Lloyds  is under a duty to accurately report the position of its customers  
accounts to the CRAs. I think that the relationship between  Lloyds  and Miss B had broken 
Ref: DRN83755462down and that Miss B had a reasonable period  of time to either  bring the balance of the 
overdrafts down or agree and keep to a repayment plan. As neither of those happened  I 
dont think Lloyds made a mistake by defaulting the account and reporting that to the CRAs.
I appreciate that Miss Bs main complaint is her treatment by Lloyds whilst in financial 
difficulties but she also mentions the amount of charges and interest she paid. I make clear  
that I have  not seen  any evidence that Lloyds made a mistake or acted unfairly by making 
those charges or that they were made outside the account terms and conditions. I have also 
not seen any evidence that Miss Bs online banking access problems were  caused  by 
Lloyds.
Overall Im satisfied that Lloyds tried on a number of occasions to help and support Miss B 
and so I cant fairly ask it to do anything further  in the circumstances of this complaint. I cant  
see that Miss B has made any repayments towards either overdraft balance and so I dont 
think in those circumstances  Lloyds acted unfairly or made a mistake  by passing Miss Bs 
debt to a specialist debt recovery company. It will be open  for Miss B to contact that 
company and try and arrange a new repayment plan if she wishes.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 March  2020.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8375546