K821x#15complaint
Ms W has complained about a series of short term loans she took out with Casheuronet UK 
LLC (under its two trading  names  of Quick Quid and Pounds to Pocket). 
Ms W, together  with her representatives,  has said that these loans contributed  to her debt 
spiral. Shes said that the lender didnt properly assess  and verify  her expenditure and if it 
had, it wouldve seen  she couldnt have sustainably repaid this lending.  In addition  Ms W has 
said that she ended up living  on short  term loans  and relying on new loans to repay previous 
loans. And shes argued that the history  of repeat borrowing ought to have made 
Casheuronet aware that she was a poor candidate for credit.  
background 
Ms W began borrowing with Casheuronet  in February 2012  and repaid  her final loan with it 
in January 2016. During this period of lending Ms W took out 15 loans with repayment  
structures ranging from one to three  repayments. Ms W increased these loans with either 
additional advances  or top-ups a further 18 times.  In some  instances this was multiple  
times on the same loan.  
In addition, Ms W took out an instalment  loan which was structured to be repaid over 11 
months and a flex-credit loan. A flex-credit loan is more commonly known as a revolving 
credit account where a customer could draw down multiple times up to an agreed limit, 
provided they paid off the interest  that accrued each month. Ms W made around 30 
drawdowns over the course of this agreement.  
This meant that Casheuronet advanced  credit  to Ms W 34 times together  with the flex credit 
account where Ms W made around  30 additional  drawdowns for credit. And Ms W was 
borrowing from Casheuronet for just under four years  in total. Ive attached a summary of Ms 
Ws lending history to this decision as appendix  one. 
In its response to Ms W, Casheuronet  said at the time of each application it completed a 
standard credit search. And it considered information provided by Ms W during her loan 
application (which  included her net monthly  income) and her loan history with it before 
deciding whether or not to lend.  From the information Ms W provided, Casheuronet has said 
that Ms W always  earnt enough to repay her loans. 
Casheuronet has said that based on all the information it considered,  it cannot  agree that it 
was irresponsible  to lend to Ms W and so it didnt uphold her complaint. 
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 15 January 2019 setting out my initial thoughts to this 
complaint and which forms part of this decision. I asked both Casheuronet and Ms W to 
provide me with anything further either party would like me to consider before reaching a 
final decision. 
In my provisional decision,  I summarised  the regulatory framework,  relevant law, relevant 
publications, what I consider to be good  industry practice and the terms and information  
provided about Ms Ws flex credit  agreement.  This forms part of my final decision and I have  
enclosed this as appendix two. I ask both Ms W and Casheuronet to read this alongside my 
Ref: DRN88454512final decision  to provide proper context to my decision. And I have included my provisional 
findings below.  
Based on information contained in appendix two I explained that there were three overarching 
questions I needed to consider in order to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the circumstances of 
this complaint. These were:
1.Did Casheuronet,  each  time it lent, complete reasonable and proportionate checks to 
satisfy itself that Ms W would be able to repay in a sustainable way?
a.If not, would those  checks have shown that Ms W wouldve been  able to do so?
2.Taking into account the short-term purpose of the loans provided, did the overall pattern 
of lending increase  Ms Ws indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable  or otherwise 
harmful?
3.Did Casheuronet  act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
If I determine  that Casheuronet did not act fairly and reasonably in its dealings  with Ms W and that 
she has lost out as a result, I will go on to consider what is fair compensation.
In my provisional decision (which forms part of this decision)  I said:
Did Casheuronet,  for each  loan, complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Ms W would be able to repay the loans in a sustainable  way?
Before considering this point further I would like to explain the distinction between  a lender  
determining its own level of risk and an assessment of affordability. 
A lender  will determine how much of a risk it is willing to take on a given application i.e. the risk of not 
getting its money back. However  under the rules applicable to Ms Ws loans a lender was also 
required to complete  a reasonable assessment of whether the borrower can afford  to meet  the 
repayments in a sustainable  way (usually  referred to as an affordability assessment). This involves 
completing a borrower-focused assessment by completing proportionate checks.
What constitutes  a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a number of factors  
including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the borrower (such as their financial 
history including  with the lender in question,  current  situation and outlook,  and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. Even for the 
same customer, a proportionate check could look different  for different loan applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more  
thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more  difficult  to repay a given loan 
amount from a lower  level of income)
the higher the amount  due to be repaid  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular  level of income)
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period  of time during which 
a customer has been given  loans  (reflecting that ongoing use of these loans may signal that 
the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
Before agreeing the loans in question Casheuronet has told our service that it completed external 
credit searches before  each application. And whilst Casheuronet has said the results of these 
searches didnt flag any concerns (such as discharges, CCJs [county court  judgements], credit 
Ref: DRN88454513searches, or disputes), it hasnt provided  full results of any of the searches it completed. Ms W has 
provided a copy of her recent  credit report  and whilst  this doesnt show things like CCJs it does show 
Ms W was regularly borrowing with other high cost short term credit providers  together with other high 
cost credit providers. But without Casheuronets  results  from the time, its difficult  to know what  
information these searches wouldve shown.  
Casheuronet has also said it asked Ms W for her net monthly income at various points.  The chart 
below shows what Ms W declared across  both of Casheuronets brands. (Casheuronet has previously 
confirmed that both its brands shared information and so had access to previous lending  history and 
information a consumer has provided.)  
I should  explain that below  doesnt reflect the full record of lending (see the attached summary at the 
end of this decision for a full record of lending). Ive shown below the points in time that Ms W made  
revised income declarations.  And its not clear  if, in the intervening applications, Ms W needed  to 
confirm her previous income declaration  or if this information was carried across from her previous 
application. 
Date Net monthly declared  
income Casheuronet brand  the 
declaration was made to 
12 January 2012 £1,600 Pounds to Pocket  and 
Quick Quid
19 February 2012 £1,650 Pounds to Pocket
8 August 2014 £3,950 Pounds to Pocket
21 October 2014 £2,000 Quick Quid
14 April 2015 £2,108 Quick Quid
18 December 2015 £2,140 Quick Quid
In addition Casheuronet  also began asking  Ms W for basic expenditure information. The earliest point 
I can see that Casheuronet recorded this was on 8 August 2014 to Pounds  to Pocket. (And  it was at 
this time that Ms W seems  to have made her first revised income declaration  since February  2012).  
Casheuronet asked for declarations under the headings  of monthly housing expenses, monthly  utility 
expenses, monthly transport  expenses, monthly food expenses,  monthly other credit commitments 
and monthly  other  expenses.  At this time Ms W declared a total expenditure of £1,025.  She then 
made a lower declaration of £825 in October 2014 to Quick Quid. Followed  by a further five 
declarations to Quick Quid of the same expenditure totalling £825 from November 2014 to April 2015.  
Its again  not clear if this information was reconfirmed by Ms W on each application  or if this had been 
carried forward from a previous application. Her final declaration was in November  2015 and she 
again declared the same as her initial expenditure of £1,025 to Pounds to Pocket.
Casheuronet has also said it validated  the income and expenditure information provided by Ms W 
before agreeing loans 11 to 15 (from February to June  2015). It has said that using the credit search  
results it was able to create an Income Confidence Factor to gauge the accuracy  of the income 
information. And it compared the declared  expenditure information with average expenses data from 
the Office of National Statistics. And whilst Ive noted that Casheuronet  has said if material 
discrepancies were found it would  request copies of bank statements, I cant see Casheuronet  took 
these steps before agreeing  these loans  for Ms W. So in Ms Ws case  Casheuronet hasnt verified the 
specific information provided  by Ms W with further information about her individual circumstances. 
Ive thought carefully about  the checks Casheuronet has said it completed before agreeing Ms Ws 
loans and I dont think it completed proportionate checks before agreeing  any of the loans given  to Ms 
W. 
Ms Ws first loan was for £300 and she needed to repay approximately £350. At this time 
Casheuronet asked Ms W for her net monthly income  which she declared as being £1,650 per month. 
Given the amount  to be repaid was a relatively  high amount and looking at the proportion of her net 
monthly income she would need to repay the following  month, I think  it wouldve  been proportionate 
Ref: DRN88454514for Casheuronet to have gathered information about  her regular expenditure. And Id have expected 
this to have  included gathering information about her regular  financial commitments. 
Ive reached the same thoughts in relation to Ms Ws second  loan, her top up on this loan and her 
third loan. Ms W rolled over her first loan (paying only interest) and deferring her final payment (of the 
principal amount and another interest payment). She then took out the second loan around a week 
and a half after shed  repaid loan one, before topping up her second loan just over a week after this. 
The highest  repayment on her second loan was then £300 as a result  of the top up. Looking at her 
third loan, Ive noted this loan was for a lower amount (before she subsequently topped it up), but this 
loan was still taken in fairly quick succession (around a month  after her final repayment on loan two).  
And this was now her fourth  advance in around four months, with no substantial  gaps in lending. So I 
think it wouldve been proportionate for Casheuronet to have continued to gather information about 
Ms Ws regular expenditure  including  her regular  financial commitments. However, as Ive explained  
Casheuronet only had information about her net monthly  pay (and completed credit searches for 
which it cant  provide the results). So I dont think Casheuronet  completed proportionate checks  
before agreeing these loans.  
Ms W then increased  her third loan to £350 (from £200)  six days  after taking it. This loan was 
previously a single payment  loan due at the end of that month (August  2012). However when the 
borrowing amount was increased, the loan was restructured. Ms W was now due to make an initial 
payment of interest only in the August, followed by a full payment of capital and interest at the end of 
September. Its worth highlighting  that changes of this nature  could easily be seen as a new loan 
given the loan amount,  repayment structure and term of the loan changed.  And so Ive described  it as 
additional borrowing (or extensions)  rather  than a top up to highlight the distinction. 
Following the additional borrowing, the largest repayment (which was due in the September) was 
£437.50. As this payment  was a substantial proportion  of Ms Ws declared net income,  and was now 
her fifth advance in a relatively  short  period of time,  I think  it wouldve been proportionate for 
Casheuronet to have  gathered further  information. 
Together with asking questions about her regular expenditure,  including any regular  financial 
commitments, I think Casheuronet also needed  to ask about any short term loan commitments  Ms W 
had. This is because  I think the number and frequency of loans, top ups and term extensions  in a 
relatively short period of time shouldve  alerted Casheuronet to the possibility that Ms W may have 
been becoming reliant on this type of lending  and potentially borrowing from other high cost short  
term lenders. For largely  the same reasons I also think Casheuronet shouldve gathered this 
information for loan four. However,  as Ive explained Casheuronet had only enquired about  Ms Ws 
net monthly income. So I dont think it completed proportionate checks  before agreeing either of these 
loans. 
 
Four days  after taking loan four for £300, Ms W took out a further £100.  At this time the loan was 
restructured in a similar way to loan three. Her fourth loan was originally a single repayment loan, due 
to be repaid in November 2012. When the principal loan amount was increased the repayment 
structure changed  to two repayments  an interest only payment of £100 at the end of November  
2012 and a payment of interest and principal  loan of £500  at the end of December 2012.  Again  Ive 
described this as additional borrowing on loan four. 
This was now the seventh  advance Casheuronet had given Ms W over a period  of around eight 
months (with no significant  gaps in lending). And this was now the third time Ms W had returned to 
Casheuronet to increase her borrowing whilst still having another loan outstanding. It was also the 
highest amount Ms W had borrowed (£400)  and therefore  attracted  the highest repayment of £500 
which was again a substantial proportion  of Ms Ws declared net monthly  income.
By this stage I think it shouldve been becoming increasingly obvious to Casheuronet  that Ms W 
wasnt using this lending in the way it was intended. I also think that Casheuronet  shouldve started  to 
have real concerns  given  that Ms W was building  up a track record of struggling to repay her 
borrowing from disposable  income and without needing to borrow  again. I think  it wouldve  been 
Ref: DRN88454515proportionate for Casheuronet to have independently verified the information Ms W was providing and 
complete a full review of her income and expenditure circumstances. It couldve done this by asking 
for evidence  and information  about her outgoings and income. However, Casheuronet relied on her 
declared net income and as Ive explained,  cant provide the results of any credit searches it 
completed. So again  I dont  think it completed proportionate  checks. 
Casheuronet then went on to agree a number  of additional advances. As Ive explained, Ive attached 
a summary of lending to this provisional decision.  But to summarise, it agreed a further 27 advances  
(including an instalment loan and various top ups/ extensions). And around a year and a half into 
lending to Ms W it also agreed  an open-ended flex credit loan which allowed  Ms W to have around 30 
separate drawdowns. 
There were  no substantial  gaps in lending to Ms W, usually each loan or subsequent loan was taken  
within days or weeks of the previous loan. And in some instances within around a month or two at 
most. So, for largely the same reasons, I think that it wouldve been fair and reasonable for 
Casheuronet to have  continued to take steps to verify  Ms Ws actual financial position. So I dont think  
Casheuronet completed proportionate checks for any of the additional borrowing (or at any stage  in its 
lending with Ms W). 
I have noted that from August 2014 Casheuronet began to take basic expenditure  information  from 
Ms W. Firstly I think its important to highlight  that at this time Ms W also declared a net monthly 
income of almost £4,000 per month,  increasing significantly from £1,650 just two and a half years 
earlier. And a total expenditure of £1,025, suggesting that she had almost £3,000 in disposable 
income. If she had this much disposable income it seems  unlikely that she wouldve persistently  
needed a high cost, short  term loan (or that she wouldve been borrowing from Casheuronet 
consistently for such a long period prior to this.)  
So I think its fair say that Casheuronet may have had reason to question the information being 
provided to it at this time.  But in any event, Casheuronet didnt  start asking  for expenditure information 
until around two and a half years into lending to Ms W. So I think  by the time it started asking for this 
information it had gone well past the point  of being reasonable and proportionate to rely on the 
income or expenditure information being declared by Ms W.  
In addition, as Ive described  earlier  in this decision,  Casheuronet has said it took extra steps to 
validate the information provided by Ms W before agreeing loans 11 to 15. To summarise,  its said it 
compared Ms Ws income declarations to an Income Confidence Factor  it created from her credit 
search results. And it compared Ms Ws expenditure information  to average expenses data from the 
Office of National Statistics. By taking these  steps Casheuronet has said it was able to gauge the 
accuracy of the information being provided. 
Ive carefully thought about  the additional steps Casheuronet  has said it took in relation to these loans 
(11 to 15), but I still dont think it completed proportionate checks  before agreeing these loans.  By the 
time Ms W took out her 11th loan with Casheuronet she was almost three years into her borrowing  
with it and she hadnt  had any significant gaps in lending.  Again I think it was well past the point of 
being reasonable to rely on statistical benchmarks to gauge the accuracy of the information without 
independently verifying the information based on Ms Ws personal circumstances. I have noted that 
Casheuronet has said where there are material  discrepancies  (between the declarations and what  
these checks reveal) it will go on to request the consumers bank statements. (And requesting bank 
statements is a way of independently verifying  the consumers actual  circumstances). However, 
Casheuronet hasnt shown it took these steps. So I dont think  the additional  steps it took for loans 11 
to 15 were sufficient and as such  I dont think Casheuronet  completed proportionate checks before 
agreeing these loans. 
So to summarise and for the reasons  Ive explained above, I dont think proportionate checks  were  
completed by Casheuronet before it agreed any of the loans it gave Ms W. 
Ref: DRN88454516Would reasonable  and proportionate  checks for any of the loans given  have indicated to Casheuronet  
that Ms W would have been unable  to sustainably repay the loan(s)?
As Ive concluded proportionate checks werent  carried out for these  loans  (or any of the subsequent  
instances of lending), I cant say for sure what they wouldve shown.  So I need to decide whether it is 
more likely  than not that a proportionate affordability check  would have told Casheuronet that it was 
unfair to provide these loans  to Ms W. Ms W has provided us with evidence of her financial 
circumstances throughout the period she applied for the loans.
I accept different checks might show different things.  And just because  something shows  up in the 
information Ms W has provided,  it doesnt mean it wouldve shown up in any checks Casheuronet  
mightve carried out. But in the absence of anything else from Casheuronet  showing what  information  
it gathered (and how it interpreted it), I think its fair and reasonable to place considerable weight  on it 
as an indication of what Ms Ws financial circumstances  were  likely to have been at the time.
loans one to three (including the top up on loan two)
As Ive explained, I think proportionate checks for loans one to three (including the top up on loan two) 
wouldve involved, for example, finding out about Ms Ws normal monthly  living costs and regular 
financial commitments in addition to her regular expenditure. 
I appreciate that Casheuronet has argued that Ms W was likely to have declared similar expenditure 
figures as to those she later declared, if it had asked her the relevant questions. In some 
circumstances I might  say this is a reasonable  assumption to make. But I dont think this is a fair 
conclusion to make in Ms Ws case as the expenditure declarations were made  approximately 2 to 2 
and a half years later. So I dont think its reasonable to conclude,  given the time difference between 
these applications and her expenditure  declarations, that its most likely  she wouldve declared the 
same expenditure.  
But having looked at the information Ms W has provided  our service  Ive been  able to get a sense  of 
her regular income and expenditure from around this time. And having  done so, I think  its likely  that if 
Casheuronet had completed proportionate checks, the information it wouldve gathered wouldve  
suggested Ms W couldve afforded to repay these loans and the top up. Whilst  I appreciate this may 
not have been Ms Ws actual position, I have to think about what proportionate checks  wouldve 
uncovered. And, given the early position in the loan chain  and the amount of the loan relative to her 
declared income, I dont think  it wouldve been proportionate at this stage for Casheuronet to have 
gone to the level of verifying her information. 
the additional borrowing  on loan three and loan four
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I think proportionate checks for these  loans  wouldve involved 
Casheuronet finding out about  any other short  term lending Ms W had outstanding, in addition  to 
finding out about her regular income and expenditure. 
Again I think  these checks wouldve most likely indicated to Casheuronet that Ms W had enough  
disposable income  left to afford to repay her lending.  I would like to stress  that I appreciate  this wasnt 
her actual position, but as I dont think proportionate checks  at this stage  of the lending wouldve 
revealed this, Im not upholding her complaint about  these advances. 
For the sake of completeness, I should also explain that Ive come to this conclusion by trying to gain 
a picture of Ms Ws regular  income, expenditure and outstanding financial  commitments (both regular 
and short term). I havent relied on her later expenditure declarations as again  I think  they were made  
a substantial period of time later. And so in the circumstances I dont think its reasonable  to rely on 
them as being indicative of what Ms W declared approximately two years later. 
the additional borrowing  on loan four and subsequent top up on loan four  
Ref: DRN88454517Ive already explained why I dont think Casheuronets checks for these  advances  were reasonable  
and proportionate. By this stage, I think that Casheuronet not only needed to gather  information about 
Ms Ws income and expenditure,  it also needed to take steps to verify some of the information  being  
provided in order to have gained a broader understanding of Ms Ws financial position. 
Had Casheuronet gained fuller understanding of Ms Ws circumstances I think its more likely than not 
that Casheuronet wouldve  seen Ms W didnt  have enough  disposable income to be able to 
sustainably afford these  advances. Ms W was living  in her £1,700 overdraft  fairly  consistently, paying 
overdraft fees, and was making regular payments  to a number of other high cost credit providers.
I can also see in the month before taking loan four (and at various subsequent points during the 
period she was borrowing  from Casheuronet)  Ms W makes attempts to clear  some of her credit 
commitments. From  her testimony  it seems  she does  this by either borrowing  from friends and family, 
(including where friends and family took out loans  on her behalf) or through  high cost guarantor  loans. 
But from what  Ive seen, these attempts dont seem  to substantially alter her position. Prior to 
repaying loan three Ms W receives £2,000 (which  may well have been used in part to repay loan 
three shortly after). But shes then quickly back into her overdraft and returns to Casheuronet to 
borrow loan four within  a month.  And shes  then given  two additional advances on loan four. 
I think  had Casheuronet completed proportionate checks before agreeing the additional borrowing 
and top up on loan four, it may well have seen what Ms W was trying to achieve. And I think  this 
wouldve additionally alerted  Casheuronet to the possibility that Ms W couldnt have  substantially 
afforded these  advances.  And despite there being a short one month gap between her repaying  her 
previous loan and returning  for loan four, this wasnt because shed managed her finances and 
outgoings sustainably  in the intervening period.  It was because shed taken on additional borrowing to 
try and change her circumstances, but had limited  success and needed  to return to Casheuronet for 
additional borrowing. 
So for the reasons  Ive explained above, I plan to uphold  Ms Ws complaint  in relation to her additional 
borrowing and top up on loan four. 
I havent recreated  individual, proportionate affordability checks for loans  5 to17 (including any top 
ups or additional  advances) because  I dont  think  that it is necessary to do so. Ill explain why this is 
the case  in the next section.
Thinking about the short-term purpose of the loans provided, did the overall pattern  of lending 
increase Ms Ws indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or harmful in some other way?
In addition to assessing the affordability of each individual loan provided to Ms W by Casheuronet, 
I also think  its fair and reasonable  to look at the overall pattern of lending (including the number and 
frequency of loans and the period of time that Ms W was borrowing from Casheuronet). Bearing in 
mind the short-term purpose of this type of credit  and the relevant rules, guidance  and good  industry 
practice at the time (as summarised in the earlier part of this decision)  it seems  to me that there may 
come a point  at which a responsible lender  would reasonably question  whether  continuing to offer 
further short-term loans  to a customer who appears to be persistently  reliant upon them, (especially 
when that customer is also accessing other forms of high cost credit), was unsustainable or otherwise 
harmful. 
Ive explained above why I dont think Casheuronet completed reasonable and proportionate checks  
on any of the loans it gave  Ms W. And Ive explained  why, based on all the information I have 
available, if Casheuronet had completed reasonable and proportionate checks it wouldve most likely  
seen that the advances on loan four werent  individually affordable.  
I think  by loan five there was a clear mismatch between the intended  purpose of this type of credit  and 
the way in which Casheuronet has allowed it to be used. Whilst I think there were  some earlier  
warning signs,  its at this stage where I think a clear pattern had emerged so that a responsible  lender 
wouldve considered that it was not appropriate to continue to lend.  
Ref: DRN88454518I say this because, by this stage: 
-Casheuronet had been lending  to Ms W for over a year with limited gaps in lending  by the 
time she applied for loan five. So its clear she wasnt mitigating a short term gap in her 
finances, but was experiencing a larger on-going problem for which this type of credit was not 
the right solution. 
-It had allowed Ms W to increase her borrowing  with additional borrowing/  top ups on several  
occasions, leading to a clear upwards  trend in the amounts being borrowed. And this pattern  
of taking an initial amount  and then quickly going back for further lending  was beginning to 
increase in frequency. 
-The loan amounts (although there was some  initial  slight fluctuation)  were on a clear upwards 
pattern.
Ms W also clearly had problems repaying loan four including the two additional advances. At the time 
of taking her first additional  borrowing on loan four, the loan was restructured to be repaid in two 
instalments with the final by 27 December 2012. This effectively added a roll-over into the borrowing 
with interest only being paid in month one, then the full capital plus interest being  repaid in month two. 
This remained the repayment structure when Casheuronet agreed the additional  top up on loan four 
in November 2012. 
However, Ms W wasnt able to repay this borrowing  when  it fell due. She extended  this loan at the 
end of January 2013 for a further month and did the same again in February 2013.  It seems she was 
only able to eventually  repay this loan on 27 March 2013. This was the same day she took out a 
£1,000 instalment loan with Casheuronet. So it seems she finally cleared loan four by consolidating it 
into loan five. And what started as a single payment payday loan ended  up becoming  a multi-payment 
loan which took her six months to repay. And from what I can see it seems  she was only really able to 
repay this borrowing by taking out additional borrowing with Casheuronet. 
I have noted that loan five was repaid early. It was an instalment loan due to be repaid over 11 
months, but Ms W repaid  it early around 6-7 weeks after she took it out. However,  this is again  
following Ms W receiving  large funds which  she has said was a loan that a friend  had taken on her 
behalf and which she then made repayments  towards each month. It seems this was another attempt 
to stabilise her finances  which was unsuccessful. And although Ms W didnt immediately borrow  again 
from Casheuronet, she did need to shortly after, around two and a half months later.  This starts to 
build an additional pattern of Ms W attempting to remove herself from a cycle  of debt, but being 
unable to maintain it for any significant period of time.  This again reinforces my view that by loan five 
Casheuronet shouldve recognised that she wasnt  able to repay  the borrowing  in a sustainable way. 
Looking beyond loan five, I think the clear mismatch between the intended  purpose of this type of 
credit and the way in which  Casheuronet has allowed it to be used.  This type of credit is meant to be 
a short-term  solution to temporary cash  flow problems as set out in the ILG, which applied  at this 
time. (This section of the ILG is also specifically cited in CONC, which later became the relevant  
regulation). This is also supported by Casheuronet itself through its email correspondence with Ms W 
where it states Payday advances should be used for short-term financial needs only,  not as a long-
term financial solution. Whilst I appreciate some of the advances  werent strictly payday advances, a 
number of them were,  or at least initially began as payday  advances. 
But Casheuronet persistently and repeatedly gave Ms W loans and top ups, with no substantial  gaps 
in lending, over an extended period of time. This period was almost four years  in total and more than 
two and a half years  beyond where I think it shouldve identified a clear pattern of reliance and 
stopped lending to Ms W. 
In this period Casheuronet agreed 25 further advances and a flex credit loan to Ms W (which in itself 
had another  30 individual drawn  downs). Looking at the lending during this period its clear a pattern 
Ref: DRN88454519of consistent lending had continued. Ms W was regularly  taking loans and quickly realising  she 
needed additional funds. In several instances she took another  three top ups in quick succession  after 
the initial  loan. 
Looking in particular at the flex credit loan, Id also like to draw  Casheuronets attention  to the flex 
credit agreement (detailed earlier in this decision)  and in particular Section  1  Is a Flex Credit  
Account suitable for me? This states  that this type of lending is not suitable  for long term or regular 
borrowing. Id suggest  that allowing 30 individual drawdowns (including  taking additional  borrowing  
shortly after a previous drawdown) is well in excess of regular borrowing.  In one example,  over a 
period of 12 days Ms W took six drawdowns  totalling £750 in lending. 
So given all of Casheuronets obligations (which Ive summarised above), including  the short-term  
purpose of this kind of high-cost credit and what I think is fair and reasonable (based on the 
circumstances Ive described above), I think that Casheuronet acted  unfairly in providing  Ms W with 
loans 5 to 17 (including top ups and additional borrowing).
 Did Ms W lose out as a result  of Casheuronets shortcomings in relation to loans 5 to 17 (including 
any top ups or additional borrowing)?
As Ive explained, I havent recreated proportionate checks for the lending from loan five onwards. But 
I dont think I need to because I think that Ms W suffered  adverse consequences as a result of 
Casheuronet unfairly giving her loans  five onwards.  
I say this because these  loans  had the effect  of unfairly prolonging Ms Ws indebtedness to 
Casheuronet by allowing  her to take high cost credit  which the rules  and guidance made  clear  was 
only intended  for short-term use  over an extended period of time. Casheuronet  contributed  to her 
overall indebtedness and the accessibility  of this credit (together  with other high cost credit)  allowed 
Ms W to remain in an unsustainable cycle  of debt for several years. 
I also think  the consistent  lending with Casheuronet (together with other high cost credit providers)  
wouldve had and continue to have an additional impact on Ms Ws ability to access  other mainstream 
credit. This is because I think the continuous presence of this credit (together with other high cost 
credit providers) wouldve  had an adverse  effect on her credit file.  The greater the presence of short-
term loans on Ms Ws credit file, the less likely she would  be able to improve her finances and regain 
access to mainstream  credit.
So overall and having carefully thought about everything provided and whats fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this case, Im intending to say that Ms W has lost out because Casheuronet 
unfairly gave  her loans 5 to 17 (including  additional borrowing and top ups) which  it ought  to have 
realised were unsustainable and harmful for her. And this means Im intending to tell Casheuronet  
that it needs  to put things right in the way Ive described below.
I went on to explain the redress  I intended  to award  which I will detail later in this decision. 
Ms Ws response to my provisional decision 
Ms W agreed with my provisional decision and provided no further information  for me to 
consider. 
Casheuronets response  to my provisional decision
Casheuronet disagreed with my provisional decision. It felt the checks  completed at the time 
of agreeing all loans were  adequate and proportionate and in line with FCA and OFT 
guidelines at the time of lending. 
In relation to Ms Ws flex credit loan Casheuronet highlighted that Ms W didnt incur any late 
Ref: DRN884545110fees on this loan and that there were  a few occasions where Ms W repaid more  than the 
amount owed on the contractual  due dates. By this I think  Casheuronet is arguing  Ms W 
repaid more than the repayment  amount due at the time. It feels  that a consumer 
experiencing financial difficulties or a dependency wouldnt be able to make the repayments 
when theyre due or make increased payments.  
It has also argued from the top up on loan 10 onwards Casheuronet preformed enhanced 
checks before lending (which its said it included information about as part of its initial 
response to this complaint to the ombudsman service.) 
Casheuronet also provided  a copy of the lending process it follows  when deciding  whether or 
not to lend to a consumer. This included:  
-Details of the information collected on its online application  from pre 2015 and post 
2015
-Online screenshots  of the screen for income and employment. This was for the 
following brands  and time periods:
Quick Quid pre March 2015
Quick Quid flex credit pre March 2015
Pounds to Pocket pre March 2015
Quick Quid March  2015 to April 2016
Quick Quid April 2016 to current 
Pounds to Pocket March 2015 to current 
-Details of how Casheuronet has said it validated income and expenses  post March 
2015
-A copy of its post March 2015  lending criteria flow chart 
-Details of its lending  criteria pre and post 2015  sub-divided into creditworthiness  and 
affordability 
-Information about the application process for loans with final balloon payments from 
June 2015 onwards   
Casheuronet has also argued that ombudsman service adjudicators  appear  to only focus on 
one method of what it calls enhanced checks. This is using the consumers bank 
statements to verify  the consumers circumstances. It highlights  that looking at FCA 
regulation there is no prescribed way a lender needs to assess a consumers financial 
circumstances before agreeing to lend.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments provided from the outset, including 
the responses to my provisional decision,  in order to decide whats  fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
In reaching my decision, Ive taken into account  the relevant law and regulations;  relevant 
regulators rules,  guidance and standards; relevant codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. Ive set out all 
of this in appendix 2.
Taking into account the relevant rules,  guidance,  good industry  practice and law, I think that 
the three overarching questions  that I set out in my provisional decision remain  the ones 
I need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint:
Ref: DRN884545111Did Casheuronet,  each time it lent, complete reasonable and proportionate checks to 
satisfy itself that Ms W would be able to repay  the loan in a sustainable  way?
oIf not, would  those checks have shown that Ms W wouldve been able to do so?
Taking into account the short-term purpose of the loans provided, did the overall pattern 
of lending increase Ms Ws indebtedness  in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise 
harmful?
Did Casheuronet  act unfairly or unreasonably  in some other way?
And having done so, Ive not been persuaded to depart  from the conclusions  reached in my 
provisional decision. So my decision is to uphold  this complaint in relation to the additional 
borrowing on loans 4 (October 31 2012) to 17 (including all top ups and additional  
borrowing). However, I would like to address the points made  in response to my provisional 
decision by Casheuronet.
flex credit agreement 
I dont agree with Casheuronets  arguments  in relation to the flex credit account  just 
because Ms W was able to make payments when (or before) they fell due, this doesnt mean 
she was able to do so sustainability. 
Ms W took out her flex credit loan within days of repaying her previous loan with 
Casheuronet. By the time of this loan she had been  borrowing  from Casheuronet on a 
regular basis for around a year and a half and had 12 advances.  During the life of the flex 
credit loan (which was almost a year) Ms W had some 30 drawdowns. As Ive explained in 
my provisional decision, it think it shouldve been  clear to Casheuronet, well before the flex 
credit loan, that Ms W was building up a pattern of dependency on the type of credit it was 
providing. And that the accessibility of this credit (together with other high cost credit) 
allowed Ms W to remain  in an unsustainable  cycle of debt for several years, limiting her 
opportunities to access mainstream credit. So I think a responsible  lender wouldve 
considered that it was not appropriate to continue to lend from (and including) loan 5 
onwards which  includes  the flex credit  agreement.
loan 10 onwards 
Casheuronet has highlighted the further (or enhanced checks) it completed  from the top up 
on loan 10 onwards. This included checking the income and expenditure declared against  
credit reports and office of national  statistics (ONS) data. And if this highlighted concerns, it 
would check bank statements/  payslips.  
Firstly, looking  at the schedule of lending, loan 10 didnt have an additional  top up. And the 
types of enhanced checks its described seem to be consistent with the checks it previously 
said it completed in relation to loans 11 to 15. 
Even if I accept these checks were completed  from loan 10 onwards, I still dont think these 
checks were proportionate. Again I think by loan 10 this was well past the point of being 
reasonable to rely on statistical benchmarks to gauge  the accuracy of the information without 
independently verifying the information  based  on Ms Ws personal circumstances. And its 
important to highlight  although credit search  results provide some details of expenditure, it 
Ref: DRN884545112wont give a full picture of an individuals expenditure. And comparing  this to other statistical 
data to create creditworthiness scores  again doesnt verify Ms Ws declaration  against  her 
full circumstances.  
I have noted that Casheuronet has said part of its process,  would be to check the 
information declared further against  bank statements  and payslips. However, Ive seen 
nothing to suggest that Casheuronet  took these steps before agreeing any of loans 10 
onwards to Ms W.  
proportionate checks (pre March 2015)
Casheuronet has argued it completed proportionate checks  throughout its lending to Ms W. 
Therefore although  Im still not upholding loans one to four (excluding additional borrowing 
and the top up on loan four) I will still address the points Casheuronet has made  in relation 
to these loans,  together  with the other  lending it gave Ms W. 
In its response to my provisional decision Casheuronet has explained  that pre March  2015 it 
gathered details of employment and income  for every application. It has said it also 
completed a credit search and other third party checks  for example a fraud related check. 
And Casheuronet also provided online screenshots to show the layout  of how these 
questions were asked  (across Quick Quid, Pounds to Pocket and its flex credit product). 
However, this largely gives  the same information  about the types  of checks  Casheuronet has 
previously said it completed. 
This is with one exception  to the Pounds to Pocket  application (which  Ms W made in March 
2013). Here  I can see a request for total monthly  household income  in situations where the 
consumer indicated they were married  or living together. However, Ive not seen anything 
suggest Ms W declared any other household  income in addition  to her own income. 
Therefore the response Casheuronet has provided in relation to this period of lending  to 
Ms W doesnt give further information about  what its checks revealed  about Ms Ws 
circumstances at the time of lending. In particular  (and as I explained in my provisional  
decision) I note that whilst  Casheuronet has repeatedly said it completed credit  searches, it 
isnt able to provide further consumer specific information about what those searches 
revealed. So Ive not seen  anything  here to suggest  Casheuronet took additional steps or 
that it gathered  (and is able to provide)  further information specific to Ms W about  her 
circumstances at the time. 
Therefore for the reasons Ive explained in my provisional decision, I dont think  Casheuronet 
completed proportionate checks before agreeing any of the pre March 2015 loans it agreed. 
And I think that had it done so, it wouldve seen that the additional borrowing and top up on 
loan four were  unaffordable for Ms W.
proportionate checks (March 2015 onwards)
Ive reviewed two screenshots provided  for March 2015 onwards (QuickQuid March 2015  to 
April 2016 and Pounds to Pocket March  2015  onwards.) Whilst its helpful  to visually  see the 
application process Ms W wouldve followed,  they also show  that Casheuronet gathered  the 
same information as it previously explained  in relation to Ms Ws expenditure. So for the 
reasons set out in my provisional decision and in this decision,  I also dont think  
Casheuronet completed proportionate checks for any of the loans agreed from March 2015 
onwards. 
Ref: DRN884545113I can see Casheuronet has provided  a further screenshot for Quick  Quid  applications from 
April 2016 onwards. However, as Ms Ws final loan was agreed in December 2015  this isnt 
relevant to this complaint.
income and expenses validation post March 2015 and post March  2015 lending  criteria  flow 
chart 
The checks  Casheuronet has described here appear to be the same  as those described 
above when addressing loan 10 and onwards. It said it asked income  and expenditure 
information and verified this against  information from the consumers  credit  reports and ONS 
data. And it said it would have manually  verified  this information against bank statements 
and payslips if needed. Ive therefore explained above and in my provisional  decision why I 
dont think these checks were proportionate  before agreeing any of the post March  2015 
lending. 
lending criteria pre and post 2015 (creditworthiness and affordability) 
Casheuronet has provided  details of the type of information it gathered from a consumers 
credit search results. However,  I believe Ive addressed this above when discussing the 
further checks Casheuronet has said it completed  from loan 10 onwards. So I dont intend  to 
comment on this further.
Casheuronet has also provided further information  about  its Quick  Quid affordability  checks  
when agreeing multi payment loans  (with  a final balloon payment.) This is in relation to loans 
agreed from June 2015  onwards (loans 15 to 17). It has explained that the information  
provided to the consumer  wouldve highlighted  that they needed  to save in the earlier 
months to afford the final balloon payment (where their declared  monthly  disposable income 
is less than the final repayment amount.)  Whilst some of the loans taken from June 2015 
have more than one repayment  and a final balloon payment, the circumstances Casheuronet 
has described arent applicable to any of these loans. So I dont think  this impacts on my 
findings. 
 
Turning to the individual circumstances of this complaint, I agree (as Casheuronet has said) 
that it was not specifically  required to look at bank statements. As Ive set out in appendix 
two, Section 4.1 of the ILG says:
The extent  and scope  of any assessment of affordability, in any particular 
circumstance, should be dependent upon   and proportionate to  a number of 
factors 
Section 4.12 ILG is a non-exhaustive list of the types and sources  of information that a 
lender might  use to assess affordability, including:
evidence of income
evidence of expenditure
records of previous dealings with the borrower
a credit score
a credit report from a credit reference agency
information obtained from the borrower  through a form or a meeting
Ref: DRN884545114As Ive also explained  in appendix 2, the ILG has a great deal of alignment  with CONC 5 and 
CONC 6. And CONC also doesnt include a list of prescriptive  checks  a lender  must 
complete before agreeing  a given loan. 
However both regulators  were clear on the need to complete proportionate  checks before 
agreeing to lend.  And for the reasons Ive explained,  above and in my provisional decision,  I 
dont think it completed proportionate checks before agreeing any of the lending. 
To summarise, I think that had Casheuronet completed proportionate checks it wouldve  still 
agreed to lend loans 1 to 4. However, I think proportionate checks before agreeing the 
additional borrowing  and top up on loan four were likely  to have revealed that Ms W couldnt 
have afforded  these  advances. And considering the short-term purpose of the loans  
provided, I think overall pattern established  by loan 5 increased Ms Ws indebtedness in a 
way that was unsustainable and harmful (full details of my reasoning is outlined in my 
provisional decision which forms part of this decision). So I think that Casheuronet acted 
unfairly in providing  Ms W with loans 5 to 17 (including top ups and additional  borrowing).
fair compensation (as detailed in my provisional decision) 
Ive thought about what amounts to fair compensation  in this case. Where I find that a 
business has done something  wrong, Id normally expect that business   in so far as is 
reasonably possible   to put the consumer in the position they would be in now if that wrong 
hadnt taken place. In essence,  in this case, this would mean Casheuronet putting Ms W in 
the position shed now be in if she hadnt been  given  the loans Im upholding.
But when it comes to complaints about  irresponsible lending this isnt straightforward.  Ms W 
was given the loans in question and shes used the funds.  So, in these  circumstances, I cant  
undo whats already been  done.  And its simply not possible to put Ms W back  in the exact 
position she would be in if she hadnt  been  given these loans in the first place.
As this is the case, I have to think  about some other way of putting things right in a fair and 
reasonable way bearing in mind all the circumstances of the case. And Id like to explain  the 
reasons why I think that it would be fair and reasonable for Casheuronet to put things right in 
the following  way.
interest and charges on the loans Ms W shouldnt have  been given
As Ive explained throughout  this decision, Casheuronet continually lending  to Ms W over a 
sustained and consistent period of time left her in a position where she wasnt  able to 
properly clear her debt. This was because Ms W had to borrow additional  funds to pay the 
interest and charges on her Casheuronet loans together with other debts. And then at times 
she had to borrow again from Casheuronet to either repay others or cover  the hole in her 
finances and so she incurred more interest and charges when she did this. So to start with, 
I think that Casheuronet should refund the interest and charges Ms W paid on the additional  
borrowing on loan four (31 October 2012) up to and including  loan 17 (and including all top 
ups and additional  borrowing on these  loans).
Its also clear  that Ms W did lose the use of the funds she used to pay the interest and 
charges. And as Ms W lost the use of these funds, I think that she should be compensated 
for this. We normally ask a business to pay 8% simple interest  where a consumer hasnt had 
the use of funds because its actions resulted in something having  gone wrong. I see no 
Ref: DRN884545115reason to depart from our usual approach  here and I think  awarding  8% per year simple 
interest, on the interest and charges that were  paid, is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this case.
So Casheuronet should pay Ms W 8% per year simple interest on the interest and charges 
she paid from the date they were  paid to the date it settles Ms Ws complaint.
Ms Ws credit file
Generally speaking, Id expect  a lender to remove any adverse information recorded on a 
consumers credit file as a result  of the interest  and charges  on the loans they shouldnt  have 
been given. 
So to start with I think that Casheuronet should remove  any adverse information recorded  on 
Ms Ws credit file as a result of the interest and charges on the additional borrowing and top 
up on loan four, as this lending was clearly unaffordable and Ms W shouldnt have had to 
pay those interest and charges.
But Im upholding  Ms Ws complaint about loan five onwards  because  I think the overall 
pattern of lending increased Ms Ws indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or 
harmful in some other way. I explained that this lending  caused her to pay a high amount of 
interest and charges. And Ive already  explained  how Ms W should be compensated for this.
I also explained that the amount of time Ms W spent  borrowing from Casheuronet (together 
with other  high cost credit  provider) is likely to have had implications on Ms Ws ability to 
access mainstream credit. The greater  period  of short-term loans (and other  high cost credit) 
on Ms Ws credit file the less likely Ms W was able to rehabilitate her finances and regain 
access to mainstream credit. And I think my direction in relation to Ms Ws credit  file needs 
to reflect  this.
So while I recognise  the importance  of preserving an accurate picture of Ms Ws credit 
history and creditworthiness  so that a lender can make an informed  decision on whether 
lend to her, I think that these loans in themselves  are adverse information on Ms Ws credit 
file. And could impact  her ability going  forward to access mainstream credit.  In these 
circumstances, I think  that it is fair and reasonable for Casheuronet to remove  all reference  
to loans 5-17 (including on top ups and additional  borrowing)  from Ms Ws credit file, as this 
in itself is adverse  information.
All of this means  that I think it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of Ms 
Ws complaint for Casheuronet to put things right in the following way:
refund  all the interest, fees and charges paid on the additional borrowing on loan four 
(31 October 2012) up to and including loan 17 (18 December 2015) and including all 
top ups and additional  borrowing on these loans and;
add interest at 8% per year simple on the above interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid by Ms W to the date of settlement;
remove any adverse information  recorded  on Ms Ws credit file as a result of the 
additional borrowing  on loan four (31 October 2012) and the subsequent top up on 
loan four.
Ref: DRN884545116remove all reference to loans  5 to 17(and including all top ups and additional 
borrowing on these loans) from Ms Ws credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Casheuronet to take off tax from this interest. 
Casheuronet must give Ms W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for 
one.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained, I uphold Ms Ws complaint in part against Casheuronet UK 
LLC. And I direct it to put things right for consumer in the way Ive described above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms W to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 May 2019.
Claire Lisle 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN884545117appendix one  summary of lending 
Loan number Amount Date Type Final repayment 
date
Loan 1 £300 25 February 
2012One repayment of 
£356.2524 April 2012 (rolled 
over from March 
2012) 
Loan 2 £200 3 May 2012 Two repayments
of £50 and £250 
Loan 2 top up £100  (£300  
total) 11 May 
2012Increased loan 2 
repayments to 
£75 and £300  28 June 2012
Loan 3 £150 2 August 
2012One repayment  
£187.50 (due end of August 
2012) 
Loan 3  
additional borrowing £200 (£350 
total) 8 August 
2012Two payments 
(£87.50 and 
£437.50) 28 September 2012
Loan 4 £300 27 October 
2012One repayment 
£375 (due end of 
November 2012)
Loan 4  
additional borrowing £100 (£400 
total) 31 October 
2012Two repayments 
£100 and £500 
Due 29 Nov and 27 
Dec
Loan 4  
subsequent top 
up £100 (£500 
total) 17 November 2012
Two repayments 
£125 and £625 
(maintains repayment date) The repayment 
dates for these 
advances was first 
instalment on 28 
November 2012 and 
second on 27 
December. However, it wasnt 
repaid until 27 
March 2013.
Loan 5 
(Pounds to 
Pocket) £1,000 27 March  
2013 Eleven repayments 
of £168.67 (due 28 February 
2014) 
Repaid 11 May 2013  
Loan 6 £250 2 August 
2013One repayment of 
£312.50 28 August 2013
Loan 7 £100 7 September 2013
Three repayments  of 
£21.25, £21.25 and 
£121.25 (due 25 November 
2013)
Loan 7 top up 
1£150 (£250) 14 September 2013 
Amended to a single 
payment of £303.12due 25 September 
2013 (term 
decreased at time of 
the top up) 
Loan 8 Flex 
credit£1,000 limit
Multiple drawdowns  
around 30 
during the 
course of this 
agreement 30 September 2013
Initially set up with 
indicative repayment 
structure of 10 
months (based on 
full limit drawdown 
and monthly  
repayments thereafter)  Highest  
repayment based on 
this was £313.73closed on 16 
September 2014
Ref: DRN884545118Loan 9 £100 19 November 2014
One repayment of 
£133.3124 December 2014
Loan 9 top up 
1£100 (£200 
total) 5 December 
2014One repayment of 
£251.3924 December 2014
Loan 9 top up 
2£100 (£300 
total) 6 December 
2014One repayment of 
£368.5224 December 2014
Loan 9 top up 
3 £50 (£350 
total) 12 December 2014
One repayment of 
£418.52 (slightly 
lower amount quoted 
as due but this is the 
figure paid) 24 December 2014
Loan 10 £50 20 January 
2015One repayment of 
£64.40 21 January 2015 
(due on 25 February 
2015) 
Loan 11 £100 3 February 
2015Two repayments of 
£17.60 and £122.4025 March  2015
Loan 11 top up 
1 £100 (£200 
total) 10 February 
2015Two repayments of 
£29.60 and £244.80 25 March  2015
Loan 11 top up 
2 £75 (£275 
total)12 February 
2015 Two repayments of 
£31.80 and £336.60 25 March  2015
Loan 11 top up 
3 £50 (£325 
total) 13 February 
2015 Two repayments of 
£33.40 and £397.80 3 March 2015
(due 25 March  
2015) 
Loan 12 £100 18 March  
2015One repayment of 
£133.60 26 March  2015 (due 
29 April 2015) 
Loan 13 £150 2 April 2015 One repayment of 
£179.16 29 April 2015
Loan 13 top up 
1£100 (£250 
total) 8 April 2015 One repayment of 
£294.28 29 April 2015
Loan 13 top up 
2£50 (£300 
total) 14 April 
2015 One repayment of 
£344.28 29 April 2015 
Loan 13 top up 
3£75 (£375 
total) 16 April 
2015 One repayment of 
£413.88 29 April 2015
Loan 14 £150 14 May 
2015 Two repayments of 
£14.04 and £180.2424 June 2015
Loan 14 top up 
1£75 (£225 
total)15 May 
2015Two repayments of 
£20.52 and £270.36 repaid 27 May 2015  
(due 24 June  2015)  
Loan 15 £150 3 June 2015 Two repayments of 
£25.20 and £192 29 July 2015
Loan 15 top up 
1£75 (£225 
total) 10 June 
2015Two repayments of 
£33.60 and £28829 July 2015
Loan 15 top up 
2£50 (£275 
total) 8 July 2015 One repayment of 
£346.40 29 July 2015
Loan 15 top up 
3 £50 (£325 
total) 9 July 2015 One repayment of 
£404.40repaid 13 August 
2015 (due 29 July 
2015)
Loan 16 £100 16 September 2015
Three repayments  of 
£10.64, £21.28 and 
£121.28 repaid 20 October  
2015 (due 25 
November 2015)
Loan 17 £150 18 December 2015 
Three repayments  of 
£48, £33.60 and 
£192repaid on 22 
January 2016 (due 
30 March  2016)
Ref: DRN884545119appendix two - the legal and regulatory framework
regulation by the Office of Fair Trading (up to 31 March 2014)
Casheuronet gave Ms W her first 7 loans  and flex credit facility in the period up to the end of March 
2014. This included Ms Ws longer instalment loan of 11 repayments and an additional 5 top ups on 
her loans. During this time it needed a standard licence  from the Office of Fair Trading (OFT), in 
order to carry out consumer credit  activities.
Section 25(2)  of the Consumer Credit Act set out the factors  the OFT had to consider when  deciding 
whether to grant a consumer credit licence  to a lender. It said:
(1)In determining whether  an applicant for a licence is a fit person for the purposes of this 
section the OFT shall have regard to any matters appearing to it to be relevant  including  
(amongst other things) 
(a)the applicant's  skills, knowledge and experience  in relation to consumer credit 
businesses, consumer hire businesses  or ancillary credit businesses;
(b)such skills, knowledge  and experience  of other persons who the applicant 
proposes will participate in any business that would be carried on by him under 
the licence;
(c)practices and procedures that the applicant proposes to implement  in connection  
with any such business;
(d)evidence of the kind mentioned in subsection (2A)
(2A) That evidence is evidence tending to show that the applicant, or any of the applicant's  
employees, agents or associates  (whether past or present) or, where  the applicant is a 
body corporate, any person appearing  to the OFT to be a controller  of the body 
corporate or an associate  of any such person, has
(a)committed any offence involving fraud or other dishonesty  or violence;
(b)contravened any provision made by or under
(i) this Act;
(ii) Part 16 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000  so far as it relates  to 
the consumer credit  jurisdiction under  that Part;
(iii) any other enactment regulating the provision of credit to individuals or other 
transactions with individuals;
(c)contravened any provision in force in an EEA State which corresponds to a 
provision of the kind mentioned in paragraph (b);
(d)practised discrimination on grounds of sex, colour, race or ethnic or national  
origins in, or in connection with, the carrying on of any business; or
(e)engaged in business  practices  appearing  to the OFT to be deceitful  or 
oppressive or otherwise unfair or improper (whether unlawful  or not) [my 
emphasis].
Section 25(2B) set out a direct example of the type of practice referred to in Section 25(2A(e))  and 
said:
Ref: DRN884545120For the purposes of subsection (2A)(e), the business practices which the OFT may consider to be 
deceitful or oppressive or otherwise unfair or improper  include practices in the carrying on of a 
consumer credit  business  that appear to the OFT to involve irresponsible lending [my emphasis].
In January 2008 the OFT released Consumer credit licensing  General  guidance for licensees and 
applicants on fitness and requirements. This guidance explained that in the OFTs view irresponsible 
lending (contrary to the provisions of section 25(2B) of the Consumer  Credit Act 1974)  was:
 failing  to take reasonable care in making  loans or advancing lines of credit,  including 
making only limited or no enquiries  about consumers' income before offering loans,  and 
failing to take full account of the interests of consumers  in doing  so.
In August 2008 the OFT released a scoping paper on irresponsible lending.  The OFT explained  in this 
paper that its objective was to provide a clear OFT position on the test for irresponsible lending  
under section 25 of the CCA. It went on to explain that this was expected  to result in the 
publication of guidance setting out the basic standards expected of licensees  in relation  to 
irresponsible lending practises. 
In March 2010, the OFT sought to produce clear guidance on the test for irresponsible lending for the 
purposes of section 25(2B) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.  And so it issued its guidance on 
irresponsible lending (ILG).
So I consider the ILG to be of central importance in reaching a fair and reasonable  outcome in Ms Ws 
case.
The foreword to the guidance set out its purpose and it said:
The primary purpose in producing this guidance is to provide greater clarity for businesses  and 
consumer representatives as to the business practices that the Office  of Fair Trading (OFT) considers 
may constitute irresponsible lending practices for the purposes of section 25(2B)  of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974. It indicates types of deceitful or oppressive or otherwise unfair or improper business 
practices which, if engaged in by a consumer  credit business, could call into consideration  its fitness 
to hold a consumer credit  licence.
Whilst this guidance represents the OFT's  view on irresponsible lending, it is not meant to represent 
an exhaustive list of behaviours and practices which  might constitute  irresponsible lending.
Section two of the guidance sets out the general  principles of fair business practice. Section 2.1 says:
In the OFT's view there are a number of overarching principles of consumer protection and fair 
business practice which apply to all consumer credit lending.
Section 2.2 of the guidance  says:
In general terms,  creditors should:
not use misleading or oppressive behaviour when  advertising, selling, or seeking  to 
enforce a credit agreement
make a reasonable  assessment of whether a borrower can afford  to meet repayments in 
a sustainable manner
explain the key features of the credit agreement to enable the borrower to make an 
informed choice
Ref: DRN884545121monitor the borrower's  repayment record during the course of the agreement, offering 
assistance where borrowers appear to be experiencing difficulty  and
treat borrowers fairly and with forbearance if they experience difficulties
Section 2.3 lists other expectations of lenders. Amongst other things,  it says:
In addition to the above there should be:
fair treatment  of borrowers. Borrowers should not be targeted with credit products that are 
clearly unsuitable for them,  subjected  to high pressure selling, aggressive or oppressive 
behaviour or inappropriate  coercion, or conduct which is deceitful,  oppressive, unfair or 
improper, whether unlawful  or not
Borrowers who may be particularly vulnerable by virtue of their current  indebtedness, poor credit 
history, or by reason of age or health, or disability, or for any other reason, should, in particular, not be 
targeted or exploited.
Section four of the guidance  is concerned  with the assessment of affordability that lenders were 
required to carry out before granting credit. Section 4.1 says:
In the OFT's view, all assessments of affordability should involve a consideration  of the potential for 
the credit commitment to adversely impact  on the borrower's financial  situation,  taking account of 
information that the creditor  is aware of at the time the credit is granted. The extent and scope of any 
assessment of affordability, in any particular circumstance, should  be dependent upon  and 
proportionate to  a number of factors (see paragraph 4.10 of this guidance document).
'Assessing affordability', in the context of this guidance, is a 'borrower-focussed test' which involves a 
creditor assessing a borrower's ability to undertake  a specific  credit commitment,  or specific additional 
credit commitment, in a sustainable manner,  without the borrower incurring  (further)  financial 
difficulties and/or  experiencing adverse  consequences.
Section 4.2 of the OFT guidance says:
Whatever means and sources  of information  creditors employ as part of an assessment  of 
affordability should be sufficient to make an assessment of the risk of the credit sought being 
unsustainable for the borrower in question. In our view this is likely to involve more than solely  
assessing the likelihood of the borrower  being able to repay  the credit in question.
We consider that before granting credit, significantly increasing the amount of credit,  or significantly 
increasing the credit limit under an agreement for running  account credit, creditors should  take 
reasonable steps  to assess a borrower's  likely ability  to be able to meet repayments under the credit 
agreement in a sustainable manner.
In a sustainable manner is defined in Section 4.3 of the OFT guidance. And Section 4.3 says:
The OFT regards 'in a sustainable manner' in this context as meaning credit that can be repaid by the 
borrower:
without  undue difficulty   in particular without incurring or increasing problem indebtedness
over the life of the credit  agreement or, in the case of open-end agreements, within  a 
reasonable period of time
out of income  and/or  available savings, without having  to realise  security or assets.
Ref: DRN884545122Section 4.4 goes on to describe undue difficulty (as referred to in Section 4.3  see above)  and 
says:
The OFT would regard 'without undue difficulty' in this context as meaning the borrower being  able to 
make repayments (in the absence of changes in personal circumstances that were  not reasonably 
foreseeable at the time the credit was granted):
while  also meeting other debt repayments and other normal/reasonable outgoings and
without  having to borrow  further to meet these repayments.
Building on the proportionality principle set out in section 4.1, section 4.10 deals with the issues that 
might influence how detailed the affordability assessment should be. It includes  factors such  as:
the type of credit product;
the amount  of credit to be provided and the associated cost and risk to the borrower;
the borrowers financial  situation  at the time the credit is sought;
the borrowers credit history, including any indications of the borrower  experiencing (or 
having experienced) financial difficulty
the vulnerability of the borrower
Section 4.12 is a non-exhaustive list of the types and sources of information  that a lender might use to 
assess affordability, including:
evidence of income
evidence of expenditure
records of previous dealings with the borrower
a credit score
a credit report from a credit reference agency
information obtained  from the borrower  through a form or a meeting
Section 4.16 specifically touches on the issue of proportionality in the context of short-term credit. It 
says:
Whilst the OFT accepts,  as a general  principle  from a proportionality perspective,  that the level of 
scrutiny required for small sum and/or short-term credit may be somewhat less than for large sum 
and/or long term credit,  we consider that creditors should also take account  of the fact that the risk of 
the credit being unsustainable would be directly related  to the amount of credit granted (and 
associated interest / charges etc.) relative  to the borrowers financial situation
Sections 4.18 to 4.33 of the ILG set out some examples of specific irresponsible lending practices 
relating to how businesses assess affordability. Section 4.20 says this would include where  a lender 
is:
Failing to undertake a reasonable  assessment  of affordability  in an individual case  or cases
Ref: DRN884545123Section 4.21 gives another example:
Failing to consider sufficient  information  to be able to reasonably assess affordability,  prior to granting 
credit, significantly increasing the total amount of credit provided, or significantly increasing  the credit  
limit (in the case  of a running  account credit  agreement)
And Section 4.26 says a business would be acting irresponsibly if:
Granting an application for credit when, on the basis of an affordability assessment, it is known, or 
reasonably ought to be suspected, that the credit is likely to be unsustainable.
Sections 4.29 and 4.31 deal with a lenders treatment of information disclosed  by the customer. 4.29 
says it would  be an unsatisfactory  business practice where a lender:
fail[s] to take adequate steps, so far as is reasonable and practicable, to ensure  that information on a 
credit application relevant to an assessment of affordability is complete  and correct.
And section  4.31 says it would be unsatisfactory for a lender to:
[Accept] an application for credit under  circumstances in which it is known, or reasonably  ought  to be 
suspected, that the borrower has not been truthful in completing the application for credit with regards 
to the information supplied relevant to inform  an assessment of affordability
Section 6 of the ILG sets out other specific  irresponsible lending  practices relating to lender 
behaviour once loan(s)  have  been agreed. Section 6.2 says it would be an unsatisfactory practice  
where a business is:
Failing to monitor  a borrowers  repayment record
Section 6.2 goes on to say:
The OFT considers that creditors  should take appropriate actionwhen/if there are signs of apparent 
/ possible repayment difficulties.
Section 6.25 focuses specifically  on short-term credit products and says that it would be a deceptive 
and/or unfair practice  where a lender is:
Repeatedly refinancing (or 'rolling over') a borrower's existing credit commitment for a short- term 
credit product in a way that is unsustainable  or otherwise  harmful.
Section 6.25 then goes  on to say:
The OFT considers that this would include  a creditor allowing a borrower  to sequentially enter into a 
number of separate agreements for short-term loan products, one after another, where  the overall  
effect is to increase the borrower's indebtedness in an unsustainable  manner.
The general  purpose of short-term loans, such as 'payday loans', is to provide borrowers with a cash  
advance until their next pay day and they are usually  about 30 days,  or just over, in duration. 
However, in certain circumstances, the borrower  can elect to 'renew'  the loan for a fee and delay 
payment for a further agreed period of time.
The purpose  of payday loans is to act as a short-term solution to temporary cash flow problems 
experienced by consumers. They are not appropriate for supporting sustained  borrowing over longer  
periods, for which other products are likely to be more  suitable.
Section 55B of the Consumer  Credit  Act 1974
Ref: DRN884545124On 1 February 2011 the majority of the legislation  implementing the provisions of the Consumer 
Credit Directive 2008 came  into force. At this point  the ILG was amended to reflect  any changes 
required by the Consumer Credit Directive and an additional requirement on a lender  to carry  out an 
Assessment of creditworthiness was set out in section 55B of the Consumer Credit Act.
Its important to note that both section 25 and section 55 remained in force  until regulation of 
Consumer Credit  providers passed to the FCA in April 2014.
Section 55B said
Assessment of creditworthiness
55B (1) Before making a regulated consumer credit agreement, other than an excluded 
agreement, the creditor must undertake an assessment of the creditworthiness  of the debtor.
(2) Before  significantly increasing
(a) the amount  of credit to be provided under a regulated consumer credit agreement, 
other than an excluded  agreement,  or
(b) a credit limit for running-account credit under a regulated consumer credit 
agreement, other than an excluded agreement, 
the creditor  must undertake an assessment of the debtors creditworthiness.
(3) A creditworthiness assessment must  be based on sufficient information  obtained  from
(a)the debtor, where appropriate,  and
(b) a credit reference agency, where necessary.
(4) For the purposes of this section an agreement is an excluded agreement if it is
(a)an agreement secured on land, or
(b) an agreement under which a person takes an article in pawn..
From 1 April 2014 onwards  this requirement to assess creditworthiness moved  from S55B of the 
Consumer Credit  Act, to the rules of the new regulator the Financial Conduct Authority.
regulation by the Financial  Conduct Authority  (from  1 April 2014)
Casheuronet gave Ms W a further 9 loans and 13 top ups after regulation of Consumer Credit 
Licensees had transferred  from the OFT to the Financial Conduct Authority  (FCA) on 1 April 2014. In 
addition the latter half of the flex credit  agreement continued whilst Casheuronet  was regulated by the 
FCA.
the FCA Principles for Business (PRIN)
The FCAs  Principles  for Business set out the overarching  requirements which all authorised firms are 
required to comply  with.
PRIN 1.1.1G,  says
The Principles apply in whole  or in part to every firm.
Ref: DRN884545125The Principles themselves are set out in PRIN 2.1.1R. And the most  relevant principle here is PRIN 
2.1.1 R (6) which says:
A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers  and treat them fairly.
the Consumer Credit  sourcebook (CONC)
This sets out the rules which apply to providers  of consumer credit like Casheuronet. CONC also 
replaced the requirements set out in Section  55B. CONC  5 sets out a firms  obligations in relation to 
responsible lending. And CONC 6 sets out a firms obligations after a consumer has entered  into a 
regulated agreement.
Its clear there is a high degree of alignment  between the OFTs Irresponsible Lending Guidance  and 
the rules set out in CONC 5 and CONC 6. As is evident from the following  extracts, the FCAs CONC 
rules specifically  note and refer back to sections of the OFTs Irresponsible Lending Guidance  on 
many occasions.
Section 5.2.1R(2) of CONC set out what a lender needed to do before agreeing to give a consumer a 
loan of this type. It said a firm must consider:
(a)the potential for the commitments under the regulated  credit agreement to adversely impact  
the customers financial situation, taking into account the information of which the firm is 
aware at the time the regulated credit agreement is to be made; and
[Note: paragraph 4.1 of ILG]
(b)the ability  of the customer to make repayments  as they fall due over the life of the regulated 
credit agreement, or for such an agreement which  is an open-end agreement,  to make 
repayments within a reasonable period.
[Note: paragraph 4.3 of ILG]
CONC also included guidance about proportionality of assessments. CONC  5.2.4G(2) said:
A firm should consider what is appropriate in any particular circumstances dependent on, for example,  
the type and amount of credit being sought and the potential risks to the customer. The risk of credit 
not being  sustainable directly relates to the amount  of credit granted and the total charge for credit 
relative to the customers  financial situation.
[Note: paragraph 4.11 and part of 4.16 of ILG]
CONC 5.3 contained further guidance on what a lender should bear in mind  when thinking  about  
affordability. And CONC 5.3.1G(1) said:
In making the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1), a firm 
should take into account  more than assessing the customers ability to repay  the credit.
[Note: paragraph 4.2 of ILG]
CONC 5.3.1G(2)  then said:
The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1) should include 
the firm taking  reasonable steps to assess the customers ability to meet repayments under  a 
regulated credit agreement in a sustainable  manner without the customer incurring financial difficulties 
or experiencing significant  adverse consequences.
Ref: DRN884545126[Note: paragraph 4.1 (box)  and 4.2 of ILG]
In respect of the need to double-check information disclosed by applicants,  CONC 5.3.1G(4)  had a 
reference to paragraphs 4.13, 4.14, and 4.15 of ILG and stated:
(b)it is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for its assessment of the customers income 
and expenditure on a statement of those matters made  by the customer.
And CONC 5.3.7R said that:
A firm must not accept an application for credit under a regulated credit agreement  where  the firm 
knows or ought reasonably  to suspect that the customer has not been truthful  in completing the 
application in relation  to information supplied  by the customer  relevant to the creditworthiness  
assessment or the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1).
[Note: paragraph 4.31 of ILG]
CONC 6.7 sets out a firms  obligations in relation  to its post contract business  practices. CONC 
6.7.21G, CONC 6.7.22G and CONC  6.7.23R contained specific obligations for high- cost short-term 
credit providers like Casheuronet.
CONC 6.7.21G says:
A firm should not refinance high-cost short-term  credit  where to do so is unsustainable  or otherwise  
harmful.
[Note: paragraph 6.25 of ILG]
CONC 6.7.22G says:
A firm should not allow a customer to enter  into consecutive agreements with the firm for high-cost 
short-term credit if the cumulative effect  of the agreements would  be that the total amount payable by 
the customer  is unsustainable.
[Note: paragraph 6.25 (box)  of ILG]
Section 6.25 of the ILG is set out on earlier in this decision and is concerned  with what the OFT 
referred to as deceptive and/or unfair practices.
CONC 6.7.23R  (which  applied from 1 July 2014) says:
A firm must not refinance high-cost short-term credit (other than by exercising forbearance) on more  
than two occasions.
CONC 6.7.17R  defines refinancing and says:
(1)In CONC 6.7.18 R to CONC 6.7.23 R refinance means to extend, or purport to extend, the 
period over which one or more repayment is to be made by a customer whether  by:
(a)agreeing with the customer  to replace, vary or supplement  an existing regulated 
credit agreement;
(b)exercising a contractual power contained in an existing regulated credit agreement;  or
(c)other means, for example, granting an indulgence  or waiver to the customer.
Ref: DRN884545127(2)Exercise forbearance means to refinance a regulated credit agreement  where  the result  is 
that no interest accrues at any time in relation  to that agreement  or any which  replaces, varies 
or supplements it from the date of the refinancing and either:
(a)there is no charge  in connection with the refinancing; or
(b)the only additional charge is a reasonable estimate  of the actual and necessary cost 
of the additional administration required in connection with the refinancing.
(3)The term refinance within paragraph (1) does not include where under a regulated credit 
agreement repayable in instalments a customer requests a change in the regular payment 
date and as a result  there is no charge  or additional  interest  in connection with the change.
Section 140 of the Consumer  Credit Act 1974
All of Ms Ws loans were given to her after Section 140 of the Consumer Credit Act came into force on 
6 April 2007. Section 140A  sets out circumstances where the court may determine  that the 
relationship between  a creditor and a debtor is unfair to the debtor. Section 140A says:
140A Unfair relationships between  creditors and debtors
(1)The court  may make  an order under section 140B in connection with a credit agreement  if 
it determines that the relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising out of the 
agreement (or the agreement taken with any related agreement)  is unfair to the debtor 
because of one or more  of the following-
(a)any of the terms of the agreement or of any related  agreement;
(b)the way in which  the creditor has exercised  or enforced any of his rights under 
the agreement or any related agreement;
(c)any other thing done (or not done) by, or on behalf of, the creditor (either  before 
or after the making of the agreement or any related agreement).
(2)In deciding whether  to make a determination under  this section the court  shall have  
regard to all matters it thinks relevant  (including matters  relating to the creditor and 
matters relating to the debtor).
(3)For the purposes of this section the court  shall (except  to the extent that it is not 
appropriate to do so) treat anything done  (or not done) by, or on behalf of, or in relation 
to, an associate or a former  associate  of the creditor as if done (or not done)  by, or on 
behalf of, or in relation  to, the creditor.
(4)A determination may be made under this section in relation to a relationship  
notwithstanding that the relationship may have ended.
(5)An order  under section 140B shall not be made in connection with a credit  agreement  
which is an exempt  agreement [for the purposes of Chapter 14A of Part 2 of the 
Regulated Activities  Order by virtue of article 60C(2) of that Order  (regulated mortgage 
contracts and regulated home purchase plans)]
Section 140B sets out the types  of order the court could  make should it determine  that the relationship  
between the creditor and debtor is unfair to the debtor. Section  140B says:
140B Powers  of court in relation to unfair relationships
Ref: DRN884545128(2)An order  under this section in connection  with a credit agreement may do one or more of 
the following
(a)require the creditor, or any associate  or former associate of his, to repay (in 
whole or in part) any sum paid by the debtor  or by a surety by virtue of the 
agreement or any related agreement (whether  paid to the creditor, the associate 
or the former associate or to any other person);]
(b)require the creditor, or any associate  or former associate of his, to do or not to do 
(or to cease doing) anything specified in the order in connection  with the 
agreement or any related agreement;
(c)reduce or discharge  any sum payable  by the debtor or by a surety by virtue of the 
agreement or any related agreement;
(d)direct the return to a surety of any property provided  by him for the purposes of a 
security;
(e)otherwise set aside (in whole or in part) any duty imposed on the debtor or on a 
surety by virtue of the agreement or any related agreement;
(f)alter the terms of the agreement or of any related agreement;
(g)direct accounts to be taken, or (in Scotland) an accounting to be made, between 
any persons.
the law
Ive also taken  account of the Consumer Credit Act (including the provisions I havent  set out above), 
and other  relevant legislation, including  the law relating  to negligence, misrepresentation and contract; 
as well as the law relating  to causation and remoteness.
other relevant publications and good industry practice
The ILG and CONC  set out the regulatory framework  that regulated/authorised consumer credit 
providers have  to adhere to. But they represent  a minimum standard  for firms.  And as Ive explained, 
Im also required to take into account any other guidance, standards, relevant codes of practice, and, 
where appropriate,  what  I consider to have been good industry practice  when reaching a fair and 
reasonable decision.
the OFTs Payday Lending Compliance Review  Final  Report
The OFT published its Payday Lending  Compliance Review Final Report in March  2013.  The 
purpose of the review  was to establish the extent to which payday lenders [were] complying with 
the Consumer Credit  Act, other legislation and [were] meeting the standards set out in the ILG.
The review sought to highlight examples  of what the OFT considered poor practice  and evidence of 
non-compliance with the relevant law and failure  to meet the minimum standards  expected. The 
analysis was also put together to help the FCAs work on payday lending ahead of it assuming  
responsibility for regulating the sector from April 2014.
The report began with an overview section setting out the OFTs  concerns. Page two of the report 
says that the OFT:
is particularly concerned  by the evidence  of irresponsible  lending; too many people are given loans 
they cannot  afford, and when they cant repay are encouraged to extend them, exacerbating  their 
financial difficulties This is causing real misery  and hardship for a significant number of payday users
Ref: DRN884545129Page three of the report says:
Our evidence  paints a concerning picture of the payday lending market. It appears that irresponsible 
lending is not a problem  confined to a few rogue traders, but it has its roots  in the way competition 
works in this market. The evidence suggests that many consumers are in a weak bargaining  position, 
and that firms compete on speed of approval rather than price
It then goes on to say:
Additionally, firms describe and market  their product to consumers  as one-off short term loans 
(costing on average £25 per £100 borrowed for 30 days), but in practice  around half the revenue 
comes from loans which last longer and cost a lot more  because they are rolled over or refinanced. 
Lenders do not need  to compete hard for this source of revenue because  by this time they have a 
captive market. This, and the misuse  of continuous  payment authorities to reclaim  monies owed, may 
distort incentives for lenders,  encouraging  them to make loans to people who cannot  afford  to repay 
them first time.
the Consumer Finance  Association Lending Code for Small Cash Advances
The principal trade association  representing  the interests of short-term  lending businesses operating 
in the United Kingdom is the Consumer  Finance  Association (CFA). The CFA published its Lending 
Code for Small Cash Advances  (the code) in July 2012. I consider the code to be indicative  of the 
standards of good industry practice expected of lenders  at the time and I note that as stated on its 
website Casheuronet was a founding member of the CFA. 
Section 1 of the code  sets out its purpose. Section  1b says:
Members of the Consumer Finance Association offer small cash  loans predominantly from high street 
outlets or online
Section 1c says:
This type of loan allows customers to borrow  a relatively  small amount  of money, (usually between  
£50 and £1000)  which  they repay over a short period  (typically one or two months). The loan is not 
designed for longer  term borrowing, but to improve short  term personal  cash flow
And Section 1d says:
The purpose  of this Code is to ensure compliance by members with the minimum standards set by 
the Association, as specified in the Code, and accordingly protects and benefit  consumers
Section 3 sets out the general obligations expected of lenders. Amongst other things Section 3 says 
members shall:
b) trade  honestly, responsibly and treat customers with respect.
l) ensure fairness in all dealings  with customers including,  but not limited to, their dealings 
with customers  both before  and after the making of the agreement and the manner in which  
those agreements  are enforced.
Section 4 of the code  sets out a lenders specific  lending  obligations. Part (a) of this section is 
concerned with advertising and marketing and amongst other  things,  it says:
iii) members  shall ensure  all advertising  is truthful and not misleading and raise awareness to 
the short  term nature  of the loan.
Ref: DRN884545130Part (d) of section 4 is concerned with pre-contractual information. And it, amongst other things, says:
v) members  shall provide explanations to the customer, to enable them to assess  whether the 
proposed credit agreement is appropriate  to their circumstances by explaining:
that small cash loans are intended to improve  short term cash  flow, and therefore not suitable  for 
longer term borrowing.
Ms Ws Flex credit consumer  credit agreement
I have looked at Ms Ws Flex credit agreement in detail. This agreement  explains how and when 
credit will be provided, saying: 
Following receipt of your request to drawdown credit, subject  to our approval, we will deposit in your 
designated bank account (Your Bank Account), the amount you wish to borrow up to the credit limit, 
following execution  of this Agreement. You may request further drawdowns  up to your credit limit and 
upon approval  we will likewise transfer such funds to Your Bank Account. You may request additional  
funds at anytime. Any request for additional funds  is subject to our review  of your account  and is 
subject to approval in accordance with our responsible  lending criteria.
Ms Ws Flex credit consumer credit agreement contains an explanation sheet  which  says:
Section 1 - Is a Flex Credit Account suitable for me?
Credit of this type is designed to provide you with the option to drawdown credit  up to your credit limit 
and repay  it over a maximum of 10 months (as determined by our minimum repayment requirements).   
.You may request additional funds at anytime, Any request for additional  funds  is subject to our 
review of your account and is subject  to approval in accordance with our responsible lending criteria.
Please note, this type of lending is a very expensive form of credit, and is not suitable for long term or 
regular borrowing but for short-medium term, borrowing needs. 
Ref: DRN8845451