K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains about the settlement amount he has been  offered by AXA Insurance UK 
Plc, under his home  insurance policy, following damage to his garage.  
background
Mr W made a claim to AXA in January 2018. The reported circumstances of the incident 
read  weight of snow caused the corrugated bitumen garage roof to collapse. AXA 
subsequently accepted  the claim, under  the insured peril of storm and applied the policy 
limit for outbuildings of £7,500. But Mr W has been  quoted much more  than this to get the 
damage fixed. So he questioned AXAs view that his garage is an outbuilding. And he said 
AXAs decision is based upon a policy definition that was never  provided to him. 
Our investigator was unable to recommend that the complaint was upheld. She agreed with 
AXAs assessment  of the claim. 
Mr W disagreed,  so the complaint has now been  passed to me to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I too wont  be upholding 
the complaint.  Ive reached the same conclusions as our investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons.   
I can see from the policy schedule that the sum insured  for outbuildings cover is £7,500. 
And the definition of outbuildings in the policy booklet includes detached garages. 
The word  detached  isnt defined in the policy. So Id apply an ordinary, everyday meaning  to 
the word.  I would generally consider  detached to mean something that is separate. Ive 
looked at the photos  of Mr Ws garage  and I am satisfied that it is a separate  building  from 
the main home.
I do note that there is some form of connection  between the garage  and the main  home,  for 
example, in the form of drainage pipes. But in my view that does not mean that the two 
buildings are structurally attached. 
Mr W said that he never received a copy of the policy  booklet,  other  than when he initially  
took the policy out in 2013  and in 2018, after he made his claim. Yet the policy  is 
administered by Home  Protect, not AXA. So I cannot consider this point, under this 
complaint. 
However, I do believe that Mr W had the opportunity to query this with Home  Protect  before 
now and certainly  before  he had the need  to claim under the policy.  Consumers generally 
expect to receive some documentary evidence of the contract when they take out or renew 
insurance. And Home  Protects 2017  renewal letter to Mr W read  It's important that you 
read these  details alongside  the policy booklet included within this pack.
I am sorry  to hear about the damage  to Mr Ws garage.  But based on the overall  
circumstances of this claim,  I find that AXAs decision was not an unreasonable one. Im 
satisfied that it has applied the policy terms, including  the sum insured correctly.  
Ref: DRN80076562my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about AXA Insurance UK Plc. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2019.
Paul Phillips
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8007656