K820x#14complaint
Mrs C complains about the response  of NewDay Ltd (ND)  to her complaint about  the price  
she was charged for items bought with her credit  card.
background
Mrs C says she used her credit card to buy some concert tickets  online through  a third party  
business that Ill call Business  A. She says when she received the email confirmation of 
purchase she noticed the amount charged was both higher  than expected and was in US 
dollars rather than sterling. And she says she complained to Business A about the matter, 
but didnt get a satisfactory response, so she took the matter  up with ND. 
Mrs C also says ND rejected her complaint about  the matter. But she says she doesnt  
believe NDs  fully understood the nature of her complaint against Business A and the 
protection that using her credit  card to make the purchase should provide.
ND says Mrs Cs claim was rejected as thered been no breach of contract by Business A. 
And it says if she could provide evidence that thered been a breach of contract, it would be 
happy to review the matter.
Our adjudicator thought Mrs Cs complaint shouldnt be upheld. 
Mrs C disagreed with the adjudicators conclusions. She said she believes Business A 
misrepresented the total of its fees and charges during its booking  process  which led her to 
committing to a purchase she wouldnt have made. She said she shouldnt  have been 
charged in dollars,  thereby incurring a £20.56  non-sterling transaction fee. And she said the 
service she received from ND in the handling of her claim  had been  poor.
So, the matters  been referred  to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Cs complaint and Ill explain why.
Theres no dispute that Mrs C received the tickets shed agreed to buy. So, I think NDs right 
to say there  wasnt a breach of contract  by Business A for which NDs responsible  as her 
credit card provider.
But I also have to consider whether there was any misrepresentation by Business A when 
Mrs C bought the tickets.  
I acknowledge Mrs Cs told us Business A misrepresented the total of its fees and charges 
during its online booking process. And shes given us information from the media  suggesting 
other consumers may have experienced similar issues. But I see Business A says the price  
she was charged was shown throughout the purchase.  
And, in the absence  of any independent information confirming what  information  Mrs C was 
given, I cant conclude  its most likely there  was any misrepresentation by Business A about  
Ref: DRN83657982the price or the currency in which payment was to be made  during  the purchase of the 
tickets. So, this means I cant uphold this aspect of Mrs Cs complaint against ND.
I see Mrs Cs also complained about  the service  she received from ND in the handling of her 
claim. And shes unhappy it didnt notify her of the outcome. But ND says it didnt receive 
some of her emails.  And, taking everything Ive seen into account, I dont have enough 
information to conclude the service  ND gave Mrs C fell sufficiently below the standard 
reasonably expected to justify me requiring it to pay her any compensation.
So, for these reasons,  I cant fairly  and reasonably  uphold Mrs Cs complaint.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Cs complaint against  NewDay Limited. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 February  2019.
Robert Collinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8365798