K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that American Express Services Europe Limited refused his s75 claim for a 
refund of costs of a holiday that he says was misrepresented and of poor quality.
background
Mr A booked a two night  stay over Christmas through a holiday  provider.  He paid £295 for it 
with his American Express Credit card.
Mr A was disappointed with the quality of the hotel and the food and some of the meals  he 
was expecting were  not provided. A summary  of Mr As complaints are:
The room he was allocated was not of a standard  one would expect for a 3 star hotel;
There was mould  on the windows;
The food was not as advertised and only three courses were provided  instead of four;
A meal that Mr A was expecting on Christmas Day was not provided and Mr A wasnt  
told about this change;
There was a lack of staff;
There was vaping at the hotel  in breach of the hotel  policies.
Mr A complained to the travel company who refused to provide any refund  and set out a 
response to Mr As concerns. Mr A asked  American Express to refund £200 to reflect the 
fact that he had not had the services  he paid for and had lost enjoyment.
American Express declined Mr As claim under s75 of the Consumer Credit Act. It said that 
Mr A had the benefit of the accommodation  he paid for and there was no misrepresentation 
or breach of contract. It said that there was no provision for loss of enjoyment.  But as a 
gesture of goodwill it refunded £79.95 to Mr As credit card account to reflect the 
disappointment over the Christmas period.
Mr A didnt think that was enough and he brought his complaint to this service. Our 
adjudicator didnt think that the complaint should be upheld. He agreed with American  
Express that there wasnt evidence of either  a misrepresentation  or breach  of contract and 
so it wasnt wrong for the s75 claim to be rejected.
Mr A didnt agree and replied to say in summary that his holiday was not as expected and 
American Express was responsible under  the relevant regulations. Mr A asked  for an 
ombudsman to review  his complaint.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In certain circumstances Section 75 of the Consumer  Credit Act gives  a consumer an equal  
right to claim  a refund against  the supplier of goods  or services or the provider of credit  if 
there has been a misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier. My role is to 
assess whether American Express has handled Mr As s75 claim fairly  and reasonably. 
Ref: DRN81863122I have taken into account Mr As comments about the quality of his room  at the hotel and I 
have looked at the photographs. I dont doubt  that this was disappointing  for Mr A and his 
expectations of the hotel  were not met. But I cant say that this amounts to a breach of 
contract or a misrepresentation. I havent  seen enough to say that the hotel overall or the 
rest of Mr As room  was of less than 3 star quality.
With regard to the meals,  I can appreciate that Mr A was expecting  a four course  meal  and a 
buffet having paid for those things at the time of booking. But in the circumstances I think 
that the refund of £79.95 provided by American Express  is fair and reasonable.
I have reviewed Mr As concerns about the lack of staff and his concerns about the person 
vaping in the hotel  but I cant say that this is enough to suggest that the holiday was 
misrepresented to Mr A or there was a breach of contract. I dont doubt that these  issues  
impacted on his overall enjoyment but I cant say that he didnt get the benefit of the services  
he had paid for or that they werent available and so there was no breach of contract  or 
misrepresentation. 
I can understand why all of Mr As issues taken together led to his disappointment.  But 
having reviewed  the brochure and other information I cant say that these  issues overall 
would suggest  that the holiday was misrepresented or that there  was a breach of contract.
I think the payment  made by American Express is fair and reasonable and so I cant ask it to 
so any more.
  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2020.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8186312