K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs R say Bank of Scotland plc  trading as Halifax  (Halifax) mis-sold them  a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs R bought  the policy in 1999  at the same  time as taking out a mortgage. Mr and 
Mrs R say they applied  for the policy by filing in a leaflet. Halifax says they applied for the 
mortgage and PPI policy in branch. 
The policy provided  cover  for Mr R only for accident,  sickness,  and unemployment  subject 
to its exclusions and limitations. Halifax has told us it offered to repay £159.14 a month 
towards Mr and Mrs Rs mortgage balance and other expenses  in the event of a successful 
claim. And its also told us it cost £8.43 a month at the outset. 
At the time,  Mr R was employed  as a warehouse assistant.  Its not entirely clear what, if any, 
employee sick pay benefits Mr R was entitled  to. But I think its most likely he wouldve been 
entitled to at least statutory sick pay. He has also told us he was entitled  to death in service 
cover and at least 12 months  redundancy pay. Mr R has said he was in good health at the 
time of the sale. 
Mrs R was employed at the time of sale and also entitled to death  in service cover  and 
redundancy pay. 
Halifax has sent us screenshots  to show that the mortgage account closed in 2003.
Mr and Mrs Rs representative has made lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Rs representative says:
Halifax failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs R 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.                    
Mr and Mrs Rs representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that 
presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Halifax  should have 
told Mr and Mrs R about the poor value;  
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Halifax  should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr and Mrs R 
and the impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
Ref: DRN80509932The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mr and Mrs R received was misleading. These  policies were  
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Rs. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Rs complaint.
This sale took place  in 1999 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2003. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
Ref: DRN80509933The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Halifax at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI Code  and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Rs case. 
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost  duty of good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Halifax was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mr and Mrs Rs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If Halifax gave advice,  whether it advised  Mr and Mrs R with reasonable care and 
skill  in particular,  whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for them,  given 
their needs and circumstances. 
-Whether Halifax gave Mr and Mrs R sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr and 
Mrs R, I must then go on to consider whether and to what  extent Mr and Mrs R 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Ref: DRN80509934Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs R 
and Halifax, Ive decided  not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Rs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning 
below. 
did Mr and Mrs R know they had a choice?
Halifax had to make it clear that the PPI policy  was optional.  And it has provided copies of 
the mortgage paperwork Mr and Mrs R completed. The mortgage application form has a 
section headed  accident, sickness  and unemployment insurance and applicants can opt to 
take the policy by signing  in the section. On Mr and Mrs Rs form Mr R has signed the 
section. 
On the PPI application form, it contains  details of Mr Rs circumstances and asks him some 
questions about  his health and his employment which  have been  answered with a printed  
x. I think the form has been completed based on discussions  Mr and Mrs R had with 
Halifaxs employee. Mr R signed  the form so I also think if there  had been  anything on there  
he wasnt sure about or hadnt agreed  to, he wouldve had the opportunity  at the time to 
question it. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs R knew the policy  was 
optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did Halifax provide advice?
Mr and Mrs R say advice wasnt provided. Halifax says the policy  was sold in a branch and 
that branch sales were  advised. Looking at the copy of the documents that Ive seen,  I think  
its most  likely this was a branch sale as theyve been completed alongside a Halifax 
representative. So based on what Halifax has said its likely it did provide advice. So Ive 
looked at the sale as if Halifax provided a personal  recommendation.  
This means Halifax had to advise  Mr and Mrs R with reasonable care and skill, in particular 
whether the policy  was appropriate or suitable  given their needs and circumstances.
the advice
While I dont know what was discussed  when the PPI was sold, the documentary  evidence 
suggests that Halifax took some steps  to establish whether the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr and Mrs R. There were  some questions  asked about Mr Rs health 
and employment  as part of the PPI application.  But I dont think these went far enough to 
establish if Mr and Mrs R had a need for the cover   for example, it doesnt seem they were 
asked about other ways  they might have  of repaying their mortgage if Mr R wasnt able to 
work. 
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Halifax did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr and Mrs R given their circumstances. So 
Im not persuaded Halifax advised  with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Halifax did all it should have done to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs R, I do think its more likely than not that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for them. In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr R met the eligibility criteria  for the policy.
Ref: DRN80509935-Mr and Mrs R had a need  for the policy  it seems likely that Mr and Mrs Rs ability  to 
continue to meet their mortgage repayments would have been put under strain if     
Mr R was not working for an extended period of time  even allowing for the 
redundancy benefits and any possible sick pay he was entitled to and Mrs Rs 
income.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr and Mrs R. 
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr and Mrs R. 
There was nothing  about Mr Rs employment  or occupation which would have made  
it difficult for them  to claim.  And the policy  didnt exclude claims for disability if it was 
due to a pre-existing  medical condition. 
-While  the policy included a requirement  that Mr R be disabled  or unemployed for 30 
days before he could make a claim and would only pay benefits  for a maximum of 24 
months for each  claim, it still provided valuable cover given Mr and Mrs Rs 
circumstances, the fact the policy protected the mortgage repayments relating to their 
home and the potential  consequences should  Mr and Mrs R be unable to make the 
repayments on loans  secured against their house.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Halifax gave Mr and Mrs R sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable them to understand what 
Halifax was recommending to them and make  an informed decision about whether to follow  
that advice and take out the policy.
the information
Having seen a copy of the mortgage and PPI application form Mr and Mrs R completed,  Im 
satisfied that Mr and Mrs R were  given a description  of what the policy was intended to cover  
(that is that the policy would protect their payments if Mr R was unable to work through  
accident, sickness and unemployment)  and it set out the approximate cost and monthly  
benefit of the policy.  The application form gave a brief description of some  of the exclusions 
and limitations on the PPI but its not clear whether Halifax did enough to clearly  bring  these 
things to Mr and Mrs Rs attention. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs R Im not persuaded 
Halifax did enough to present information  about the policy it was recommending in a way 
that was fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded  Halifax  gave Mr and Mrs R all of the 
information they needed about the policy to make an informed  decision about  whether to 
follow the recommendation  and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Rs representative has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and 
Mrs Rs. Ive considered these carefully and summarised them  as:
Ref: DRN80509936-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Rs representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs R about the limitations  and exclusions,  it should have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Rs representatives views on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs R have suggested. And taking into account  the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that Halifax ought to have done either. 
what effect did Halifaxs  shortcomings  have  on Mr and Mrs R? To what extent did Mr 
and Mrs R suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Halifax  didnt do all it should  have done when it sold this policy  to                 
Mr and Mrs R. So I have gone on to consider  whether it would be fair and reasonable to 
conclude Mr and Mrs R suffered loss and damage as a result.  To answer  this, I must decide 
whether or not Mr and Mrs R would have still taken out the policy,  had Halifax  done things 
properly. 
While Im not persuaded Halifax took the steps  it should have done to establish whether  the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr and Mrs R, I have found that the policy  was 
ultimately suitable for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr and Mrs R have suffered loss 
or damage  in this case primarily  depends  on whether, if Halifax  had explained things 
properly, Mr and Mrs R would have acted  differently,  or whether they would have taken  out 
the policy in any event.
Mr and Mrs R say they wouldnt  have  taken it out and believe I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr and Mrs R had some  interest  in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when Halifax  advised  them  that there was a 
suitable product  they could buy that would protect their mortgage payments in the event  they 
were unable to work because of accident,  sickness and unemployment, they concluded they 
wanted that product. But they made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning 
what they thought they were getting is not exactly what they got. 
Ref: DRN80509937As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr and Mrs Rs circumstances at 
the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally  wrong  or unsuitable  for them.
As Ive also already explained, from the information Mr and Mrs R were given, I think its 
likely they would have  had an understanding of the costs and benefits of the policy. But the 
information about other aspects of the policy, such as limitations  and exclusions wasnt  as 
clear as it should have  been.  
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs R thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr R 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr R be unable  to 
do his job, any similar job or any paid work which  his experience, education  or 
training reasonable qualified him to do;
The policy protected payments for up to 24 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr and Mrs R pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude the policy 
wasnt as good  as they thought and they might have  decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs R from taking out the 
policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Rs circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them.  Mr R was eligible  for its benefits 
and it provided cover  that, despite  its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to 
them should  the insured  risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence  to 
suggest Mr R wouldve been caught  by any of the significant exclusions  Mr R was in 
permanent employment.  So, I still think they had some good reasons to take the policy  out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mr and 
Mrs R might reasonably have expected. But its unlikely  they would have expected to be able 
to make a disability claim without having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  
And while this limitation might have dissuaded  some  consumers in slightly different  
circumstances to Mr and Mrs R from taking out the policy, Mr and Mrs R, in their 
circumstances, still had some good  reasons to take it out.
If Mr and Mrs R had known Mr R could only claim for disability if he was unable to do both 
his  job and any similar job which in the insurers view he might  reasonably  become 
qualified for, it might  have  played into their thinking about what  they would have  done.  And I 
accept it may have given  them pause  for thought  although its possible they may not have 
been overly concerned given that if Mr R was unable (through  disability) to carry on his own 
occupation the chances that he would be able to take up a similar occupation would also,  in 
all probability, be limited.
Ref: DRN80509938Halifax may not have  told Mr and Mrs R that any claim they made would be limited to a 24-
month period.  This may have differed from what they expected and might have hoped for, 
but they had limited other means to fall back on. Although Mr R says he would have received 
at least 12 months redundancy pay, considering how long hed been in his job at the time 
(around 11 years),  I think this is unlikely. 
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr and Mrs R would still have thought a policy that 
paid up to 24 monthly mortgage  payments  would  have been of benefit to them and would 
help them manage the consequences  should Mr R be unable  to work in the circumstances 
covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made,  it could help reduce 
their outgoings at a difficult  and uncertain  time, ensuring their home was not placed at risk.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs R would still have taken out the policy. The policy was suitable for them, 
was sufficiently close to what  its likely  they thought they were getting  and provided  benefits 
that would  help them manage  the consequences  if Mr R was made redundant, or unable  to 
work through  accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely  than not   
Mr and Mrs R would  have taken out the policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations  on 
cover.
Mr and Mrs Rs representatives say the rules  about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs R would not have bought the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Rs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position               
Mr and Mrs R found themselves in as result of the sale was the same  position they would 
have been in had the breach or significant  failings  not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs R believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs R in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
Ref: DRN80509939That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that they would still have 
taken out the PPI had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy they were buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude Halifax should  pay Mr and Mrs R compensation, as that would 
put them in a better position than they would have been in if everything had happened as it 
should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs R think Halifax misrepresented  the terms of the policy in how 
it described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Halifaxs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why Halifax  
failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in the 
information it provided  but because the overall  information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs R, in 
the way it did, was insufficient  to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to 
expect it to have  met in 1999 when providing information about  an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Rs representative says a court  might  take 
if it were to find Halifax negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr and Mrs R and about 
the remedy a court  might award if it were to find that Halifax  had been in breach of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs R in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 May 2019.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8050993