K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs N say Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold  them  a payment  
protection insurance (PPI) policy in 1996 and again in 2000.  For ease I will refer to the 
business as Halifax.  
background
Mr and Mrs N took out a PPI policy when they applied for a loan in 1996 and again in 2000. 
They paid a monthly amount for each  policy. Although the loans  were  in joint names,  Mr N 
was the only person  covered by the policy. So Ive looked mainly at his circumstances when  
considering the complaint. 
 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs N disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Ns case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ns complaint and Ill explain why below. 
Ive looked first at whether Halifax made it clear to Mr and Mrs N that they had a choice, and 
obtained their consent, in taking out the policies. I think Halifax made Mr and Mrs N aware 
that they had a choice about buying each of the PPI policies, and they chose to take them. 
Ill explain  why I say this. Halifax  has provided  me with a sample loan application form from 
the time of the sale in 1996. Its maybe not surprising  that Halifax  has only been able to 
provide me with a sample application form, as the sale took place so long ago. But I think  
this is reflective of what Mr and Mrs N would have seen. There are two separate boxes 
available for the customer to sign. One says Yes,  I would like to take advantage of the 
peace of mind offered by Personal  Loan Repayments Insurance  in the event that I am 
unable to work due to involuntary unemployment, accident  or sickness. And another says 
No, I do not wish to take advantage of Personal  Loan Repayments Insurance. I understand 
that I will be responsible  for making  my repayments  each month if I am unable  to work. 
Each box requires its own signature and Mr N would have had to sign in the Yes box to 
take out PPI.  
So it seems  that they would have had to agree to take the policy to get the PPI and they 
would have known  this was something  they could say No to. But even had this not been the 
application form that pertained to the sale, at this remove in time it would  be the case  that I 
would have seen  too little evidence to be able to uphold the complaint  on these points, 
without further  evidence to support the testimony provided by Mr and Mrs N.
 
Halifax has supplied the actual loan agreement that Mr and Mrs N signed  in 2000. On the 
loan agreement theres a Yes and a No box indicating whether PPI is required next to the 
question Do you want  Personal Loan Repayments  Insurance? The Yes  box has a cross 
in it. Although this has been printed on the application, I think  its likely this was selected 
following a discussion with the advisor  and after Mr and Mrs N had agreed to take it for Mr N. 
I say this because  all of the individual information about the loan and policy  including  costs, 
Ref: DRN86510122interest rates and loan term is also printed on the form. So I think  its more likely that Halifax  
made Mr and Mrs N aware that they had a choice  and they chose to take the policy  on each  
occasion, even  though  they may not remember that now, many  years later.  
Both parties  agree that Halifax  recommended  the policies to Mr and Mrs N. This meant  
Halifax needed to take reasonable steps to make sure the policies were suitable for Mr and 
Mrs N. Based on what Ive seen of their circumstances  at the time, I think  the 
recommendations were  right for them. I explain why below.
Mr N was eligible for the cover, and he doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the 
main exclusions  from or limitations  to the policies. Mr N has told us that his sick pay in 1996  
would have only lasted  at his full rate of pay for six months. And Mr N told us that he may 
have had between  6 months  and 12 months  of other  means he could have  relied on but 
hasnt provided  details of what those were.  In any event, the PPI policies would have paid 
out for up to 60 months if Mr N was too ill to work  and for up to 12 months  if Mr N became 
unemployed. So I think the policies  could have been  useful to Mr and Mrs N. 
The cost of each  policy appears to have  been  comparable to other similar policies at the 
time and appears  to have been affordable.  
So having  thought about everything carefully,  I think the policies were suitable for Mr and 
Mrs N.
As well as checking the policies were right for Mr and Mrs N, Halifax also had to give them 
clear enough  information  about  the policies so they could decide  if they wanted  to buy them. 
Its possible the information Halifax gave them was not as clear  as it shouldve  been. 
However, for the same  reasons I think the policies  were  suitable, Im not persuaded better 
information wouldve  made a difference to their decision  to take out the PPI policies.
 my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ns complaint and make no award 
against Bank of Scotland plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 May 2018.  
Douglas Sayers                       
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8651012