K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that Aviva Insurance Limited  is responsible for poor service  under a home 
emergency insurance policy.
background
Mr C had a policy in the name of a home assistance company. It covered his central heating  
and hot water system.  But each claim was subject to payment of a £50.00 excess.  And the 
policy didnt cover shower units at all.  
Aviva was the insurer responsible for dealing  with claims. Where I refer to Aviva or the 
insurer, I include the home emergency  company, its engineers and others for whose actions  
I hold Aviva responsible.
In late January 2019 Mr C called for help with his hot water  supply. On 29  January the 
insurers engineer  said the boiler was working and the fault was with the shower. The 
engineer also said that the condensate  pipe wasnt up to standard  and the gas pipe needed 
more clips. 
Mr C complained and the company acknowledged  his complaint on 8 February.  In late 
February Mr C bought a new shower  at a cost of £60.00 and fitted  it himself.
But he still had an issue with intermittent  hot water. And on about 20 March the boiler  
stopped working  altogether so he had no heating or hot water.  The company replaced 
ignition electrodes and the spark  generator and got the boiler working.  On 22 March  the 
company sent its final response. 
On 15 April Mr C brought  his complaint to us. Later in April the company replaced  a sensor. 
Mr C says he has had no further problems. He made a further complaint that  having  paid a 
£50.00 excess  in January  he had to pay a second £50.00 excess  in April.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She didnt think 
there was a boiler fault in January 2019  or that the engineer was incorrect to suggest that 
the shower was at fault. 
Mr C disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He says,  in summary, that:
On the original visit the business shouldve done  further  investigation not just the 
check on the boiler.
He could still be running the old original  shower unit.
The company  incorrectly diagnosed  his shower  as faulty.
Replacing the shower didnt resolve  the issue.
He is out of pocket  for this. 
British Gas says it has nothing to add in response to the investigators opinion.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN82187072I havent been able to listen  to the recording of Mr Cs call in January. But  however he 
described the problem then  I find it likely  that when the engineer visited, Mr C told him 
there was a problem  with the shower going  cold and with intermittent hot water from taps.
Intermittent faults may require a process to check what is working properly and what isnt. 
The engineer checked the boiler and Mr C hasnt been specific  about what further checks  
the engineer shouldve  done. 
Mr C had particularly mentioned the shower  going cold. And most showers have thermostats 
which may stop working properly. So I havent seen enough technical evidence to persuade  
me that the engineer fell below a reasonable standard  of work by recommending  that Mr C 
should pay for a new shower.
I dont think the policy  required  the insurer to add insulation  or clips where there  were  none. 
And Mr C hasnt shown that the engineer was incorrect about the need to add them.  So I 
dont think he did anything  wrong  by recommending that Mr C should add them.
Mr C didnt replace the shower straight away. He has sent us a copy of an invoice dated 26 
February. So I think he installed  it in the following day or two. I dont  doubt  that he was 
disappointed that it didnt solve his problem.  He contacted the company  on the 3 March  to 
say he still had problems  with hot water. Mr C arranged a further  visit for 21 March.  
The day before that appointment the boiler  stopped providing heat or hot water. The 
company replaced  ignition electrodes  and a spark  generator. So I think the boiler  had 
stopped firing up. I think that was a new problem. And I wouldve found it reasonable for the 
insurer to charge a new excess  of £50.00.
I dont think theres enough evidence to say that the company shouldve replaced the ignition 
electrodes and spark  generator in January.  In any event, Mr C reported that there  was still a 
problem with hot water.
After he brought  his complaint to us, the company  sent an engineer  on 19 and 26 April. Mr C 
complained that he had to pay another excess. But the company refunded him within  the 
eight weeks which  under the rues of the Financial Conduct Authority - it had to respond to 
that new complaint.  So I will say no more about that excess.
The company replaced  a turbine and a sensor.  And Mr C has reported no further problems. 
So I can see that he may think that the company shouldve replaced  those items in January 
instead of recommending  that he pay for a new shower.
But I havent found that the engineer fell below a reasonable standard of work by 
recommending that Mr C should pay for a new shower. So I dont find it fair and reasonable 
to direct the insurer to reimburse him or to pay compensation  or to do anything  further  in 
response to this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Aviva Insurance Limited to do anything further in response to this complaint.
Ref: DRN82187073Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 August 2019.
Christopher Gilbert
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8218707