K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
July 2006. Mr H says Bank  of Scotland plc (Halifax) mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Hs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think its likely Halifax made  it clear  that Mr H didnt have to take out the PPI and he 
chose to take it out. I say that based on what I know about  Halifaxs  sales  processes 
at the time and I can see Mr H was presented  with a PPI application form to sign that 
was separate  to the mortgage application. 
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr H, so it had to check  that the PPI was right for 
him  and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it 
was. For example he wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to, or limits on, the PPI 
cover and based on what he has told us about  his employers sick pay policy at the 
time, he seems to have  had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr H about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for him if something went wrong.  I 
say this particularly  as the policy wouldve covered his mortgage payments for up to 
12 months if he was unable to work due to sickness or unemployment. It also looks  
like it was affordable for Mr H. So I dont think better information  about the PPI would 
have put him off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr H has said - including  what he has said about  being able to 
sell his car to cover  his mortgage repayments  if he was unable  to work. But the PPI would 
have covered his mortgage repayments, allowing Mr H to use any savings and sick pay he 
may have  had for to pay for other  essential expenses. So these points dont change my 
decision.
Ive also thought about whether Halifax needs  to give back  to Mr H some of the commission 
he paid. The Supreme Court ruling and rules and guidance dont apply to certain types of 
mortgage agreement   including a regulated mortgage. As Mr Hs mortgage was a 
regulated mortgage,  they dont apply. So Halifax doesnt need to refund any of the 
commission Mr H paid for the PPI he had with that mortgage.
Ref: DRN85428242my final decision
Because of the reasons  given, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 April 2019.
Thomas White
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8542824