K821x#15complaint
Miss P says Financial Insurance  Company  Limited  (FICL) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  Miss P took out with a store card in 2003.  Its been  
agreed that FICL, as the insurer, should take responsibility for the complaint. So, for clarity, 
Ill refer to FICL in my decision.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. FICL disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Ps case.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Miss Ps complaint. Ill explain why below.
When selling  the PPI, FICL had to give Miss P clear information about it so she could decide 
if it was right for her. But, based on the evidence Ive seen, I dont think FICL gave Miss P 
clear enough  information  about  the costs of the policy.
FICL has sent us a copy of Miss Ps application form for the store  card. But I dont think this 
makes the costs of the PPI policy clear.  And I dont think theres enough  evidence  for me to 
say that the costs were explained  to Miss P at any other point during the sale either.
I think this wouldve mattered to Miss P as shes told us she wouldve been  entitled to six 
months full sick pay from her employer at the time. So it looks like she had enough  existing 
benefits to not really  need the PPI.
FICL has questioned  whether Miss P was still with this employer at the sale and whether  she 
wouldve been entitled to this level of sick pay. But Miss P told us she was with this employer 
in 2003 with her initial  submission to us, and that she was entitled to six months  full sick 
pay. Her submission has been sent to FICL  and Ive not seen any evidence  to contradict 
what Miss P has said. So I think its likely that Miss P did have this sick pay entitlement  at 
the time of the sale.
As Miss P had enough existing benefits to not really need the PPI, I dont think  she wouldve 
bought the policy if FICL  had given her clear enough  information  about its costs. And so I 
think shes lost out as a result of what FICL  did wrong.
Ref: DRN85017442putting things right
FICL should put Miss P in the position  shed be in now if she hadnt  taken out PPI. The 
policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and:
A.FICL should find out how much  Miss P would have owed when she closed her store 
card account if the policy hadnt  been added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges.
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Miss P owed when she closed her 
account and what  she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Miss P made a successful claim under the PPI policy,  FICL can take off what  she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.
B.FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Miss P would  have 
owed when she closed her account  from when  she closed it until she gets the refund. 
The interest rate should  be 8% a year.
C.If  when  FICL works out what Miss P would have owed each month without PPI  
Miss P paid more than enough  to clear  her balance, FICL  should also pay simple 
interest on the extra Miss P paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point 
when Miss P wouldve owed FICL something  on her store card.  The interest  rate should 
be 8% a year.
D.FICL should tell Miss P what its done to work  out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give 
Miss P a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Miss Ps complaint.
Financial Insurance  Company Limited should  put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 June  2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8501744