K820x#14complaint
Mr H (on behalf of ABFAD Limited) complains that he asked  St. Jamess Place Wealth 
Management Plc to set up a company life insurance  policy with a sum assured of £500,000 
and including  a cross-party agreement in 2016. Instead, the policy covered just £400,000 
with no cross-party agreement.
background
The St James advisor said Mr H, one of ABFADs business partners, had requested  
£400,000 of cover designed to benefit  his wife in the event of his death. He had not sought a 
cross-party agreement for the benefit of his business partner in the event of his death; either  
in the 2016 meeting or the one in early 2017. When  he did make this clear,  the advisor  
explained that a solicitor  would first have to set up the agreement.  Mr H, having discovered  
this would cost £12,000 decided not to go ahead. It recognised that this issue had dragged 
on for nearly  three  years  and offered Mr H £500  in lieu of its part in any delays as a gesture 
of goodwill.
An investigator at this service said the evidence (the original suitability letter) supported St 
Jamess recollection of events. There was no reference to a cross-party  agreement,  
something that would  have  required  a solicitor rather than a financial advisor to enact. He 
said Mr H had a meeting with a different  advisor in early 2017 where he chose the higher 
£500,000 figure but still did not ask for a cross-party  agreement.
In his view, it wasnt  until late 2017 that Mr H decided he wanted £500,000  cover with a 
cross-party agreement (this being recorded  during a third meeting). He noted that there had 
been some  difficulties in setting  up the policy and as of the date of his assessment  of the 
complaint  in 2018  this still had not been  done.
He acknowledged  that Mr H had had a similar policy which  had expired in 2016  but he still 
did not accept  that the evidence showed  the advisor  had been asked to recommend or set 
up a similar  replacement policy in 2016.  If this had been the case, and the advisors report 
was wrong, Mr H could easily have contacted him to correct  things  when he received his 
report. He therefore didnt  accept  that St James had done  anything wrong.
Mr H did not agree, and said:
The document St James had sent referred to a separate discussion about setting up 
a personal life cover policy for £400,000; which he decided  against taking out, hence  
there being no policy document available
St James has failed to provide evidence of discussions about the company-linked 
policy
It is clear that his business  partner had a £500,000 cover policy with cross-party  
agreement, running till 2023, and that he wanted  a comparable one
St James should have  checked on file re his previous  policy and his business  
partners policy and clarified what he was looking for; also,  to advise  him on how to 
set up a cross-party agreement
St James advisors tended to have verbal meetings with no record of what was said; 
this is why he couldnt produce documentary  evidence  to confirm his recollections.
There were further exchanges  with the investigator  who reiterated that he didnt feel there 
was sufficient evidence  to uphold the complaint.
Ref: DRN83554152my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And in this case I agree with the 
investigator and for the same reasons.
My role, and that of this service, is to decide  if there is sufficient persuasive evidence  to 
safely say that a business did something wrong.  And, if it did, whether it caused a financial 
loss or unnecessary  trouble  and inconvenience  to a client   and whether it has already 
offered reasonable compensation for this.
Firstly, I acknowledge this whole issue has caused Mr H considerable trouble and upset over 
the past three years. I also feel the evidence indicates that St James could and should have 
done more to try and proactively sort this problem  out. Given  this, I think  it was right for it to 
offer £500  in compensation for its part in the delays and confusion  and I believe that it 
should continue  to hold this offer open after this decision has been issued.  But  I am not 
persuaded that there is sufficient evidence  to conclude it ought  to do more than this. 
While I dont doubt Mr Hs word about  what he was looking to set up in 2016, I dont believe 
there is sufficient evidence to say that he made this clear to St James and that the advisor  
simply ignored him. Equally, I dont think the evidence suggests that its next advisor  ignored  
his apparent wish for any policy to be linked to a cross-party agreement   until this became 
clear in late 2017. 
It does seem odd that St James has copies  of the proposed  £400,000  private  insurance  
policy but no paperwork relating to the projected separate  business-linked  policy,  as Mr H 
argues. I dont doubt that this is possible,  and that all the paperwork so far made  available 
refers to a different issue. But equally  there could have been an ongoing  confusion  about 
what Mr H was looking for and this is the only documentation  resulting from his various 
meetings.
I also dont think St James can reasonably be held responsible for the fact that Mr H had still 
not secured this business-linked policy by the middle of 2019 (when the investigator  first 
issued his view on this complaint). Firstly,  because  Mr H could have made  far more explicit, 
more quickly that he wanted a £500,000 cross-party linked policy and gone to another  
business if St James  did not address this immediately. And secondly, given it seems  beyond 
dispute that a solicitor  was required to set up the agreement  Mr H could have sorted this 
himself out far earlier., Crucially, this was not something St James could unilaterally do and 
so any delays since late 2017 are largely, in my view, not its fault.
Finally, I have seen no persuasive evidence to conclude that Mr H has suffered financially as 
a result of the delay  in setting up a suitable policy. 
Overall, I simply do not feel there is sufficient evidence to uphold  this complaint.
Ref: DRN83554153my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H on behalf  of 
ABFAD Limited to accept  or reject my decision before 27 December 2020.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8355415