K820x#14complaint
Mrs W complains about charges applied by LeasePlan UK Limited (trading as Network)  after 
she returned a car she got with a hire agreement LeasePlan provided. 
background
This car was new when  Mrs W got it in 2015. When it went  back  (at the end of the 36 month  
hire) in 2018 LeasePlan appointed a third party to inspect the car for damage.  The inspector 
found ten areas of damage  that would cost over £600 to fix. Mrs W accepted responsibility 
for items two to nine on the inspection list and agreed to pay LeasePlan £383. But she thinks  
the remaining  charges are unfair,  as follows - 
item one - a dent greater than 20mm with broken paint - front bumper - £150
item ten - multiple scratches to primer - rear bumper  - £150
Mrs W says paintwork wasnt broken  and the damage identified  doesnt exceed fair wear  
and tear - for a car of this age and mileage. She wants LeasePlan to remove  these charges. 
LeasePlan says Mrs W is liable to pay for this damage under the hire agreement  she signed 
and the charges have been applied properly.  
Our investigator looked at industry  guidance  from the British  Vehicle and Leasing 
Association (BVRLA) and reviewed the evidence we have about the two disputed items  - 
including photos  taken when the car was returned. She says the dent looks deep - the paint 
surface is broken,  not just scratched and the rear bumper damage is more than a minor scuff 
- the primer/metal is showing through. Shes  satisfied this damage is chargeable and doesnt 
recommend the complaint should be upheld. 
Mrs W says she never signed to accept these  charges. She supplied some  more photos 
which she feels show the car was in good condition when it went  back. She thinks the 
damage must have  occurred after the car was collected and she asked for an ombudsman  
to review the matter.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I am sorry to disappoint Mrs W but Ive 
reached much the same conclusions as our investigator for broadly the same reasons. 
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach 
my decision  on the balance of probabilities - in other  words,  what  I consider is most likely  to 
have happened  in the light of the available evidence and the wider  circumstances. 
I can see that Mrs W has strong feelings  about  what happened  here.  She accepts there was 
some damage - going  beyond fair wear and tear - when the car was returned and shes 
agreed to pay for that. So, I only need  to consider  charges for items one and ten on the list 
contained in the inspection report. 
I understand Mrs W feels these charges arent  justified because  the car was in good  
condition for its age and mileage when it went back.  Ive looked at the hire agreement  Mrs W 
signed. On the first page it says 
Ref: DRN89346522Charges payable if you breach this Agreement
if, when this agreement  ends, the Vehicle is for any reason returned in a condition  not 
consistent with the performance of your obligations (fair wear and tear as defined  by the 
British Vehicle Rental  and Leasing Association excepted), we shall be entitled to reclaim  
from you a sum equivalent to the actual or estimated cost of repairs, including  parts  in 
accordance with paragraph 10.6.1 of the Terms and Conditions
And paragraph 10.6.1 of the terms and conditions says 
If requested, you must  immediately pay us for the costs of repair or replacement  of any 
part(s) or accessories where such repair or replacement is required as a result of 
anydamage to the Vehicle which we think is in excess  of Fair Wear and Tear, having  
regard only to the age and mileage  of the Vehicle.  We will only ask for payment where such 
costs exceed  £150.00  (excluding  VAT) or such other amount as we may from time to time 
notify to you in writing.  Where the costs are more than this amount, you will pay the full costs 
(and not just the excess). If we decide  for any reason  not to undertake  any such repair or 
replacement, we shall be entitled to claim from you, as damages for failure to keep the 
Vehicle in good repair and condition, a sum equivalent to the estimated cost of such repair or 
replacement.
Im satisfied that Mrs W agreed to return  this car in good condition and any damage which 
exceeds fair wear  and tear is her responsibility. 
The BVRLA guidance is the industry  standard in deciding whether damage exceeds fair 
wear and tear. This says (insofar as its relevant  here) some dents are acceptable provided 
the paint surface  is not broken and some  surface scratches are acceptable where the 
primer or bare metal  is not showing. 
Ive considered the inspection report and photos attached  along  with information and photos 
supplied by Mrs W. Like our investigator, I am satisfied theres damage to items one and ten 
and I share  her view that this goes beyond fair wear and tear under the BVRLA guidance. 
I understand Mrs W feels this damage  must have occurred after the car was collected. But 
Im satisfied the damage is visible in photos taken  when  the car was inspected at her 
property and I think thats unlikely. 
I appreciate Mrs W didnt  sign to accept the damage  at the time but I am satisfied it was 
present. For the reasons Ive explained, I am not persuaded its wrong of LeasePlan to ask 
Mrs W to pay for this. I think the related charges seem fair and I cant  reasonably require  
LeasePlan to waive those. 
my final decision
My decision  is I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 July 2019.
Claire Jackson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8934652