K822xcomplaint
Mr H complains, on behalf of Mrs H, that The Royal  Bank of Scotland  Plc (RBS) wrongly 
advised her to invest £15,000  in a complex,  risk-based  investment that was completely 
unsuitable given  their circumstances and her lack of investment experience.
background 
The background and circumstances of this complaint are set out within  my provisional 
decision of 2 May 2019. In it I explained  why I was satisfied that this complaint should be 
upheld and outlined  my proposed compensation. A copy of this is attached  and forms part of 
this decision.
RBS disagreed with my decision, and said:
This product was not available via its advice channel as it fulfilled the regulator's  
requirements for a product which did not require regulated advice. The terms of 
business which would have been provided to the customer  would have  made it clear  
that no advice  was given, and it does  not agree that this sale was taken forward as 
an 'advised sale' or on an 'execution only' basis  as this implies  that regulated  advice 
would have been available to take forward this product but that Mrs H chose not to 
accept advice
As the product was taken forward  without  advice,  the question  relating to 
appropriateness may be relevant here depending on whether the product  is deemed 
complex. While  it may not agree that the product was complex  it accepts that the 
MiFID guidance is relevant in this case. It accepts my comments in this regard and is 
pleased to read that I did not believe the documentation  was inaccurate or 
misleading
It is prepared to offer redress on the basis that Mrs H would have retained her 
monies in a risk-free product
It has encountered  difficulties in calculating redress for this product type on a similar 
case so proposes the following redress:
Any returns on the combi bond and associated  special instant access  savings  
account (SIASA) were paid net of tax. So the Fixed Term Deposit (combi bond 
element) should  be compared with the net interest rate applicable on the fixed  rate 
bond specified i.e. compared against  a rate of 5.28% and not 6.6% as stated
It should be noted that the comparison of the net SIASA returns with BoEs  fixed rate 
bond index (where  no tax is deducted) is favourable for Mrs H.
The fixed  rate bond  specified ran for two years so the Bank believes it fair and 
reasonable that the remaining one and a half year comparison should be against  the 
BoE fixed bond term index
It should be noted that Mrs H placed  £20,500  into the SIASA  despite  the fact that the 
enhanced savings rate only applied on an amount  up to the amount placed  into the 
combi bond i.e. up to £15,000. It is therefore unclear whether the extra  £5,500 should 
be included in the redress calculation
Ref: DRN89383142The transaction history previously  supplied shows Mrs H made  34 withdrawals from 
the SIASA during the three and half year period  in question  and a further investment 
of £9,000 in May 2011. It intends to model these in the redress  calculations however 
if the additional amount of £5,500 mentioned above is excluded  from the calculation, 
it requires confirmation as to how these should  be apportioned
In view of the fact that Mrs H utilised  the accessibility of the SIASA on so many 
occasions, it would appear most likely that she would have retained those particular 
monies in instant access savings accounts.  If so, the most appropriate comparison 
would therefore  be against the instant access account rates available  at the time.  As 
previously explained, it is unable  to provide the rates applicable to those account 
types for the period  in question however it believes the rates applicable to those 
accounts would have been  largely similar to those available on the SIASA  and that it 
would not be reasonable to compare the SIASA returns for the whole period with the 
BoE average for fixed rate bonds
For this reason it requests that, in the absence of the actual instant access rates 
applicable, the SIASA comparison  should  only be conducted for the first year as this 
is the period Mrs H would  have received  enhanced  savings  rates
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While RBS has not accepted that this complaint should be upheld,  it has not entirely 
disputed my arguments for doing so  which I still believe are warranted. Crucially, I am still 
convinced it was responsible for this advice either because it constituted an advised sale or 
an initiated sale by any fair and reasonable  interpretation of the rules.
Given RBS has agreed  to pay compensation, I am therefore only addressing its new points  
concerning the basis for such compensation in this decision. Having  considered its detailed 
comments, my view about the appropriate  compensation is as follows:
If Mrs H had not invested in the Combi Saver she would not, by definition, have put any 
money in the SIASA. Therefore she would not have  got either the 3% enhanced rate for 12 
months on the £15,000 or 0.5% below base rate after.  Nor would she have got 0.5%  below 
base rate on her additional £5,500 (or any further invested sum) throughout the entire 
investment period. So the returns on these two sums, totalling £20,500, need to be taken 
into account over the entire investment period, when assessing whether she made a gain or 
loss on this element  of the Combi Saver set against a reasonable benchmark  of what she 
might otherwise have  earned in interest.
Given this, RBS should factor in all the withdrawals  from when each was made. On the 
assumption that no withdrawals were  made  within the first year, these can be taken from 
either the £15,000 or the £5,500 as both were only earning 0.5% interest by this time. If any 
withdrawals were made within the first year I think it is fair and reasonable that these  are 
taken from the £5,500,  the amount in excess of the matching maximum as this was the 
additional amount she decided she no longer wanted or could afford to keep locked up.
Ref: DRN89383143According to RBS, Mrs H invested an additional £9,000 in this account in May 2011.  I have 
not seen evidence of this. But given  this would not have been possible,  from the evidence  I 
have seen, without  committing to the Combi  Saver this sum also needs to be factored into 
the redress calculation.  Even if it had been  possible I can see no reason why Mrs H would 
have chosen to invest this sum in this product had she not been recommended  it in the first 
place.
So RBS must take into account all the amounts Mrs H paid into this special account and all 
the withdrawals she made when  calculating her total return on all these invested  sums by 
the date of maturity.
I am still satisfied that the Bank of Englands bonds  of 12 to 17 months maturity is a fair and 
reasonable formula for calculating the return Mrs H could have received on this money  if she 
had not been wrongly  advised to invest  in the Combi  Saver. I am not saying she would have 
put her money  in these bonds  but I feel this is a reasonable  indicator of the returns  she could 
have received, and is the broadly accepted  no-risk indicator recommended  by this service in 
these circumstances.  She was prepared to invest this money rather  than simply leaving it in 
a current account,  and I dont think the fact that she made numerous  withdrawals makes this 
redress formula unfair. It is a broad indicator  of what she might have earned via various 
deposit-style accounts, many of which do not require fixed-term commitments  or penalise 
withdrawals.
Turning to my proposed  redress formula on the £15,000 invested in the Green Index 
element of the Combi Saver,  I still believe  that RBS should pay compensation based on the 
6.6% return it was offering  via its two year fixed rate bond (plus the BoE 12 to 17 month 
fixed-bond rate after that).
If Mrs H had not been wrongly advised,  in my view, to invest  this sum in the Green  Index-
linked account,  then I am satisfied that she would  have been happy  to commit this amount to 
a medium term interest-guaranteeing account  of up to 3  years  at least. While other banks 
and building societies may have offered higher rates and/or longer-term products, I think it is 
fair to base compensation on RBS two year bond  which offered 6.6% interest  (gross).
This is the interest RBS would have been required to pay her after two years. If it felt it was 
required to deduct  20% tax at source it would  have needed to pay this amount to HMRC and 
give her a certificate confirming this so she was not in danger of being charged  tax on this 
growth. I dont believe it is fair or reasonable for it to just pay 5.28% in compensation. It must 
therefore use the 6.6% comparison  figure  followed by the BoE 12 to 17 month bond rate. It 
will be up to Mrs H to declare this compensation to HMRC and pay any tax accordingly. 
I therefore confirm my earlier view about  the appropriate overall compensation.
RBS must, firstly, calculate how much interest Mrs H would have earned if the £15,000  
exposed to the Green Index had achieved interest of 6.6% a year for two years, with the 
accumulated sum earning interest  equivalent  to the BoEs bonds of 12 to 17 months 
maturity after that.
It should then compare how much interest  Mrs H got via the various sums invested in the 
special interest account over this period with how much she would have earned via the BoE 
12 to 17 month bond rate, taking account of all the withdrawals from when each was made.
Ref: DRN89383144If this shows she gained  as a result of this linked account, this sum should  be deducted from 
the loss  she incurred  via the Green Index element. If however she also lost out as a result 
of such a comparison this loss should  be added  to the first one.
Assuming this calculation  shows a total loss, RBS must pay this and add 8% simple  interest  
per annum  from the date of maturity to the date of settlement of this complaint. It is then for 
Mrs H to deal with any tax payable.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and instruct  The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc to pay compensation as 
outlined above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 July 2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN89383145provisional decision
complaint
Mr H complains, on behalf of Mrs H, that The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc (RBS) wrongly advised  her 
to invest  £15,000 in a complex, risk-based  investment  that was completely unsuitable given  their 
circumstances and her lack of investment  experience.
background
In the complaint Mr and Mrs H said they were  72 and 69 at the time of investment,  had never taken  a 
risk with their money and had no wish to do so. They were dependent on their pension  income and 
could not replace  any losses. 
They had not asked to be registered as private  banking clients  but were enrolled anyway. They were 
then approached  by a relationship  manager  who told them they should do something with the money  
in their current account  (£30 to £40k). In the meeting she recommended the Combi Saver  which she 
said could return as much  as three times their invested sum. She then pressurised them into this by 
saying there  was a closing date within  three weeks, and in her view,  they shouldnt miss out on this 
deal. She did not mention any other products.
Mr H put forward  a number of further concerns  about RBS behaviour and, in his view, about the 
dubious legality of the scheme.  These were summarised  by the adjudicator.
RBS rejected the complaint  saying that while the individual concerned  was a private banking 
relationship manager and could discuss product literature with clients,  she was not a registered 
financial advisor and couldnt make investment  recommendations. She had given Mrs H the brochure 
but it was her decision to invest in it. It was also satisfied that the information was sufficient  for her to 
make an informed  decision  about  whether  to go ahead.
An adjudicator at this service felt the complaint should be upheld.
He accepted that RBS had not given  formal investment advice given thered  been no fact find or 
recommendations letter.  But he said that as Mrs H had no investment experience she wouldnt have 
known what constituted formal advice and/or what documents  she should have received so wouldve  
been under the impression that the relationship  manager was recommending this product. And as Mr 
and Mrs H had been invited to a meeting and presented with only one investment product they 
probably assumed their finances and circumstances  had been considered, and this was being 
presented as a suitable  recommendation. Hed seen no evidence to suggest the manager  had made  it 
clear she was not in a position to offer investment advice.
He noted that RBS only promoted this product to private banking clients even though there was no 
evidence to suggest such clients,  and Mrs H in particular, had more investment experience  or 
knowledge than ordinary retail clients.
Overall, he felt that the brochure failed to provide sufficient clear information  about  the product and its 
key mechanisms such that an ordinary customer could  make  an informed decision  about whether to 
invest, saying:
The brochure had a flow diagram  to try and help the customer decide if the product  was 
correct for them; in every instance the brochure suggested talking to their relationship 
manager
It didnt  give enough information about where the money  was being invested or how the 
companies were selected. It also did not talk about how often these  companies were  
reviewed, if ever.  For investments into such a niche area he wouldve expected a greater 
explanation about how and why certain companies were deemed to be Green
Ref: DRN89383146There was also very little information on how the RBS Green Index automatic feature worked,  
such as when this will be triggered or what the investment will be in, if not in the Green 
companies. Many of the assets that made up the Index were fairly  speculative and there was 
no restriction on the losses  that could apply
He didnt  feel Mrs H would have appreciated there was a real risk of not making any return on 
the original capital.  In the brochure  there was the headline stating, Is my money at risk, with 
the answer being No. He didnt believe this was fair as there was a risk of no growth set 
against rising inflation, something Mrs H may not have  been aware  of
The brochure used  a graph to show what the performance of the index  would have been but 
there was no explanation to why the two benchmarks, FTSE 100 and MSCI World Index, 
were picked as comparators. When the index is compared to these benchmarks  it is shown  to 
vastly outperform both so this doesnt give a fair comparison to an inexperienced investor. An 
inexperienced investor wouldnt understand the relevance of these benchmarks  and wouldnt 
be able to interpret them 
Finally, he said that Private Banking Customers arent assumed to have more investment knowledge 
than any other  customer. Therefore the brochure should have been clear enough for anyone  to 
understand how the product  operated and to give a fair explanation of any illustrations.  As a result,  he 
was not persuaded  Mrs H would have fully understood the product and the real risk of it providing little 
or no return.
RBS did not agree, and said:
Mrs H had prior dealings with the relationship  manager  and wouldve  been aware  of her 
limitations in relation to investment advice; it does not accept that she would  not have 
believed she was getting investment advice
While  it has no information about Mrs Hs circumstances at the time, customers had to meet  
certain income or asset criteria to be classified as private banking clients.  It doesnt know 
which criterion Mrs H met or whether she had any investment experience
It doesnt  know whether the manager approached  her, or the meeting  was initiated by Mrs H; 
but Mrs Hs recollections have  been shown  not to be reliable
The Combi Saver allowed investors to access a special interest savings account paying up to 
8% per annum; Mrs H took advantage of this option
The product literature was sufficient for Mrs H to fully understand  the investment;  no 
document could provide  all the details about  a product. The relationship manager could  have 
answered any queries
It does  not have  a copy of Mrs Hs application  but the product literature and terms of business  
document clearly explain  that no advice was given
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I am satisfied that this constituted an advised sale given what  appears to have taken  place 
and Mrs and Mrs Hs recollection of events i.e. Mrs H had no prior investment experience  and did not 
seek investment advice.  Instead  she was approached by her and her husbands relationship  manager 
to go to a meeting to discuss their current account surplus at which she was presented with just one 
proposed product. In this context its reasonable to assume that Mr and Mrs H would have assumed  
the manager was recommending this.
I therefore  believe RBS needed to provide clear and credible evidence that the proposed sale was an 
execution-only one, and that Mrs H understood this. This should  have included  an execution-only 
notice signed both by the manager and Mrs H spelling out that no advice was given. I have not seen 
such evidence.
Ref: DRN89383147I do not accept RBS view that the reference in the brochure to the relationship manager being unable 
to provide advice demonstrates  either that no advice was given or that Mrs H ought to have realised 
she was not being given advice. The sentence in question falls far short  of the regulatory  
requirements, in my view. 
Further, since  November 2007 businesses have had to abide by an appropriateness test for non-
advised sales  whether they have initiated  the sale, and particularly in the case of complex  structured 
products. I consider this meeting met the definition of an initiated sale (under the MiFID  and COBS 
10 guidelines) and the product met the definition  of a complex product (largely for the reasons 
outlined by the adjudicator).
The appropriateness test also requires  the business  representative, in this case the client relationship  
manager, to consider whether the customer  has enough relevant knowledge to understand the risks 
posed by the product.  I have seen no evidence this happened. So, I am satisfied this was an advised 
sale, and even  if it wasnt,  it falls within the appropriateness test for non-advised sales.
In this context, I share  many (but not all) of the adjudicators concerns about the nature of this product 
and the considerable  limitations of the brochure. The mechanism by which any returns (profit) would 
be paid was complex and far from comprehensive.
I am very surprised that RBS has disputed that this was a complex product.  Unlike a product which 
tracked a long-established  and widely understood index such as the FTSE 100, the index in this case 
was newly established so no customers could have made an informed decision about  its likely rise or 
fall based on past performance. 
The heading Past Performance fails to fully explain the relevance and validity of the comparative 
illustration. I think it is unlikely an inexperienced  investor like Mrs H would have  been able to assess  
its usefulness as a guide to potential returns. Nor do I believe she would have understood whether the 
automatic feature designed  to protect against  volatility  would prove  a useful feature  or a break on 
potential growth. Clearly,  higher volatility  is not intrinsically a bad thing, as is implied in the brief 
description. The final please note offers  such a caveat but in my view would have had little meaning 
to those who were not experienced investors.
Further, and this is something where  I believe  the brochure was inadequate, there is no overall 
explanation of the general risks posed by green investments, a reasonably  new asset area with its 
own unique challenges,  particularly from a short to medium term perspective.  The proposed index 
encompassed new and, to some degree, untested energy businesses  around the world including 
emerging markets. If this had been  a traditional  investment vehicle  I would  have expected the 
literature and the advisor to explicitly point out the inherent risks posed both by the assets and the 
global spread of the businesses. 
I am not saying that the documentation was actually  inaccurate or misleading so if this had been a 
non-advised sale and/or did not fall within the appropriateness test then it would have been for Mrs H 
to decide whether to go ahead based on the limited information available. But as I dont accept  it was, 
I do not accept that the documentation  alone  provided  her with enough  information  about key aspects 
of the product to make an informed  to decision to go ahead.
Ive seen no evidence to suggest the relationship manager fully explained  this mechanism, or 
addressed the obvious  questions  about  the underlying green businesses  upon which  any returns 
would be based. I note that RBS says she would have been able to answer any questions  but from 
its account of her role I think  its unlikely  that she had the knowledge or experience to offer detailed  
information or advice about the product,  let alone specific details about the green companies, the 
risks posed by the way the mechanism worked or the general risk, say, of a Brazilian wind power-
based business.
Given this, I think it is unlikely Mrs H would  have been in a fully informed position to decide  whether  to 
invest in this product, and take the risk of getting no return  on her money  (via a complex mechanism 
Ref: DRN89383148she probably  wouldnt have  fully understood).  Indeed I do not believe she would  have been able to 
make an informed  assessment of the likelihood of RBS  green index delivering a return.
From what Ive read, I think it is more likely  than not that Mrs H would  have kept her money  if fully 
and fairly advised  in a risk-free  product.  The relationship  advisor presumably initiated  the meeting 
because of the amount Mrs H held in cash. As she was entitled to present clients with brochures  
about RBS products,  and Mrs H was willing to invest for a period of 3 1/2 years, the obvious  product 
literature to offer her would have been about RBS  fixed-rate bonds. These would have given  her an 
enhanced and guaranteed  return on her money given her willingness to invest over a medium term.
I therefore  feel it is fair and reasonable to base compensation on the return she could have achieved 
via RBS fixed-rate  bonds. In October 2008 it was offering a two year bond paying  6.6% interest a 
year. As Mrs H did not receive any return via the Combi Saver RBS it should pay the amount she has 
lost via this unsuitable advice. 
It will, however,  need  to factor in the interest she received on the linked  special interest account  over 
the 3  years of this products lifetime against what she could have received via a risk-free 
savings/deposit account. I asked RBS about its various savings/deposit rates  at the time i.e. what  Mrs 
H could have  earned if she had not been able to access  this special  rate. It said it did not have this 
information.
I will therefore, in my final decision, instruct it to compare the return Mrs H received via this special 
savings account  over the 3  years with what she could have  got via a risk-free savings  vehicle, 
using the Bank of Englands  fixed-rate bonds of 12 to 17 months maturity.  In the absence of 
information about RBS  savings rates I think this is a fair comparison. If this comparison shows Mrs H 
benefitted from the special savings  account  this surplus profit needs to be deducted  from the loss 
figure on the unsuitable  investment before 8% interest is added from the maturity. If, however, she 
actually received  less interest as a result  of using  the special interest account  RBS must  had this 
loss figure  to the compensation  also before 8% interest is added.
Finally, I note RBS  argument  that this was not a regulated product under  the COBS  guidelines.  
Despite this, I am satisfied that this service is entitled to consider whether, in the case of an advised 
sale, the advice was suitable, under Principle  9 of the guidelines.
my provisional  decision
I currently intend to uphold this complaint and instruct RBS to pay compensation as outlined above.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8938314