K820x#14Complaint
Mr H has complained about the way Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited  dealt with a 
telephone call he made to surrender one of his policies.  He feels the call was too long and 
he is also unhappy with subsequent correspondence he received in relation to the policy.
Background
On 8 April 2019  Mr H telephoned Aviva. He wanted  to know  what the surrender value of his 
policy was. On this date in the same call he spoke to two individuals  from different 
departments within Aviva.
The total length of the call was forty-nine minutes. Unhappy with this Mr H raised  a complaint 
at the end of the call with Aviva and then brought it to this Service.  At the same  time, he also 
complained about the fact that in a letter he received from Aviva dated 12 April 2019 the 
word policies was used  rather  than policy  so he was concerned that Aviva  had acted on 
wrong or fraudulent information. The letter also referred to previous  correspondence that 
Aviva had sent but he hadnt received anything else. So he asked  for Aviva to provide this 
previous correspondence.
The complaint was assessed  by one of our investigators who felt it shouldnt  be upheld.  She 
felt that while the call may not have met Mr Hs expectations, she was satisfied both call 
handlers from Aviva were professional throughout the call. In relation to the correspondence 
the investigator accepted that the letter of 12 April 2019 did refer to policies rather than 
policy however she felt that this was a mistake and the rest of the letter was clear that it 
was concerned with only one policy  the one Mr H had requested  to surrender. She also 
found that Aviva had also sent a letter to Mr H on 11 April 2019 which  is what  it was referring 
to by previous correspondence so she felt it didnt need to do anything further.
As no agreement could be reached  the complaint has been passed  to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  the 
complaint should  be upheld.
I have listened  to the call that Mr H had had with Aviva.  I agree  that he was kept on the 
telephone for quite  a long time when essentially his enquiry was simply about  the surrender  
value of his policy.  However, the way the call developed and the type of questioning Mr H 
employed meant that the surrender of the policy was not the only issue discussed.
To briefly summarise  the conversation, from the start of the call Mr H seemed unhappy that 
he had had to wait for six minutes for his call to initially be answered. Mr H accused Aviva of 
being under  staffed and asked the call handler what the waiting times were  for customers  
calls to be answered. The call handler was unable to provide these details (not unreasonably 
so in my view) but Mr H wasnt happy  with this. He continued to press the issue  of how long 
he had to wait and waiting times in general.  
After some time the call handler was able to move the conversation  on to Mr Hs policy  and 
its surrender value. As is standard  practice  it was explained that the value of the policy  could 
only be confirmed as at the close of business  on the previous working day, but Mr H wasnt 
Ref: DRN85933452happy with this and started  to question the call handler about  this issue. The call handler  
explained to Mr H that a note could  be put onto his policy so that if the value  dropped by ten 
per cent he would be notified  and he could then decide whether to surrender or not. Again, 
this wasnt satisfactory for Mr H. It was explained  to him that if he wanted  to proceed with the 
surrender of the policy he would have to be put through to another team.  Mr H was again  
unhappy with this and commented  on how much time he had spent talking  to that call 
handler when  she couldnt do what he wanted.
When Mr H started  speaking to the second  call handler he objected  to having  to go through  
security questions again and a conversation on this issue then followed. He also discussed  
how long he had, at that point in time,  been  on the telephone. Once Mr H agreed  to provide 
the relevant details for the security check the call handler explained  the policy could be 
surrendered, how this could take place and from what date the value could be confirmed. He 
also explained the risks of surrendering  policy to ensure Mr H was aware of all the details 
and still wanted  to proceed. He also confirmed the account details to where the payment  
was to be made and explained the timescales of receiving the payment and the chargeable 
gains certificate. Mr H was unhappy  with the timescales and a discussion  then ensued  about 
this. Mr H then stated  that he wanted to make a complaint  about  the length  of the telephone 
call.
In light of this information,  in my view the reason the telephone call lasted for the length it did 
was due to the way in which Mr H directed the conversation  he wasnt  simply asking about 
his policy  and how to surrender it but he was also being quite candid about  how unhappy he 
was with how long he had been on the telephone along  with challenging the call handlers 
about the processes that were being  explained to him. So I dont think the length  of the call 
was because of anything Aviva had done or not done or because  the call was handled 
badly. I cant comment on how long it took for Mr Hs call to initially  be answered other than 
to say that all businesses would want each customer to not have to wait at all when calling in 
however this isnt always practical and depends upon how many calls are being  made  in any 
one time.  Whilst slightly frustrating, I dont think having to wait six minutes to speak to 
someone at Aviva was unreasonable. Furthermore,  I think both call handlers conducted the 
call in a professional manner and stayed  calm  throughout  Mr Hs intensive questioning. 
I therefore dont  think Aviva needs to make an award to Mr H for the length of the call 
because I dont think it did anything  wrong.
Turning now to the correspondence Mr H has complained about, I agree with the 
investigators assessment  that the word  policies  being used rather  than policy was a 
typographical error and doesnt  indicate  anything more sinister.  Also given the letter  was 
entitled the policy reference number  that Mr H wanted to surrender I think it would have been 
clear to Mr H that the letter concerned only this policy. Further to this, with regards to the 
reference the letter made to previous correspondence I know  that Aviva  did send Mr H a 
letter dated  11 April 2019, so this is obviously what is being referred to. So again, I dont 
agree that this is something Mr H should  be compensated for because I dont think  its 
reasonable to conclude  that anything in the correspondence in question would have caused 
Mr H any distress or concern.
Overall, the policy  was surrendered correctly and within  the set timescales set by Aviva.  
I think the call was handled by the Aviva call handlers professionally  and the length of the 
call was mainly due to the line of questioning  and the tone used by Mr H. I also am satisfied 
that the letters werent wholly incorrect to cause any concerns to Mr H.
Ref: DRN85933453My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 September  2020.
Ayshea Khan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8593345