K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains that Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) hasnt acted fairly when assessing 
a claim he made under  his travel insurance  policy. 
When bringing this complaint, Mr F was initially supported by a legal representative. To 
avoid any confusion I will refer to Mr F and his representative collectively as Mr F 
throughout this decision  unless specified.
background
In July 2018 Mr Fs was travelling abroad and had a number of items stolen from his vehicle. 
Shortly after, Mr F made a claim under his URV travel insurance.  It requested  Mr F provide 
proof of ownership for several items  and he said he did not have receipts.
Between July 2018 and February  2019 URV were in contact with Mr F asking  for more 
information. Mr F maintained hed provided  enough information, and mentioned he could 
provide witnesses to prove the claim. Mr F made a complaint but URV said it had acted 
reasonably in considering the claim.
Mr F brought  his complaint to our service. He said he was able to provide receipts for some  
of the items but felt he shouldnt have  to as he could provide witnesses instead.  And he said 
he felt this was more compelling evidence. So he asked  URV to cover his claim. One of our 
investigators looked into Mr Fs complaint and didnt uphold it. He said URV hadnt declined 
the claim and instead was still in the process of assessing it. So he looked into whether it 
had acted reasonably in handling the claim so far. 
The investigator said URVs  ongoing investigation was reasonable. And he said under the 
policy it was entitled  to ask for proof  of ownership   as it had done. The investigator also 
said while  Mr F may not be able to evidence all of his items  individually,  URV was able to 
request this for as many of the items as he could provide.
Mr F disagreed and reiterated that he could provide receipts but again felt he shouldnt have 
to. And he said URV had acted unreasonably by requesting further information. So the 
complaint has been passed to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain  why.
As the claim is ongoing I havent had to decide  the outcome of this claim. Instead, when 
looking at this case Ive considered whether URV has acted fairly and reasonably, and in line 
with its relevant obligations, when considering  this claim. 
ICOBS 8.1.1 says URV must:
1.handle claims promptly and fairly;
2.provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder to make  a claim and appropriate 
information on its progress;
Ref: DRN811861023.not unreasonably  reject a claim (including by terminating or avoiding a policy);  and
4.settle claims promptly once settlement terms are agreed.
Mr Fs policy covers  him in the event his baggage is stolen. And it says a policyholder should 
provide proof of ownership and/or purchase  for items lost, stolen or damaged. It then says:
Proof of ownership  and/or  purchase  consists of receipts for the items claimed or if 
receipts cannot be provided  alternative forms of proof, such  as bank statements, 
guarantees, instruction manuals, insurance  valuation certificates  or photographs will 
suffice.
Taking this into account I think  URV has acted fairly and in line with its policy terms by 
requesting receipts  and further evidence where this hasnt been  possible. Having reviewed 
whats happened, it seems that the delay  has been  caused by Mr Fs decision to not provide 
receipts that he has.
I appreciate Mr F feels his offer of providing witness statements should be sufficient for URV,  
but this isnt his decision  to make. Nor is it in line with his policy  terms. And, from what hes 
said, he does have  some  receipts that hes been  unwilling  to share  with URV due to the time 
commitment involved in locating them. So Im not satisfied  URV has caused  a delay by 
requesting this evidence or further  supporting evidence.
my final decision
For the above reasons, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 July 2019.
Jack Baldry
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8118610