K820x#14Complaint
Miss L complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) have unfairly  refused to 
meet a claim she made  on her home insurance for storm damage. She also said the conduct 
of the loss adjuster was intimidating.
Background
After a storm, a chimney pot was found to have fallen from a stack on Miss Ls house, 
damaging tiles on two roofs as it fell.
A claim  was opened, and RSA sent a loss adjuster to look at the damage.  The adjuster said 
the chimney was in a poor state of repair and the pot had fallen due to a natural breakdown  
of materials. As a result, RSA declined the claim, saying  that the pot falling was due to 
gradual wear and tear to the chimney and as such was excluded from the policy. 
Miss L asked a local builder to assess the condition of her chimney.  He thought  that it was 
generally in good repair, with only a small amount of wear and tear visible.
Miss L accepted that she had no accidental damage cover but complained to RSA about the 
decision to exclude  the damage  to the pot and the behaviour of the adjuster, who she said 
was intimidating.
In their final response to the complaint, RSA confirmed their decision that the damage to the 
pot had been caused by wear and tear, which was specifically excluded from her policy. 
They said:
Whilst the strong winds may have been a contributing factor to the damage, they would not 
have been sufficient to bring down the chimney  pot had the flaunching still been in good  
order.
They also looked  at the behaviour of the adjuster and found no evidence that he had acted 
inappropriately.
Miss L did not agree so complained to our service.
The investigator sent a comprehensive  reply to Miss L and RSA which  I dont propose to 
repeat, but in summary she thought, on balance, RSA were not unfair in concluding the pot 
falling was due to wear  and tear to the chimney and so it was reasonable for them  to decline 
her claim. She also said that having  listened  to the recordings of their conversations,  and 
other evidence of the visit, on balance she didnt think the adjuster acted inappropriately.
Miss L did not accept  the investigators  view that RSA were not unfair  in concluding  that the 
pot falling  was primarily caused  by wear and tear and declining  her claim. She asked for this 
opinion to be reviewed  by an ombudsman.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN84026282Miss Ls original complaint included the behaviour of the adjuster sent to the property by 
RSA. This was looked at and Miss L accepted  the investigators finding  in relation to this, so 
I will not address the matter further.
Regarding the damage claim,  for Miss L to make a successful claim for storm damage to her 
property, she needs to show there was a storm at the time, and that the storm was the 
dominant cause of the damage.  Once  she has done  this, for RSA to decline the claim, it 
must show that the damage is covered by one of the exclusions in the policy terms and 
conditions.
In this case, it is not disputed that there was a storm, and the storm was contributory to the 
pot falling  from the chimney. What is disputed, is whether the main factor in the damage to 
the chimney was wear  and tear, or the storm.
RSA sent an adjuster  to look at the damage. This is common in cases  like this and I think  it 
is reasonable for RSA to rely on its experts  opinion  when  deciding to pay a claim. In this 
case Miss L has submitted evidence  from a builder who has done work on her roof in the 
past and who attended to inspect the damage on this occasion. I have considered the 
opinions and evidence  of both these experts  in coming to my decision.
The adjuster  has provided photos  of the chimney,  showing  its general  condition from the 
side and above.  His opinion was there was deterioration of both the mortar  and flaunching to 
the pots. 
Miss Ls builder has expressed his opinion that the overall condition of the chimney was 
good, but has however, noted a small amount  of pointing showing wear and tear.
Clearly, nobody can say definitively  what condition the flaunching was in prior to the storm, 
but the photos provided by the adjuster show the general condition of the chimney. I have 
examined these photos  and can see why RSA said there is some  pointing missing from the 
brickwork and that some of the remaining  flaunching appears to have deteriorated.  These 
photos, along with the builders description,  leads me on balance,  to think  RSAs conclusion 
that:
the chimney was probably in need  of some maintenance before the storm hit was 
fair, and 
the main cause of the pot falling  was wear and tear, with the storm simply 
highlighting this was fair.
Given this, I think it was reasonable  for RSA to decline the claim based  on the damage being 
primarily caused by wear and tear and Im not going to ask them  to meet  Miss Ls claim.  
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive given I am not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 February  2020.
Ref: DRN84026283Chris Riggs
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8402628