K820x#14complaint
Mr K says Barclays  Bank UK PLC mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 2004.  The policy was added  to 
Mr Ks credit  card account just over a week after Mr K opened  the account.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr K disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaints been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ks case.
Where the evidence is incomplete  or inconclusive I need to decide what I thinks  most likely  
based on the information I have.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ks complaint. Ill explain why.
 Mr K cant remember how he took out the PPI. I dont find this surprising, given that he 
took out the credit card and PPI so long ago. Ive seen the credit  card application form 
that Mr K signed. It includes equally prominent options to accept or decline the PPI. Mr 
K doesnt appear to have selected either  of those options at the point when he applied 
for the card. But I think it would have been  clear to him that PPI was optional.
 The PPI was added to Mr Ks credit  card just over a week  after the card was activated. 
It looked as if it was probably added during a phone  call with Barclays.  From  what  we 
know about the way Barclays sold this type of policy over the phone at the time,  Im 
satisfied, on balance, that the advisor would have explained that the PPI was optional. 
Ive also borne in mind  that the credit card application form set out clear options to take 
or decline the PPI, and Mr K already had the card without PPI. So taking everything 
into account, Im satisfied, on balance, that Mr K would have realised that the PPI was 
optional. And I think he chose to take it, knowing that he didnt have to.
 Mr K has told us that Barclays didnt give him advice or recommend that he take out 
the insurance. Barclays says that if  as appears to be the case  - the PPI was sold to 
Mr K over the phone,  it would have recommended  the PPI to him. For the purposes of 
this decision, Ive assumed that Barclays did recommend  the PPI to Mr K. That is to his 
advantage, as it means  Barclays had a responsibility  to check that the PPI was suitable  
for him. 
 But it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable, based on what Ive seen of his circumstances 
at the time.  Mr Ks told us he wouldnt have been entitled to any sick pay or 
redundancy pay from his employer  at the time. And he says he didnt have any other 
means he could have used to make his monthly credit card payments if hed been  off 
sick, or if hed lost his job.
Ref: DRN80280692 The policy would have paid 10% of the outstanding balance on Mr Ks credit  card 
account at the time of the claim, for up to 12 months per successful claim for accident,  
sickness or unemployment. So I think it could have been useful  to Mr K, particularly 
given his lack of alternative means. And since he was paying for the PPI monthly,  Mr K 
could have cancelled the policy at any time if he no longer  needed  it.
 Its possible the information Barclays gave Mr K about  the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
should have been.  But Ive explained that Im satisfied  that Mr K chose to take out the 
policy. So he appears to have wanted  this type of cover,  even if hes understandably 
forgotten that now, so many years  later.  He wasnt affected by any of the main  things 
the policy didnt  cover (for example, unusual employment arrangements or existing 
medical conditions). And the policy was competitively  priced and apparently affordable  
to Mr K. 
 So taking everything into account,  I think its unlikely Mr K would have  made a different  
decision if better information had been provided. On balance  I think  hed still have  
taken out the policy.
But Barclays  has agreed to pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr K because:  
It got a high level of commission  and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - 
so it should have told Mr K about that. Because Barclays didnt tell Mr K, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays  has agreed  to pay back the amount of commission  and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  thats fair in this case.
what Barclays needs to do
Barclays has to pay back to Mr K any commission and profit  share it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. It should  also pay back to Mr K any extra interest  he paid because 
of that.
If it hasnt  done  so already, Barclays should  re-work the credit card account and pay back  to 
Mr K the difference between what Mr K owes and what he would have owed if the 
commission and profit share it got hadnt  been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Barclays  
should also pay Mr K 8%* simple interest  if he paid off his credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr K can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
Ref: DRN80280693my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC doesnt have to pay back  all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr K.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Mr K any commission and profit  share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. It should now do this if it has not already  
done so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 August 2019.
Juliet Collins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8028069