K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that First Response Finance Ltd mis-sold Mr B a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.
Background
Mr B took out a loan in 2010, and at the same time a single premium PPI policy  was set up 
to protect  the loan payments. The cost of the policy was added to the loan and interest 
charged. The PPI was sold by phone.  
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Mr B disagreed and so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Bs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  the complaint. These  are my reasons:
 Mr B has said that he wasnt given a choice about taking the PPI. But I dont  have 
evidence to support  this, and also I wouldnt necessarily  expect  someone  to recall in 
detail everything  that happened about  10 years ago when the application was made. 
However I have seen copies of the script that was in use during such phone  sales, and 
that does show  that the PPI was likely to have  been presented as a choice. This is also 
supported by the demands and needs document First Response prepared  at the time 
for Mr B. Overall,  without stronger evidence it wouldnt be fair for me to decide that 
Mr B wasnt  given  a choice about  the PPI. 
 It seems  that First Response advised  Mr B to have PPI, but I dont have evidence  that 
it was unsuitable for Mr Bs circumstances at the time. The policy  offered a benefit if 
Mr B was made  redundant. And, although Mr B may have received employer sick pay, 
the accident and sickness benefit provided  by the policy could  still have been  useful.  
This is because it would pay out on top off any employer sick pay and potentially  would  
continue to pay out after sick pay ended. It would also pay out on top of any 
redundancy payment. It would have enabled Mr B to put off using any savings or other 
means of support. Mr B appeared to have  been eligible  for the policy; and it seems 
also wouldnt have been affected  by any significant  exclusions within the policy.
 Mr B would have received only a limited refund of the PPI premium  if the policy  had 
been cancelled  early. This can be an issue  where a customer might pay the loan off 
early  for example by taking out a replacement loan. But Ive seen  nothing  to suggest 
that this was likely at the time of sale. So that feature of the policy didnt make it 
unsuitable for Mr B.
 The cost of the policy was set out reasonably clearly  including  the amount  of the 
single premium, the interest  payable on the premium and the total cost. So I think Mr B 
Ref: DRN89212542would have understood how much  the PPI would cost. The policy  also seems to have 
been affordable.
 Its possible that First Response didnt  clearly point out what the PPI wouldnt cover   
but I cant see that Mr B would have been  significantly affected  by this. 
I think Mr B wasnt mis-sold PPI by First Response.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 February  2020.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8921254