K820x#14Complaint
Mr C complains about the advice and service  National  Westminster Bank Plc gave him when 
he called  about  is mortgage.
Background
Mr C called NatWest as hed received some letters about the arrears on his mortgage.  He 
was concerned because some  of these letters said Mr Cs home  would be repossessed.
During the call, Mr C wanted  to know what all the letters were about, and he wanted to know  
what he needed to do to pay off the arrears and stop the repossession.
NatWest explained  it started the repossession proceedings as Mr C hadnt paid the ground 
rent and service  charge  on his property. It said it had paid these charges, but it was adding 
them to the mortgage and needed  to come to an arrangement with Mr C to pay these off.
Mr C wanted to help and wanted  reassurance  the repossession of his home would be 
stopped. NatWest explained the repossession could be stopped  - it wasnt final - but an 
arrangement needed  to be reached  before this could happen.
The call ended  and NatWest said it would need to get back  in touch with Mr C to see if it 
could spread the repayment of the ground  rent and service charge over a longer period. 
NatWest said it would call or email Mr C to confirm any arrangement details to payback the 
arrears, and if this happened, cancel the repossession proceedings.
Mr C didnt receive a call or email as NatWest said it would,  so he made a complaint. He 
also said he was told the repossession proceedings would be cancelled  in the telephone 
call.
NatWest said it was sorry it didnt call or email Mr C as it said it would. It offered Mr C £40 in 
vouchers for the trouble this caused  him. But it said it never said the repossession  would  be 
cancelled, only that it could be if an agreement was reached. And it said it was in contact 
with Mr C to reach an agreement.
Mr C remained  unhappy so brought his complaint to us. He said NatWest  should have 
contacted him when  it said it would, and the fact it didnt caused him stress  and thinks it 
should cancel  the repossession. Our investigator looked into Mr Cs complaint and didnt 
recommend it was upheld. She thought NatWest should have contacted  Mr C when it said it 
would, but she thought  its offer of compensation was fair. And she didnt think NatWest had 
said the repossession would  be cancelled.
Mr C disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Cs 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
Ref: DRN86226402To be clear, Im not looking at the events leading up to the repossession  notice. Im aware 
Mr C has complained about these, and weve already  considered these complaints. Nor am I 
looking at any developments after this complaint. What Im looking at, in the scope  of this 
decision is the advice  and service Mr C received when  he called to query the repossession  
notice.
Ive listened to the call in question, and its clear  Mr C isnt sure why the repossession notice 
was sent to him and he clearly wants to resolve the issue and stop the eviction. NatWest  say 
the repossession can be stopped, but it needs to reach an agreement with Mr C on how hell 
pay the arrears on his account.  Im satisfied NatWest dont tell Mr C the repossession will be 
stopped on this call. It follows  that I dont think NatWest needed to cancel the repossession 
proceedings based on anything that happened during this telephone call.
That said,  its clear from the call that Mr C is worried about being  evicted from his home, and 
thats completely  understandable. NatWest says it will call Mr C back, or email him, and this 
didnt happen  as promised. It did call Mr C back, but later than Mr C was expecting. 
This delay  would have undoubtedly caused  Mr C some stress,  but Im satisfied NatWests 
offered of £40 compensation  is fair in the circumstances. It ultimately did call Mr C back  five 
days later and talks began on how to repay the arrears and cancel  the repossession 
proceedings. This call back, although later than Mr C was expecting, happened before any 
other action  taken by NatWest in relation to the repossession.
My final decision
My Final  decision  is that I dont uphold  Mr Cs complaint against National Westminster  Bank  
Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 February  2020.
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8622640