K820x#14Complaint
Mr W complains that Close Brothers Limited refused to let him reject a faulty car. 
background
In September  2017 Mr W acquired a second-hand car costing £2,995 funded  by a 
conditional sale agreement and a deposit  of £100. The car was some nine years  old and had 
done 87,000 miles.  
Some five months later the car broke down and the engine had to be replaced. This was 
done under  warranty  and a reconditioned  engine and new head gasket were  fitted.  Some six 
months after the repair was carried out the car broke  down again and Mr W says it needed 
another replacement  engine.  The car was outside  the warranty  and the dealer refused to 
repair it free of charge. 
Mr W complained  to Close Brothers  and it asked  for evidence to support Mr Ws claim that 
the fault had been  present  at the point  of sale. It suggested an independent report. Mr W 
then brought his complaint to this service where  it was considered by one of our 
investigators who didnt  recommend  it be upheld.
She said that under the Consumer Rights Act 2015  she needed to consider if the faults were 
present or developing at the point  of sale. If a fault develops  within  six months it is deemed 
to have been present at the point of sale unless the merchant can demonstrate otherwise. 
She couldnt conclude that the fault which led to the second incident was present at the point 
of sale.
Mr W didnt agree and said that the car needed a replacement engine on two occasions and 
that made it clear it wasnt fit for purpose.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
The finance  agreement, that is the hire purchase  agreement, in this case is a regulated  
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
Close Brothers is also the supplier of the goods  under this type of agreement, and 
responsible for a complaint about  their quality.
The relevant  law says that under a contract to supply goods,  there  is an implied  term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory .
The relevant  law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person  would consider satisfactory taking into account  any description of 
the goods, price  and all other relevant circumstances. So, it seems likely that in a case 
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might  
include things like the age and the mileage  at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Ref: DRN85711332Under the relevant law the quality of the goods  includes their general state and condition and 
other things  like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects  of the quality of the goods.
I asked Mr W and Close Brothers for details of the work done on the car and for the mileage 
at the time of both breakdowns. Close Bothers relayed my request  to the dealer which  said 
that a lot of its records had been  erased, but it did provide some invoices. It also said that 
from recollection it had replaced  the original engine, but had refused the second repair as it 
believed the car had been driven when it shouldnt have been.  Mr W didnt respond.
In short,  the dealer had one opportunity to repair the fault and this is what  it did. A second 
fault arose which apparently required a second  replacement  engine. However, I cannot say 
what the fault was which  led to the apparent need  for a second new engine. The invoice 
from the dealer  records the original fault was caused  by a corroded water  pipe which  had led 
to the engine overheating, but I have no evidence as to what  caused  the second  problem.  
It may have been that the first repair wasnt satisfactory or it may have been some other 
cause. Without any evidence I find it difficult to reach a conclusion that the second fault was 
present at the point of sale. Nor have I seen anything that would allow  me to conclude the 
first repair was flawed. 
Mr W has been invited by both Close Brothers  and by our investigator to have  an 
independent inspection carried out, but has not done so. I can appreciate his view that two 
new engines  suggest the car was flawed when he first acquired it, but I dont  consider  that is 
enough to allow me to say the second  fault,  whatever  it was, was present at the point of 
sale. Nor can I see any other grounds that would allow  me to uphold his complaint.
my final decision 
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or reject my decision before 
25 December 2020.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8571133