K821x#15complaint
Miss W complains that Provident  Personal  Credit Limited (trading as Satsuma) lent to her in 
an irresponsible manner.
background
The background to this complaint was set out in the provisional decision I issued in 
October 2019. An extract from this is attached and forms part of this final decision, so I will 
not repeat  that information here.
In my provisional decision I set out why I was minded  to uphold part of the complaint. 
I invited both parties to let me have any further  comments and evidence. Miss W has said 
she accepts my provisional decision.  Satsuma hasnt provided  us with anything  further.
my findings
Ive once more  considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Given that neither party has provided 
me with any new evidence or arguments  I see no reason to alter the conclusions I reached  
in my provisional decision.
So I dont  think Satsuma  should have agreed to give Miss W loans  8 or 9. Satsuma needs to 
pay Miss W some compensation  in addition to the rebate it has offered on loan 1.
putting things right
If it hasnt  already done so, Satsuma should  pay Miss W the rebate of £50.40  it has offered 
her in relation to loan 1.
I dont think Satsuma should have agreed  to lend to Miss W on 13 April 2018 (loan 8) or 
12 August 2018  (loan 9). So for each of those loans Satsuma should;
Refund any interest and charges paid by Miss W on the loans. 
Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*.
The number of loans  taken from loan 8 onwards means any information recorded  about 
them is adverse.  So all entries about  loan 9, and loan 8 once it has been fully repaid, 
should be removed  from Miss Ws credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Satsuma  to take off tax from this interest. Satsuma  must  
give Miss W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
If Miss W still owes Satsuma any of the principal balance she borrowed on loan 8, Satsuma 
may deduct this from the compensation that is due to her. But, to be clear,  that outstanding 
balance should  be recalculated to remove any interest and charges, but taking  account  of 
any repayments Miss W has made  on that loan as though they were  applied against the 
principal sum borrowed.
Ref: DRN84673242my final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold Miss Ws complaint  and direct  Provident Personal 
Credit Limited to put things right as detailed above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 January 2020.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN84673243EXTRACT FROM PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Miss W complains that Provident Personal Credit  Limited  (trading as Satsuma) lent to her in an 
irresponsible manner.
background
Miss W was given nine loans by Satsuma  between January 2016 and August 2018. Each of the loans 
was due to be repaid in weekly or monthly instalments. Miss W successfully repaid the first seven 
loans, but a balance remained outstanding on her last two loans when  she made her complaint to 
Satsuma. Loan 9 has subsequently been repaid. A summary of Miss Ws borrowing  from Satsuma is 
as follows;
Loan 
NumberBorrowing Date Repayment  DateLoan 
Amount Agreed 
Term
1 21/01/2016 Repaid £     100.00 13 Weeks
2 09/07/2016 28/11/2016 £     150.00 13 Weeks
3 09/08/2017 26/08/2017 £     100.00 3 Months
4 22/09/2017 28/09/2017 £     100.00 3 Months
5 09/10/2017 26/10/2017 £     130.00 3 Months
6 15/11/2017 27/11/2017 £     100.00 3 Months
7 30/11/2017 26/03/2018 £     800.00 3 Months
8 13/04/2018 Outstanding £   2,000.00 4 Months
9 12/08/2018 26/04/2019 £     100.00 3 Months
When Miss W first complained to Satsuma  it offered her a rebate on her first loan. So that means  
Satsuma has only provided us with limited  information about the loan. But looking  at the amount of 
rebate that Satsuma has offered I dont think I need to consider this loan any further. The amount of 
rebate is broadly equal to what  Id have asked Satsuma to pay to Miss W if I agreed that loan 
shouldnt have been given.
Miss Ws complaint about  the remaining loans  has been assessed by one of our adjudicators.  He 
didnt think Satsuma  had been wrong  to give the loans 2 to 6 to Miss W. But he thought  the rest of the 
loans shouldnt have  been  agreed. So he asked Satsuma to pay Miss W some  compensation.
Satsuma didnt agree  with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it 
has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  
lending - including all of the relevant rules,  guidance and good  industry practice  - on our website.  
Ref: DRN84673244Satsuma needed to take reasonable  steps  to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly.  In practice  this 
means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make  sure that Miss W could repay the 
loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks  could  take into account a number  of different  things, 
such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income  and 
expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough 
checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Satsuma should fairly and reasonably  have done more 
to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more  difficult  to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount  due to be repaid  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular  level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period  of time during 
which a customer has been given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing  had become,  or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point  where  the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think  that it is important  for me to start by saying that Satsuma  was required to establish whether 
Miss W could  sustainably repay her loans   not just whether the loan payments  were affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might  be an indication a consumer could  
sustainably make  their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This is 
because the FCAs Consumer Credit  Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable as being  without 
undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time,  while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments.  
And it follows that a lender should realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise,  that a borrower 
wont be able to make  their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their 
repayments without borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this context and 
what this all means for Miss Ws complaint.
Satsuma did a number of checks before it lent to Miss W. It asked her for details of her income  and 
her normal expenditure. It gathered data from credit reference agencies  about  other credit 
repayments that Miss W would need  to make over the coming months. And it then used this 
information to calculate how much disposable income  Miss W had left over each month.  Satsuma  
also used the credit reference agency checks to gather some more  information about Miss Ws 
financial situation at that time.
The credit  checks that Satsuma did failed to show any information that might have suggested Miss W 
was having problems managing her money. The checks  didnt show any other concerning information  
such as a reliance on other short term loans, or a significant  number of delinquent or defaulted 
accounts. 
There was a gap of just over eight  months between loan 2 being  repaid and Miss W borrowing again. 
I think  that gap was long enough to give Satsuma confidence that Miss W wasnt  reliant on its lending 
at that time.  So I think Satsuma was entitled  to treat Miss W as if she were  a new customer at the time 
of loan 3 and base its checks accordingly.  
Ref: DRN84673245The repayments that Miss W had agreed to make on loans 2 to 6 were relatively  modest compared  to 
the income that shed declared to Satsuma. And, even  after allowing for the additional  expenditure  
that Satsuma added to what Miss W declared, the repayments appeared  to be easily  affordable. So 
given these repayment amounts, what was apparent about Miss Ws circumstances  at the time, and 
her borrowing history with the lender,  I dont think  it wouldve been proportionate for Satsuma to ask 
her for the amount  of information that would be needed to show the lending was unsustainable before 
agreeing loans 2 to 6. 
I do think, by the time Miss W asked for loan 7, that Satsuma should  have decided that it couldnt 
safely rely on the information she was providing  about her finances.  This was her fifth loan request in 
just over three months. And the amount shed asked to borrow had increased  significantly. On 
balance I dont think the concerns these  things should have  caused would  have been enough  for 
Satsuma to decide not to lend to Miss W. But I do think Satsuma should  have taken steps at that time 
to independently  verify  her true financial  position. We asked Miss W for copies of her bank statements  
from that time so we could see what better checks would have shown Satsuma. She said she was 
unable to provide these to us. So Im not able to say that better checks  would  have shown  Satsuma 
that it shouldnt have given  loan 7 to Miss W.
But looking  at the overall pattern of Satsumas lending history with Miss W I think by loan 8 the lender 
should reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so 
Satsuma should have realised that it shouldnt provide any further loans. 
I say this because:
This was now Miss Ws sixth loan request in a period of just over eight months.  Miss W asked for 
this loan within a couple of weeks  of repaying loan 7. And the amount  she was borrowing  had 
significantly increased again.  The repayment she needed to make took a significant  proportion of 
the income shed declared to Satsuma.
By the time Miss W asked for loan 8 shed been  borrowing from Satsuma  for a lengthy period  and 
she wasnt making any inroads to the amount she owed the lender. Loan 8 was by far the largest 
loan shed  taken  to date.  
Miss W took further borrowing on loan 9 whilst  she was still repaying  loan 8. So Satsuma  ought to 
have realised it was more likely  than not Miss W was having  to borrow  further to cover the hole 
repaying her previous loan was leaving  in her finances and that Miss Ws indebtedness was 
increasing unsustainably.
I think  that Miss W lost out because Satsuma  gave her loans 8 and 9 because:
these  loans had the effect of unfairly  prolonging  Miss Ws indebtedness by allowing her to 
take expensive credit  intended for short-term use over an extended period of time.
the number of loans Miss W had taken in a short period of time was likely to have  had 
negative implications  on her ability to access mainstream credit  and so kept her in the market  
for these  high-cost loans.
So I dont currently think Satsuma should have agreed to give Miss W loans 8 or 9. Satsuma needs to 
pay Miss W some  compensation.
Ref: DRN8467324