K820x#14complaint
Mrs S brings this complaint on behalf of the estate  of her husband, Mr S. She says that The 
Prudential Assurance  Company Limited  (Prudential ) has unfairly refused a claim for 
terminal illness benefit, which would have been payable before the policy expired in 2015. 
background
I issued a provisional decision to the parties  on 6 February 2019. It is attached to this 
decision and it should be read as part of my final determination.   
On the information available to me, I didnt  think Prudential had been unreasonable in 
refusing the claim. That was because the medical evidence did not support  the later 
statements that Mr S would likely have had less than twelve months to live before the policy 
benefit expired  in October 2014.  
Prudential had nothing  else to add.  
Mrs S wrote a letter in which she confirmed she didnt accept the outcome of my provisional 
decision. She made various points, noting:
it is wrong to say Mr S didnt try NIV in June 2014; 
there is further  evidence  (that Mrs S has supplied) in the discharge  letter  of June  
2014 saying Mr S had tried NIV overnight but he wasnt  able to tolerate it;
up until the point he passed away, Mr S could not tolerate NIV  this is reflected in 
him having passed away  very shortly after being removed  from ventilation;
in respect of Mr S improving after his chest infection, this was because  each time he 
had a deterioration in his health,  they would  make adjustments to his daily routine;
for example, this included no longer taking him out in the car because  the seating  
position detrimentally  affected his breathing and changing  how he used the toilet;
each time they faced an obstacle together, she and Mr S worked around it as best 
they could to prolong his life;
it feels as though she is being  penalised  because Mr S lived longer than the 
retrospective twelve month assessment;
she doesnt  agree that he made an improvement  - Mr S merely  existed  rather than 
lived for many years because  of the severe nature of his degenerative  condition.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I remain  of the same 
view; in the specific circumstances it wasnt unreasonable for Prudentials  CMO  to refuse  to 
agree that the retrospective terminal illness definition was met before 22 October 2014. I am 
sorry to disappoint  Mrs S because I realise she had hoped that a claim could be paid.
Id like to thank Mrs S for taking the time to write further comments for me. I realise  how hard 
she has found this process, and shes  explained  how distressing it has been to revisit the 
circumstances of her husbands  illness.  
Id also like to thank  Mrs S for supplying  the June 2014 discharge letter,  as this was not 
evidenced previously  within  our files from either party. But Im sadly  not able to determine 
that it changes  my overall view of the complaint outcome. 
Ref: DRN82919842I agree  the letter clearly  says that during his NIV trial Mr S had oximetry  only in June  2014,  
since he wasnt able to tolerate NIV overnight. But while that supports some  of the account 
of Dr D, I still have to be mindful  of all the evidence when deciding  what  Prudentials  CMO  
would likely  have done at the time, had it been  presented with a claim in 2014.   
In my provisional decision,  I set out a statement from Dr R which recounted  the trial of June 
2014. In that statement,  Dr R explained how it was decided not to continue  with NIV, in the 
first instance  because Mr S did not get along  with it but also because  during the planned 
admission arterial blood gases and pulse oximetry  were satisfactory.  
I fully understand  the point Mrs S is making  now, that Mr S would  likely  never  have gone on 
to be able to tolerate NIV in the future, and that is borne out by what  happened right up until 
when he passed  away. But I cant use information we know  now to determine what  
Prudential ought  to have done in 2014. The correct  way to assess  a retrospective  claim is to 
look back to determine  (as closely as possible) what the insurer  would have done if it was 
presented with a claim at the relevant time. It appeared that NIV remained a possible option 
for Mr S, but his temporary decline had also ceased  such that it wasnt  required anyway.  
To explain for Mrs S, the purpose of the terminal  illness  benefit  is to provide an advance 
payment of death  benefit, where  the evidence shows  a person to have a life expectancy  of 
less than twelve months, and where the CMO  agrees this is the case. There is also a time 
limit on that claim because the benefit  is only available  up until twelve  months before the 
policy ends. Protection  policies of this nature have a fixed  term and that does mean  the 
insurer is only liable to provide cover  for the period applied for at the outset.    
It remains the case that Mr S did go on to improve in the short-term  by that I mean  in the 
context of his debilitating  condition there was a reversal in the recent deterioration  caused  by 
the chest infection of April 2014.  The evidence from both consultants after this time reports  
that he became  less symptomatic, and shortly  before the expiration  of the terminal illness 
benefit Mr S had gone on to have a radiologically inserted gastronomy tube fitted which  led 
to a far more positive  assessment by Dr D in September  2014.   
As I said in my provisional view, I am not undermining the seriousness of the particular type 
of MND Mr S suffered from. I do recognise the severity of the condition. Mrs Ss account is 
clear as to the total impact it had on both Mr S and his family. But I cant simply order 
Prudential to pay a claim on that basis because the policy Mr S had didnt include critical 
illness cover.  It was life assurance and terminal illness cover. So I must look at whether or 
not Prudential  was reasonable in how it applied those policy  terms to Mr S. 
The wider  evidence from the time did not discount NIV in the future, even where Mr S hadnt  
tolerated it well during  his trial. But even  if it could be said that NIV as a treatment option was 
not open to Mr S, he remained  hypercapnic  with acceptable ABG  levels  with a broader life 
expectancy from Dr D of one to five years. Further, he was not going to be reviewed by the 
respiratory clinic again  until April 2015 by which time the policy  benefit  had ended.  Because  
of this I remain of the view that Prudential was reasonable in refusing the claim since the 
available evidence from the time doesnt support that Mr S wouldve had a valid terminal 
illness claim before the benefit expired on 22 October 2014.   
Ref: DRN82919843my final decision
Despite my sympathy for Mrs S, I do not believe Prudential has behaved  unfairly or 
unreasonably. I therefore do not uphold the complaint made on behalf of the estate of the
Mr S.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask to accept or reject 
my decision  before 22 April 2019,    
Jo Storey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN82919844copy  of provisional decision
complaint
Mrs S brings this complaint  on behalf of the estate  of her husband, Mr S. She says that The 
Prudential Assurance  Company Limited (Prudential ) has unfairly refused a claim for terminal illness 
benefit, which  would have been payable  before the policy expired in 2015.  
background
Mr S took out a life assurance  policy with Prudential for a twenty-year term. It had a level sum 
assured of £55,000 payable in the event of a valid claim. The policy included terminal  illness benefit 
up until the final twelve months of the policy.  
In 1997, Mr S was sadly diagnosed (and later confirmed to have) a rare type of Motor Neuron Disease 
(MND).
Mr Ss policy expired on 22 October 2015, without any claim having been made. He originally pursued 
a separate complaint about the ending of the policy,  as Mr S said he didnt know  the policy was for a 
fixed term. Following that complaint, Mr S made a backdated claim on his policy  for terminal illness 
benefit.  
Prudential refused  the claim.  It said the information it received from Mr Ss GP and neurologist didnt 
show the policy definition to have been met. That was notwithstanding that Mr S had never  made a 
claim during  the policy term, and he had survived beyond  the end date of the cover. 
Mr S then made a further complaint via an appointed legal representative. It supplied two letters from 
Mr Ss treating consultant neurologists, Dr H, and Dr D from September  2016. 
Dr H said that she had been treating Mr S since the 1990s and he was one of an estimated 5% of 
MND patients  experiencing prolonged survival from the date of diagnosis.  Despite that, she confirmed  
from 1997  Mr S had a less than 70% chance of surviving twelve months or more, and a 95% chance 
of it being under five years. She said by all expected standards  of analysis,  Mr S had a life 
expectancy of less than twelve months in September 2014.  
Dr D said Mr S was unwell in April 2014, at which time his respiratory function fell dramatically.  She 
confirmed, at that time, Mr S had a life expectancy of less than twelve months.   
 
Prudentials Chief Medical Officer (CMO) issued  a detailed reply to the complaint. In summary, he 
said:
when dealing with retrospective terminal  illness claims,  a single snapshot may not represent  
the full clinical picture; 
though Mr S was suffering from a low period of respiratory deficiency in April 2014, he had 
improved by May 2014;
he did not require non-invasive ventilation  (NIV)  at that time, and still did not to date (late 
2016);
though Mr Ss forced vital capacity (FCV) levels dropped down significantly from 48% in 
August 2012 to 18% in April 2014, by September 2014 it had increased to 23% and he was 
recorded as feeling significantly better in respect of shortness  of breath;
the period of time at which Mr S suffered from breathing difficulties and a chest infection was 
temporary and not sustained. It could  not reasonably be said this was a progression of his 
MND, and therefore the basis upon which the retrospective life expectancy was given  was not 
correct;
if a claim had been made in April 2014, the treating consultants  would have been asked as to 
whether maximal therapy had been tried and if so, whether  Mr Ss deterioration was 
continual;
Ref: DRN82919845in July 2016, Dr D said Mr S could pass away  within  the next twelve months, but she also 
gave him a life expectancy of 1-5 years;
that lack of certainty (even  though Mr Ss claim  would have needed  to be submitted by 
October 2014) shows  Mr Ss life expectancy was not known up to the point the terminal 
illness benefit  ended;
in his view, Dr D would not have been able to give the same retrospective  life expectancy 
assessment had she been asked  in May 2016;
Dr H had not been Mr Ss treating  consultant  for a number of years, nor had she given a 
reason for giving an estimate  of life expectancy  as at September 2014.     
Mr Ss legal representative  disagreed. It said the CMO had widened  the requirement of the terminal  
illness definition to require  that the treating specialist must be able to state  that there is continuous  
deterioration and despite all available therapies having been tried,  life expectancy is very likely  to be 
less than 12 months. However, the policy  wording  had different criteria,  that primarily  being a 
statement from a specialist, and confirmation of agreement  from Prudentials CMO. It believed that 
the relevant evidence had therefore been supplied.    
Prudential said that the CMO was not widening the policy terms.  Rather, in saying  what was needed 
to reach a conclusion of a life expectancy for such a claim, he was merely setting  out the wider 
considerations needed to give his acceptance of the medical opinions from Mr Ss consultants.  In this 
case, the CMO did not agree  with the views of Dr D or Dr H from September 2016. It noted  Mr S had 
the right to refer a complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service.  
Mr S referred the matter here, supported by Mrs S. Mrs S said the medical evidence  was clear that Mr 
S had been  told he had less than twelve months to live during the relevant  period he was able to 
claim on the policy. 
One of our adjudicators  reviewed the complaint. He noted how in April 2014 Mr S had been given less 
than twelve months to live by his neurologist when  he developed respiratory  problems. So he had 
written to Dr D and Dr H to ask for further clarification  as to why Mr Ss life expectancy was not 
recorded in the contemporaneous  records and how each  of them had reached their conclusions in 
2016. He also asked Dr D to clarify  whether her assessment was given  with reflection to any 
treatment options open to Mr S in April 2014.  
Dr H gave a revised view that 70% of MND  patients  had less than 70% chance of surviving more than 
three years from diagnosis. And of the remaining 30%, the vast majority  survive no longer than eight 
years. Mr S had clearly exceeded those timescales, meaning in her view he would  definitely  have 
been told he had less than twelve months to live, had he asked for that prognosis in September  2014.  
Dr D said that because  of the progressive and fatal nature of MND,  there was rarely a requirement  to 
continue to revisit a patients life expectancy in detail. Patients  are informed at the outset as to the 
likely prognosis of the condition.  She explained  how life expectancy across differing types of MND 
could vary; however, when people develop  neuromuscular respiratory  failure this is associated  with a 
shortening of life expectancy.  Patients are rarely made aware of this, given the significant anxiety 
caused when being given such news. 
In Mr Ss case, the respiratory team  found him to be hypercapnic (an abnormal level of carbon dioxide 
in the bloodstream) upon testing. Dr D said this indicated that he had type 2 respiratory failure. She 
said that this was generally a very poor prognostic sign and the very vast majority of MND  patients 
with hypercapnia would have a life expectancy that could be measured  in months.  Dr D said the 
estimate of twelve months  or less was made irrespective  of any treatment that was or was not 
proposed by the respiratory team.
Mrs Ss legal representative  added  that the diagnosis  of MND  was not the relevant point for the 
purposes of the policy wording, what the wording required was a diagnosis of a life expectancy under  
twelve months. It reiterated  that both consultants had given this diagnosis.  
Ref: DRN82919846Mr S sadly passed away in 2017. His complaint  was thereafter pursued by Mrs S, on behalf of Mr Ss 
estate.
The adjudicator recommended that the complaint  be upheld.  He felt that Dr D had given confirmation 
of a clear life expectancy as at April 2014 so Prudential ought to pay a claim as if it had been 
accepted in 2016.  
Prudential disagreed. It passed the matter back to its CMO. He reiterated many of the same points 
previously issued in reply to the legal representative.  He also said:
in the case of terminal  illness  (and chronic or progressive disease in general) it is important to 
look at the trend of the disease over months or years, rather than one single instance within 
that ongoing history;
it is not possible  to view Mr Ss deterioration in April 2014 as anything other than temporary  
since he recovered within one month;
this was without the need for the treatment proposed by Dr D;
by contrast, Dr Ds assessment of Mr Ss life expectancy in July 2016 was given when he was 
stable, and this proved  to be accurate;
in his view, Mr Ss lung function remained  stable because he did not require any form of NIV 
until early 2016;
the reason  for Mr Ss deterioration was a chest infection,  not MND;
he also believes Dr D has cherry picked  a point in time at which she could  reasonably have 
said Mr S may not live for a further twelve months, but this is a biased  picture of a wider set of 
circumstances.  
Mrs S said Mr S had never properly  recovered  from his downturn in April 2014.
The complaint was passed to me for a decision. Upon  review of the medical evidence in late 2018, I 
asked (via our adjudicator) for more evidence  from Dr D. This included asking  for her comments  on 
the recent assessment  made by Prudentials  CMO.   
Dr D said:
a regional  study  was undertaken  on 73 MND  patients  diagnosed in an eighteen-month period 
between 2014 and 2015. Of the 20 of these patients suffering from hypercapnia, thirteen 
passed away within  less than twelve months. The average survival rate from when 
hypercapnia was diagnosed was 9.2 months;
there was a wider  overseas study relating to the impact of hypercapnia on patients  with the 
ALS type of MND.  In that study, patients who did not comply  with or accept  NIV passed away 
within 0.12 years  (as opposed to 1.27 years with NIV);
when she referred Mr S urgently for the NIV trial in April 2014 he didnt appear to have 
evidence of a chest infection, and it wasnt mentioned by the clinic  in May 2014. However, by 
June 2014  he did remain hypercapnic. NIV was tried at this time but not tolerated by Mr S. 
Mr S did stabilise in the following months in that he became less symptomatic, but his FCV 
levels did not improve  in any meaningful way, increasing only to 23% in September  2018. In 
her view, Dr D said Mr S suffered  from persistent  type 2 respiratory  failure  and her estimate of 
his life expectancy as at April 2014 was accurate.    
Prudentials CMO also made some final comments. He said:
hypercapnia  varies in severity levels and Dr D hasnt specified how Mr S would  have been 
categorised;
similarly neither  study presented by Dr D gave comparable levels of hypercapnia such  that Mr 
Ds circumstances could be properly  measured;
the evidence from the time in 2014 does suggest Mr D had a chest infection,  and its not 
reasonable to disregard it;
Ref: DRN82919847though its been said NIV was attempted  and not tolerated  by Mr D in June 2014,  there isnt 
evidence to support  that;
in his view, a criteria for making  a terminal  illness  claim assessment  would be to see that all 
available treatments  have been tried and this didnt happen;
given NIV significantly increased  the life expectancy of patients in the second study,  had 
Prudential been considering a claim at that time, it would have awaited the results of NIV, by 
which time Mr S would have improved.   
 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Before I go any further, Id like to thank the parties for their patience whilst this complaint reached a 
final decision,  given further evidence has been sought. I realise how difficult  the circumstances are for 
Mrs S and her family, given the nature  of this decision. 
This complaint is finely balanced, and Ive had to ensure I weigh up all of the evidence, particularly the 
conflicting medical  opinions. Having done  so, I believe Prudential has been reasonable in the 
circumstances to refuse the claim.  And unless  I see any other evidence to alter my findings, Im likely 
to issue  a decision  rejecting  the complaint. 
what does the policy require?
Mr and Mr Ss solicitor made several points about the policy wording,  specifically regarding what  is 
needed for Mr S to satisfy  a terminal illness claim. I agree that the policy wording  is central to the 
complaint, as I need to determine if Prudential reasonably  declined a claim  under  those terms.  I also 
agree that it is not appropriate for Prudential  to look at any wider terms than those  stated. The policy  
definition says:
5.1 If during the Term of the Policy the Assured is diagnosed as having  a life expectancy of 
less than twelve  months the Sum Assured shall be payable subject to:
(i) receipt of such evidence provided at the expense of the Owner as the Company may 
require from a medical specialist as to the reduced life expectancy
(ii) the acceptance of the opinion in (i) above by the medical officer of the Company  
(iii) the right of the Company to require the Assured to undergo a medical examination  by an 
examiner specified  by the Company in the United Kingdom at the expense  of the Owner
(iv) the unexpired Term  of the Policy being at least twelve months. 
Throughout the complaint,  Prudential and its CMO have suggested that there must  be evidence that 
Mr S had undergone all available treatment options open to him in April 2014. It says that if a claim 
had been made at that time, it would have been postponed  until evidence  of the failure of such 
treatment (ostensibly NIV) had been supplied.  
The policy wording does not require evidence of that nature. It specifically says within the first point  
that a medical specialist  ought to evidence a policyholders  reduced life expectancy.  In this case, two 
consultant neurologists felt able to give those retrospective statements.  
However, the mere provision of such a confirmation is not enough to meet the policy terms. There  are 
three additional  terms to satisfy, and Prudential can reasonably  apply them. Since point three is not 
applicable and point four applied up to 22 October 2014, it is the second point that remains in dispute 
 that being if the CMO has acted fairly  in refusing to agree with Dr H and Dr Ds estimates. 
has Prudentials CMO acted fairly in refusing to accept the evidence  of reduced life expectancy?
Ref: DRN82919848This service isnt a court;  its set up to provide  informal dispute resolution  and my duty is to 
determine a complaint by reference to what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. And where there is conflicting evidence, Ill decide  what I believe is the most 
persuasive, on balance. Both the CMO and Dr D have given very detailed  responses to this service  
on a number  of occasions and it isnt my role to decide if either  of those is incorrect.  Im required  to 
decide if it was a fair response by the CMO to reject the medical opinion of the consultants, principally  
Dr D.
The CMO does not accept the retrospective assessments given by either  doctor,  but particularly Dr D 
given that she was Mr Ss treating consultant at the relevant period. 
I believe the CMO was reasonable in having refused the retrospective statements. The reason  I say 
that is that though I have  no doubt as to their credibility,  the evidence  from the time in 2014  is 
contradictory to whats being said now. 
It is clear that in April 2014, Mr Ss health took a significant and detrimental turn. His lung function had 
reduced considerably  from his last review with Dr D, some  eighteen  months earlier.  It was for that 
reason that in her clinic  letter  of 14 April 2014 she confirmed her suspected diagnosis of 
neuromuscular respiratory failure, symptomatic. Accordingly, Dr D referred  Mr S to Dr R, a 
consultant in respiratory  medicine.  
Dr D noted Mr S had been  referred  with a view to undergoing NIV. In her letter,  she said:
We discussed the implications of non-invasive ventilation (NIV) as a treatment with himself  
and his wife todayHe  is keen on keeping  family life as normal as possible and has concerns 
about using an NIV machine  in front of his kids. Mr S is keen to live as long as possible and 
there is a survival benefit in MND patients who tolerate non-invasive ventilation  and so he 
needs to consider this.
Dr D did not consider Mr S had a chest infection when  assessing  Mr S in April 2014. She confirms in 
her clinic letter that Mr D was at risk of getting such  an infection, so she endeavoured to put together 
a letter  he could pass to any treating doctor  if he had to attend hospital for that reason. 
The parties  disagree  about  Mr Ss true clinical picture after this date.    
I have carefully reviewed  the account of Dr R, because the CMO and Dr D have markedly different  
views on what went on thereafter. In her latest letter of 5 October 2018 Dr D says that Mr S had no 
recorded chest  infection  but he remained hypercapnic. She also notes he couldnt  tolerate NIV in 
June 2014; Dr D says this was an understandable challenge given his marked limb weakness 
impaired his inability to remove his mask during NIV. 
The CMO says Mr S did have a chest infection, and NIV wasnt  pursued. Having reviewed the 
medical records from the time,  it seems  this conclusion  was accurate. Dr Ds clinic letter of 17 June 
2014 (following an appointment on 12 June) says, he had a chest infection just after his last clinic  
appointment in April. Her next clinic  letter of 16 September 2014 also says he has had no further 
chest infections since  the one he had at Easter 2014.  
In her correspondence  with our adjudicator, Dr D has told us how the reduction of symptoms did not 
mean Mr S was no longer  hypercapnic, and that an increase of 5% still represented  a finding  of type 2 
respiratory failure. I accept that. Its supported by a comment  Dr D on 16 September 2014 where she 
confirms Mr S has no new symptoms from a respiratory point of view.
However, I do think the CMO has been fair in saying  a wider  picture of Mr Ss overall  health ought  to 
be taken than just a snapshot in April 2014. Had a claim been lodged at that time, Prudential would 
have asked the treating consultants (at that time Dr D and Dr R) for their view on Mr Ss life 
expectancy. The evidence from the time does suggest that after having had a chest infection, Mr S 
began to improve.  
Ref: DRN82919849Dr R saw Mr S again in September 2014. In his letter following  the appointment, he recorded:
Today in clinic [Mr S] reports that he has felt significantly better in the past few months.  
Where he previously struggled to complete  sentences  due to shortness of breath and 
weakness, he now can comfortably hold a conversation. He denies  any symptoms of 
shortness of breath  at night and sleeps right through.
Based on [Mr Ss] clinical improvement, slight improvement in his pulmonary function tests 
and stable arterial blood gas sample, we do not feel it is necessary to proceed with NIV at 
present. I have reassured  [Mr S] today and have advised him that we will review  him again  in 
approximately 6 months time in the Ventilation  Clinic.
I realise that a fluctuation  in being symptomatic may not alter the assessment of a persons life 
expectancy. But in Mr Ss case, in June 2014 he remained  a possible candidate for NIV. Though  Dr D 
says Mr S didnt tolerate  NIV, the evidence  differs slightly on that point.  Dr D is right that Mr D did not 
tolerate the treatment particularly well. However,  that wasnt  the sole reason it was discontinued. 
When recounting Mr Ss May 2014  admission to the clinic, Dr R said:
At this time based  on his pulmonary function tests and maximal  muscle pressures [Mr S] was 
admitted for an elective trial of NIV. This trial was not very well tolerated however during the 
planned admission arterial blood gases and pulse oximetry were satisfactory.  Therefore the 
decision was made not to proceed with NIV at that time.
The June letter from Dr D also says, I understand he had been in the respiratory unit in the [local] 
Hospital for a trial of non-invasive  ventilation  but it was felt that he wasn't very symptomatic and didn't  
need it at the present time and is to be reviewed in 6 months.
I appreciate that it was possible that Mr S might  go on to find NIV intolerable,  if he had required it in 
the future. And for that reason, Dr D feels because Mr S continued to have an FVC reading indicative 
of hypercapnia, he would have had a survival  rate that was far lower than a patient who could comply  
with NIV. But that doesnt  have regard  for the wider  picture  at the time and it contradicts  her letter  of 
14 April 2014 which encouraged Mr S to consider  NIV given its survival benefit.  
It is the case that Mr S had a chest infection later in April 2014,  as the evidence from both consultants 
supports that. And following  recovery  from that infection he became  less symptomatic. Further,  the 
first study Dr D evidenced  looked at patients  whose arterial blood gas (ABG ) results demonstrated 
hypercapnia. By May 2014, Mr Ss results were satisfactory, and that was one of the reasons as to 
why NIV was not pursued. The letter from Dr R does not read as if NIV was discounted as a further 
treatment option in the future, but rather that it wasnt necessary at that time. That was because Mr 
Ss health had improved.  
In September 2014, Dr D recorded how Mr S had undergone a type of radiologically  inserted  
gastrostomy tube, and it had been successful for him. He was noted as feeling brilliant.  Dr D 
commented on that, and noted how his respiratory  function  was unchanged. She recorded  that she 
was delighted that he is doing well. He does have neuromuscular  respiratory impairment and 
appears to be coping amazingly well. 
I realise that saying Mr S was coping well does not, of itself,  alter any statement from Dr D as to his 
likely life expectancy. But I do agree with Prudential that in the circumstances Mr Ss health remained 
unchanged from a respiratory perspective (that being hypercapnic but with acceptable  ABG levels). 
Dr D has given her retrospective view about Mr Ss life expectancy had she been asked in April 2014. 
Before this, she also estimated Mr Ss life expectancy when asked by Prudential in June 2016 as 1-5 
years. Mr S remained (by Dr Ds assessment)  hypercapnic at that time too.  
Ref: DRN829198410But, even if Dr D had stated  it was less than twelve months,  Prudentials CMO  was entitled to 
consider the other  medical evidence available  from Dr R and to look at Dr Ds clinic letters. 
The policy terms require  acceptance from the CMO.  He says he would have concluded  Mr Ss 
deterioration was temporary, and he would  have wanted to determine whether Mr S could undergo 
NIV, if it was further  required. Though I disagree  with the CMO in inferring that all available treatment 
options must be undertaken before Prudential  could admit a claim, I do think  it is fair for an insurer to 
ask a policyholders treating  doctors as to whether there is any treatment which could  have a direct 
effect on his or her life expectancy. 
Dr D has confirmed  in her second study that patients who can tolerate NIV have  a life expectancy on 
average of 1.27 years.  Given Mr S showed signs of clinical improvement, I dont believe it would  have 
been an unreasonable proposal  in these circumstances  to await the review from the respiratory clinic 
of September 2014. And as quoted  above,  Dr R didnt feel NIV was needed  at present and this would 
be reviewed in April 2015.  
In summary, the CMOs  retrospective refusal is something I give more weight to; this is not based on 
a measure of any professionals knowledge or experience but merely on the wider evidence from the 
relevant time,  particularly  the evidence of the findings from Dr R at the respiratory clinic. 
My findings  in no way intend to disregard the seriousness  of the type of MND that Mr S sadly suffered 
from. I realise that Mr Ss survival exceeded the estimates or the majority  of patients  as first given by 
Dr H. But I have to look at all the evidence  before me in reaching an outcome that is fair to both 
parties. I must  do that by deciding if the policy  terms were correctly  applied. 
I currently believe Prudential has acted legitimately in refusing the claim, since the evidence  does not 
appear to support that Mr S would have had a viable  terminal illness claim  at any time before the 
benefit expired on 22 October 2014.      
my provisional  decision
I propose to reject this decision for the reasons  set out above. 
I now invite  the parties to provide our adjudicator  with any further submissions they may wish to make 
by 6 March 2019. If either party should require an extension  to that deadline, for example, to seek  
further evidence then a request ought to be passed to our adjudicator for me to consider. Following 
this, I will issue my final decision. 
Jo Storey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8291984