K820x#14complaint
Mr S says Lloyds Bank plc mis-sold  him a payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy.  
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy. The bank cant confirm  where  or when the 
policy was taken out. It assumes it was in 1987 when the card started, although its records  
dont show PPI being charged  on the account until 2000. The policy gave Mr S protection 
against accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr S disagreed so the complaint  was passed to 
me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where  the evidence is incomplete  Ive made my 
decision based on the balance of probabilities  so, on what  I think  is most likely  given  the 
available evidence and what  we know about  how Lloyds sold PPI at the time.
Our approach to complaints  about  the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ss complaint. Ill explain why. 
Ive thought carefully  about  what Mr S said - that he never asked for PPI. There isnt 
much information to go on in this case, because everything  happened so long ago. And 
I dont think its surprising  or unreasonable Lloyds doesnt have Mr Ss application form 
any more. 
I have taken into account Mr Ss comments, but I also have to consider how long ago 
the sale was and how that might  affect what he recalls. Overall,  without  stronger 
evidence showing the bank didnt make clear  it was optional, I cant  fairly conclude  
Lloyds sold the PPI to Mr S without giving him a choice, and him agreeing to take it. 
Its most  likely Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr S. This means  Lloyds had to make  
sure it was right for him. I know  he feels strongly he didnt need it based  on his salary  
and job security.  But I think it was suitable based  on what Ive seen of his circumstances 
at the time. Mr S was entitled to six months  full pay and six months  half pay if he was 
sick, but the PPI would have paid out in addition to this for up to 12 months for all 
successful accident  and sickness claims.  It also gave him up to 12 months  
unemployment cover. Mr S says he had savings of between  £600 and £1,000  but the 
PPI would  have  allowed  him to use these  for other  living expenses whilst not working, or 
to keep them intact for his future  needs.  Mr Ss representative argues his income and 
employee benefits meant he would always have been  able to cover his repayments.  But 
as Ive said the PPI paid out in addition to his work benefits, and it was there to protect 
him if he wasnt  working. It would have  protected any lump sum redundancy payment 
giving increased  financial  stability at an already difficult  time. So, overall, I think the PPI 
wouldve been  useful  to Mr S if he was sick or lost his job.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. However, based  on the policies Lloyds sold during this time, it seems he 
wouldnt have been affected by any of the exclusions  or limitations.  And, given what we 
Ref: DRN86998522know about the cost of Lloyds PPI policies over these  years,  the policy  wouldve been  
competitively priced and it was apparently affordable. Mr S was eligible for the policy 
given his circumstances at the time and the policys terms  and conditions.  So I think it 
unlikely Mr S wouldve  made a different decision if better information had been provided. 
On balance I think he would still have taken out the policy.
It follows I dont think Mr S has lost out because  of any problems  with this sale.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 June 2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8699852