K820x#14complaint
Miss D says Santander UK Plc (trading  at the time as Abbey National) mis-sold her a 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy  for a mortgage.
background
Miss D took out a PPI policy to cover  a mortgage in 1995. Miss D paid for the PPI with a 
regular monthly premium, which didnt attract interest. It covered her in case she was off 
work sick or lost her job.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Miss D disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Ds case. 
Ive decided that Santander  do not owe Miss D any compensation for the sale of this PPI 
policy  Ill explain why.
This sale was well over two decades ago, so understandably neither side have the 
documents from the time.  But I can see Miss D made a number of claims on the policy 
between 2007  and 2015, so it seems she was aware shed taken it out. And Ive not seen 
any evidence which shows Santander misled  her, nor any wider  problems with their sales 
process for these policies.  So I think its most  likely that Santander made  Miss D aware she 
had a choice about buying  the PPI, and that she chose to take it at the time. 
Santander recommended  the PPI to Miss D, so it had to check  it was right for her. And 
based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think it was. The policy  was there  
to cover long-term illness or unemployment, which is why it had a waiting period. And during 
that waiting period Miss D couldve used her work benefits, such as the sick pay she 
mentioned. She wasnt affected by any of the policys key exclusions or limitations. And it 
looks like the PPI offered  her much more comprehensive cover than she already had. 
Ultimately, if Miss D fell behind on her mortgage she couldve lost her home, and it looks like 
the PPI couldve  really been useful for her in protecting her home  as it was when she 
claimed on it successfully. 
Its possible that the information Santander  gave Miss D about  PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But as I said above,  Miss D wasnt affected by any of the main things the 
policy didnt cover, and it couldve really been  useful for her in case  something went wrong.  
The policy was not bad value given how much  it would  pay out in a claim. And the PPI was 
paid on a rolling monthly basis,  so Miss D could cancel it at any time without a penalty. So 
I dont think that better information was likely to have put her off taking out the cover.
Ref: DRN88296672Importantly, I can see that according to the insurance records,  Miss D has received pay-outs 
totalling over £15,000  from her successful claims on the PPI. But over the course  of the 
policy, shes paid around £5,000 in premiums. So Miss D has received much  more money 
from the PPI than she ever paid for it.
I have not found  that this policy was mis-sold. But even if I had done,  I wouldve only 
expected Santander to put Miss D in the financial position shed be in now if shed never had 
PPI. If she hadnt had PPI, Miss D wouldnt have paid around £5,000 in premiums.  But 
equally, she also wouldnt have  received  over £15,000 in benefits. So even if the PPI had 
been mis-sold, Santander would not owe Miss D any money,  as she has not suffered any 
financial loss overall.
my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Miss Ds complaint. This final decision 
marks the end of our services process,  and our consideration  of the case  has finished.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 July 2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8829667