K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that Avantia  Insurance Limited failed to highlight  a reduction in cover 
on their home insurance policy.  This meant a claim they made was unexpectedly declined  by 
the insurer.
background
Mrs D lost two rings  whilst  outside of her home and despite the effort made in looking for 
them, they couldnt be found.  Mrs D said her only comfort was knowing the loss was covered 
under the insurance policy.
Mr and Mrs D submitted  a claim for the rings and say they were shocked to discover  they 
wouldnt be covered.  The insurer  said accidental loss was excluded  under their policy,  and 
referred to the cover  having changed at the last renewal.
Mr and Mrs D are unhappy  with this, they say the change wasnt brought to their attention 
and that the cover had been reduced despite  the cost increasing.
Avantia, the insurance intermediary who arranged the policy  renewal, believes the change 
was highlighted  in the renewal documents.  Mr and Mrs D didnt agree so asked our service  
to consider the matter.
An investigator here looked into Mr and Mrs Ds concerns,  with particular focus on the 
renewal documents.  He felt that the change in cover  hadnt been adequately highlighted, 
and recommended that Avantia compensate Mr and Mrs D for the loss of the rings  as if they 
had still been  covered  for accidental loss. He also recommended a further £100 for trouble 
and upset caused.
Avantia didnt agree, it maintains the change was suitably  highlighted. It said the policy  had 
undergone a complete rewrite in 2017.  Adding  that page one of the renewal  notice confirmed 
this and directed  Mr and Mrs D to the changes which were flagged on a standalone page  of 
the renewal pack.
Avantia also said it sent Mr and Mrs D a hard copy of the policy  booklet and said it was 
important they read that alongside the renewal pack.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same  conclusion as the investigator, for largely the same 
reasons. Ill explain  why.
This complaint boils down  to whether or not the renewal documents were clear  enough for 
Mr and Mrs D to easily identify their cover had been  changed   and that important parts of it 
had been removed. Where cover  is removed  particularly from a part of the policy  that the 
policyholder has specifically chosen  to have  I think its even more  important that its made 
clear.
Ref: DRN85694412The renewal  letter includes the following:
Whats changed?
The following  pages  detail  the cover you have  chosen, endorsements and excesses that 
apply to you, its important that you read these as they may differ from your  policy last 
year.
And a little further down it said:
Youre now being offered the latest version of HomeProtect which replaces the policy  you 
had last year. Weve  written the wording in clear English to make  it simpler to understand 
and summarised the key changes at the end of this document.  Full details can also be found 
in the policy  booklet.
I cant agree  with Avantia that this is adequate.  The first part says its the cover
Mr and Mrs D have chosen,  but it isnt what they chose,  it has significant differences.  
Further, the part Avantia highlighted in bold only says the cover may differ from last year. Yet 
as its said, the policy  underwent a complete rewrite  in 2017. So I just cant agree this is 
enough.
I appreciate the renewal  went  on to say where  a summary of changes can be found, but I 
think the earlier messaging confuses  matters  by suggesting its the same as the cover
Mr and Mrs D originally chose and only that there may be some  differences  from last year.  I 
cant agree  that a letter giving mixed messaging  is clear.
I believe the specified items away  from the home section of cover  was important to
Mr and Mrs D, otherwise  they wouldnt have asked for it to be included. Yet in the section 
that cover  is detailed on the insurance schedule theres no reference to it being reduced.
The summary of changes page at the end of the renewal pack refers  to a list of key changes, 
including:
Pure loss cover Cover for losses is restricted to theft only, i.e. unexplained  or 
accidental losses are excluded. 
I appreciate this explains that accidental losses are excluded, but I dont think  its necessarily  
obvious to a consumer that this relates  to their specified items cover.  And this isnt until page  
12 of the renewal pack, rather  than being highlighted upfront.
Bearing in mind the cover was important to Mr and Mrs D I think  theyd have acted differently 
if the changes  to it had been  made  clear.  I believe theyd  have  sought,  and been able to find, 
cover which included accidental losses.
Such cover is available from well-known insurers and, whilst its difficult  to say how much 
that cover  wouldve cost, I note that the policy with the reduced  cover cost more  than the 
previous one. With some shopping around, in whats a competitive market, I see no reason 
why Mr and Mrs D wouldnt have been  able to find the cover  they wanted  at a similar cost  
and in turn received payment for their loss.
So I think Mr and Mrs D have lost out because Avantia didnt make it clear enough that an 
important part of cover  had been  reduced.  And that means I too think its reasonable to 
require it to pay compensation for that loss. Without knowing exactly what  the terms of any 
Ref: DRN85694413new policy wouldve been  I think its fair to say compensation should be equivalent  to what 
Mr and Mrs D wouldve  received without  the reduction in cover.
Avantia should  add interest to the payment at the rate of 8% per annum simple. If Avantia 
cant agree  a value  with Mr and Mrs D it should  appoint an independent  loss adjuster to do 
so.
Mr and Mrs D were shocked  and upset at finding out the loss wouldnt be covered, and 
theyve been without the items for longer than they wouldve been otherwise. So I agree that 
a further £100 compensation  should  be paid in recognition of this.
my final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint. I require
Avantia Insurance Limited to put the matter right by doing the following:
assess whether or not Mr and Mrs Ds claim would  have  been  covered by their policy 
if it covered accidental loss
if its covered, either replace the rings or pay Mr and Mrs D compensation equivalent 
to their replacement value
if agreement over whether the claim would have been covered or the replacement 
values cant be reached, instruct  an independent loss adjuster  to its expense to 
asses this
if cash settlement is paid, pay interest  at the rate of 8% per annum simple  from the 
date of loss to the date payment is made*
pay compensation of £100 for trouble and upset  caused to Mr and Mrs D.
*HM Revenue and Customs requires Avantia to take off tax from this interest.  Avantia  must 
give Mr and Mrs D a certificate  showing  how much  tax its taken off if they ask for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 November  2019.
Will Weston
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8569441