K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Caxton FX Ltd has treated him unfairly in relation  to currency 
conversions applied  to his Prepaid  Card relating to transactions made in South American 
countries.
background
This complaint is about how Caxton treated Mr Ms transactions mainly in Argentina 
(although there were  some in other local currencies). Mr M feels that hes suffered  unfairly  
because these have  been adjusted to other  currencies leading to a significant number of 
currency conversions which means hes paid significantly  for these currency conversions. So 
hed like these numerous conversions credited back to him. Mr M had loaded the Prepaid 
Card with USA Dollars (USD) because  he believed he could make many  transactions  in that 
currency notwithstanding that it isnt the national currency of Argentina.
Caxton has explained  that the Argentinian  Peso is not one of its card currencies. As such for 
transactions made in Pesos the account would need  to utilise  either an existing Great British 
Pound (GBP) balance  or generate a GBP balance with a further  conversion from other 
currencies held on the account  according  to its published hierarchy. As Mr M didnt have a 
GBP balance on his card when he made the transactions it followed the hierarchy to settle 
the transactions which led to the currency conversions being made from the EURO and USD 
balances Mr M did have  on his card. As such Caxton feels it hasnt done anything wrong and 
rejected Mr Ms complaint accordingly.
 
Mr M complained to this service and our investigator  didnt  feel Caxton had done anything 
sufficiently wrong to make it do anything  to remedy the matter. Mr M remained dissatisfied 
so his complaint  comes  to me for a decision.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M readily  admits he didnt read the terms and conditions  of the card before using it in 
Argentina. So hes not trying to argue he was misled into using the card as he did. Rather 
hes saying hes been treated unfairly in the transactions  in themselves as hes been treated 
not as he expected and that the consequences of that are unfair.
Caxton has pointed to its terms and conditions on the matter. It has also pointed to its 
website which has a clear  message in relation to the Argentinian Peso which  essentially 
says to load the pre-paid  card with GBP and that will be the most cost efficient way of using 
the card in that country.  It has also noted that it doesnt have any record of Mr M contacting  it 
before his trip to Argentina to discuss the matter.
Mr M freely admits he loaded his card with USD  as he believed  that he could make many 
transactions in Argentina  in that currency. However  its clear that what  has caused the issue  
is that he made a number  of transactions in Pesos (and other  currencies) and that these 
have been settled through numerous currency transactions in line with the hierarchy Caxton 
uses. It is clear to me that Caxton  didnt do or say anything  which  led to Mr M loading  his 
card with USD to use in Argentina. Similarly having considered the charges applied  Im 
Ref: DRN85172082satisfied Caxton has settled these transactions in line with the hierarchy  it uses. In essence it 
hasnt made  an error in the conversions  it has done.
In essence the issue  here is the hierarchy  Caxton uses has led, in conjunction with the 
currency balances Mr M had on his card, to an almost circular set of currency transactions  
and associated costs.  However Caxton does  freely explain  the hierarchy of currencies  it 
uses in situations  like this. The key ones in this case being firstly GBP, then EUR then USD. 
But Mr Ms holdings on the card were weighted  the other way with no GBP  holding, then a 
EUR holding  and a larger  USD holding (based on his expectation of using that in Argentina).
Firstly it is entirely  appropriate for a business to make commercial decisions as it sees fit. In 
this case operating as it does and having a hierarchy of currencies  if it chooses  to do so. 
Having considered what has happened here Im satisfied that Caxton has operated the 
transactions as it should and in line with its terms and conditions.  I say this because  it has 
paid transactions  made in Pesos (and other currencies) and as there was no GBP holding  
on the card then applied the hierarchy of currencies to work through to final position.
Although the terms and conditions could be clearer it doesnt make a difference here. Firstly  
Mr M admits he didnt  read them as wed expect  and secondly because  considering  whats  
happened here I dont think Caxton has misapplied them or treated Mr M unfairly. And I think 
had Mr M actually spoken to Caxton  about this issue or reviewed the website section  about  
the Peso hed probably have been  directed  to load his card with GBP and thus avoided  the 
majority of the conversions which have happened here. And ultimately  although I think  the 
terms and conditions could be clearer (as is the case  often)  I dont think they are misleading. 
There is always a balance  to be drawn  in drafting such  documents between brevity,  clarity 
and comprehensiveness.  I note Mr Ms arguments about what  available  means in terms of 
the card balances. But I note that the term defined is available balance and this sets out 
that this relates  to that used in a card currency. Importantly though Peso isnt a card  
currency. And considering the matter I consequently dont think that Caxton has misapplied 
its terms and conditions  here.
Unfortunately for Mr M he decided to load his card in such a manner that was counter to the 
hierarchy that Caxton uses (and advertises  it uses). Although unfortunate this decision 
doesnt sit with Caxton. As a consequence  of this and what has happened in the round  I do 
not uphold Mr Ms complaint. I appreciate  this isnt the decision that Mr M wants to hear. But 
I think that Caxton didnt do anything wrong.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I do not uphold the complaint against Caxton FX Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 January 2020.
Rod Glyn-Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8517208