K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Lloyds  Bank Plc mis-sold  Mr K a payment  protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.
Background
Mr K took out a loan in 1995 and at the same time a single premium PPI policy  was set up to 
protect the loan payments. The cost of the policy was added  to the loan and interest  
charged.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Mr K disagreed and so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ks case.
Ive decided not to uphold  the complaint. These  are my reasons.
The PPI was taken  out several  years ago and because of this theres little information 
available from the time.  So I cant be sure how the policy was presented during any 
discussions. Mr K says he was told his loan application was more  likely to be approved  if he 
took PPI, and so he took it because he needed  to have  the loan. 
The problem I have,  in making a decision on this, is that I couldnt  know the exact words 
used by the adviser and the tone in which they were  said.  It isnt necessarily wrong to 
strongly set out the possible benefits of an insurance policy,  even if the adviser is partly 
motivated by making a sale  as long as the policy is actually something worth  having. The 
closer it gets to making someone feel they have no real sensible alternative  to taking the 
policy, the less acceptable it is. But this did take place about  23 years  ago and I wouldnt 
expect someone to recall  in detail everything  that happened that long ago. Also,  looking at 
the loan documents in use at the time, its likely  Lloyds did, at least  on paper, present the 
PPI as a choice. But, as I say, I cant be sure exactly what  was said. And it wouldnt be fair to 
say Lloyds did something wrong  in this way, unless  I had stronger  evidence.  
It seems  that Lloyds advised Mr K to have PPI, but it doesnt  look as if it was unsuitable 
based on what Ive seen of Mr Ks circumstances at the time: 
The policy offered  a benefit if Mr K was made redundant.  And, although Mr K would 
have received employer sick pay, the accident  and sickness benefit provided  by the 
policy could still have  been useful. This is because it would pay out on top off any 
employer sick pay and potentially would continue to pay out for up to 12 months, 
which is longer than Mr Ks employer  sick pay. It would also pay out on top of any 
redundancy payment. 
It would  have enabled Mr K to put off using  any savings or other means of support. 
Mr K has said he could have sold the vehicle hed bought with the loan; but PPI 
would have meant he wasnt forced to. 
Mr K appeared to have been  eligible for the policy.
Ref: DRN83313842It seems  Mr K wouldnt have been  affected  by any significant  exclusions within  the 
policy. 
So, overall, a recommendation to buy PPI appears to have been  a reasonable one. 
Mr K would have received  only a limited refund of the PPI premium  if the policy  had been 
cancelled early. This can be an issue where  a customer  might pay the loan off early   for 
example by taking  out a replacement loan. But Ive seen  nothing to suggest  that this was 
likely at the time of sale. So that feature of the policy didnt make  it unsuitable for Mr K.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr K about the PPI, including about  the costs  and 
benefits, wasnt as clear as it should have been   although the loan agreement used at the 
time is likely  to have set out the separate PPI premiums.  And it looks as though none of the 
significant exclusions or limitations applied to Mr Ks circumstances; and the policy was 
reasonably competitively priced and apparently affordable.  In Mr Ks circumstances it was 
likely to have offered a potentially  useful  benefit.  So, taking all that into account, I think it 
unlikely Mr K would  have made a different decision if better  information  had been provided. 
On balance I think Mr K would still have taken out the policy.
The interest on the premiums probably wasnt made  as clear as it could have been. 
However, I dont think the actual interest  on the PPI was so much that it would have put Mr K 
off taking it.
On balance, I think Mr K wasnt mis-sold  PPI by Lloyds.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 November  2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8331384