K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains about Halifax Share Dealing Limited (the business).  
In summary,  he says:
A separate share dealing  account was opened along with the ISA (Individual Share 
Dealing) account  which he didnt want. 
The £20,000 he transferred was paid into the share dealing  account and not the ISA 
account, both of which have the same account number.  
Hes unhappy about the way the business  has dealt with his complaint  and doesnt  
feel he was treated fairly.  
background
The business rejected the complaint. In summary  it said:
Having reviewed the details of Mr Bs account and the online  service   when he signs  
into the online account the home page  will shows the accounts(s) he holds under the 
service and the details  of each account   i.e. the share dealing account and the ISA. 
To fund the relevant account Mr B had to click the on the Account Management tab, 
which would then display the account title. And if it wasnt the account Mr B wanted, 
he had the option  to View Another  Account. 
In April 2018 Mr B funded the share dealing account with £15,000  and then another  
payment of £5,000. On both transactions Mr B would have seen the type of account 
on the Fund and Withdraw page.   
It offers an execution only stockbroking service and the account is self-managed. 
And based on all this its unable to accept  that theres been a breach in the customer 
agreement, so is unable to uphold  the complaint. 
In particular it didnt  agree  the following points made by Mr B:
oThat the business frustrated him when he tried to make a complaint. 
oIt failed to investigate  his concerns.
oThat the business failed to provide a high level of service.
oIt opened the second account without his consent, duplicated  the account 
number and incorrectly set the share dealing account as the default. 
oThat it failed to set an ISA email confirmation,  and failed  to credit it with the 
£20,000, and failed to honour its online guarantee.  
oThat it prevented  Mr B from accessing / reading  the conflict of interest policy. 
One of our investigators  considered the complaint but didnt think  it should be upheld. In 
summary he said:
Looking at the information the business wouldve given Mr B, and the information that 
he wouldve had access to about  the account  opening process hed have been asked 
to read certain  important  information. 
Above  the apply now button,  theres a statement in bold which  says that when  
opening an ISA, a separate share dealing account will automatically be opened. So 
its unlikely to have  done anything wrong  by opening both accounts.
By choosing to open an ISA account  Mr B will have inadvertently  agreed  to opening a 
trading account,  and agreed to the terms and conditions which  defines  account as:
Ref: DRN83874722oYour  IWEB  Share  Dealing account  (which may or may not be an IWeb  
stocks and shares ISA) 
Although Mr B wasnt familiar with the IWeb platform, it provides this information 
under its ISA new customer section. The business couldnt have second  guessed 
that he was paying  the funds into the wrong  account, even though  it was days  before 
the cut-off point.  
Although the account number is the same,  it isnt the same as being duplicated. The 
payment to a specific account is still done by selecting the individual  account. 
Although according to Mr B the phone operative  didnt know the complaints  
procedure, he agreed to take down the complaint over the phone, but Mr B declined  
as he preferred to do this in writing. 
He wasnt persuaded that Mr B was treated unfairly or that his complaint wasnt  dealt 
with properly. 
Its not for us to tell the business how to run itself.  And even though a search of the 
internet revealed  that there were similar issues experienced by other  customers, he 
was only looking at Mr Bs complaint. 
He was unable  to say it had done anything fundamentally wrong in the service  that it 
had provided. 
Although the business could have done  more to better sign post the privacy and the 
conflicts of interest  information  the documentation  was available  upon request. 
The online guarantee Mr B refers  to is only in relation to fraud. The section is headed  
online fraud guarantee and the phrase Mr B refers to We do all we can to protect 
you online relates to that.   
Its not our role to determine whether or not particular contract terms are unfair 
contrary to Consumer  Rights  Act 2015.  
Mr B disagreed with the investigators conclusions  and maintained his position. Hes 
requested an ombudsmans decision. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter  has been passed to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint.  On the face of the evidence,  and on balance, Im not 
persuaded the business has acted unreasonably.    
 
But before I explain  why, I think its important for me to note I recognise Mr Bs strength of 
feeling about this matter.  He has provided  very detailed submissions to support the 
complaint, which  Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope he wont  take the fact 
my findings  focus  on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a 
discourtesy.
 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address  every  single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented  by Mr B and the business, and reach  what  I think  is an independent, 
fair and reasonable decision based  on the facts of the case.
 
Ref: DRN83874723In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I can take into account the relevant law, regulation  
and best industry  practice, but Im not bound  by this. Its for me to decide, based  on the 
information Ive been given, whats more  likely  (than not) to have happened.  
Its not my role to determine whether or not a particular contract  term is unfair within the 
meaning of a specific piece of consumer legislation  that would ultimately be the role of the 
courts  as opposed to whether or not I think a particular term is fair and reasonable.  
On the face of the evidence, it seems  to me that Mr B has unwittingly opened the trading 
account when  he opened the ISA account and only intended to open  an ISA account.   
I appreciate the points  made by Mr B, but in this instance, I think  the business made 
reasonably clear  in bold font just above the apply now button  that by applying for an ISA 
account the applicant would also end up with a trading account by saying When opening an 
IWeb ISA, a separate Share Dealing Account will be automatically opened for you. So if the 
latter wasnt  something  Mr B wanted,  and he was unhappy about it being added, he had the 
choice not to apply for the ISA account.  
Its possible Mr B failed  to read the relevant information, which  I think is whats  more  likely 
than not to have  happened.  So its no surprise that this has led to him thinking hes only got 
the single  account. But I dont think I could  blame  the business for this. Im mindful  of the 
points Mr B makes about the clarity of the website  and information, but Im not persuaded 
that the information wasnt  accessible or reasonably clear online.  
Im satisfied that the payment  of £20,000  into the trading account, was an error by Mr B and 
not the business. The business just did what it was instructed  to do and hasnt done anything  
wrong because  it wouldnt  have known that Mr B was paying into the wrong account.  
 
Having considered the evidence, I cant safely say that the business  website  was 
deliberately designed to confuse customers. There may well be room  for improvement, but 
this doesnt mean the current site isnt fit for purpose. 
Perhaps having the trading account   with the same account  number as the ISA account  
as the default  account isnt the most  helpful for customers like Mr B who are unfamiliar with 
the IWeb platform and only intended to open  an ISA account. The business isnt obliged to 
send Mr B a second email  to confirm the ISA was set up, but an automated response might 
not be a bad thing. But I think this is a matter for the business to decide.  
I appreciate the concerns Mr B has about the way he was dealt with by the business.  But 
from the very outset  he was given the opportunity to complain over the phone  but he chose 
not to, preferring to write in. If hed done so, I think the business would have responded in 
writing, as it did in due course. The business has eight weeks  to respond,  and the fact it 
responded within days doesnt  mean it didnt fully investigate  his concerns. 
If Mr B was told his complaint was likely to be rejected its likely this was done to help to 
manage his expectations. In any case  it wasnt  going to be the phone  operative who would 
make that decision. Having considered  everything Mr B has said about this Im not satisfied 
that he wasnt treated  fairly when he contacted the business about his complaint.
I also think the phrase  Mr B refers to has to be taken in context. Im satisfied We do all we 
can to protect you online  is in relation to the fraud  guarantee  and in relation to fraudsters 
taking funds from any of the online accounts.   
Ref: DRN83874724I appreciate Mr B will be unhappy Ive reached the same conclusion  as the investigator. 
Furthermore, I realise my decision  isnt what he wants to hear.  Whilst I appreciate his 
frustration, Im not persuaded the business  needs  to do anything more. 
 
On the face of the available evidence, and on balance,  Im unable  to uphold  this complaint 
and give Mr B what he wants.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 February  2019.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8387472