K820x#14complaint
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Ms M says FICL mis-sold  her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.  
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  attached to a store card Ms M took out in 1998.  It was 
sold to her at the same  time as the card. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Ms M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Ms case.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Ms Ms complaint and Ill explain why.
I think FICL  made  it clear  that Ms M didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to take it 
out  although I can understand why she might not remember this. I say this because Ive 
seen a copy of her store card application where she signed a separate  section to confirm 
she wanted to take out PPI. 
Ms M has said she just signed where  she was told to. But as she was taking out a binding 
credit agreement, I would  have expected  her to read over what  the form said,  even if only 
briefly. And I think it would have been  clear from the way the PPI was presented on the form 
that Ms M had a choice about taking  the PPI.
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Ms M so it didnt have to check  if it was right for her. But it 
did have to make sure Ms M got the information she needed to decide  if it was right for her. 
Its possible the information FICL gave Ms M about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve 
been. But I think she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks  like she wanted this type of 
cover. Based  on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover, and shes  said she wasnt  
entitled to any sick pay and didnt have any other way of meeting her repayments if shed 
been too ill to work  or had become unemployed - so it would have been useful for her if 
something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think better  
information about the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover. 
Ive taken into account Ms Ms comments,  including what  shes  said about  the PPI being 
cancelled. FICL have confirmed that the policy was cancelled in 2001, and given that was 
over 15 years ago, I dont think its unreasonable that they dont have any further  information  
about how the policy was cancelled. In any case,  Ms M has told us she never tried to claim 
Ref: DRN89774722on the policy, so regardless of how the PPI was cancelled, I dont think she has been  
disadvantaged by this in any way.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Ms Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 June 2019.
Sophie Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8977472