K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains Santander UK Plc (Santander) has incorrectly marked his credit file as 
having missed payments  on his overdraft.
background
Mr K had a current account with Santander since 2011 with an arranged overdraft of £1600. 
From 26 February 2019 until 13 May 2019 (when  the account was funded  with £250) the 
account exceeded the overdraft limit. Mr K brought  his complaint to us as he was unhappy 
with Santanders  response when he complained that his credit file showed he was two 
months late in payments.  He said he couldnt  understand this as there was no requirement 
to make any payments  under the overdraft.
Santander didnt  uphold his concerns that adverse information was recorded on his credit 
file. They  said as a responsible lender they had to record  the information about  his account 
with credit reference agencies (CRAs) and the information was correct.
Our investigator didnt  uphold this complaint. In both the views he issued he found the 
information Santander recorded  to be correct. And in the second,  notwithstanding the screen  
shot which Mr K had sent him after the first view, he remained of the view the bank had done 
nothing wrong  in its reporting to the CRAs.
Mr K didnt agree. He thought the view was predictable and the investigator had gone  out of 
his way to rule in favour of Santander  despite the evidence being quite clear.  He thought the 
investigator had previously confirmed by email, when pushed, that the information published 
by the CRA was not correct but despite this the final view was that the information  was 
indeed correct. Mr K asked for an ombudsman to review his case.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I appreciate  that Mr K feels our 
adjudicator hasnt been balanced in his investigation and has shown bias towards 
Santander. Ive looked at everything afresh before  reaching an independent  view.  But Im not 
persuaded this is a complaint I can fairly and reasonably uphold. Ill explain why.
Im considering a complaint here about Santander  and the information  theyve  provided.
No one disputes this overdraft balance  had been  greater than the overdraft limit for two to 
three months from 26 February  2019 until 13 May 2019. In his second view the investigator 
has included  an extract from the glossary  of the particular CRA  from which  Mr K obtained his 
full credit file. That glossary  lists examples of when  lenders may use their status codes  on 
current accounts overdrafts. Code 2 - used for Mr Ks account - lists agreed repayments are 
two to three  months  behind, your overdraft  balance has been greater than your overdraft 
limit for two to three months, cheques,  direct debits and standing orders  may have been 
bounced for a third month  to keep the account  in order. So Im satisfied Santander  has done 
nothing wrong  in reporting this information  to the CRA. 
I appreciate Mr Ks complaint turns on a simple point. He agrees hed exceeded the 
overdraft limit but thinks Santander  should show this on his credit file in the same way other 
accounts  credit and charge cards  have done on his credit file, rather than choosing to 
Ref: DRN80524362mark his file as missing payments when none  are required under the overdraft. But I dont 
agree with Mr Ks analogy. The reporting  of the status on his Santander Current  account 
doesnt work as in quite the same  way as reporting for credit  card accounts. And thats not 
something which Santander have any control  over. Theyve reported the factual situation in 
relation to Mr Ks current account and unauthorised overdraft to the CRA in the parameters 
available to them.
Mr Ks sent us a screenshot  from his online account  with this CRA taken on 13 September 
2019. He says its clear  evidence  Santander  have reported the wrong information to the 
CRA. But Im not persuaded  thats the case as the screenshot isnt of the credit  report  itself. 
Theres a separate  tab showing the credit  report. This screenshot  is from the Understand  
your Score  section of Mr Ks account. It gives details of the influencers  on the overall credit 
score both positive and negative and this entry for the Santander account is one of the 
negative ones. And, it seems to me, to be this particular CRAs own analysis of the situation,  
not something which Santander  has any control over.
Given how strongly Mr K feels about  this he may want to pursue the matter further through  
other routes - I can see from the complaint form hes considering  legal proceedings. Or he 
may wish to make further enquiries with the CRA  concerned directly, as the investigator  has 
suggested. But my decision brings to an end what we  in trying  to resolve his dispute with 
Santander informally  can do for him. Im sorry if this disappoints Mr K.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 January 2020.
Annabel OSullivan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8052436