K821x#15complaint
Economic Financial Solutions IFA Limited  (trading as Torch Wealth Management - Torch) 
advised Mr S to transfer his existing pension. Mr S has complained about that advice and 
the portfolio of investments recommended.
background
I set out the background  to this complaint, and my provisional findings, in the provisional 
decision I issued in June  2019 (copy attached).
Torch didnt accept  my conclusions. In response, it made a number of points:
I said that Torch had reduced  Mr Ss risk to 7. It didnt, it reduced his risk rating to low 
risk  equal to a 3. Thats why the Cautious  Portfolio  was recommended. 
It has provided evidence previously concerning the cost comparison by way of a 
report compiled by an independent firm. This was used as its rarely  the case that two 
providers will produce illustrations on a comparative basis  for instance, using 
different assumptions  for growth. 
To achieve a direct  comparison a pension switch analyser tool is used. The report 
demonstrated that the SIPP  was cheaper  than Mr Ss existing plan. 
While  the existing  plan offered  other  funds to choose from, these all involved charges 
which wouldnt have improved the situation  for Mr S.
In any event, Mr S chose to pay for the advice he was given  including  the initial fee 
 through the SIPP. This would also have been the case if Torch had advised  him to 
switch to other funds  in his existing plan.  
Mr Ss representative told us he accepted my findings. However,  the representative also 
questioned when Torch ought  to have been aware that the stockbroker was not adhering to 
the stipulated  mandate  in its selection of investments within  the portfolio. If this was before 
the advice was given the portfolio  shouldnt have been recommended to Mr S, and Torch 
should be liable for the entire  loss.  
The matter  has now been passed back to me for consideration.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive consider the further points Torch  has made  about the comparison of charges between 
Mr Ss existing  plan and the SIPP  it recommended. But it remains  my view that the cost of 
the new arrangement  doesnt appear  to be lower. 
In any event, it seems this argument  misses the point  why the advice wasnt suitable. There 
was no obvious  reason  for Mr S to move from his existing plan. As I noted in my provisional 
decision, the fund he was invested in had achieved  a reasonable level growth  over the 
previous five years. And there were  no other  obvious reasons why a SIPP was more 
beneficial for him than his current plan. Rather, the prime reason for recommending  the 
transfer was to allow Mr S to invest in one of the stockbrokers portfolios. This seems  to be 
an approach Torch adopted  with a number of its customers  at the time. Overall, I dont think  
there was any real justification for recommending the transfer.  
Ref: DRN86695392I note Torch says that if Mr S had remained in his existing plan, and been  advised to switch  
to other  funds, he would  have incurred the same  level of fees as he was charged for the 
advice to transfer.
The first point I would make is that Im not convinced there was any reason for Mr S to 
change his investment  approach in his current plan. I simply made  the point that if that was 
thought appropriate, it could be achieved  by selecting over funds available  in his plan. Had 
this been the chosen  approach,  the fees for the advice  may or may not have been the same.  
But despite  what Torch  says, the initial fee couldnt  have been taken from the plan. As far as 
Im aware, it was only possible for an adviser to be paid in this way if new money was being  
put into the plan  as it was when the SIPP provider received the transfer value. There  would 
be no facility for Torch to be paid out of the existing plan in the same  way from his pension 
fund. So any advice  fee would have had to be negotiated accordingly  to be paid directly  by 
Mr S.
But again,  this point doesnt  have  a bearing on the suitability of the advice Mr S received. I 
therefore dont  think it changes the outcome of the complaint.
Ive also considered the comments by Mr Ss representative about when Torch should  have 
known about the investment approach being adopted by the stockbroker. But from the 
evidence Ive seen,  I dont think Torch should  have been aware of this at the time it advised 
Mr S in June  2015 or when the transfer was arranged about a month later. The model 
portfolio run by the stockbroker had only been set up relatively recently,  and was 
recommended more for its potential than any past track record. It seems  that the first time 
Torch became concerned about  the investments the stockbroker was buying was around 
September or October  2015. 
In the circumstances, I see no reason to depart from the method of compensation I set out in 
my provisional decision. 
fair compensation
To compensate Mr S, Torch should undertake  the following:
1.Calculate the value  at the date of my final decision of total initial charges, including 
the adviser charge, had this money  been invested in line with the FTSE UK Private  
Investor Income Total Return  Index.
2.Establish the portion of the pension fund which remained in cash as at the date of my 
final decision.
The loss is 1  2.
I should make Mr S aware  that its possible the above calculation may not show a financial 
loss. If there is a loss, Torch should  pay into Mr Ss pension  plan to increase its value by the 
amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief.  Compensation should not be paid into the pension  plan 
if it would  conflict with any existing  protection or allowance.
If Torch is unable to pay the compensation into Mr Ss pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to him. But had it been  possible to pay into the plan, it would have  provided  a 
Ref: DRN86695393taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to notionally  allow  for any 
income tax that would otherwise have  been paid. 
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr Ss actual or expected marginal rate 
of tax at his selected retirement age. 
For example, if Mr S is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer  at the selected retirement  age, the 
reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr S would have been able 
to take a tax free lump  sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation.
Any loss should  be paid within 28 days of Torch being notified of Mr Ss acceptance  of my 
final decision. If its paid later,  Torch should add simple interest at 8% from the date of my 
decision to the date of payment.
Separate from and additional  to the above,  Torch should pay Mr S the sum of £300 for the 
trouble and upset  hes been caused by the advice to transfer his pension  benefits. 
my final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Economic Financial Solutions IFA Limited to compensate 
Mr S as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 September 2019.
Doug Mansell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN86695394COPY PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Economic Financial  Solutions IFA Limited (trading  as Torch Wealth  Management  - Torch) advised  
Mr S to transfer his existing pension. Mr S has complained about  that advice and the portfolio of 
investments recommended.
background
At the time of the advice in June 2015, Mr S was aged 59 and married with no dependants. He was 
employed and had a salary of £25,000 a year. His only savings or investments  were £10,000 held 
jointly with his wife in a deposit account. He had existing  pensions valued at £140,000. One of these 
was a personal pension plan. 
Torch assessed Mr Ss attitude to risk as very  high (9 on a scale of 1-10). But it seems that Torch  
spoke to Mr S and told him not to take such a high risk approach with his pension. It suggested that a 
more cautious approach was appropriate. As a result, his risk profile was reduced to 7 (highest  
medium).
Torch recommended a transfer of Mr Ss personal pension into a self-invested personal  pension 
(SIPP). The full transfer value would  be invested by a stockbroker under  its discretionary 
management. Torch recommended the stockbrokers  Conservative Model  Portfolio as being suitable 
for Mr S. Torch  also said the new plan was cheaper and offered a wider investment choice and 
flexibility.
The transfer  took place  and £76,331.02 was transferred into the SIPP.  Of this, £71,500 was passed to 
the stockbroker to invest. The remainder was placed  in a cash account.  
Between October 2015 and March 2016, Torch was in communication with the stockbroker and the 
SIPP provider over concerns  that the stockbroker wasnt investing the funds in line with the model 
portfolio. 
Mr S complained directly  to this service in August  2016. He said he was advised by Torch to transfer 
his pension into a SIPP and for the pension fund to be managed by the stockbroker.  The stockbroker 
had invested 95% of his pension in penny shares, and this has resulted in a severe  loss. 
As Torch  hadnt been given the opportunity of considering the complaint, we made  it aware of Mrs Ss 
complaint. Torch responded to say that it had recommended the SIPP because  of the flexibility it 
offered. The Conservative  Model Portfolio was suitable for Mr S and compatible with his risk profile.  
But the stockbroker didnt make investments in line with the model portfolio. As such, it didnt think  the 
complaint should be directed  towards Torch.  
One of our adjudicators  looked  at the complaint,  and thought it should  be upheld.  He said:
Mr S was close to retirement age and had almost no savings or investments.  As such, Torch  
was right to advise Mr S to have  a cautious approach  with his pension.  The Conservative 
Model Portfolio  was appropriate had the stockbroker invested in line with the mandate. 
But he thought  the comparison between the existing  plan and the SIPP given to Mr S was 
misleading. It was based on the assumption that the SIPP would be invested in a higher risk 
portfolio. However, Mr S was advised to invest in the Conservative Model  Portfolio, which 
projected lower growth  rates. Torch did obtain a correct comparison a month before the 
transfer. This showed  the existing  plan projected better returns compared to the SIPP. 
But Torch  didnt make Mr S aware  of this and proceeded with the transfer. 
Ref: DRN86695395The two plans had similar charging  structures. The personal pension also offered similar 
levels of flexibility and the ability to draw income  while remaining invested. It offered a wide 
range of investments,  as well as the option of discretionary fund management. So there was 
no need  to transfer.
The adjudicator concluded  that the advice  to transfer into the SIPP was not suitable. He thought  Mr S 
should have remained  in the personal pension and switched to a lower risk fund. 
But the adjudicator also recognised that the stockbroker failed to invest in line with its portfolios 
mandate. Had it done so, this would have produced a better return than if hed remained  in his 
existing plan.  So he has not suffered a loss as a result of the transfer and investment advice.
However, not all money was given  to the stockbroker to invest. Some money remained in the SIPPs 
cash account  to cover commission and charges. He calculated Mr Ss loss on the money  held in the 
cash account  was £4,802.28, and proposed that Torch  should pay Mr S this sum.  It should  also pay 
£300 for the inconvenience  caused.
Torch did not agree. It said:
It would  like to see evidence  the stockbroker informed  Torch about  the changes in the asset 
mix of the Conservative Model Portfolio. The only factsheet given  to Torch  about the portfolio  
was dated May 2015. This is not the last time the stockbroker has tried to manipulate the 
process in its favour. But even if Torch  had been informed that change, the portfolio had a risk 
rating of 3 to 4, which is the same  as its previous asset mix.
If Mr S had remained in the personal pension, some money would have remained  uninvested 
to cover charges and fees. As such, Mr S has not suffered any investment loss as a result of 
Torchs advice. Torch offered £500 for the inconvenience caused.
On this point,  the adjudicator  replied that his redress did consider that some of the money  in the 
personal pension (but not all) wouldnt  have been invested. As such, Mr S had still suffered a loss as 
a result of Torchs advice. He didnt  think Mr S would accept the offer.
Mr Ss representative told us he was concerned about the method of compensation that this service  
had applied  in other similar cases. He said this didnt  comply  with the rules  within the FSA Handbook  
dealing with redress payments. 
The matter has now been passed to me for consideration.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. When considering  whats fair and reasonable,  Im required to take 
into account  relevant law and regulations; relevant regulators rules,  guidance and standards, relevant  
codes of practice; and where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the 
time.
Im aware Mr S has also complained about the stockbrokers actions.  Thats been the subject of a 
separate claim by Mr S which is now with the Financial  Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS). 
Although I need to take into account the interaction between Torch and the stockbroker, to avoid any 
doubt I should  stress  that my decision  here concerns  Mr Ss complaint about  Torchs  actions and the 
extent to which they have contributed to any losses Mr S may have incurred.
Ref: DRN86695396In my view,  there are three  specific questions I must answer in order to determine  whether Torch 
acted fairly and reasonably  when it advised Mr S to move his pension funds  to the SIPP and invest  
them in the stockbrokers Conservative  Model Portfolio. This also assists  me in determining whether  
the transfer was in Mr Ss best interests  and if not, what I consider  he ought to have been advised  to 
do instead:
firstly, was the level of risk of the recommended investment the correct  one for Mr S? 
secondly, was the new arrangement more expensive  or less expensive than Mr Ss previous 
pension arrangement?
and thirdly, what alternatives were open to Mr S to meet his objectives?  
was the level  of risk of the recommended investment suitable  for Mr S?
Mr S completed a risk profile questionnaire,  in which he was asked to agree or disagree  with a 
number of statements. Torch  used  this to assess Mr Ss attitude to risk. According to this, he was 
found to be 9 on a scale of 1 to 10. This was described as very  high risk. 
Im not convinced  I can place much weight  on this assessment.  Mr S doesnt seem to have been a 
sophisticated investor, nor had much experience  of investments generally.  I also note Mr S indicated 
in the questionnaire that small/medium losses could be tolerated. In my view, this isnt compatible  with 
a wish to take a very high degree of risk. 
Im also mindful  that Mr S was not too far off retirement. So I dont think  he was in the position  to take 
a large degree  of risk with his pension  fund. And while he did have other retirement  provision, the 
personal pension made up well over half of his total pension savings. 
But Im also aware  there appears to have been a further discussion about  Mr Ss attitude to risk. This 
is recorded in a handwritten  note by the adviser. According to this, Mr S was advised  that it would be 
prudent to take a lower  risk approach than that suggested by the questionnaire.  The adviser proposed 
taking a more  cautious approach to investing, and I think this was reasonable. 
Torch recommended that Mr S invest in the stockbrokers Conservative  Model Portfolio.  According to 
the stockbrokers factsheet for the portfolio, it had a risk range of 3 to 4. The actual asset allocation for 
May 2015 was 60% in UK Government debt,  30% in equities and 10% in cash. On the whole,  I think 
the portfolio was a suitable  investment for Mr S. 
was the new arrangement more or less expensive than Mr Ss previous pension?
Torch recommended the transfer into the SIPP, in part, because it said this had lower charges than 
Mr Ss existing plan. Ive not seen evidence  to support this.
Torch arranged a pension transfer report  to be undertaken.  This was a comparison of Mr Ss existing  
plan with the proposed SIPP. It was based  on a transfer value of £80,910. The report included 
projections of what the two plans  could be worth at age 65. These showed that at assumed growth  
rates of 2.5% a year and 5.5% a year,  the SIPP  would  produce  a higher sum than the existing plan. 
The report also included details of the charges which would be applied to the SIPP. There  was an 
initial charge of £360  and an annual  charge of £300. The report noted  that immediately after the 
transfer the fund value would reduce from £80,910 to £80,550, presumably because  of the initial and 
annual charge.  In addition, there would  be an ongoing charge of 0.65% applied by the stockbroker for 
the Aggressive Model Portfolio.  Theres no reference in the report  to the charges  which would be 
applied for the Conservative Model  Portfolio.  
Ref: DRN86695397The report didnt include  any information  about the charges  applying to Mr Ss existing plan, but I 
understand these were an ongoing service  charge of 0.4%,  plus adviser commission  of 0.50% a year.  
There was also a fund management charge, but its not clear what this was.  
Torchs file contains an illustration from the provider of the existing plan. But this was based on what  
appears to be a much lower  transfer value.  
Torch also obtained an illustration from the SIPP provider. But this was based on a transfer value of 
£82,000, and also used higher rates of growth than in the report.  But this showed  a fund value  for the 
SIPP at age 65 which was lower than that in the pension transfer report. It was also lower than the 
fund value for the existing pension which was shown in the pension transfer report. 
So on the whole Im not convinced Torch carried out an accurate comparison  of the position  if Mr S 
had remained in his current plan rather than transferring  to the SIPP. 
The suitability report Torch  issued said it had demonstrated  that the charges  for Mr Ss current  plan 
were more expensive than the SIPP.  But for the reasons Ive explained, Ive not seen evidence this 
was correct. 
On balance, Im not convinced  the SIPP was less expensive. 
what alternatives were open  to Mr S to meet his objectives?
The suitability report notes that Mr S had sought advice to see if his existing plan was still relevant 
and if there  was any merit in moving to a different provider. But there doesnt seem to be any 
suggestion he was unhappy with his current plan. I note that the fund he was investing in had 
achieved average growth of 6.79% over the previous five years. The fund was said to present  a 
medium degree of risk. 
Mr S was advised  to transfer to a new plan rather than remain with his existing provider because this 
would be cheaper. But as Ive explained  above,  I disagree with this assessment.  
A further reason for transferring into the SIPP was because of the extra  flexibility  such  plans offer.  
The suitability report refers  to the Pension Freedoms which the Government  were introducing. But 
Mr S was still several years  away from when he would  be likely  to start taking his pension  this was 
said to be at age 65 at the earliest. So there was limited  prospect of him being able to take advantage  
of the new freedoms  in the short term. 
Also, while a SIPP will generally give access to a wider range of investment funds, Im not convinced 
this was particularly relevant  to Mr S. I find it unlikely he would have wanted to invest in the type of 
non-mainstream investments SIPPs  providers  sometimes allow.  Nor do I think  this type of investment 
would have been suitable  for Mr S, in light of his attitude  to risk. 
The option of remaining in Mr Ss current plan was discounted by Torch. But I think this was a 
reasonable approach that should have  been  considered. If any change  in investment strategy  was felt 
appropriate, this could reasonably have been achieved  within the plan. Its likely  that the provider  
would have had a range of funds available which Torch  could have recommended which would have  
met Mr Ss needs. 
in summary
For all of the reasons  set out above, I dont think Torch acted fairly  and reasonably  when it advised  
Mr S to move his pension to the new SIPP.  My view is that, suitably advised, Mr S would have 
remained in his existing  plan.  
Ive therefore considered how Mr S should  be compensated for the unsuitable advice, and its here 
that I depart from the adjudicators conclusions.   
Ref: DRN86695398fair compensation
While the Conservative Model  Portfolio wasnt unsuitable  for Mr S, the stockbroker failed to administer  
the fund in line with the agreed mandate. As already noted, the actions of the stockbroker are being 
considered by the FSCS as part of a separate complaint.  
So I think the loss Mr S has suffered  as a result of the advice given by Torch  is the difference in 
charges between his existing plan and the new SIPP. Unfortunately, its unlikely that it will be possible  
to get a completely accurate assessment of the effect on Mr Ss pension fund of the difference  in 
charges. The provider of his previous pension is unable to calculate  what  it would now be worth had it 
not been  transferred away. And the current value of his SIPP has been unduly  affected because of 
the actions of the stockbroker.  
In the circumstances,  I propose  to take what  I consider to be a practical  approach to calculating what  
loss, if any, Mr S has suffered. I think the main costs incurred by Mr Ss pension were  those at the 
outset when the SIPP  was set up. Had the transfer not taken  place, this money  would have been 
available for investment. 
The make-up of the stockbrokers Conservative  Model Portfolio was approximately equivalent to the 
asset mix of the FTSE UK Private  Investor Income Total Return Index. This is an index this service 
sometimes uses as a proxy where  it is not certain where a consumer would have invested.  Therefore, 
I think  it would be fair and reasonable to use this as a means of calculating  Mr Ss loss in this case. 
So Torch should undertake the following:
3.Calculate the value at the date of my final decision  of total initial  charges, including  the 
adviser charge, had this money  been invested  in line with the FTSE UK Private Investor 
Income Total Return Index.
4.Establish the portion  of the pension  fund which  remained in cash as at the date of my final 
decision.
The loss is 1  2.
I should  make  Mr S aware that its possible the above calculation may not show a financial loss. If 
there is a loss, Torch should  pay into Mr Ss pension plan to increase its value by the amount of the 
compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the effect of charges  and any 
available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance.
If Torch is unable  to pay the compensation  into Mr Ss pension plan, it should pay that amount  direct 
to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have  provided a taxable income.  
Therefore the compensation  should be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would 
otherwise have been paid. 
The notional  allowance should be calculated  using Mr Ss actual or expected marginal rate of tax at 
his selected retirement age. 
For example, if Mr S is likely  to be a basic rate taxpayer  at the selected retirement age, the reduction 
would equal the current basic rate of tax. However,  if Mr S would have been able to take a tax free 
lump sum, the reduction should be applied  to 75% of the compensation.
Any loss should be paid within 28 days of Torch  being notified of Mr Ss acceptance of my final 
decision. If its paid later, Torch should add simple interest  at 8% from the date of my decision to the 
date of payment.
Separate from and additional to the above, Torch should pay Mr S the sum of £300 for the trouble and 
upset hes been caused by the advice to transfer his pension benefits. 
Ref: DRN86695399Ive noted the comments by Mr Ss representative about the method of compensation  applied by this 
service in other similar complaint. Although he has said this doesnt comply  with the FSA Handbook,  
he hasnt clarified in what  way it doesnt comply. 
But as has been explained  to the representative, theres nothing in the Handbook that specifies how 
compensation should be calculated.  In this case, Ive set out the way I think Mr S should be 
compensated which I consider to be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of his complaint. 
my provisional  decision
I uphold the complaint. My provisional decision is that Economic Financial Solutions IFA Limited 
should pay the compensation set out above.
Doug Mansell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8669539