K820x#14complaint
Miss L says Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold  her a payment  protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
background
Miss L bought the policy in 1999  at the same  time as taking out a credit card. 
One of adjudicators looked at the complaint but didn't think it should  be upheld.  Miss L 
disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been  passed to me for 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Ls case. 
After doing so, Ive decided  not to uphold Miss Ls complaint. Ill explain why. 
Lloyds has been  able to send us a copy of the signed credit  agreement from the time of the 
sale. Under the section  entitled TSB Credit Card Payments Insurance  theres a box thats 
been ticked in order for the policy to be taken. The form has been completed by hand, 
including the tick inside  the box to accept the PPI. Even if the form was completed  by a 
Lloyds representative  rather than Miss L, the other personal details included in the form 
would suggest  that it was completed during a conversation when  it was sold. So I think 
Lloyds made  Miss L aware she had a choice  about  buying the PPI, and that she chose to 
take it. 
Lloyds says it recommended the PPI to Miss L in branch. Miss L doesnt think  Lloyds did 
give her any advice as she cant recall being  told anything about the PPI. But the sale was 
20 years  ago and Miss L might not remember everything from the time,  particularly  as 
buying insurance isnt generally a memorable experience. From what  we know of Lloyds  
sales processes, I think its more likely advice was given. And by giving advice, Lloyds had to 
take account of Miss Ls circumstances to make  sure its recommendation for PPI was 
suitable for her needs.
From what  Ive seen, it seems to have been  right for Miss L. She was eligible for the policy 
and wouldnt  have  been limited in making  a claim because of the policys main exclusions or 
restrictions  a pre-existing  medical condition as an example.  
Miss L has said she didn't  need the policy as her employer would have paid her full pay for 
six months followed by six months half pay. But in the event of a successful claim the policy  
would have paid 10% of the outstanding balance of the account on a monthly basis and 
would have done so for 12 months  so longer than Miss Ls employee benefits. And it would 
have paid out over and above Miss Ls benefits  so they could  have been  used  for other  
outgoings. The policy would  have  also paid out if Mrs L lost her job and paid any balance  on 
her card up to £5,000  if she were to die. 
Ref: DRN88616422Miss L has told us she was living at home and could have relied  upon  her parents for 
financial help in the event she was able to work.  But their own financial circumstances could 
have changed  so this offer couldnt be guaranteed. So I do think  the policy would have given 
Miss L a financial security she wouldnt otherwise have had. 
As we dont  know for sure how the policy  was presented to Miss L its possible the 
information Lloyds  gave Miss L about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it should have been.  But 
based on what I know about Miss Ls circumstances it looks  like the policy  could have been 
useful to her. So I dont  think  better  information  would  have  stopped her buying  it.
Ive taken into account Miss Ls comments and what shes said about her recollections from 
the time of the sale. But because of what Ive said, Miss Ls points dont change  my 
conclusion.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Miss Ls complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 October  2019.
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8861642