K822xcomplaint
Mrs A complains about delays caused by Bank of Scotland Plc when making an international 
money transfer.
background 
On 19 July 2018 Mrs A asked the bank to make an international money transfer  of £26,000 
to an account  in Bangladesh. The money was being sent to Mrs As sister to pay for 
healthcare as she was ill. Due to mistakes made  by the bank the payment was not received 
until 22 October 2018. 
During the time the money was missing Mrs A made  numerous  telephone calls to the bank 
and visits to the branch. Mrs A told the bank the transfer was urgent, and says the bank 
knew the money was to take care of her sister. By the time the money arrived Mrs As sister  
had sadly passed  away.
Mrs A complained to the bank who admitted its mistakes caused  the delay and apologised. 
The bank paid Mrs A £200 to cover  her expenses when dealing with the problem, including  a 
refund of the transfer fee, and £2,000 to apologise  for what  happened. Mrs A was unhappy  
with this as she thought  more compensation was due so brought  her complaint to our 
service.
One of our investigators  looked into what happened. She thought the bank  should  pay an 
extra £1,000, which the bank agreed  to pay. This made a total of £3,000 for the distress and 
inconvenience of what happened,  and £200 to cover costs that were incurred, which  our 
investigator thought  was a fair offer overall. Mrs A did not accept the offer saying the 
mistakes that happened led to her sisters death and asked for an ombudsman  to review  the 
case.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  While Im sorry to hear about Mrs As 
loss, and I hope shell accept my condolences, having thought very carefully about the 
circumstances here Ive come to the same  conclusion as our investigator for broadly the 
same reasons. I know this will be disappointing for Mrs A as this has been a very difficult  
time for her, so Ill explain why.
Whats clear is that the bank caused  delays  of around three months and it took much longer 
for the transaction  to reach Bangladesh than it shouldve done. The bank had several 
opportunities during this time to correct what had gone wrong with the original transaction 
but didnt. Once  the bank did realise the extent of the error it apologised and offered 
compensation which has since been increased due to our investigators involvement. What I 
have to decide now is whether the compensation offered is fair. 
Our rules empower me to award  compensation for non-financial loss to complainants  for 
distress, inconvenience, loss of reputation and suffering caused to complainants. So I can 
only consider the impact  of this case on Mrs A, and not her wider  family.
The error by the bank  caused Mrs A a high level of inconvenience, and also had an 
emotional impact. Mrs A made  many  trips to the branch as well as making telephone calls to 
Ref: DRN80043242the bank to try and find out what had gone  wrong.  The problem caused Mrs A an 
understandable level of worry and stress  especially considering the purpose of the transfer.  
Mrs A was also caused distress as she believes that the money  could have made a 
difference to her sisters  health. Because of all of this Mrs A says that she hasnt been 
sleeping and her health has been  affected.
I know Mrs A is looking for compensation considerably higher than what  the bank has 
offered. I dont underestimate  the impact on Mrs A given what happened, and whilst no 
amount of money  can change what happened, its important that the bank recognise  its 
errors caused a great deal of distress. However, I think  its also important for me to set out 
that my role isnt to punish  the bank, or to fine it for areas of its service which have let Mrs A 
down. My role is to look at Mrs As complaint impartially, and if something has gone  wrong,  
award compensation which  I consider  to be fair and reasonable. 
I want to reassure Mrs A that Ive carefully  considered her complaint, and everything shes 
said. Having done  so I agree the bank  made  a mistake and how it was subsequently 
handled has had a substantial impact on Mrs A. A significant award is due and considering  
the awards we make  I think  the overall offer of £3,200 is fair compensation for this complaint.
my final decision
Bank of Scotland Plc has already made an offer to pay £3,200 to settle the complaint and I 
think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Bank of Scotland Plc should pay Mrs A £3,200.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 November  2019.
Warren Wilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8004324