K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a credit 
card in 1996. Mr L says NewDay Ltd mis-sold  him the PPI.
background
In 1996 Mr L applied for a credit card. At the same  time he was sold a PPI policy. The policy 
cost 59p for every £100 outstanding on Mr Ls monthly statement. The policy provided cover 
against Mr L not being able to work because of an accident, sickness or involuntary 
unemployment. In the event of a successful claim the policy wouldve paid 10% of the 
outstanding balance of the account for up to 12 months.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the PPI was mis-sold.  Mr L disagreed  with the adjudicators  
findings so the complaint has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ls case.
NewDay has limited information  about how the credit  card and PPI were sold.  This isnt 
unusual and its understandable in view of the time that has gone by since the sale took 
place. But where  there  is limited information,  I will make  my decision based  on whats more 
likely to have happened, taking into account   the evidence available, what  both parties  have 
told me and what we know about  these types of sale.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Mr L told us he recalled  applying for the credit card by post and later receiving  a phone call 
during which  he was told he needed  to add PPI to the account in order  to have  the credit 
card application  approved.  
NewDay has been able to give us a copy of the original application form for the credit card 
which Ive looked  at carefully. The application  is the type of form which would be completed  
by the applicant and returned.  So I think Mr L did apply for the credit card by post. The form 
has been completed thoroughly by Mr L and signed. 
I note there  is a section  for PPI which set out basic details of the cost and invited the 
applicant to tick a box to add PPI to the account.  I can see the box has been  ticked to select 
PPI. The tick in the box is consistent with several other ticks that appear  on the form. Theres 
nothing that makes me think its likely  that Mr L left the box blank and that the tick was added  
later by someone else after the telephone  call.
Some businesses did contact consumers  to sell PPI if they had not selected  it on a postal  
application form. But in my experience the signed application form would not be altered to 
reflect the telephone sale. Rather,  a note would usually be added  to the businesss internal 
records.
Ref: DRN81714562I also note the PPI remained on Mr Ls account  for 15 years until 2011. During that time the 
premiums wouldve likely  appeared on Mr Ls monthly statements as a purchase. If Mr L had 
not wanted the cover, or only took it to get the credit card approved, Id expect him to have  
questioned it at an early  stage. But Ive seen no evidence that he did.
I also need to take into account  that these  events took place over 20 years ago and 
memories do fade over time.
All this makes me think it is most  likely Mr L selected the PPI by ticking  the box before he 
returned the application form.
I do think Mr L has given us his honest  recollection  of how the PPI was sold.  But taking 
everything into account I think its most likely  NewDay  made it clear that Mr L didnt have to 
take out the PPI and that he chose to take it out.
As the PPI was sold via a postal application  I dont think NewDay recommended the PPI to 
Mr L so it didnt have  to check if it was right for him. But it did have to make  sure Mr L got the 
information he needed to decide for himself  if it was right for him. 
Its possible the information NewDay gave Mr L about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve  
been. But as I think he chose to take out the PPI - it looks  like he wanted this type of cover.  
Based on what Ive seen  of his circumstances at the time it doesnt  look like he was affected 
by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. For example he met the eligibility 
criteria for the policy, and he had no medical conditions  that would not be covered. So it 
would have been useful for him if something  went wrong.
It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont  think better information about the PPI 
would have put him off taking out the cover. 
This means NewDay doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr L.
But NewDay  will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr L because: 
NewDay got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr L about  that. Because  NewDay  didnt tell Mr L, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, NewDay  has basically offered to pay back  the amount of commission  
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in 
this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr L has said, including what  he told us about his employers 
sick pay scheme. But I think  Mr L chose to buy the policy knowing his employer wouldve 
paid him if he was unable to work.  And the PPI policy wouldve paid a benefit in addition  to 
any sick pay and for up to 12 months per claim. Taking this into account  I dont  think the PPI 
was mis-sold.
what the business needs  to do
Ref: DRN81714563NewDay has to pay back to Mr L any commission and profit  share it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. NewDay should  also pay back to Mr L any extra  interest he paid 
because of that.
NewDay should re-work the credit card account  and pay back  to Mr L the difference  between 
what Mr L owes and what he wouldve owed if the commission and profit share  it got hadnt 
been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. NewDay should also pay Mr L 8%* simple interest if 
he paid off their credit  card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr L can claim back  the tax if he 
doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so NewDay Ltd does not have to pay back  all of the cost of 
the PPI to Mr L.
But NewDay  Ltd does  have to pay back to Mr L any commission and profit share it got that 
was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 June  2019.
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8171456