K822xcomplaint
Ms J complains that numerous  deposits made through Barclays  Bank  UK PLC branches 
werent added to a savings  account she holds with another building  society.  Shes also 
unhappy with the way Barclays has managed the accounts she holds with them.
background 
Ms J holds an account with a building society.  Until 2017, deposits to this account could be 
made in Barclays branches. And Ms J frequently used this method.
Ms J says she became  aware deposits  shed been making in Barclays  branches,  werent 
being added to her building society account.  She says the missing  deposits were made 
between 2008  and 2016. In May 2018,  Ms J raised a complaint  with Barclays  about  the 
missing money.
Ms J provided Barclays with receipts  of the deposits shed made and her building  society 
account statement. Barclays used  this information  when investigating her complaint. 
Barclays issued its final response letter on 19 June 2018. In this they explained the deposits 
had been credited to her building society account correctly. Barclays also sent her 
highlighted copies  of her receipts, and annotated  the statement to show when the money  
had credited her building society account.
Ms J says her building society had told her the deposits hadnt been  credited to her account.  
As she remained unhappy, Ms J asked  us to look into her complaint.
When Ms J came  to our service she also told us that her Barclays debit card had been  
swallowed by a cash machine. She said she never  received a replacement.  Because of this 
she wanted Barclays to send her bank statements, a new debit card,  to confirm  if her 
accounts were still open, and to refer to her Ms rather than Mrs.
Our investigator looked into Ms Js complaint, but didnt think it should be upheld. Our 
investigator felt we could  only look into the deposits  Ms J made from 2012. And of those 
deposits, our investigator was satisfied Barclays had correctly  credited Ms Js building  
society account. Our investigator also confirmed the accounts Ms J held with Barclays  closed 
in 2003. She also forwarded the statements Barclays  sent us. Ms J was also told that 
Barclays was now aware they should address her as Ms if they need to contact her going 
forward.
Ms J disagreed with our investigator, so her complaint  was passed to me to look into. I issued 
a provisional decision.  In this I explained  our service could look into all of the deposits  Ms J 
complained about.  Barclays  agreed  with this, and Ms J didnt provide further comments on this 
point. 
Ref: DRN84948842As I felt we could look into all the deposits complained about, I issued another provisional 
decision to address these concerns. Weve received a lot of information from Ms J. And her 
complaint has evolved  since  she first contacted  us. But for clarification my provisional 
decision explained this particular complaint only concerns the following points:
deposits made  from Barclays branches to her building  society account between 
2008 and 2016;
Barclays accounts  Ms J holds/held;
Barclays incorrectly using the salutation Mrs when  writing to Ms J; and
Barclays sent their final response  letter  to the wrong address. 
My provisional decision was issued on 13 September 2019. In this I explained I was 
upholding Ms Js complaint in part. I said I was intending to ask Barclays  to pay Ms J £75. 
This was for the stress and inconvenience caused when Barclays  sent their final response 
letter and enclosures to the wrong  address. However, I was persuaded Ms Js building  
society account had been credited with the deposits  made in Barclays  branches between  
2008 and 2016.
Ms J and Barclays had until 13 October 2019 to respond to my provisional decision. 
Barclays accepted  what I had said. Ms J provided additional information. However, the 
majority of this related to the standings orders Ms J had set up with other banks. So, this 
information hasnt  persuaded me to change the way I consider this complaint should be 
resolved.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding Ms Js 
complaint, in part. I know this isnt the outcome she wanted. But Ill explain my reasons 
below.
deposits to Ms Js building society account
Ms J says a total of 14 deposits werent paid into her building  society account by Barclays 
between 2008  and 2016. Weve been  sent limited information from Ms J and Barclays to 
show where these deposits  were  paid. We were also unable  to get any information  from 
Ms Js building society. So Ive had decide what I consider most likely happened,  from the 
limited information we have.
Ms J sent Barclays a copy of her building society statement and paying in receipts. And 
Barclays final response letter says they had annotated these documents  to show when the 
deposits were received  in Ms Js building society account. 
Unfortunately, neither  Barclays  nor Ms J could send us copies of these documents. 
However, Barclays system notes show they had asked Ms J for this information. They  also 
show a number of Barclays  advisers  used this information, alongside what they had on their 
systems to locate the deposits. So, Im satisfied  their final response letter  accurately explains 
what steps they took when looking into where Ms Js deposits went.
Ref: DRN84948843Ms J has said that her building society told her it didnt  receive  the 14 deposits she has 
complained about.  But Ive not seen any evidence to support this. And thats despite trying to 
contact the building society myself on a number of occasions. Barclays sent us a table of the 
deposits Ms J says went missing. And this detailed when the deposits  would have  shown in 
Ms Js building society account. A copy of this has also been  sent to Ms J for her records. Ms J 
may want to send this to her building society if shes still persuaded her building society  account 
history doesnt reflect  the deposits she made.  But based on the information  Ive seen, I cant 
fairly say Barclays didnt credit Ms Js building society account as she instructed them to.
accounts Ms J holds with Barclays
Ms J wanted  to know what accounts  she held with Barclays, and whether theyre still open. 
Barclays sent us information to show Ms J had a loan, a savings and a current account with 
them. But these accounts were all closed in 2003.
I understand Ms J believes she still has an open  account with Barclays. But Ive not seen 
anything to show this is the case. The Barclays system information  confirms Ms Js accounts 
closed in 2003. So Im persuaded thats  what happened.
When Ms J first came  to our service, she asked for copies of her statements and a new debit 
card to be sent to her. Ive seen shes now received statements from the period her current 
account was open. And as this account  is closed, Barclays cant send her a new debit  card. So, 
theres nothing more Barclays needs  to do to put things right for this aspect of Ms Js complaint. 
Barclays letters to Ms J.
Ms J is unhappy Barclays final response letter was sent to the wrong  address. Shes also 
unhappy Barclays referred to her as Mrs  instead  of Ms. Barclays has apologised for both 
of these points.  In regards to calling Ms J Mrs,  Ive not seen anything to show they were 
aware her salutation needed to be changed before their final response letter was sent. So I 
think an apology is a fair resolution in the circumstances.
Ive seen a copy  of the final response letter and agree it had the wrong address  in 
particular the postcode  was from a previous address of Ms J. Barclays has told us this 
mistake happened  because they had to manually type her address when writing their final 
response letter.
Our service was able to send a copy of Barclays final response  to Ms J. So Im satisfied 
shes seen this letter. But the original letter had the paying in receipts and building  society 
statements Ms J had sent to Barclays to help them investigate  her complaint. And Barclays 
had annotated these documents to highlight the deposits had been paid into her building  
society account as expected. 
As mentioned above, Im persuaded its most likely Barclays did check the deposits  had been 
paid correctly. And I consider annotating the relevant documents  to help explain this was the right 
thing to do. But its disappointing to see this information didnt reach Ms J. And that happened 
because of Barclays mistake when writing Ms Js address in their final response letter. 
Ref: DRN84948844Ms J feels  very strongly about this matter.  Given the amount  of money she says is missing,  
I understand - and have seen the additional distress Barclays mistake caused her. Barclays  
has apologised for this mistake. But Im not satisfied it goes  far enough.  Barclays has 
spoken to Ms J on a number of occasions about her complaint. And their call notes indicate 
their advisers wouldve been  aware Ms J has been  through a challenging time and found  this 
all very difficult. So, to acknowledge the impact their mistake has made, I consider Barclays 
should pay Ms J £75.
I understand £75 is nowhere near the amount Ms J says is missing from her building society 
account. But, as mentioned above, Ive not seen any evidence to show  her deposits didnt 
reach her building society account. So, again, I wont  be asking Barclays  to reimburse the 
money she feels has gone missing.
standing orders from other banks to Ms Js building society  account
Ms J sent me information about  standing orders she had set up to pay her building  society 
account. These were  set up by a number of banks, other than Barclays.  But Ms J said 
Barclays was also responsible for transferring  the funds from her other bank accounts to her 
building society account. This point falls outside the complaint Ms J originally  made to 
Barclays, and subsequently  brought to our service. Ms J also has other complaints against 
the relevant banks with our service.  So it wouldnt be appropriate for me to make  a finding on 
this point.
Taking everything into consideration, Im satisfied Barclays  sent the funds transferred 
through its branches to Ms Js building society account. Ill only be asking Barclays  to pay 
Ms J £75 for the distress caused when they sent their final response  letter  to the wrong 
address. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im upholding Ms Js complaint, in part.
To put things right, Barclays Bank UK PLC should  pay Ms J £75 in recognition of the stress 
and inconvenience  caused when they sent their final response letter  and enclosures  to the 
wrong address.
Barclays Bank UK PLC must pay the compensation within 28 days  of the date on which we 
tell it Ms J accepts my final decision.  If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple. 
If Barclays Bank UK PLC considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs  to withhold 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Ms J how much its taken off. It should also give 
Ms J a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 December 2019. 
Sarrah Turay
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8494884