K820x#14complaint
Mr M says Capital  One (Europe) plc mis-sold  him a payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 2001.  The policy was added  to 
Mr Ms credit card account  when he applied  for the card by post. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr M disagreed. In summary, Mr M mainly said 
that he doesnt recall  applying  for or ever wanting to take out this PPI. He also told us that he 
didnt need PPI as he had other ways of making  the monthly repayments.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ms complaint.  Ill explain my reasons.
I think Capital One made  Mr M aware that the PPI was optional  and he chose to take it. 
There were YES and NO tick boxes for PPI on the credit card application form Mr M filled 
in. Mr M completed and signed the application  at home. So I dont think  its likely that anyone 
else ticked the YES box on the form. And he would've been  able to see that he could've 
ticked the NO box if he hadnt wanted to take out PPI. 
So I think Mr M ticked the Yes box for PPI indicating  that he wanted the insurance  and it 
was added to his account at his request. Its completely understandable if hes forgotten  
some of the details of this application after so long.
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Mr M so it didnt have to check  if it was suitable for 
him. But it still had to make sure that Mr M had enough information  to make a proper 
decision about whether PPI was right for him. And if this didn't happen, then I have  to think 
about whether  this made any overall  difference to Mr M.
Mr M was eligible for the PPI cover. He doesnt  appear to have had significant other means  
to make his credit card repayments if he couldnt work. Relying on other people to help out in 
the event of money problems isnt as dependable as taking out PPI as everyones 
circumstances can change unexpectedly. 
Hes mentioned having some savings at the time, and I've taken this into account. But I dont  
know if he wouldve always had savings to rely on if hed needed to make  a claim. 
The policy couldve  protected  his credit card monthly  repayments  for up to 12 months per 
claim in the event of accident, sickness or unemployment. So I think  Mr M couldve 
benefitted from the PPI. 
Ref: DRN87405112There were some things the policy didnt  cover.  But it doesnt  look as if those applied  in 
Mr Ms case.  So, I dont think having  more information about things the policy  didnt cover  
wouldve put him off taking it out. 
Its possible some of the information  Capital One gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt  as clear 
as it shouldve been. But Mr M chose to take out the policy when he didnt have to and so it 
appears he wanted to have  this type of cover.  The policy appears to have been affordable  
for him  he couldve cancelled the insurance  at any time if he didnt want to keep paying for 
it.  
So I think it unlikely Mr M wouldve made a different decision if better  information  had been  
provided. On balance I think he would still have taken out the policy.  
This means  I dont  find that Mr M has lost out as a result of anything  that Capital One did 
wrong. So it doesnt need to do anything to put things right.
In coming to my decision Ive thought  carefully about  everything that Mr M has said, 
including the comments made in response to our adjudicators view.  I appreciate  he feels  
strongly about this complaint. I understand that what Ive said will come  as a disappointment.  
In my decision I've dealt  with all the main points  that have an impact  on the outcome of this 
complaint and I hope that setting out the reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive 
reached my decision.
I've just looked  at what happened  when Mr M was sold this PPI. Hes also mentioned to our 
adjudicator that he has no recall  of a phone call a couple of months  after taking out the PPI 
when the monthly  premium changed.  Looking at the information provided, it appears  the 
monthly premium went down after the phone call from 89p per £100 of the outstanding 
monthly balance  on the card to 79p. I trust this information assists Mr M.   
my decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr M to let me 
know whether he accepts or rejects my decision before  8 November 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8740511