K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains about a promotion  approved by Crowdcube Capital Limited which he says 
contained material representations. 
background
Crowdcube is an equity-based  crowdfunding platform that promotes investment 
opportunities to consumers. These  investment opportunities tend to be in small, start-up 
companies that are looking  to raise capital. The investment opportunities are presented  on 
its platform by way of pitches  that is statements that explain,  among other  things, what 
the company does,  how financially sound  it is, why it is raising capital and what, if any, future 
plans it has. 
In July 2018 Crowdcube approved a pitch by a company Ill call Company A. Among the 
information about Company A, the pitch said that it had brought together  three of the biggest 
names in digital estate  agency into one. It said that as a result, this combination would result 
in it becoming the second largest  player in the rapidly growing online and hybrid  sector.  
The pitch  contained  information about  what Company A was intending  to do with the capital 
raised. Within the section  financials, it said that the majority of the funds would be targeted 
at marketing, developing its proprietary  technology platform  and maintaining a world  class 
team. 
It confirmed that the merger deal, completed in May 2018,  attracted an additional £6m from 
existing shareholders  plus £9m in media  for equity.  It said that group was planning an Initial  
Public Offering (IPO) in the first quarter of 2019.  
Mr D considered the pitch and information  provided on Crowdcubes  website about 
Company A, and decided to invest £3,000. Shortly after his investment,  Crowdcube sent Mr 
D a confirmation  email that Company  As fundraising round had closed.  It gave Mr D an 
opportunity to consider a legal review  document, that set out the fundamental aspects of his 
investment (for example  the share price, the type of shares,  the overall amount of equity 
raised), and gave him a deadline by when he could pull out of the investment if he wanted  to. 
A second email  of this nature was sent to Mr D because Company A had decided  that it 
would reduce the share price, but allocate more  shares to investors. The email  explained 
that:
As we are in a transition  phase following our recent merger [], which has not yet been  fully 
integrated, and acknowledging the future funding the business  will require which we do not 
wish to disadvantage you on should this be raised  at a lower  price, we are now offering the 
shares in this round at a more favourable price than originally planned. 
As a result, Mr D was given a new cooling off period during which he could decide  to pull out 
of the investment. Mr D chose to remain invested and the round  was finalised. 
In November 2018 Company As CEO gave an interview in which he indicated that the 
money from the merger  (mentioned in the pitch)  hadnt been forthcoming. He reportedly 
explained that they did the merger [] back in June  and the deal was constructed  around a 
certain amount  of money  coming in. Shareholders in [Company B] and [Company  C] 
pledged to provide a certain  amount of money  to the business, and lets just say that on 
[Company B]s side that money has not been  forthcoming. 
Ref: DRN83795802At around the same time, or shortly  after, Company  A appointed administrators. In January 
2019 the administrators reported  on the status  of Company A, including its financial 
circumstances, debtors and the circumstances which gave rise to their appointment. Most of 
the information contained in the report isnt relevant to the matters complained about. 
However, paragraphs 2.2 and 2.3 of this report are important, because  they underpin Mr Ds 
overall complaint.  
In paragraph 2.2, the administrators explain  (Company B, Company C, Company D and 
Company E are names of other companies):
The company acquired [Company  B] and [Company C] in May 2018.  Company A was a 
direct competitor and it was considered that an amalgamation of the two businesses would 
assist in facilitating an IPO in due course.  At the time of the acquisition, [Company D] was 
granted a fixed  and floating debenture over the assets of the Company, with [Company B] 
and [Company C] giving  cross guarantees. The company also acquired the share capital of 
[Company E] in June 2018. Following  these acquisitions there was speculation that the 
market value of the merged  businesses  might be in the region of £100m.
The report  goes on to explain, in paragraph  2.3 and 2.4, that:
The company began  the process  of merging its operations with those of [Company B] and 
[Company C] but at the time of the appointment of administrators  this process was 
incomplete. Draft results  of the year ended 30 April 2018 indicate  that the Group sustained a 
loss before taxation for that year of approximately  £10.5m with net liabilities at the year-end 
of approximately  £900,000.
The group prepared consolidated management accounts following the acquisition of 
[Company C] and [Company B]. By the date of administration, September 2018 
management accounts were completed  but the October 2018 management accounts 
remained in draft. The September 2018 management accounts indicate  a loss for the Group 
for the five months to September 2018 of approximately £15m. Shortly  after this report, 
Company A was wound up. 
Mr D complained to Crowdcube. He said that the statement made by Company As CEO 
contradicted the claims made in the pitch about the merger having been completed  and the 
amount that had been raised  as a result. Mr D said this meant that investors were 
deliberately misled in order to attract  new investment.  He requested  evidence  that the 
claims made  in Company  As pitch were  accurate, or alternatively  a refund of the investment 
he mad.  
Crowdcube looked into Mr Ds concerns, but concluded that it hadnt done  anything wrong. 
In short  it said:
It underlined on its platform that there  was a very real risk when investing  in startups 
and growth companies. It said that it wasnt able to provide Mr D the evidence  it had 
been given by Company A at the time, but it assured him that Company As pitch  
was reviewed according to [Crowdcubes] due diligence  charter and approved  as a 
financial promotion. 
Whilst it verified claims  made  in the pitch, it did not verify  claims made  outside  the 
pitch or raised after crowdfunding round. 
Ref: DRN83795803Mr D received a cooling off email which explained that Company A was reducing its 
valuation and that it was looking to raise  additional funding. Mr D had an opportunity  
at this point to withdraw from the investment if he had concerns. 
Mr D remained  unhappy, and referred his complaint to this service.  He reiterated the 
complaint points above, and said that he thought Crowdcube had deliberately  misled  
investors in order to attract new investment. He also said that when he received the second  
cooling off email, he didnt  consider he could withdraw anymore  as that email had come 
after a previous deadline had expired  which he considered  made his investment legally  
binding. 
One of our investigators  looked into Mr Ds complaint, and concluded it shouldnt be upheld. 
In short  she said:
The evidence available to Crowdcube at the time it approved Company As pitch was 
that the merger  had indeed taken place  including merger documents  signed  on 30 
May. 
Crowdcube had provided evidence of the funds which  Company A had raised  and 
although there was a slight discrepancy (about £500,000 of the £6 million mentioned 
in the pitch was in fact a bank loan), the investigator  didnt consider this wouldve 
made a material difference to the pitch itself. 
The additional funds  which had been promised as part of the merger were  not 
referred to in the pitch. 
Crowdcube wasnt required to consider  Company  As profitability  particularly 
considering the fact that the vast majority of companies raising funds in this way were 
new, or relatively new, start-up  companies and therefore unlikely to be profitable at 
such an early  stage.  
The second email  Mr D received was clear that he had a new deadline  by when he 
could withdraw from the investment  if he so wished. There  was no required for 
Crowdcube to assume that if he didnt respond  it meant  he didnt want to go ahead  or 
to void the transaction.  
Mr D didnt agree and so the case was passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusions as the investigator. 
In this case, the key issue in my view is the extent to which Company As pitch was fair, 
clear and not misleading. And, in particular,  whether the pitch exaggerated  or otherwise 
misled investors into thinking that Company A was merging with two other companies and 
that this merger would  attract additional  capital investment. 
Crowdcubes investor terms sets out the terms and conditions forming the basis of this 
relationship. These explain: 
8.2. The Investor  acknowledges  that Crowdcube  approves each Pitch  as a financial 
promotion but does not provide  advice or any form of recommendation regarding the 
suitability or quality of the Investment  
Ref: DRN837958048.3. The Investor acknowledges and accepts  that the Website includes a forum which is 
an integral part of an Investees  Pitch which is intended as a service to Investees to put them  
in contact with Investors, and thus that Crowdcubes investigation of the Investees and the 
content of their Pitches is limited, and accordingly Crowdcube makes  no warranty  or 
representation and assumes no liability in respect of the Investees or the content of their 
Pitches. The Investor must make his/her own assessment of the viability,  accuracy and 
prospects of the Investees, their Pitches,  and any relevant investment propositions and 
should consult  his/her  professional advisers should  he/she require any assistance in making  
such an assessment or should the Investor require any services  whatsoever in connection 
with Crowdcube. In particular, the attention of the Investors is drawn to the disclaimer, risk 
warning and regulatory notice on each Pitch.  
Its clear from the investor terms that Crowdcube  provides potential investors with different 
investment opportunities by way of pitches, but importantly, it gives no advice or 
recommendations to its investors. Ultimately, the decision to invest is made at the investors 
own risk and Crowdcube encourages them to do their own research. This is also explained 
in Crowdcubes  due diligence charter:  
Crowdcube does not endorse any of the businesses raising finance on the platform, nor do 
we provide investment advice of any description,  so before deciding to invest we strongly  
encourage all Crowdcube members to undertake their own research  and if there is 
uncertainty, to receive independent advice before investing. 
Crowdcube also has risk warnings on its platform to ensure  investors are made aware of the 
risks involved in investing via crowdfunding. The following  risk warning was provided on 
Crowdcubes platform at the time Mr L invested  in Company A: 
Investing in start-ups and early stage businesses  involves  risks,  including illiquidity, lack of 
dividends, loss of investment  and dilution,  and it should be done only as part of a diversified 
portfolio.
This included a link to read Crowdcubes  full risk warning  which provided more  detail of the 
risks involved. 
In addition to these terms, Crowdcube also needed  to comply with the wider  regulatory 
landscape. For completeness,  Ive set it out below  as it applies to this case:
Regulatory and legal framework 
At the time of promoting Company As investment opportunity, Crowdcube was authorised 
and regulated by the FCA. The relevant rules and regulations FCA regulated firms  are 
required to follow are set out in the FCAs Handbook  of rules and guidance.
The FCA Principles for Business  (PRIN) set out the overarching requirements  which  all 
authorised firms are required to comply with. PRIN  1.1.1G, says The Principles apply  in 
whole or in part to every firm. The Principles themselves are set out in PRIN  2.1.1R. The 
most relevant principles  here are:
PRIN 2.1.1R (2) A firm must  conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence. 
PRIN 2.1.1R (6) A firm must  pay due regard  to the interests of its customers  and 
treat them fairly.
Ref: DRN83795805PRIN 2.1.1R (7) A firm must  pay due regard  to the information  needs of its clients,  
and communicate  information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading.
Crowdcube was also required to act in accordance with the rules set out in the Conduct of 
Business Sourcebook  (COBS). And the most relevant obligations  here are:
COBS 2.1.1R (1) A firm must act honestly,  fairly  and professionally in accordance  
with the best interests of its client.  
COBS 4.2.1R (1) A firm must ensure that a communication  or a financial promotion  
is fair, clear and not misleading.  
So before approving Company As promotional material,  Crowdcube  needed  to satisfy itself 
that the material itself was fair, clear and not misleading. And it also needed to be satisfied 
that by approving the promotion  and allowing its customers to invest in Company  A, it would 
continue to be acting  in its clients best interests.  
In order to satisfy itself of the fair, clear and not misleading nature  of the claims or assertions 
made in the promotional material itself,  Crowdcube  would need  to carry out reasonable 
checks. What these reasonable checks involve, or indeed what  they might  be in any given 
case, is something which is very much left to each provider  to determine and would vary 
according to the particular  circumstances. Its clear that it wasnt  the regulators intention  to 
provide a set of tick boxes which needed  to be completed for a promotion to be approved. 
Ive also borne in mind  that the FCA said the following  in its July 2018 consultation paper on 
loan-based (peer-to-peer) and investment-based crowdfunding platforms:
It is our view that it will be unlikely  that a platform could argue that it has met its obligations 
under Principle 2, Principle  6 (PRIN 2.1.1R)  and the clients  best interests rule (COBS 
2.1.1R), if it has not undertaken enough  due diligence to satisfy  itself on the essential  
information on which any communication  or promotion is based.
Whilst I appreciate Mr D had invested  prior to the publication of the consultation  paper and 
guidance, I consider  the paper clarifies the applicable rules and guidance at the time  rather 
than setting new ones.  
In looking at the pitch and the due diligence which Crowdcube carried  out, Im satisfied 
Crowdcube did take all relevant  actions to ensure that Company A wasnt  making  misleading  
statements in its pitch. 
In my view the evidence indicates that the merger had in fact taken place in May 2018   and 
this is referred to in the administrators  report. Its clear that not all operations had fully 
merged by the time Company As pitch was approved, but I dont agree that it was 
misleading to suggest that a merger had taken place when Company A had in fact bought  
the two companies  it had referred to. In my view Crowdcube couldnt have anticipated that 
third parties would later renege on contracts  agreed as part of the merger. 
Ive also considered Mr Ds points about  the funds referred to in the pitch. The pitch claims 
that existing investments had been raised,  and in my view the evidence indicates that 
Company A had benefitted from £5.5 million  of investment prior to the promotion. This was in 
Ref: DRN83795806the form of convertible  loan notes and debentures from existing shareholders, as well as a 
£500,000 loan facility from Company As bank. This information was also set out in the legal 
review document  that was sent to Mr D. So Im not persuaded  it was misleading for the pitch 
to have made reference to these funds  and it seems to me Crowdcube  did what  was 
required to ensure that this claim was fact checked.  
Finally, Ive carefully considered Mr Ds points about the two cooling off emails  he received. I 
understand that the second  email in particular raised issues  to do with the valuation of the 
company and the fact that the merger had not yet been fully integrated. Mr D has said that 
he considered  he was already legally bound by the previous email that had given  2 August 
2018 as a deadline, but I dont agree it was reasonable for him to conclude that. 
I think the second email  he received was clear  that he had another  deadline by when he 
could decide to withdraw from the investment if he so wished. And I consider  that if he had 
any doubts about this, he couldve either exercised the option  to withdraw, or contacted 
Crowdcube to double check that he was indeed entitled to. Had he done so, he would not 
have suffered the investment loss he is now claiming for. I dont agree that Crowdcube ought 
to have positioned the email as an opt-in, or assume  that no response meant investors  didnt 
want to go ahead. As a result, Mr D remained  invested, with the possibility that the 
investment may turn out to be profitable. With the benefit of hindsight  that unfortunately 
didnt turn out to be the case   but I cannot  take hindsight into account  when  deciding  what  
is fair and reasonable. 
To be clear, I have sympathy  for Mr Ds situation  and the losses he has experienced on this 
investment. Its clear,  looking at all the evidence, that a number of things did not materialise  
after the crowdfunding round which were  key to Company As prospects of success.  But 
unfortunately I consider this is a common risk of investing in companies of this nature  and 
Im not persuaded it would be fair to hold Crowdcube responsible  for that. 
For all these reasons I dont uphold this complaint. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 April 2021.
Alessandro Pulzone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8379580