K820x#14complaint
Mr R is unhappy that Optimum Credit Limited  has reported a late payment on his mortgage 
to credit reference agencies.
background
Mr R has a mortgage with Optimum that was taken out in March 2018. The mortgage 
repayments are due on the 21st of each  month.  A direct debit was in place  to collect  these 
repayments. Payments  were made later that the due date in August 2018, November 2018  
and January 2019, but on each occasion  were made up before the end of the calendar 
month.
In February 2019  Optimum tried to claim the monthly payment by direct  debit.  This was 
returned unpaid  as the direct debit had been cancelled.  The missing payment  was then 
made in early March  2019. As it was not made up before the end of February  2019,  
Optimum reported  the payment as late to credit reference agencies.
Mr R complained to Optimum as he felt it was unfair  the payment had been reported  as late. 
He said that hed been unavailable  due to a bereavement which is why the missed payment 
was not made sooner. He also said hed been  told previously that if he made up the payment 
within a month then it wouldnt be reported  as late.
Optimum said it didnt  think  it had done  anything wrong. It said that the payment was made 
late  outside  of the calendar month it was due - and it has a duty to report  accurate 
information to credit reference agencies. It also said it had discussed similar issues  with 
Mr R previously, when other  payments had been  made marginally late. And it felt Mr R was 
aware of how and when it reported information to credit reference agencies  that this was 
done at the end of each calendar  month  so payments would only be reported as late if they 
remained outstanding  after this. It also said Mr R had previously been  given the option  of 
changing his repayment date but had declined.
Mr R then asked our service to look into his complaint. He said that as Optimum reported  
information at the end of each month to credit reference agencies,  and his payment due date 
was towards the end of the month,  he had a shorter window to make up a missed  payment 
compared to customers whose payments were due at the start of the month.  So he thought 
this placed him at an unfair disadvantage  to other  customers.
An investigator considered what had happened. Having done so he didnt think Optimum 
had done anything wrong. He said that although  he sympathised with the reasons why the 
payment wasnt made sooner, as it was late he felt Optimum was entitled  to report  it as 
such. And from listening to calls between the two parties he thought  Mr R had been made 
aware of Optimums reporting  procedure and been  offered  the option of changing his 
repayment date.  
Mr R asked for his complaint to be reviewed as he still felt Optimum  was not acting fairly and 
should show more  compassion. As a result his complaint has been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN86242282Optimum has said that its policy regarding late payments is that provided  the missed  
payments were made  up before the end of the calendar month  in which  they were due, 
information would not be reported  to credit reference  agencies. But if they werent made until 
after that, they would be reported  as late.
Ive listened to the phone calls between  Mr R and Optimum  after payments were  missed in 
August 2018,  November  2018 and January 2019.  Having  done so I think  the information  
Optimum gave Mr R about its policy on reporting  late payments was clear.  Mr R has 
acknowledged he may have misunderstood  how long hed have to make  up repayments. But 
I dont think this was caused by anything  Optimum said.
Mr R says he thinks the policy isnt fair as those with payment  due dates later in the month  
have less time to make  up payments. But businesses have an obligation to report  accurate 
information to credit reference agencies. Optimums policy of providing a grace  period 
before anything is recorded with credit reference  agencies is done at its own discretion. And 
I dont think it is unreasonable. 
Turning to the circumstances of the missed payment in February  2019,  it isnt in dispute  that 
the payment was not made on the due date.  So it was late. It wasnt made  until the following 
calendar month, so Optimum has reported  it as late in line with its internal policy. 
Ive thought about what Mr R has said about  circumstances  that led to the delay in making 
the repayment and the bereavement  hes suffered. I am sorry for his loss and I have a great 
deal of sympathy for the situation he found himself  in. But as the payment was not made by 
the due date I think the information reported  by Optimum, that it was late, is true. It has 
followed its internal  policy when doing this and made the decision not to make an exception 
here. And as the information is strictly  correct and its policy  regarding  a grace period is 
discretionary, I cant fairly require it to amend  the information it has reported. 
my final decision
While I know Mr R feels strongly about this and Im sorry to disappoint him, for the reasons 
given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 August 2019.
Ben Stoker
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8624228