K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that National  Westminster  Bank  Plc did not make it clear that he couldnt 
make online payments without a card reader and they didnt  send him one when he opened 
his account. He is also unhappy  with the service he received  when he got in touch with them 
about this.
background
In November 2018 Mr H opened a current account with NatWest  online. Towards  the end of 
the month he needed to make various payments out of that account. Mr H says when he 
tried to complete  the transactions using his mobile app, he was referred  to the online 
banking system because the payments  were  in excess of £250.  When  he tried to make  
payments online,  he was told that he needed to first request a card reader device  and that 
this would take 5-7 working days to arrive. 
Mr H was due to travel abroad the next day. He says that at no point prior to this time had he 
been told that he would need a card reader to make payments. And he complains that no 
card reader was issued when he opened  the NatWest account.
So he contacted the NatWest webchat facility. Mr H says the service was poor. And he says 
he was told that he could either go to a branch or call NatWest to make his payments. 
Mr H says he was unable  to go to a branch because he was at work. So he phoned NatWest 
several hours later. He was told on this call that he could not make payments  over the phone 
without a card reader. So hed been given incorrect information by NatWest  on the webchat. 
And Mr H says the NatWest advisor  was rude in handling this phone  call. 
So Mr H had to order a card reader and wait to be able to access his funds. He had to ask 
friends and family to help with some of the payments he needed to make.  He says his credit  
card payments and rent were late. Mr H says he was caused stress and inconvenience by 
what happened and wants to be compensated for this.
NatWest say that Mr H chose to open  his account online so he did not have an opportunity  
to talk to bank staff.  But the NatWest website clearly  explains the need for the card reader as 
a security device and a layer of protection against  fraud.
NatWest accepted that the service Mr H had received  was not as it should have been. They 
apologised and paid him £25 compensation.
Our adjudicator thought NatWest had treated Mr H fairly. She thought that all the information  
about the card reader  was online and shed not seen any evidence of financial penalty  for 
late payments. On the issue of poor service  from NatWest, thered been no evidence of the 
webchat transcript and our adjudicator was satisfied with how the NatWest  advisor had 
handled the call when Mr H phoned them. But she thought that Mr H had been  
inconvenienced by having been  given wrong information as he phoned NatWests  call centre  
to make payment  only to find out he couldnt.  She explained that NatWest accepted that 
Mr H had been caused trouble and upset and theyd  paid him £25 which  she thought  was 
fair and reasonable. 
Mr H does not agree. So this case  has been  passed to me for review.
 
Ref: DRN82499352my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Mr H clearly  feels very strongly about 
what happened. And thats not surprising. Hed had important payments to make and it must 
have been frustrating and stressful to find that he could not do these transactions in the way 
hed planned.  But I do not uphold this complaint  and I shall explain my reasons. While I may 
not refer to every point  made by the parties, I have referred to those I consider most relevant 
to my decision.
card reader
The first issue is about  the requirement of the card reader for online payments. Mr H says 
that NatWest had not made him aware  of this. But he chose to open  his account with them  
online which,  while convenient, means  he did not have the opportunity to talk to bank staff. 
Information about the need for the card reader  is on NatWests  website.  While  I understand 
Mr Hs frustration, I cant fairly say that NatWest  have  done anything wrong because the 
information about the card reader was available online  for him to read. 
And while Mr H says that NatWest should  send all new customers a card reader, not all 
customers want one. Sending them out without  being requested could  also compromise the 
security of customer accounts. So I dont think I can say that NatWest were  unreasonable  in 
not automatically sending Mr H a card reader when he opened his account.
customer service
Mr H says that the service  he received on the webchat was poor. The transcript is not 
available so I am unable to comment  on the tone of the communication. But on Mr Hs 
account, he says he was told that one of his options for making payments was to phone 
NatWest. He did in fact go on to make  this call and found out that he could not make 
payments without the card reader over the phone. So, on balance, it does look like he was 
given incorrect information  during  the webchat.
I have listened  to the call recording of when  Mr H phoned NatWest. But while I appreciate  
that it must  have been frustrating for him to find that he needed the card reader to make a 
payment over the phone  too, I dont  agree that the call handler was rude. He tried to assist  
but was unable to help Mr H in the way he wanted.
compensation
Ive said that I find, on balance,  that Mr H was given incorrect  information  in the webchat 
about being able to make a payment over the phone. NatWest  have accepted that their 
customer service  wasnt  what it should have been.  They have apologised and paid £25 to 
Mr H which  I think is fair and reasonable. 
I appreciate that Mr H says that the impact  of not being able to make his payments  included  
financial difficulty, threats from his landlord, and that he needed to borrow  money from 
friends and family. He describes  this as being  traumatic  and humiliating. While I havent 
seen supporting evidence on each of these points, I dont doubt  that Mr H experienced 
inconvenience and stress because he couldnt  carry out his transactions without the card 
reader. But I dont think I can fairly say that this is down to NatWest  because - as Ive said - 
information about the card reader was online. 
Ref: DRN82499353I know Mr H will be disappointed,  but in my view NatWest have acted fairly and reasonably. 
So I wont  be asking them to do anything more.
 
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 June  2019.
Sonia Kalsi
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8249935