K820x#14complaint
Mr F says American Express Services Europe Limited mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out by post in 2000. The policy  was taken  out at 
the same  time as Mr F applied for a credit card. It gave him accident, sickness and 
unemployment protection. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr F disagreed so the complaint was passed to 
me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to complaints  about  the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Fs complaint.  Ill explain why. 
Mr F ticked a box indicating that he wanted PPI on the application form for his Amex 
card. And I cant find anything on the form that I think could reasonably have led him 
to believe it was mandatory. On balance, Im satisfied  Amex  made it clear to Mr F 
that PPI was optional and he chose  to take it.
Amex didnt recommend the PPI to Mr F, so it didnt have to check if it was suitable 
for him. It was up to him to decide,  given the other  ways he had to make his 
repayments if he wasnt working.
 
Its possible Amex didnt give Mr F all the information about  the PPI that he needed 
before he made his decision. But it seems Mr F chose to take out the policy  and so 
appears to have wanted this type of cover.  He wasnt  affected by any of the 
exclusions or limitations and the policy was competitively priced  and apparently 
affordable. Mr F wasnt entitled to any sick pay and the PPI would have paid out for 
up to 24 months if he was sick, had an accident  or lost his job. So, given his 
circumstances and the policy terms, I think it unlikely  Mr F wouldve made a different 
decision if better information had been provided.  
This means  Amex doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr F. But Amex  has 
paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr F because: 
Amex got a high level of commission and profit share (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr F about that. Because Amex didnt tell Mr F, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Amex has paid back the amount of commission  and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN80937482my final decision
My decision  is I dont  uphold this complaint. The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so American 
Express Services Europe Limited does not have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to 
Mr F.
But American Express Services  Europe  Limited  does have to pay back to Mr F any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand 
it has already done this, so I dont award any further  compensation.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 October  2019 .
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8093748