K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains Caxton FX Ltd will not refund some  disputed  transactions.
background
Mr B held an account with Caxton.   His daughter  was an additional card holder on the 
account  so she had her own card and PIN.
Whilst on holiday abroad, Mr C says that his daughters card was stolen along  with other 
belongings. Some  ATM transactions were attempted   one being successful and the others  
failing because there were insufficient  funds in the account. There was also a smaller point 
of sale transaction.
When Mr B reported the matter to Caxton, he was told that he was being held liable for the 
transactions. It said they were only possible because the thieves had had knowledge of the 
PIN.  Caxton said Mr Bs daughter had been negligent in not keeping the PIN secure and so 
she was in breach  of the account  terms and conditions.
Mr B then came to this service.  Our investigator  did not think  Mr Bs daughter could be said 
to have failed  to keep her PIN safe  either with intent or with gross negligence  and he 
asked that Caxton refund the disputed  transactions, pay interest  at the statutory rate and re-
structure Mr Bs account back  to the point before the transactions  occurred.
Caxton did not agree with our investigators view so asked  for an ombudsmans  decision.  In 
doing so, it re-iterated its point regarding negligence.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint  and based on what  I have seen, I intend to 
uphold this complaint  and for very much the same reasons as the investigator.
Caxton knows and must accept (based on the evidence presented)  that these transaction 
complained of are unauthorised.  It must  accept  that to be the case  because in rejecting Mr 
Bs complaint, it relies on negligence  not authority.
So, turning  then to the issue of negligence - for me to make a finding that Mr Bs daughter 
acted with intent  in failing to keep  her card and PIN safe, I must find that she deliberately 
gave these away to a third person.  I dont think I can make  that finding  based on the 
evidence I have seen.
And for me to make a finding  of gross negligence (which is the test which Caxton need to 
satisfy), I need to find that she acted in a way which showed a serious  disregard of or 
indifference to an obvious risk (Mance J. in Red Sea Tankers  Ltd v Papachristidis [1997] 2 
Lloyds Rep 547,586).
Again, based  on what I have seen, I cannot  make  that finding  either.
So, in the circumstances, I find that the transactions were unauthorised because  Mr Bs 
daughter had not consented to them.  I also find that she has not acted with intent or gross 
negligence with regards  her card and PIN.
Ref: DRN88730402On that basis, I think Caxton has been unfair in holding her liable and so must refund these 
transactions to the account.  It must also pay interest on that amount and recalculate the 
account to place Mr B back in the position he would have  been in had the transactions  not 
taken place.
In addition, I am also minded to make  an award  of £100 for the distress and inconvenience  
that has been caused by Caxtons handling of this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
Caxton FX Ltd must:
-Refund the disputed transactions to Mr B.
-Pay 8% interest from the date of the transactions  to the date of settlement
-Rework the account so that any interest  and charges relating to these transactions  
are refunded
-Pay Mr B £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 February  2020.
Shazia Ahmed
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8873040