K820x#14complaint
Mr D is unhappy with the compensation Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) has offered  to settle his 
complaint about  a mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  connected with his 
credit card account.
background
Mr D took out a credit card with Lloyds in 1989. The PPI was taken out later,  in July 2000. 
The PPI ended in September 2009.
Mr D complained to Lloyds the PPI was mis-sold and it agreed to uphold his complaint and 
pay him compensation. It offered  £13,346.54 after tax which it paid direct to his account.
Mr D wasnt happy with the compensation offered. He felt that Lloyds had provided very poor 
customer service  in dealing with his account  over many years  and he was unhappy that a 
debt he owed on his credit card had been referred  to a debt collection agency.  So Mr D 
wanted Lloyds  to pay the balance owing on his credit card and a further £2,500.00 in 
compensation, in addition  to the compensation it had offered for the mis-sold PPI.
Lloyds didnt agree  to pay any further compensation and Mr D brought his complaint to this 
service. 
Our adjudicator said they thought Lloyds offer was fair. Mr D didnt agree and asked for an 
ombudsman to look at his complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ds case.
Lloyds has agreed  to settle  Mr Ds complaint that the PPI was mis-sold, so in this decision 
Im not looking at how it came to be sold. Im only looking  at the compensation paid by 
Lloyds to see if it is fair to put Mr D as far as possible  in the position he wouldve been in if 
he hadnt taken  out the PPI.
During the complaint Mr D has raised  issues about poor customer  service  and account 
management in dealing with his card account. And he has also said he is unhappy that his 
account was passed to a debt management  company  in 2018 after it seems he had 
problems making payments towards  his account.
These issues were not directly caused by the PPI. Therefore  Im not considering these  
issues in this complaint.  I am only looking at the PPI mis-sale compensation and how that 
should be fairly calculated. 
I have seen the calculations Lloyds has done  to work out what Mr D paid for the PPI. In fact 
Mr D himself provided a copy of these when  he first submitted his complaint to this service, 
so he has seen them. The calculations show a reconstruction of the account from July 2000 
through to January 2018 when the compensation was calculated.  I understand it was paid to 
Mr D in February 2018.
Ref: DRN81397242In its calculation Lloyds  has worked out how much Mr D paid in premiums  and interest  for 
the PPI. It has also included 8% simple  interest for any periods Mr D was out of pocket for 
the cost of the PPI; and it has deducted  basic rate tax from this as required by HM Revenue  
and Customs.
So the total of £13,346.54 includes everything Mr D paid for the PPI from July 2000  to 
September 2009 plus compensatory  interest  for being out of pocket. This is what  I would 
expect and I think the amount is fair. 
I have noted Mr Ds recent comments following referral for an ombudsmans decision  and 
would indicate  the following in response:-
Mr D has said he thinks  the PPI was calculated from 2003 and therefore must be 
incorrect. The calculations provided  by Lloyds, and also by Mr D, to this service show  
the PPI and compensation was worked out from July 2000. So the calculation start 
date is correct.
Mr D says monthly statements for the credit card were  not available  from 2003 to 
2018. Lloyds have provided  copies  of some statements from 2000 which show 
payments for the PPI only started  in the July. These have  been provided to Mr D. 
Accurate data for the whole period the PPI was active is available for the 
calculations.
Mr D has also repeated his concerns about the debt collection agents being 
appointed and provided a copy  of a letter from them dated November 2018. When 
the full compensation of over £13,000  for the PPI was calculated  in 2018, the card 
account appears to have  only recently had payments missed. Mr D could have 
chosen to clear the balance on the credit  card account, some  of which  was for the 
PPI, with this compensation payment made  to him in February  2018.  However  it 
seems he chose  not to do this. The PPI was not the cause of Mr Ds financial 
problems and it is not the direct cause of him being chased for debts after the 
compensation in full was paid. Mr D has been  informed other issues, not directly  
linked to the PPI, can be looked  at separately.
Overall I think  what Lloyds has worked  out and paid in compensation for the mis-sold PPI to 
Mr D is fair. I have  seen nothing to show that the PPI caused any additional losses  for Mr D 
or anything  to persuade me the mis-sold PPI caused  any further trouble  and upset beyond  
that normally expected when bringing a complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  I think what Lloyds Bank PLC has paid in compensation 
to Mr D is fair for the mis-sold PPI on his credit card. So Im not telling Lloyds Bank PLC to 
do anything further.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 July 2019.
Ref: DRN81397243Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8139724