K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs T complain  St Andrews Insurance Plc (St Andrews) refused to pay their 
household insurance claim. 
Mr and Mrs T have  had various representatives throughout the claim, including their son 
Master T. For simplicity Ive referred to these representatives actions as though they were 
taken by Mr and Mrs T. Although, Ive referred to some  actions  of Master Ts as his own. 
background 
In April 2019 I issued  a provisional  decision.  Ive attached a copy  as it forms part of this final 
decision. In it I said why I intended  to require St Andrews  to reinstate Mr and Mrs Ts policy,  
consider their escape of water claim, remove any record of fraud or cancellation and pay 
them £750  compensation.  I also asked  St Andrews and Mr and Mrs T if they had anything 
further to provide before I made my final decision.  
St Andrews  accepted my provisional decision. Mr and Mrs Ts son, Master T, responded on 
their behalf.  They accepted my provisional decision in general, but wanted me to consider 
some further  points. 
After considering what they provided  I said St Andrews should cover  some,  but not all, of 
the £5,700 cost of Mr and Mrs Ts legal representation. I said £1,500  would be a reasonable 
amount. At that point  the legal costs had been covered by Master  T. I said I could only 
require St Andrews to cover any of those fees if they had actually been a cost to 
Mr and Mrs T. This meant it would  only need  to pay the £1,500 if they can show they have 
reimbursed Master T.
St Andrews  accepted what I said about the legal costs. Mr and Mrs T were pleased  Id said 
St Andrews  should  reimburse some of their legal costs  but felt it should cover more.  Ive 
responded to those  comments  below. Ive also, where I feel it necessary, addressed  the 
other comments they made in response  to my provisional decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Master T said in response to my provisional  decision  that he wants  the money he says he 
spent on mould removal  works to be reimbursed.  He also said some  of the mould  
decontamination work still needs to be done. And that Mr and Mrs T would like a cash  
settlement for some items.  
Its important to note I didnt, in my provisional  decision, say St Andrews needed to pay the 
claim. I only said it should reconsider it in line with the remaining terms of the policy  (ie. 
without reference  to the fraud terms). This means  I didnt  say what, if any, part of the claim it 
should pay. And I havent said if it should  settle  by replacing items or with cash. If 
Mr and Mrs T want St Andrews to reimburse  what Master T says hes paid to cover  damage, 
cover any other damage or settle  in a particular way they will need  to raise this with 
St Andrews.  If they are unhappy with its response  they could consider making a complaint. 
  
Ref: DRN85455912Mr and Mrs T said they had a separate claim for damage to a driveway refused as a result of 
their policy being  cancelled. They now want this to be paid. Ive said the policy  should  be 
reinstated. If they want any other  claims to be considered under their policy  they will need to 
contact St Andrews. Again if they arent  happy  with its response they could consider making 
a complaint.   
In my provisional decision,  in reference  to the mould removal  works, I said In any event he, 
nor his parents,  has asked for that money to be reimbursed. As I said above  Master T has 
now said he wants that to happen. Despite this I still dont think  it would  be fair and 
reasonable for St Andrews to refuse  Mr and Mrs Ts claim on the basis  of fraud. 
St Andrews  accepted the method statement was reasonable  so it accepted  the work 
needed doing. I still think its likely it was. St Andrews hasnt shown that it wasnt.  I still 
accept its possible Master  T didnt pay as much  as he says he did. But for the claim to be 
fraudulent or exaggerated  St Andrews  would need  to show  on balance that the amount now 
being claimed for is more than Master T did pay. It hasnt shown that.      
In my provisional decision I said St Andrews should  pay Mr and Mrs T £750 to recognise  the 
unnecessary trouble  and upset its caused  them.  In response they said thats not enough.  As 
I said previously another ombudsman looked  at St Andrews actions up until mid-2016. He 
didnt award any compensation for what had happened up until then. I also said I could 
understand why St Andrews had concerns about  the claim.  Ive considered whats  
happened to Mr and Mrs T - but I still think £750 is enough to recognise this.
Mr and Mrs T asked  that St Andrews cover the cost of the solicitor that represented them 
through some of the claim and the complaint. They provided information  to show  about  
£5,700 has been charged and paid. I think it was reasonable  for them to take on professional  
legal support  they were an elderly  couple facing an accusation  of fraud and refusal  of a 
fairly significant claim. Fraud is a serious  and complex accusation that can have 
consequences beyond  the claim decision itself. But ultimately St Andrews didnt show  that it 
cause fairly  refuse the claim for fraud.  So its reasonable for it to cover  some of the solicitors  
costs. 
I said £1,500 would  be a fair and reasonable amount. Mr and Mrs T said they think  the full 
amount should  be covered by St Andrews. Ive considered what  they have  said about this - 
but I still think £1,500 is a fair amount. I can understand why St Andrews had concerns. I 
also think the legal costs dont seem proportionate  to whats  taken place. Some  were 
charged for assistance  with bringing  the complaint to this service. That isnt something 
Mr and Mrs T should have needed the support of a solicitor for, particularly given the 
assistance available from Master T. So it wouldnt be reasonable to require St Andrews to 
cover the full costs.   
As I said before the legal fees were paid by Master T. Mr and Mrs T have provided a bank 
receipt they say shows £5,700 was paid from their account to Master  Ts to reimburse  him 
for those  costs. Unfortunately it doesnt  show whose  names  the two accounts  are in. 
St Andrews  will need  to pay Mr and Mrs T £1,500 to cover legal costs.  But it can, if it 
wishes, choose to do so only once its been  shown the two accounts are held by 
Mr and Mrs T and Master  T. St Andrews will need to add simple  interest,  at 8%, to the 
£1,500 from the date Mr and Mrs T paid Master T to the date of settlement.    
Ref: DRN85455913my final decision
For the reasons  given  above and in my provisional  decision, St Andrews Insurance  Plc will 
need to:
reinstate Mr and Mrs Ts policy (if it was cancelled or avoided),
consider their escape of water claim in line with the remaining terms of the policy (if 
any items are cash settled simple interest  at 8% will need to be added from the date 
of claim to the date of settlement*),
remove any record of fraud or cancellation  against Mr and Mrs T from any internal or 
external databases,  
pay Mr and Mrs T £1,500 for the their legal  costs (If it wishes St Andrews can 
choose to only do this once its been shown Mr and Mrs T and Master T hold the 
accounts referred to above). It will need  to add simple interest at 8% from the date 
they reimbursed Master T to the date of settlement,*
pay them  £750 compensation  to recognise the unncessary trouble and upset its 
caused.
St Andrews  must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which  we tell it 
Mr and Mrs T accept  my final decision.  If it pays later than this it must  also pay interest  on 
the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple*.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 August 2019.
Daniel Martin
ombudsman
*HM Revenue & Customs requires  St Andrews  Insurance Plc to take off tax from this interest. 
St Andrews  Insurance  Plc must give Mr and Mrs T a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if 
they ask for one.
Ref: DRN85455914Copy Provisional Decision
complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain  St Andrews Insurance Plc (St Andrews) refused to pay their household 
insurance claim. 
background
In October 2013 Mr and Mrs T made a claim  on their St Andrews household  insurance policy. They  
said their home and contents had been  damaged by an escape of water.  They  were unhappy with 
St Andrews  enquiries into the claim. So they bought a complaint to this service. In October  2016 a 
different ombudsman here said the enquiries  were reasonable. He didnt think  St Andrews had 
caused any unreasonable delay.
In January 2017 St Andrews finished  its enquiries.  It accepted there had been an escape of water.  
But it felt the claim had been  fraudulently exaggerated. So its refused to pay it. Mr and Mrs Ts son 
provided information  to St Andrews during the claim. Ill refer to him as Master T. St Andrews said 
hed lied about paying  £12,000  for mould removal  works. It said hed been dishonest about speakers 
and DVDs he added to the claim. It also implied  a signature on a witness statement, said to be Mr Ts, 
had been forged.  It said Mr and Mrs T had failed  to provide  a satisfactory response to its concerns.
 
Mr and Mrs T feel St Andrews has acted unfairly. They want  it to pay their claim.  And theyd  like to be 
compensated for distress and inconvenience they feel its caused them.  
Our investigator said St Andrews hadnt done enough  to show the claim had been fraudulently  
exaggerated. So she said it should deal with the claim  in line with the remaining terms.  St Andrews 
didnt accept that.
Mr and Mrs T have  had various representatives throughout the claim,  including Master  T. For 
simplicity Ive referred to these representatives actions as though they were  taken by Mr and Mrs T. 
Although, Ive referred to some actions of Master Ts as his own. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
St Andrews  has relied on fraud terms in the policy to refuse  the claim. It seems it may also have 
cancelled the policy back to the date of the escape of water.  It says the claim was pursued in a 
fraudulent and dishonest way. Fraud is a serious  accusation that can have consequences  beyond the 
claim decision  itself. So St Andrews should only rely on fraud conditions when there is strong reason 
to do so. In this decision I havent decided  if the claim was fraudulent  or not. 
Instead Ive considered whether St Andrews has been fair and reasonable in its treatment of 
Mr and Mrs T  and that includes its decision to rely on the fraud terms. Having done so, I dont think  
its shown there is strong reason for it to do so. So I dont think its treated  them  fairly and reasonably. 
Because of that I intend to decide St Andrews needs to consider the claim in line with the remaining  
terms of the policy.  
This service has a remit to consider complaints informally. So in this decision I havent referred to 
every point Mr and Mrs T or St Andrews has made. But Ive considered everything else thats been 
provided. I just dont  think its necessary to refer to it all here.  
St Andrews  had a number  of concerns about this claim.  But its relied on four specific ones to refuse 
the claim. Ive considered these. 
Ref: DRN85455915DVDs
Master T was assisting  his parents with their claim. In April 2014 he emailed St Andrews  to add some 
items to it. The list included hi-fi speakers and DVDs he said had been damaged irreparably.
St Andrews  doesnt accept  the DVDs  were damaged in the escape of water.  So it says their addition 
is fraudulent. Its reasons  for this seem to be as follows. That Mr and Mrs T failed to provide original 
digital versions of photos  of the DVDs.  That they failed  to provide an itemised list of the DVDs. That 
their explanation of where and how the DVDs were  kept isnt plausible. And that DVDs  kept in a 
drawer, as Mr and Mrs T say some were, wouldnt be damaged by an escape of water.     
Mr and Mrs T provided photos of the DVDs. St Andrews  wanted to see digital versions of them. It 
wanted to check, by looking  at the metadata,  what date the photos were taken. It says Mr and Mrs T 
failed to provide these.  They  say they did send them. Correspondence Ive seen, including emails to 
St Andrews  from Mr and Mrs Ts representatives, supports them being sent. 
Mr and Mrs T have  provided  this service with at least one of these digital  photos. It shows an original 
photo date of mid December 2013  a few months after the incident and before mould 
decontamination works. It shows the same cabinet and electrical items that appear in other photos of 
Mr and Mrs Ts home. It shows a mixture of DVDs and some recordable video tapes. I dont know why 
St Andrews  didnt receive the digital  photos,  but it looks like it wasnt Mr and Mrs Ts fault. Recently 
St Andrews  has questioned why Mr and Mrs T would take pre-loss  photographs of DVDs  in a drawer. 
But I cant see that they have provided  
St Andrews  with any photos  taken before the loss.  
St Andrews  says Mr and Mrs T have failed  to provide  a list of the DVDs. Ive seen a list. And from 
what Ive seen  it was sent to St Andrews in August 2015  some  time before  it finished  its enquiries.
St Andrews  say the explanation  given by Mr and Mrs T for how the DVDs were kept is implausible. I 
dont agree. Im not sure why it finds their explanation so difficult to follow. It seems some DVDs, in 
their cases and covers,  were  kept in the drawer  of a cabinet. Others,  also in their cases, were  kept on 
a shelf above. Some more  DVDs were kept,  without their cases and covers,  in a DVD folder.  
A photo shows a DVD folder  on a low coffee table shelf. The boxes for these  DVDs  were said to be 
undamaged as they were  stored  elsewhere.  St Andrews seems to think  this is very unlikely. But it 
seems reasonable to me. A purpose of such a folder is to allow a large  number of DVDs to be stored 
in a small space. So it makes sense that the boxes and covers  might be stored somewhere out of the 
way, for example in a different room.  
Their DVD  arrangements dont seem in any way unusual  to me. St Andrews says Mr and Mrs Ts 
explanation of this was only introduced late in the claim.  Even if it was it doesnt mean its not true. It 
seems plausible  and reasonable to me. And the photos support it. 
St Andrews  doubt DVDs in a draw or holder would  be damaged by the escape of water.  But 
Mr and Mrs T say the damage was from mould  contamination. It was a number  of months until mould 
removal took place. So it seems plausible  to me that items not damaged initially by the water were  by 
mould contamination over time as the room  and other items remained untreated.  Its not that 
uncommon for such items to be disposed  of to avoid further contamination.
So I dont think St Andrews has done  enough to show  the claim for the DVDs was fraudulent or 
exaggerated.        
stereo speakers
Master T also added a set of stereo speakers to the claim. He listed a high end set and said they 
were irreparable. He cost them at about £2,400. He encouraged St Andrews to check  photos  it had 
Ref: DRN85455916taken during a visit to verify the items.  When it did that it discovered the various speakers in the 
property were of different  brands and of a lower value. 
St Andrews  says Master T deliberately or recklessly misrepresented the speakers. He says it was a 
genuine mistake. He and Mr T have provided an explanation for the mistake.  They say the high end 
set of six speakers were, at different points, placed in Mr and Mrs Ts loft. Some  were moved due to 
their instability being a hazard to grandchildren. Others had been attacked  by the grandchildren with 
pens. So they put in a safer  place and replaced  with more  stable or cheaper speakers. Master  T says 
he bought the high end speakers for his father many years before  and was unaware they had been 
removed from the room.  
The explanation for the change of speakers  is a little convoluted, but its not implausible.  It seems 
Master T wasnt living with his parents when  the escape of water happened. They werent in the 
country when  he added the speakers to the claim.  So they werent there to make sure everything was 
accurate. He says the speakers that were damaged in the flooded room  had, by the time he added 
them to the claim, already  been removed from the property. So he assumed  the high end ones had 
been there. 
In addition a receipt for repair  of a pair of speakers, of the brand claimed for, has been provided. It 
supports for what Mr T says about  his grandchildren damaging them.    
I dont think its likely  Master T, if he was deliberately trying to claim for something his parents werent  
entitled to, would have  encouraged St Andrews  to look at its own photos to verify the claim. Overall 
St Andrews  hasnt done enough to show a deliberate and fraudulent claim was made  for the 
speakers. 
 
signature
St Andrews  requested Master T and Mr T provide statements to explain this speaker issue.  It says 
the signature on Mr Ts statement isnt his own. It thinks its been forged. To back  up its position it 
tried to get a handwriting experts support. But the expert didnt support 
St Andrews.  They couldnt  say that the signature was forged. 
But Mr and Mrs Ts solicitor says it drafted  the document under his instruction - and that he signed it. 
In addition Mr and Mrs T have provided  a statement  from an expert who found strong evidence  for 
the signature being genuine.  St Andrews  has tried to cast doubt on the experts assessment. But 
overall there isnt much to support its claim the signature isnt genuine.      
mould decontamination works
St Andrews  say Master T lied when  said he paid £12,000  for mould removal  works. It seems  from 
St Andrews  notes that he said he had arranged  this work in frustration with the insurers lack of 
progress on the claim. Correspondence from Mr and Mrs Ts loss assessor  supports this. It says the 
work was arranged outside  of the insurance claim to speed things  up.
Master T may well have paid for these works. But he hasnt provided much  to support  what he says. 
For example he has no receipt  for work  costing almost £10,000. The bank statements hes provided 
arent very helpful. One account is unnamed. The other, without explanation, has had the account  
holder name redacted. The dates of the withdrawals arent what might  be expected  being months 
after the date on an invoice. So I can understand why St Andrews has concerns about  whether  he did 
pay for the work. 
Its worth noting at this point  that soon after the escape of water Mr and Mrs Ts loss assessor 
provided a decontamination  and mould  removal method  statement. St Andrews own claims handler 
initially strongly  disputed its accuracy. He was certain that most  of the work was unnecessary and 
inflated. 
Ref: DRN85455917It seems,  from reading St Andrews notes, that its concern about the claim  originated  from its strong 
doubts about  the method  statement. But more than a year later the same claim  handler accepted the 
method statement was actually accurate   and that it had been him that was wrong.  Hed attended  a 
few training courses and said Worryingly both courses lean towards the method statement for 
Mr and Mrs T being largely accurate...  Although, he still believed the estimated costs of the work to 
be significantly overstated.
 
So it seems  the decontamination and drying  was required, despite St Andrews initial scepticism. It 
hasnt provided anything to show they didnt  take place.  So it seems likely to me that they did. 
Otherwise Mr and Mrs T would, years later, still have  unusable parts  of their home. That doesnt 
necessarily mean Master T did pay what he says he did.  
But importantly it doesnt seem Master T, Mr T or Mrs T ever asked St Andrews  to reimburse what  
Master T says he paid. Instead he seems to have said from early on that he was willing  to cover the 
costs himself. 
So I accept its possible  Master T did falsely say he paid £12,000. But its also possible  he genuinely 
did arrange  the work  and cover the costs himself - in frustration at St Andrews  failure to make 
progress with his elderly parents claim. In any event he, nor his parents, has asked for that money to 
be reimbursed. 
Overall St Andrews hasnt shown it has strong enough reason to rely on fraud terms to refuse  the 
claim. It hasnt  done  enough to make me think the claim for the DVDs or speakers probably  was 
fraudulently exaggerated. It hasnt shown  the witness statement to be fraudulent.  After those all thats 
left is payment for the mould removal and drying. But even  if Master T didnt pay what  he said he did it 
wouldnt be fair and reasonable to refuse his parents claim for that  particularly as St Andrews 
hasnt been asked to reimburse those costs.  
To put things right St Andrews  will need to take a number of steps. If it has cancelled  or avoided 
Mr and Mrs Ts policy it will need to reinstate  it. It will need to consider their claim in line with the 
remaining terms  of their policy. It will need to remove any record  from internal  or external databases.  
It will need  to remove any record of Mr and Mrs T having had a policy cancelled.   
St Andrews  will need to pay Mr and Mrs T some compensation to recognise the unnecessary  trouble 
and upset its caused them. A different ombudsman  has already  considered St Andrews actions up to 
the middle of 2016. He felt St Andrews  was making reasonable enquiries. So he didnt  award any 
compensation for how it had treated them up to that point. 
Since then St Andrews made further enquiries.  It decided in January 2017 not to pay the claim. I can 
understand why it had concerns about  the claim. But ultimately it hasnt shown it could fairly refuse 
the claim for fraud.  I think its likely  that decision has caused Mr and Mrs T some distress.  Being 
unfairly accused  of fraudulently exaggerating  a claim  would be distressing. That decision has caused 
additional and unnecessary delay to the claim.  So St Andrews  will need to pay them £750 to 
recognise this. 
    
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  given  above, I intend to require St Andrews Insurance  Plc to:
reinstate Mr and Mrs Ts policy  (if it was cancelled or avoided),
consider their escape  of water claim  in line with the remaining terms of the policy,
remove any record of fraud or cancellation against Mr and Mrs T from any internal amend 
external databases and 
pay them  £750 to recognise  the unncessary trouble and upset  its caused.
Daniel Martin
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8545591