K821x#15complaint
Mr M says MYJAR Limited  lent to him irresponsibly. He says he was in a cycle  of borrowing 
to repay  previous loans and MYJAR shouldve realised that further loans would not help his 
situation.
background
This complaint is about 4 payday and 3 instalment loans MYJAR  provided to Mr M between 
July 2015 and December 2017.
loan numberdate 
startedamount 
borrowednumber of 
instalmentsdate ended
1 24/07/2015 £100 1 14/08/2015
2 20/08/2015 £250 3 13/11/2015
3 17/11/2015 £200 3 15/02/2016
4 18/02/2016 £300 3 13/05/2016
5 17/05/2016 £575 6 15/11/2016
6 24/11/2016 £650 12 25/11/2017
7 08/12/2017 £300 6 written off
In its response to Mr Bs complaint MYJAR offered to refund  the interest and charges (plus 
interest) Mr B paid on loans 3 and 4. Mr B didnt accept this offer. 
Our adjudicator partially upheld the complaint. He didnt think  MYJAR was wrong to approve 
loans 1 and 2. And he thought MYJARs  offer about  loans 3 and 4 was fair, so no further 
award was recommended  for these loans.  He also thought MYJAR shouldnt  have approved  
loans 5 to 7. 
MYJAR disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr M 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  
These checks could take into account  a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early  stages  of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might  be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that MYJAR should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
Ref: DRN87971582the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
And the loan payments being  affordable  on a strict pounds and pence  calculation might be 
an indication  a consumer  could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow this is the case.  The industry regulator defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties  and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having  to borrow  
to meet  the repayments. And it follows that a lender  should realise,  or it ought  fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower  wont be able to make their repayments  sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments  without  borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ms complaint. Ive decided to uphold  Mr Ms 
complaint in part and have explained  why below.
Mr M didnt  disagree with our adjudicators opinion about whether loans 1 and 2 were  
granted irresponsibly. And MYJAR  has made an offer for loans 3 and 4. So I dont think 
there is any ongoing disagreement about these loans. 
So I wont  be making a decision  about loans 1 and 2. And I wont  comment  on whether 
MJYAR was right to approve loans 3 and 4. But these loans were  part of the borrowing 
relationship Mr M had with MYJAR. So they are something I will take into account  when 
considering the other loans he took.
I havent recreated individual, proportionate affordability checks  for loans 5 to 7 because I 
dont think that it is necessary to do so. Ive looked at the overall pattern of MYJARs  lending 
history with Mr M, with a view to seeing  if there  was a point at which MYJAR should 
reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so 
MYJAR should have  realised that it shouldnt have  provided any further loans. 
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Ms case,  I think that this point was reached  by loan 
5. I say this because:
up to loan 5 the amounts Mr M was borrowing had been generally increasing, and 
going forward Mr M was provided with a new loan within weeks of settling a previous 
one 
MYJAR ought to have  realised it was more likely than not Mr M was having to borrow 
further to cover  the hole repaying  his previous  loans  was leaving in his finances and 
that Mr Ms indebtedness  was increasing unsustainably.
Mr M wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed MYJAR. Loan  7 was 
taken out around a year and half Mr Ms first. And it was for a larger  amount. Mr M 
Ref: DRN87971583had paid large amounts of interest  to, in effect, service a debt to MYJAR over an 
extended period.
I think that Mr M lost out because MYJAR  continued to provide  borrowing from loan 5 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ms indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit over an extended  period of time
the sheer number  of loans was likely to have had negative  implications on Mr Ms 
ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market for these high-cost 
loans
So Im upholding  the complaint about  loans 5 to 7 and MYJAR should  put things right.
putting things right  what MYJAR needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr M paid on loans  3 to 7;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement*;
remove any negative information  about loans 3 and 4 from Mr Ms credit file;
the number  of loans taken from loan 5 onwards means any information  recorded 
about them  is adverse. So all entries  about  loans 5 to 7 should be removed from 
Mr Ms credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires MYJAR to take off tax from this interest. MYJAR must 
give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I partly uphold  Mr Ms complaint.
MYJAR Limited should put things right by doing what  Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 December 2019.
Andy Burlinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8797158