K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains about the method of calculation Legal & General Assurance Society Limited 
use to increase his annuity income  payments each year.  
background  
Mr H set up an annuity with Legal & General in 2010 which  benefits  from a 3% yearly  
escalation. He contacted Legal  & General in April 2018 as, based on his calculations,  his 
yearly annuity income was several  pence  lower than he expected it to be.
Legal & General provided Mr H a breakdown of how they calculated the 3% increase  to his 
annuity income for that year. Mr H complained about the matter as, after reviewing the 
calculations, he felt the method they use included additional and unnecessary rounding that 
was disadvantageous to him.
Legal & General reviewed their calculations, confirmed they were correct and provided  Mr H 
with a further explanation  of the method  they use to calculate annuity increases.
The complaint was brought to our service. Our adjudicator looked  in to it but he didnt  think  
the calculation  method  Legal & General  used  was unreasonable.  He said it ensures Legal  & 
General can pay the increase to annuitants as they cannot pay fractions of a penny.  And that 
although the rounding  within  the calculations will mean there are years  when Mr H may be 
slightly worse  off, there will be years when he may likewise be better off.
Mr H disagreed with the adjudicators view and so the matter has been passed  to me to 
review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate why Mr H is concerned about  the accuracy of his annuity payments. I think its 
reasonable for him to expect to receive  the amount hes entitled to and so the method used 
by Legal & General to calculate his 3% yearly escalation should be accurate. 
I would however at this point like to explain that the role of our service isnt to tell a financial  
business how to operate.  But rather we will direct  them to put things right when theyve done 
something wrong or have acted unfairly.  So my role here isnt to tell Legal & General to 
change how they calculate annuity escalation but Ill look at whether Mr H has been  unfairly  
disadvantaged due to the method  theyve used.
I understand Mr H is particularly concerned that after Legal  & General calculates the 3% 
yearly increase, based on the previous years annuity amount, they divide this by 12 and 
round the figure to the nearest whole pence to obtain the monthly payment increase. This is 
then multiplied by 12 and subsequently  added to the previous years  annuity amount before 
being made in to 12 equal monthly payments.  Mr H doesnt think  the step of calculating  the 
monthly payment  increase is required. He argues the 3% yearly increase can simply be 
added on to the previous years annuity  amount  and then be divided in to the 12 equal 
monthly payments.  He says this method is simpler as it requires less rounding  of figures  
which he thinks results in him losing out financially more  often  than not. 
Ref: DRN89908242The nature of a yearly  percentage  increase  means  that there will likely be a requirement to 
round figures as Legal & General cannot pay a fraction of a single pence. I appreciate 
however that Mr H thinks Legal & Generals method includes additional  rounding of figures 
that isnt necessary. Ive carefully  considered this issue and while  I acknowledge Mr Hs 
point that the method hes proposed is arguably simpler, I dont think the calculation method  
used by Legal & General  unfairly disadvantages him. Ill explain why.
When calculating an annuity  increase  Legal & General round up as well as down. This is 
dependent on what fraction  of a single pence is calculated.  Consequently this means that in 
some years rounding down may lead to the annuity  being marginally lower than the 3%. But 
likewise, in other years,  rounding up may lead to the annuity  being marginally higher than 
the 3%. So although  I know Mr H feels very strongly about this, I dont think the calculation 
method Legal  & General uses is inherently  unfair or biased.  And it therefore follows  that I 
consider it is a reasonable way for Legal  & General to calculate Mr Hs yearly annuity 
income in to 12 equal monthly payments. 
Mr H has questioned why Legal & General pays the yearly annuity amount in 12 equal 
payments. Hes made reference to his other pension provider that makes one payment 
slightly different to other 11 to ensure he receives the correct amount. Ive considered this 
point and although I cant comment on the actions  of the other pension  provider  as that 
isnt what Im considering  here  it still doesnt  change my view that the calculation  method 
Legal & General use isnt unfair. 
As Ive said,  its not for me to tell Legal & General how to operate  or how they should 
calculate annuity escalation. Theyve  made  a commercial decision in this respect and I dont 
necessarily think it is unreasonable for the yearly  annuity amount to be paid in 12 equal 
payments. So although  the 3% yearly increase wont be precisely accurate, as the rounding  
of figures is most likely going  to be required most  years,  I dont think the calculation  method 
Legal & General use is inherently  unfair or disadvantageous to Mr H. 
I realise Mr H will be disappointed by this outcome  but for the reasons Ive explained Im not 
asking Legal & General to do anything  further.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Daniel ODell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8990824