K820x#14complaint
Miss F complains that Bank of Scotland  Plc (BoS) mis-sold  her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy alongside a credit  card.
background
In 2018 Miss F complained to BoS that the PPI taken out alongside her credit card had been 
mis-sold. BoS didnt  uphold her complaint about the mis-sale and Miss F brought her 
complaint to this service.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Miss F disagreed  with the 
adjudicators view, so the case has been  passed  to me to consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Fs case. Having  done  so, Im not upholding the 
complaint for reasons  that Ill explain.
Miss F says at the time she applied  for her credit card insufficient  information was provided  
about the terms and conditions  of the policy, so she was unable  to make an informed choice 
about taking it out. Also she says it was never made  clear the policy  was optional and that 
she had a choice  whether  to take it out or not. Miss F has also said she didnt need the 
policy as she had good sick pay and benefits with her employment. 
BoS has provided a copy of the postal application form which Miss F completed  for her credit 
card. I can see that there was a section on the form headed Credit Card Repayments 
Cover where  Miss F has signed  separately  to take out the PPI. So from the way the form is 
set out I think Miss F knew  she had a choice and made the decision to take out the PPI.  
When the PPI was sold, it was taken  out through a postal application form that Miss F 
completed herself. BoS didnt recommend the PPI to Miss F, so it didnt have to check  that 
the PPI was right for her. But it did have to give her enough information  to decide for herself  
whether or not to take out the policy. I think its likely  that the information BoS gave to Miss F 
wasnt as good  as it should have  been. But from what I know  about  her circumstances at the 
time, I dont think better information would have changed her mind  about taking it. I say this 
because:-
Miss F would appear to have been  eligible for the PPI policy  and not affected by any 
of its main exclusions or limitations.
Miss F says she was entitled to good benefits and sick pay from her employer. But 
this policy would  have  paid out in addition to this, allowing her to use any sick pay to 
pay other living expenses. So I still think she would have thought  the policy gave her 
extra security which could  have  proved  useful  if things went  wrong.
Ive no reason to think the PPI premiums were  unaffordable for Miss F. And as these 
premiums were  paid monthly,  she could  have cancelled the policy  whenever she 
Ref: DRN82078362wanted to. And the benefits  available  under  the policy provided good  benefits related 
to the cost of the policy.
Ive taken into account everything M F has said about her work  benefits and the lack of 
information provided when she took out the policy but, for the reasons given above,  these  do 
not change my mind  and I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. So this means BoS doesnt have 
to refund everything  Miss F paid for the PPI.
BoS has already  offered to give Miss F back some  of the cost of the PPI and I dont  think it 
needs to do any more. I understand this has already been paid by cheque  in February 2019. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above  I dont uphold this case and Im not telling 
Bank of Scotland Plc to do anything more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 June  2019.
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8207836