K821x#15complaint
Mr G complains about the increase to the premium for the whole of life (WOL)  plan he took 
out through Sun Life Assurance  Company  of Canada  (U.K.)  Limited (previously Laurentian 
Life) as a result of a recent  review  of the plan.  Mr G says he was never advised that the 
premiums could increase  by so much.
background
Mr G took out a WOL plan in 1990 on a maximum cover basis. The plan included  an 
automatic increase option which meant the premium  and sum assured increased by 10% of 
the original amount for the first 10 years   so that Mr Gs premium  increased from £35 to £70 
and the sum assured from £120,000 to £240,000.
The plan passed the first review in 2002 and the subsequent one in 2007  so that no change  
to the premium was needed. The plan didnt pass the next review in 2012 and the premium 
needed to increase to £141 to keep the same  sum assured   which  Mr G agreed to. It also 
didnt pass the next review  in 2017 which required an increase in premium  from £141 to 
£288 if the sum assured  was to remain the same. It was this that prompted  Mr G to 
complain.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint a copy of which  is attached and forms a part 
of this final decision. I upheld the complaint. In short I wasnt satisfied Mr G shouldve been 
recommended a WOL plan on a maximum cover basis  and instead  shouldve been 
recommended a plan on a standard  cover basis which wouldve meant  higher premiums  at 
the start but less likelihood of a premium increase on review.
Mr G accepted my provisional  decision but Sun Life didnt. In summary it made  the following 
points:
Mr G indicated he was unhappy  paying the most  recent plan review  increase 
because the amount  of increase is too high, although he has agreed to pay this.
Its actuarial department has calculated the premium wouldve been £65 for a 
standard cover plan which  wouldve  increased  to £130 at the end of 10 years 
because of the automatic increase option.
It is unlikely Mr G wouldve agreed to the premium given he has complained about 
the increase on his wifes policy in 2017 when the premium went  up to £107.
A maximum sum assured plan offered a high level of cover for a much  lower 
premium at outset.
Given Mr G was married and expecting his first child it is likely he wouldve had 
greater need for cover  whilst his child was young.
Mrs G was on maternity leave at the time so there was only one family income so 
finances were likely to be tight at the outset whereas  higher  premiums in the future 
were likely to be more  affordable and there  was the possibility of Mrs G returning to 
work.
In the circumstances a maximum sum assured plan wasnt unsuitable for a family  
with a reduced income and higher outgoings.
There was an indefinite need for life cover until at least  retirement, which was over 30 
years away.
The plan is flexible  and the premiums/sum assured can be changed  between  
maximum and minimum levels.
Ref: DRN87428852It was common practice and part of the process for an adviser  to discuss  the various 
options and it is almost certain the adviser  wouldve  done this. So it believes Mr G 
wouldve been given  the option of a standard cover plan and instead decided to have  
the maximum sum assured plan.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered what Sun Life has said but I am not persuaded to change  my decision.  I 
will comment briefly  on the points it has raised.
I accept Mr G has complained because of the plan review that took place in 2017 because  
he is unhappy with the increase to the premium. Sun Life has suggested  that this means  he 
wouldnt have agreed to a higher premium at the outset. But it is the increase in the 
premium, which  he didnt  expect, which he is unhappy about. Im not persuaded this 
provides any evidence of what wouldve happened  at the time he was advised  or that he 
wouldnt have agreed a higher premium then.
If he had been  made  aware at the outset that the premium was going to be £65 he will have  
known this would increase to £130 at the 10 year point because of the automatic increase 
option hed chosen. So there wouldve been no surprise at the rise in the level of premium.  
So, in short, Im not persuaded that Mr Gs reaction to an unexpected increase  gives any 
indication that he wouldnt have agreed to the increased costs  of a standard cover plan at 
the outset.
Im also not persuaded that Mr G had a greater need for cover only whilst his child was very 
young. The review  wouldve  taken place before his childs 10th birthday so he wouldve been 
still very much a dependent on first review. And this takes no account  of the fact that this 
was Mr Gs first child so doesnt allow for the possibility for him having further children.
I acknowledge that Mrs G was on maternity leave at the time and it is possible there  was 
some financial  pressure.  But, as I noted  in my provisional decision, Mr G was being paid 
above the average wage  at the time and was employed in a relatively  stable industry. So Im 
not persuaded the fact Mrs G was on maternity leave means  Mr G wouldnt have been 
willing to pay the costs of a standard cover plan on the basis this was much  less likely to 
require an increase to premium at first, and subsequent, reviews.
I note what Sun Life has said about it being common practice  to go through  all the options 
and that this make it likely Mr G was made aware of the standard cover  option but chose the 
maximum sum assured  option instead. There is no evidence of what  the adviser discussed 
with Mr G other than the fact find which shows he recommended the maximum sum assured 
plan. And even if there was some mention of the standard cover  plan Im not persuaded that 
Mr G will have been told it was likely the maximum assured  plan would fail the first review 
and that the premium then payable would need to increase to keep the same sum assured. 
So Im not persuaded that Mr G wouldve been  able to make an informed choice about which  
type of plan would be best for him. 
What Sun Life should  do to put things right
Ref: DRN87428853Sun Life should calculate what  the premium would now be for a Standard  Cover  plan 
providing £120,000 of cover taken out in 1990  with automatic increases for 10 years and 
with waiver of premium option.  If Mr G wants to continue  the plan on a Standard Cover basis 
he will have  to pay that premium going  forward but does  not have to make up any shortfall in 
premium payments to date. Instead Sun Life will have to put whatever sum is necessary into 
the plan to reconstruct it accordingly.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  for the reason I have  explained  above and in my provisional decision. 
Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.)  Limited has to put things right as I have set 
out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 February  2019.
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN87428854COPY  PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr G complains about the increase to the premium  for the whole  of life (WOL) plan he took out 
through Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited (previously Laurentian  Life) as a 
result of a recent  review  of the plan. Mr G says he was never advised  that the premiums  could 
increase by so much.
background
Mr G took out a WOL plan in 1990 on a maximum  cover basis. The plan included  an automatic 
increase option which meant the premium and sum assured increased  by 10% of the original amount 
for the first 10 years   so that Mr Gs premium  increased  from £35 to £70 and the sum assured from 
£120,000 to £240,000.
There was no further increase in the premium or change to the sum assured as a result of the reviews  
that then took place in 2002 and 2007. But on review in 2012 Mr G was told the premium had to 
increase to £141 to keep  the same level of cover,  which  he agreed to.
When the plan was reviewed again in 2017 he was told the premium would have to increase  again - 
from £141  to £288 - to keep  the same cover. As he had also chosen to have waiver of premium 
benefit  which he had been claiming since 2001 - the review  letter explained  Sun Life would  pay the 
premium whilst the waiver claim  was ongoing but after this Mr G would  have to pay it. It was the 
review of 2017 which led Mr G to complain.
Sun Life didnt uphold the complaint. In its final response letter (FRL) it explained  the WOL  plan was 
reviewable to make sure the premium could  maintain the chosen amount of life cover,  and that this 
was explained in the plan documents provided  at the time of sale.  
Sun Life said Mr G had chosen the maximum cover option for his plan and that the product particulars 
document provided when the plan was taken out explained there was likely  to be an increase  to the 
premium. Sun Life also said that the WOL plan was suitable for Mr Gs need for family protection.
One of our adjudicators  considered the complaint but didnt think it should  be upheld.  She said Sun 
Life had reviewed the plan as the terms and conditions of the plan allowed it to do. She also thought  
the plan was suitable for Mr Gs needs at the time of sale.
Mr G didnt agree with the adjudicator.  He said Sun Life had been allowed to pick figures out of the 
air by the regulator and us and pay themselves fees and increase premiums at will.
He questioned whether  the adjudicator had looked at the investments made  by Sun Life or the fees 
paid which had left him with a surrender value  of only £1,500 after 28 years of premium  payments. He 
said his own investigations  had identified plans like his with a value of over £43,000.
Mr G suggested that his case was one of many and that our mandate  meant we were able to spot 
wider issues  where  products  have  been  sold unfairly to consumers.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G was advised  to take out a reviewable  WOL plan after meeting with an adviser  together with his 
wife, who also took out a reviewable WOL plan which  is the subject of a separate  complaint  to us.
Ref: DRN87428855Given the time since the plan was taken out there is, unsurprisingly, limited  evidence now available  
from the time of sale.  But I have seen a personal financial  analysis document  that was completed at 
the time which has some limited information about Mr Gs circumstances.  His only priority was 
identified as family protection.
I have considered whether  a WOL plan was suitable for family protection. Family  protection  is often 
taken out to provide cover until the youngest child reaches 18 or 21, and a term assurance plan is 
often the best way to provide  such cover. 
But Mr Gs wife was expecting  their first child and it was quite possible  that there would  be further 
children. So I dont think it would necessarily have been clear when the need for family protection  
would end. Im also mindful that family  protection isnt necessarily limited to the children and can 
mean providing cover  for a partner as well. So Im not persuaded that a WOL  plan itself was 
unsuitable. 
But there are generally  three types of WOL plan, guaranteed cover,  standard cover and maximum 
cover  this last being what Mr Gs plan is.
Guaranteed cover  means  the premium and amount of cover are fixed throughout and there are no 
reviews. But this generally means the premium payable  for the cover is a lot higher than with the other 
types of WOL plan. 
Both standard cover and maximum  cover  plans are reviewable. The way a reviewable  WOL  plan 
works is that the premium  is split with part paying the costs of providing  the life cover  which 
increase with age  and the remainder being invested.  The purpose of the investment is to provide a 
pot of money which can then be used to help pay those increasing costs at some point in the future 
when the premium isnt enough to cover  the costs.  
Certain assumptions are made about the costs increasing and how the investment will perform. And 
the purpose of the reviews  is to see whether  the assumptions  were  right, and if not whether  there 
needs to be an increase  to the premium or reduction to the sum assured going forwards.  New 
assumptions are then made until the next review.
With standard cover plans the amount of the premium  invested is hopefully enough so that the 
investment part of the plan covers the increasing costs throughout the life of the insured with no 
increase to the premium necessary on review. There is no guarantee of this, but even if an increase is 
necessary it is likely to be less than for a maximum cover plan providing  the same amount of cover. 
The premium is generally higher for standard cover than for maximum  cover plans.
With a maximum cover  plan there is a high level of cover but most  of the premium is used to pay the 
costs of that cover with only a small part being invested. This makes it very likely  that on first review  
an increase to the premium or reduction in the sum assured will be necessary.  This is acknowledged 
by Sun Life in its FRL in which it states  that at the maximum level, the benefit provided  will normally 
reduce after the 10 year policy review unless the premium is increased.   However this didnt happen 
with Mr Gs plan, which passed the first review after 10 years  and the subsequent  review five years 
later. It was only in 2012 that it failed the review and a premium increase was necessary.
A maximum  cover plan isnt necessarily the best option for someone who is awaiting the birth of their 
first child. Even if Mr G wasnt  going  to have any more  children the plan would  have to pass  at least 
two reviews whilst his child was a dependent, which  Sun Life acknowledges was unlikely. So there 
was a good chance that the plan wouldnt provide the cover Mr G wanted at a premium he was willing  
to pay whilst he still had need of the cover.
Sun Life has said that Mr G chose the maximum  cover option but there is no evidence of this. The 
evidence I have seen  from the time of sale - the personal  financial analysis, the application  and the 
schedule  doesnt show whether he chose the maximum cover option or whether this is what was 
recommended by the adviser. .
Ref: DRN87428856There is no way of knowing,  based  on the evidence  available, what  Mr G was told about  the possible 
life cover options  that could provide the family protection he wanted, or what  the adviser actually  said 
about the maximum  cover plan..
Mr G was in a well-paid  and relatively  secure job earning  a reasonable amount more than the average 
salary at the time. I think it is more likely  than not he wouldve  chosen to have cover  that was less 
likely to need  a change in premiums or level of cover on review  if the differences  in the type of cover 
had been clearly  explained  to him. So I think he shouldve  been recommended a standard cover WOL 
plan.
I note Mr G has raised issues about the investment his premiums  were put into. I think it is important 
to make clear that the WOL plan wasnt an investment that was meant to provide a return.  The only 
purpose of the investment was to provide a pot that could help prevent or limit potential  rises as life 
cover costs increased. The premiums were paid into Sun Lifes Managed  S3 fund  now the SLFC 
Balanced Managed fund. This would  be considered a medium risk investment and Im not persuaded 
that this was unsuitable for Mr G. Given the plan passed the first two reviews this doesnt suggest  the 
fund selection was wrong.  
Mr G has also referred to having found plans  like his with significantly higher values. But this wasnt 
an investment which was meant to provide a return to him. The purpose of the investment was to help 
pay the ongoing  life cover costs. And just because another plan from a different provider  has 
performed better isnt evidence that Sun Life has done something wrong. It is inevitable that different 
plans will have different  values.
What Sun Life should  do to put things right
Sun Life should calculate  what  the premium would  now be for a Standard Cover  plan providing 
£120,000 of cover taken  out in 1990 with automatic increases for 10 years  and with waiver of 
premium option. If Mr G wants to continue the plan on a Standard Cover  basis he will have to pay that 
premium going forward but does not have to make  up any shortfall  in premium payments  to date. 
Instead Sun Life will have to put whatever sum is necessary to reconstruct this plan accordingly.
my provisional  decision
I uphold this complaint for the reasons  I have  explained and instruct Sun Life Assurance Company of 
Canada (U.K.) Ltd to work out what the premium would be if the plan had been set up on a Standard 
Cover basis  and to reconstruct the plan accordingly  if Mr G agrees to pay the premium it calculates  is 
payable for this going forwards.
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8742885