K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains about how Bank of Scotland plc has treated him whilst hes been in financial 
difficulties. Mr C said he wants Bank  of Scotland to take possession of his property and pay 
him £10,000.
background 
Mr C took this mortgage out in 2003.  Hes been in financial difficulties for a number of years 
and the monthly  repayments havent been made  since around  2014. 
Bank of Scotland obtained  a possession order in November 2014 but then placed matters on 
hold so Mr C has remained in the property, and the debt has just been increasing.
Mr C said he wanted to give the property up as its in a poor state  of repair, and he wants  to 
be able to move on. He said hed surrender the keys if he was paid £10,000.
Whilst weve been looking at the complaint Mr C mentioned arranging  for a friend with a JCB 
to demolish the house, clear the site and then for a caravan to be put on there for Mr C to 
live in. He said hed been told that was legal, and the mortgage issue was just a civil matter 
between him and Bank of Scotland.
Our adjudicator said it wasnt fair that nothing had happened since the court  order in 2014 
and that the mortgage debt had just been increasing  since  then, when it was clear Mr C 
couldnt afford it.
Bank of Scotland offered to allow Mr C to surrender the property and said it would  write  off 
any shortfall that came about (it estimated that could be over £40,000).  It also said it would 
pay £2,000 compensation.
Our adjudicator thought that offer was fair and recommended Mr C accept it. Mr C didnt 
agree and so the matter has been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand why Mr C would like to give up his property and be able to move  on. Hes been 
in limbo for many years now whilst Bank  of Scotland  has kept the litigation action on hold. 
Mr C is in an unenviable position  and has health  difficulties that arent helped by the 
uncertainty hes faced.  But whilst Mr C wanted  action taken sooner, whether or not to push 
ahead with taking  possession of a property  is a commercial decision a lender is allowed to 
make. Theres also been some change in what Mr C wants  as hed previously applied to 
have the possession order set aside so he could pay the mortgage and remain  in the 
property.
All that said Im satisfied  the offer made by Bank of Scotland is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. Bank  of Scotland has said it will write off the entire shortfall, and pay Mr C 
£2,000. I understand Mr C would like a much higher sum but there are no grounds  for me to 
award a higher sum here. 
Ref: DRN84044802Finally, Id urge Mr C to not take any action to demolish the property as that will not help 
matters. The mortgage Bank of Scotland granted is secured on the land, not just the physical 
property. This means that even if the property is destroyed  Bank of Scotland  could still take 
possession of the land so Mr C wouldnt be able to remain  on it living in a caravan. All it 
would mean  is that much  higher costs  would be passed onto Mr C, and Bank of Scotland  
would be less likely to consider favourably  any requests made by Mr C.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint,  but only insofar as I consider  the offer now made by Bank of 
Scotland is fair. In full and final settlement I order Bank of Scotland  plc to:
write off any shortfall debt upon  sale, as long as Mr C voluntarily surrenders the property 
and co-operates  with Bank of Scotland on that process.
pay £2,000 to Mr C. That payment should  be made once Mr C has fully committed  to the 
voluntary surrender  process, but before Mr C moves out so he has the funds available 
to help him with his new housing costs. If Mr C subsequently  changes  his mind and 
doesnt leave  the property, then Bank  of Scotland can add that £2,000 to his mortgage 
debt in recognition of the fact Mr C hasnt completed  his side of the agreement.
I understand there are likely to be some logistics that need to be agreed,  and I urge both 
sides to communicate  clearly and promptly with each other, and remind  them that 
co-operation is in everyones interests. I would ask Bank of Scotland to make  things  as easy  
for Mr C as it can, and I would ask Mr C to work with Bank  of Scotland  in that process.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2019.
Julia Chapman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8404480