K820x#14Complaint
Mrs F has complained about Aviva  Life & Pensions UK Limited in regards to a whole of life 
policy she and her late husband, Mr F, held. She is unhappy that they were sent incorrect  
information on a number of occasions  about the policys value as well as changes they were 
told could be made to it. She is unhappy  with the service she has received and is now 
confused about the policy  because of the misinformation.
Background
Mr and Mrs F took out a reviewable whole of life plan in 1989, in joint names. Sadly,  during  
the process of making this complaint Mr F passed  away.
The initial sum assured  was just over £21,000 with a premium of £35 per month. The policy 
was indexed linked,  meaning the sum assured and premium would increase every year to 
keep in line with inflation. This remained the case until one of the policyholders turned the 
age of 65.
In December 2018 Mr and Mrs F received a letter about the upcoming  review of the policy. 
The letter explained the reviewable nature of the policy and set out why reviews of these 
policies took place. The letter also explained the outcome of the review. It stated that the 
sum assured was just over £52,000 but it also stated that if Mr and Mrs F wanted the policy  
to provide cover for the rest of their lives without having to change  the amount they were  
paying each month in premiums they would  have to reduce the sum assured  to just over 
£96,000.
As Mrs F was confused by this she spoke to Aviva. Mrs F has said that it was in this 
conversation she was told she could transfer the investment value of the policy  into the life 
protection part thereby increasing  the sum assured  to be paid on death. She has said she 
was told they would be sent documentation where this could be confirmed. Mr and Mrs F 
then received a letter  a few days later which gave the sum assured of the policy as just over 
£52,000 as well as an apology for providing incorrect  information in the earlier  letter. Mrs F 
spoke to Aviva again for clarification and confirmation that the investment value  of the policy  
could be transferred to the life protection part. She was told at this point that the issue  had 
been escalated  to different department.
Mrs F continued to speak to Aviva  on several  further occasions where she was told the issue  
had been passed to different departments.  She was also told she would receive more 
quotes for the policy but to date they have only received one which provided only one 
option of reducing  the premium and the sum assured.
Because of this Mr and Mrs F raised a complaint.  When Aviva looked into the matter it 
accepted that it had made a mistake  by providing  the wrong information in December 2018  
as well as by telling Mrs F that she could  transfer  the investment value of the policy. It also 
discovered that Mr and Mrs F had been paying  a higher premium than they should have 
since 2016 when  the indexation applied to the policy  should  have  stopped. Aviva therefore  
refunded the extra  payment plus interest and also sent Mr and Mrs F a cheque for £100 in 
recognition of the errors it had made in dealing with them.
As Mr and Mrs F were unhappy with Avivas response, they brought their complaint to this 
service where it was assessed  by one of our investigators. He felt the complaint shouldnt be 
upheld. He acknowledged that Aviva  had provided  wrong information on a number of 
Ref: DRN85589802occasions. But he was satisfied that the £100  Aviva  had offered them  reasonably recognised  
this. He was also satisfied with the refund in extra premiums Aviva had paid in light of the 
fact Mr and Mrs F had been paying  more in premiums than they should  have done since  
2016. However, because Mrs F had a number of further questions for Aviva,  he also asked 
Aviva to provide  full written answers to those questions presented,  which Aviva did.
Mrs F strongly disagreed  with the assessment. She wasnt satisfied with the explanations 
provided by Aviva and refused to accept the £100 offered. The investigator obtained further  
information from Aviva in relation to their further  concerns, but Mrs F remained unsatisfied.  
As no agreement could be reached  the complaint has been passed  to me for a final 
decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  the 
complaint should  be upheld.
Firstly, Id like to say I am sorry for the loss Mrs F has recently suffered.
I think its clear  that Aviva  made some errors in its dealings with Mr and Mrs F and certainly 
did provide wrong  information regarding their policy. I understand how this would have 
caused a certain  amount of confusion  and frustration given how important this type of policy  
is. However, I think that an element of the continued  confusion  is due to the fact Mrs F 
doesnt fully understand the way this policy works  or cant  remember  how it was explained 
when it was initially taken  out.
Its also important to point  out that a reviewable  whole  of life policy will always  at some point 
require the policy holder  to either  increase their premiums to maintain  the desired death  
benefit (sum assured)  or accept a lower death benefit. This is, however, unless indexation  is 
applied, as is the case on this policy. This is how these types of policies work and this is 
what Mr and Mrs F signed up to when they took the policy out in 1989.  Having said that, 
because of the indexation being  applied to the policy it is in a much  better  state than most 
other whole of life policies  and because slight increases have been applied  to the policy  
almost each year since inception Mr and Mrs F havent actually had to pay more  into it or 
accept a lower death benefit until recently,  some  thirty years after the policys  inception. This 
is the whole  point of the inflation option.
Turning now to wrong information that Aviva gave  to Mrs F - first the two different sum 
assureds provided  in the first letter  in December 2018. Aviva  has said that a template letter  
was used on this occasion and shouldnt  have been sent to Mr and Mrs F. This is poor 
service from Aviva and simply shouldnt have happened. However, it is a mistake  and 
unfortunately things  like this do happen.  Aviva corrected this mistake  in a letter sent shortly 
after so while I understand it caused  confusion,  I think it corrected its mistake within a 
reasonable time. Having said that I think this error  should be recognised.
I know Mrs F feels that this policy to which the incorrect template letter refers should be 
identified but I dont think this is relevant in any way. The only important information for her is 
what level of life cover her policy provides and how much she has to pay for that. I am 
satisfied with Avivas explanation  of how this mistake happened  although  I would urge Aviva 
to ensure this doesnt happen again.
Ref: DRN85589803The next piece  of wrong information that Mrs F was given was confirmation  that she could 
transfer the investment value of the policy to the part that provided  life protection. This 
should never have  been  stated because this simply is not how whole of life policies work. 
Again, it is poor such wrong information  was given by Aviva.  I cant  say why this happened 
but it seems to have  been another mistake which does have to be acknowledged. I hope 
Aviva has dealt with the individual  who gave  this wrong information and has provided  the 
requisite training to ensure their staff know the workings of the types of policies they discuss 
with its customers.
Mrs F has said that a number of people  have told her this type of transference is quite 
normal with whole of life policies, but I can confirm this isnt the case.  No whole of life policy 
will allow such  a transfer and this option  isnt available  to them.  So whatever information she 
has been given  in this regard is incorrect.
Mrs F has also questioned why she wasnt sent a number of quotes about  her policy  that 
she was told would  happen. Again, I cant confirm why this didnt happen  but I can assume  it 
didnt happened  because it wasnt something  that applied  to her policy. It is only at review 
stage when options  are presented to the policy holders if the result of those reviews are 
unfavourable; in other words, not enough  is being  paid into the policy  to maintain the death  
benefit then the policyholders are given  the option  of either increasing their premiums  to 
meet their desired death benefit payment or keep the premiums  at the same level and 
accept a reduction in the death benefit payment. This is standard  practice in a reviewable 
whole of life policy.
The application form from the time of the sale clearly  shows that Mr and Mrs F chose to 
apply the indexation option  to the policy. It is therefore reasonable that they understood what  
this meant  at the time.  This option is also explained in the policy documents  and I have seen 
sample letters from 2001, 2009 and 2014 where  the application of the indexation was 
explained.
Between 2016 and the point of complaint the cover  rose slightly to £52,452 as the policy  was 
still linked  to indexation. As already  mentioned, this should not have happened as this 
should have stopped as soon as one of the policyholders turned 65 - as with Mr F in 2016. 
So to ensure the policy was in the correct position  had no errors occurred Aviva reversed 
this when it reviewed  the policy as part of the initial complaint. The small difference  in 
premiums was returned and the cover was brought to its correct level of £51,881.72  with a 
premium of £83.64.  The indexation  was removed so the policy is now at the level it should 
have been from 2016. However, the policy is still subject to reviews so this may well change 
in the future. The actions taken by Aviva to correct this mistake are in line with what  I would  
have asked it to do had this not been carried out. I therefore dont think  it needs to do 
anything further  in this regard.
I know Mrs F wants to know  why Aviva didnt update her on the indexation option ceasing 
but it didnt have an obligation to do this because this was covered in the policys terms and 
conditions which she should  have been familiar with. Also, the indexation  wasnt stopped 
when it should  have been so there  was nothing  to inform Mr and Mrs F of in 2016, all be it 
this was a mistake.  In reality the effect of this mistake was that they had the benefit  of a 
slightly higher level of death benefit than they should have done for a couple of years  and 
now this had been rectified.
Ref: DRN85589804Overall, while  I agree  Aviva shouldnt  have given wrong information about  the policy to 
Mr and Mrs F in 2018, and I fully appreciate why this would confuse them, I do think  Aviva 
recognised this in its offer of £100  to them. It has also put the policy  into the correct position 
it should be in, in light of the mistake with the indexation option.  I am also satisfied this level 
of cover the policy provides with the premiums is at its correct state.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 May 2020.
Ayshea Khan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8558980