K820x#14complaint
Ms W complains that she was mis-sold a level term assurance policy with critical illness 
cover (CIC) by Bank of Scotland plc (the business). 
background
Ms W was advised to take out the policy in 2004, with £100,000 life cover.  At the time she 
had a £50,000  22 year term  repayment mortgage.   
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld.  In 
summary, he said:
Our service would generally  consider  a decreasing term assurance policy   that 
matched the amount and term of the mortgage  as a suitable  recommendation in 
respect of a repayment mortgage.  
In this instance a second policy was considered, but Ms W wanted  a single policy  
that would  provide  mortgage protection and additional life cover. So, the 
recommendation was suitable to Ms Ws needs.   
Ms W disagreed with adjudicator and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In summary, she 
made the following key points:
Having sought  advice from an independent source, she understands that CIC is only 
needed if:
oShe doesnt have  savings  to tide her over in case she becomes ill. 
oShe doesnt have  any benefits in place to cover her if she becomes long term 
ill.  
She had savings in place,  a generous 12 months sick pay from her employer, and an 
existing Payment Protection Insurance (PPI) policy running with her mortgage. 
The notes from the meeting  werent accurate and didnt make sense and werent 
checked by her. 
She now realises the policy  was unsuitable  for the following reasons:
oShe was told she needed to take it out when she reviewed her mortgage  and 
not to support her dependants. 
oA decreasing term assurance policy wasnt offered to her. 
oShe wasnt told that CIC was additional  cover that could be taken out 
separate to life cover. 
oThe advice wasnt given on the basis of her financial  needs  but on the basis 
of what she could  afford and didnt take into account  that she was paying into 
a nationally recognised scheme with a death in service benefit of around  
£100,000. 
oThe policy wasnt fit for purpose.  
The adjudicator having considered the additional  points wasnt  persuaded to change  his 
mind. He maintained  that in this instance, notwithstanding what  Ms W said,  the 
recommendation was suitable. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter  has been passed to me for review. 
 
My findings
Ref: DRN81284212Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the adjudicators  conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint.  
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what  Ms W says Im not persuaded 
that the recommendation was unsuitable.  
But before I explain  further why this is the case,  I think its important for me to note I very 
much recognise Ms Ws strength of feeling  about this matter.  
She has provided detailed  submissions  to support the complaint, which Ive read and 
considered carefully.  However, I hope  she wont take the fact my findings focus on what  
I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail,  as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address  every  single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented  by Ms W and the business,  and reach what I think is an 
independent, fair and reasonable  decision  based on the facts  of the case.  
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I can take into account the relevant law, regulation  
and best industry  practice but Im not bound  by it. Its for me to decide, based on the 
information Ive been given, whats more  likely  than not to have happened.
I appreciate Ms Ws likely to have had other benefits  in place in 2004, but this of itself 
doesnt mean the recommendation  was unsuitable. It seems the benefits covered different 
aspects of insurance rather than a simple duplication of cover that she already had. 
So, despite  having sickness cover or PPI, this would  only cover  mortgage repayment if Ms 
W wasnt able to work  due to an accident,  sickness or unemployment, not if she suffered 
death or was diagnosed with a specified critical illness. And without life and CIC shed be left 
without any mechanism to claim.  Unlike PPI  which is a different product  the life and CIC 
policy would pay out a lump sum to pay off the mortgage. 
In addition, Im also unable to say that in future her circumstances  might  not change, causing 
her to lose her savings or her employment. Unlike  both these factors, life cover  and CIC 
would continue for the term of the policy so long as the premiums  were paid. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what  Ms W says I think  its more  likely 
(than not) she wanted additional cover  in 2004. Perhaps its why she takes issue  with why 
she wasnt recommended  a decreasing term assurance policy  rather  than a level term 
assurance policy. Ill return  to that point  in due course below. 
Theres nothing wrong with wanting  or advising greater cover  it generally means greater 
protection and pay out in the event of a valid claim within  the term of the policy, and 
potentially more money for Ms Ws beneficiaries if she died.  
I appreciate Ms W says she was sold the policy on the basis of what she could afford rather 
than her financial needs, but I think  the two are inter-linked to some extent. She wouldnt  be 
sold something she needed if she simply couldnt afford  it.  
 
Ref: DRN81284213Even if Ms W wasnt  told that CIC could be taken  out separately to life cover,  it doesnt  mean  
the recommendation itself was unsuitable.  Standalone  CIC policies can be just as expensive  
as life cover  with CIC, as often the cost of life cover is nominal when taken  out with CIC. This 
doesnt mean the adviser was wrong  to have regard  to Ms Ws affordability.    
I appreciate Ms W says she wasnt told about the decreasing term assurance policy,  but I 
dont agree. I also note the following was recorded by the adviser: 
'My normal recommendation would be to take a plan which provides cover that
reduces in line with your mortgage debt and a plan that provides you with a level 
amount of cover for you and your family.  We discussed this and you insisted that you 
wanted one level term plan to cover both needs.'
So, despite  what Ms W says about  what she was and wasnt  told in 2004, Im unable  to 
safely say that the decreasing term option wasnt considered. And despite Ms Ws strongly  
held belief about what she said happened Im aware  that memories fade and people  can 
often recall things differently to what actually happened, particularly when considering events 
some 15 years ago. 
I appreciate Ms W will be unhappy Ive reached  the same conclusion as the adjudicator. 
Furthermore, I realise my decision  isnt what she wants to hear.  Whilst I appreciate her 
frustration, Im not persuaded to require  the business to do anything.
On the face of the available evidence, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give Ms W 
what she wants.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 October  2019.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8128421