K821x#15complaint
Mrs M says MYJAR Limited  irresponsibly  lent to her. She says she became trapped  in a 
debt spiral and this caused her further financial problems. 
background
This complaint is about four payday  loans  MYJAR  provided to Mrs M between  December 
2017 and July 2018. Mrs Ms lending history is as follows:
loan number date startedamount 
borrowedterm (days) date ended
1 06/12/2017 £300 84 22/12/2017
2 27/12/2017 £1,000 183 28/06/2018
3 28/06/2018 £2,100 364 18/07/2018
4 23/07/2018 £800 368 outstanding
Our adjudicator upheld  Mrs Ms complaint and thought that loans 3 and 4 shouldnt  have 
been given. MYJAR  disagreed it said that it provided  a detailed business file which  included  
all of the types of checks that it did. And our adjudicator hadnt included a great  amount  of 
detail about Mrs Ms other loans.  
As no agreement was reached  the complaint was passed to me, an ombudsman.
my findings
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulator when  MYJAR  lent to Mrs M. 
The FCAs Consumer Credit sourcebook (CONC) is the specialist sourcebook  for credit-
related regulated activities. It sets out the rules and guidance specific  to consumer credit 
providers, such as MYJAR. 
I am not quoting all the specific  regulations  here, because I would expect MYJAR to be 
familiar with these through previous ombudsman decisions, particularly recent  decisions,  
which set these rules out in more detail.
It is important  to note that the FCA didnt, and doesnt, specify exactly  how an assessment of 
affordability is to be carried out but the extent  and scope and the types  and sources of 
information to use needed to be enough  to be able to reasonably  assess  the sustainability  
of the arrangement for the consumer.
In other  words the assessment  needs  to be consumer-focussed.  It is not an assessment of 
the risk to the lender  of not recovering the credit but of the risk to the consumer of incurring 
financial difficulties or experiencing significant  adverse  consequence  as a result of the 
decision to lend.
As set out in CONC,  the risk to the consumer  directly  relates  to the particulars of the lending  
and the circumstances of the consumer. Therefore, a lenders assessment of 
creditworthiness would  likely need to be flexible. That is to say, what is sufficient for one 
consumer might not be for another, or indeed  what might  be sufficient for a consumer in one 
circumstance might not be so for the same  consumer in other circumstances.
Ref: DRN83397362Bearing the above in mind, I would expect an assessment  of creditworthiness  to vary with 
circumstance. In general, Id expect  a lender to require more  assurance, the greater the 
potential risk to the consumer of not being  able to repay the credit  in a sustainable way.  
Certain factors might point to the fact that MYJAR should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include, 
but not limited  to:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
So MYJAR was required  to establish whether Mrs M could sustainably  repay  her loans  not 
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.  
The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication  Mrs M could 
sustainably make her repayments.  But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.  
This is because the CONC  defines  sustainable  as being without undue difficulties and in 
particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments; and without having  to borrow to meet  the repayments. 
So, it follows  that a lender  should  realise, or it ought  fairly and reasonably  to realise,  that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably - if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Ms complaint. 
were the checks MYJAR  made before  approving loans 1 and 2 proportionate
For loan 1 Mrs M needed to make  3 repayments of around £150.  The repayments for loan 2 
were similar but over a longer period of around  six months. 
Ive seen a record  of the information Mrs M provided when she completed her loan 
applications for loans 1 and 2. For these earlier loans she said she had around £1,000 a 
month spare. So MJAR wouldve thought that Mrs M could afford  to make the repayments 
sustainably.  
I havent seen  any further information  that shows its likely MYJAR was made  aware of any 
financial problems Mrs M mightve been  having.  Or anything that wouldve prompted it to 
investigate Mrs Ms circumstances further.  So I think it was reasonable for MYJAR to rely on 
the information it obtained.
Ref: DRN83397363So overall, in these circumstances, I think the assessments  MYJAR did for loans  1 and 2 
were proportionate. And I think  its decisions to lend were reasonable. So Im not upholding 
Mrs Ms complaint about these loans. 
why I dont  think the checks MYJAR made before approving loans 3 and 4 were 
proportionate and what better checks wouldve shown 
For loan 3 the amount Mrs M borrowed increased significantly at over £2,000.  And because 
of this the repayments were much higher. And it was started  the day after she repaid loan 2. 
So she had been a customer of MYJAR  now for over six months  without a break.  
So I think MYJAR couldve  realised  at that time that Mrs M may have some longer term 
financial problems rather than just using the loans  to help with a temporary cash flow 
problem. MYJAR shouldve also become concerned about whether it knew  enough  about  
Mrs Ms true financial situation.
So I think that before approving loans 3 and 4 it wouldve been proportionate to find out 
about Mrs Ms normal monthly living costs and regular  financial commitments including any 
existing short-term lending. This was to make sure Mrs M was in position  to make the 
repayments sustainably.
I dont think MYJAR did this. I can see it found  out about her income and expenditure but I 
cant see that it found out much about  her other  debts. So I need to think  about what MYJAR 
wouldve seen if it had carried  out proportionate checks. 
Mrs M has provided some information about her financial circumstances which includes her 
bank statements. I accept  that this isnt exactly what MYJAR wouldve  seen  at the time. But I 
think it wouldve found out similar information  if it had made proportionate checks, so I think  
its reasonable to rely on it.
This shows that Mrs M was having  problems managing her money. Mrs M was usually very 
overdrawn and she was paying a relatively high daily overdraft  fee. She was borrowing and 
repaying significant amount to one or two other short term lenders in the time before she 
took loans 3 and 4. One of which was a revolving credit account. I dont think its necessary  
to provide pounds  and pence detail about this as its clear Mrs Ms finances werent in good 
shape. 
I think that MYJAR wouldve found  out this information if it had made proportionate checks. 
And I think MYJAR wouldve seen Mrs M wouldnt have been able repay loans  3 and 4 in a 
sustainable way. So I think that MYJAR shouldnt have given these loans to Mrs M and I 
think shes lost out as a result of this. So Im upholding  Mrs Ms complaint about loan 3 and 
loan 4.
putting things right  what MYJAR needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mrs M paid on loans  3 and 4;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement*;
remove any negative information  about loans 3 and 4 from Mrs Ms credit file;
If Mrs M still owes MYJAR any of the principal balance she borrowed on her final loan 
MYJAR should remove all the interest  and charges applied to the outstanding balance.  
Ref: DRN83397364MYJAR should then re-work  the account  as if all payments made by Mrs M went to towards 
the principal. But importantly, MYJAR needs  to make sure that Mrs M doesnt repay more 
than the principal amount borrowed. 
If after doing this Mrs M hasnt repaid the principal  she borrowed MYJAR can deduct  this 
from the remainder of the compensation.  If, Mrs M has already paid enough  to repay  the 
principal then any overpayment should be refunded to her with 8% simple* interest from the 
date of payment  to the date of settlement
And if MYJAR no longer owns this debt,  and it wants to make a deduction  due to the amount  
owed, then it should buy it back.  If it doesnt  then it isnt entitled to make  any deductions for it 
from the amount  it needs to pay Mrs M.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires MYJAR to take off tax from this interest. MYJAR must 
give Mrs M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I partly uphold  Mrs Ms complaint.
MYJAR Limited should put things right by doing what  Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs M to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 August 2019.
Andy Burlinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8339736