K820x#14complaint
Mr B1 has complained  that Skyfire Insurance Company Limited unfairly  charged  him an 
additional premium  for his motor insurance  policy. 
Reference to Skyfire includes its agents.
background
Mr B1 took out a policy with Skyfire. He paid an annual premium  of roughly £1,050. A named 
driver on the policy - Mr B2 - was involved in a driving incident, which  led to a claim against 
Mr B1s policy. Skyfire  then noted that the driving licence information Mr B1 had provided  for 
Mr B2, when  taking out the policy wasn't  accurate. Thats because  Mr B2 held a full licence  
and not a provisional licence as Mr B1 had said.
Skyfire said that if it had known Mr B2 held a full rather  than provisional licence it would have 
charged a considerably higher premium.  So it said Mr B1 should pay the difference  between 
the two premiums, which came to around £2,250  including agents  fees.
Mr B1 wasn't happy to pay the increased premium. The policy  was cancelled but Skyfire said 
that, as another driver had made  a claim against it, he still had to pay the full premium.  
Mr B1 didn't think Skyfire  had acted reasonably and brought his complaint to us.
I issued a provisional decision on 17 May 2019. For ease I've copied  my provisional findings 
below. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, its likely I won't uphold  
it. 
In bringing his complaint Mr B1s made a number of detailed points. But in this provisional 
decision I will focus on what I see as being  the key outstanding issues.
It might help if I explain that when buying an insurance policy,  the consumer is required to 
take reasonable care to answer an insurers question  to the best of their knowledge. If the 
consumer doesn't  do so thats known in the insurance industry as a misrepresentation. And 
theres legislation:  the Consumer  Insurance  (Disclosure  and Misrepresentations)  Act 2012 
(CIDRA) that sets out what insurers may do when a policyholders made a 
misrepresentation. 
Mr B2 passed his test on the same day that Mr B1 took out the policy.  And I think  Mr B1 
knew that when  he bought the policy. So I think Mr B1 should have told Skyfire  that Mr B2 
had a full licence when buying  the policy. It follows that I think he made a misrepresentation.
CIDRA says the action  an insurer may take when it discover a misrepresentation depends 
on whether its deliberate/reckless or carless. CIDRA says if the misrepresentation is 
deliberate or reckless  then the insurer  can cancel  the policy as if it didn't exist - known  as 
voidance.
Skyfires told us that Mr B1 obtained a number  of different quotes via an online price 
comparison site. And for some of the quotes he obtained he indicated that Mr B2 had a full 
licence, and for others he indicated Mr B2 had a provisional licence. The cheapest  quote  
Ref: DRN81335392given was where Mr B2 was said to have a provisional licence. Mr B1 then chose that 
cheapest quote. So Skyfire said Mr B1 knowingly changed the licence details to provisional 
in order to find a cheaper  premium. For that reason it felt Mr B1 had deliberately made  a 
misrepresentation. 
If Skyfire had maintained  that position, in line with CIDRA, it could have voided Mr B1s 
policy. That would have  had a dramatic impact on Mr B1 for two reasons. First, because 
Skyfire could have  avoided paying the claim made  against  the policy, leaving Mr B1 liable to 
foot the bill. Second, a voidance on a drivers  insurance history can seriously affect  their 
ability to find insurance in the future. That's  because many insurers  will see consumers 
whove had a previous  policy voided as a high risk. And insurers  may not offer polices to 
those consumers or only offer them at very high premiums. So if Skyfire had voided Mr B1s 
policy that would have affected  his ability to obtain insurance and the price of that. 
But Skyfire  chose not to void the policy and instead charged Mr B1 the additional premium. 
Given that Skyfire chose not to void the policy  as CIDRA allows where a misrepresentation 
is deliberate - it essentially treated the misrepresentation  as if it was careless. But CIDRA 
doesn't allow an insurer to simply charge an additional premium where there has been a 
careless misrepresentation.  Instead, where  theres  been a claim on the policy,  CIDRA allows  
an insurer to settle any claim  on a proportionate  basis. By that I mean it could work out what 
percentage of the correct premium Mr B1 had actually paid and apply  that percentage to any 
settlement amount for the claim. 
In this case, Skyfire  had initially  charged  Mr B2 around £1,050, which  is about 33% of the full 
cost of the premium  had it known Mr B2 was a full licence holder. So, if it had settled the 
claim proportionately, it would have only paid 33% of it. That would have meant  Mr B1 would  
have been liable for the remaining 67% of the claim costs.
I understand that Skyfire settled the claim for around £11,165. So, if it had acted in line with 
CIDRA and paid the claim on a proportionate  basis, that would have left Mr B1 having  to pay 
roughly £7,780 in order to settle  his part of the claim. But as we know,  Skyfire didn't do that 
and instead charged Mr B1 the additional premium of around £2,250.
As I've said above CIDRA doesn't allow Skyfire to simply  charge an additional premium. So 
I've thought about what was likely to have  happened if it had followed CIDRA. And, I think 
thats likely  to have  led to one of two possible outcomes:
 Skyfire voiding  the policy, or
 Skyfire settling  the claim on a proportionate basis.
Either of those options would have left Mr B1 in a significantly worse position  than having to 
pay the additional premium. The first option would have left Mr B1 owing around £11,165 
and making it extremely difficult for him to get insurance cover  in the future. The second 
option would  have left Mr B1 owing over £7,700 for his liability  for the claim.  So, although 
Skyfire didn't act in the way CIDRA  says it should, I think  its course  of action has worked in 
Mr B1s favour. Thats because it means  hes at least £5,000  better off than he might have 
been if Skyfire  had followed the remedies  allowed  to it in CIDRA and he has avoided  having 
a damaging voidance marker  on his insurance  record.
In the circumstances I think its reasonable that Skyfire  pursues its original request for Mr B1 
to pay additional  premium now rather than asking him to pay a proportion  of the settlement 
Ref: DRN81335393of the claim that CIDRA would have allowed it to do. And as thats beneficial to Mr B1 its 
unlikely that Ill uphold his complaint.
developments
Skyfire accepted my provisional decision.  Mr B1 didn't. He said he didn't believe that Skyfire 
had paid out so much to settle  the claim. He added that he thought my provisional decision 
was unfair  and biased.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments again to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to change 
my provisional decision. 
Mr B1 said that he doesn't believe that Skyfire paid out so much for what  was a minor driving 
incident. But Skyfires  shown us evidence from its system of the amounts its paid out. So Im 
satisfied that its outlay was £11,165.
Mr B1s also said my decision was unfair  and biased. Given my provisional  findings will 
leave him considerably out of pocket,  I can understand why hes not happy with it. But Mr B1 
hasn't provided  any reasoning or evidence to explain why he thinks  my decision is unfair  or 
biased, other than the fact it goes against him. 
In most decisions I make,  given that Im generally upholding or not upholding a complaint, 
its likely  one side or the other will be upset. And its not that unusual for a party to a 
complaint, whether thats a consumer  or business,  to think  my decision is biased  when it 
doesnt go their way. But all I can say is that - in every case I look at - I make  my judgement  
about what is fair and reasonable based on the specific facts of the case. Ill take into 
account things  like the relevant law, regulatory rules,  codes of practice and industry 
standards. And having considered those I arrive at my decision as to what I feel is fair and 
reasonable in the context of the case at hand. Thats  what  I did here and Im satisfied I've 
reached a fair outcome,  although I understand its likely to upset Mr B1.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B1 to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 August 2019.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN8133539