K820x#14complaint
Mr B has complained that hes been  overcharged for his professional  indemnity insurance  by 
Hiscox Insurance Company Limited.
background
Mr B says that until July 2013 he was paying about  £25 a month  for professional  indemnity 
insurance. Then he started a role which required a higher level of cover and the premium 
went up to about  £50 a month.
In February 2018,  Mr B realised he didnt need  employers  liability  cover. So he asked 
Hiscox to remove it from the policy. This led to a small reduction in the premium.
Mr B says he found out that his colleague  was only paying £26 a month for almost the same 
cover. So he raised this with Hiscox who offered  him a 25% reduction in the premium.
Mr B rejected this offer. Hiscox then offered him a policy at £24 a month  as a goodwill 
gesture.
Mr B believes his that if hed complained earlier, his premiums would have been  reduced 
sooner. He thinks the higher premium  he was paying was incorrect.  Hed like Hiscox to 
refund the difference in the premiums  with interest.
Hiscox said that although Mr Bs cover appeared identical to that of his colleague, there were 
various factors that impact policies  on an individual basis. It said it had checked the premium 
Mr B had been paying and it was correct.
Mr B brought his complaint to this service. Our adjudicator didnt  uphold  the complaint. He 
was satisfied Mr B had been charged  the right premium for his policy.
As Mr B didnt agree,  the matter has been referred  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Hiscox has explained that Mr Bs policy was set up on a continuous  cover  basis. That means 
the cover  doesnt  renew annually. It continues until either party cancels it. The premium is 
based on the premium  ratings in force as at February 2009 when Mr B took out the policy. 
The only changes to the premium since then have  been in respect of insurance premium tax 
and changes to the cover requested by Mr B.
When calculating the premium in 2009,  Hiscox  will have needed to take account  of a number 
of things. Those will have included the number  of years experience Mr B had, the turnover 
of his business and the nature  of his business  activity. 
Each year, Hiscox is entitled  to reassess  these factors when setting the price of its policies. 
That means that at various points between 2009  and 2018,  if Mr B had been  taking out a 
new continuous policy, he might  have ended up paying more or less than his original 
premium.
Ref: DRN84580332Whilst I appreciate that the difference in premiums  between  Mr B and his colleague  was 
significant, Im not persuaded that Hiscox treated Mr B unfairly  in charging him more than his 
colleague. Its likely that, so far as Hiscox is concerned, his risk profile  is different from his 
colleagues. Its also likely that they didnt both take out their policies  at exactly  the same 
time.
Ive not seen any evidence that Hiscox  treated Mr B differently from any of its other  
customers. Nor have  I seen any evidence that it didnt apply its own internal guidelines and 
criteria to his premium  in the same  way as any of its other policyholders. Hiscox is entitled to 
review its rating factors at the start of each policy and set its premiums accordingly. 
The fact that Hiscox  decided to offer Mr B a reduction in his premium  when  he complained 
doesnt necessarily  mean  that hed previously been  over-charged -  insurers  often  offer a 
discount to persuade an existing customer to stay insured with them.
Overall Im not persuaded  that Hiscox has treated  Mr B unfairly in charging him more than 
his colleague  for his professional indemnity cover.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 May 2019.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8458033