K820x#14complaint
Mr C on behalf of Mr and Mrs J has complained about the way a claim under their buildings 
insurance policy has been handled  by Amtrust  Europe Limited.
background
Mr and Mrs J bought  an end of terrace house  to let to tenants.  In 2014 their tenant moved 
out and Mr and Mrs J were carrying out some  alterations to the property. On removing 
plaster from some walls, they discovered cracks  and made a claim to Amtrust for subsidence 
damage.
Amtrust instructed a loss adjuster to investigate the claim. The loss adjuster said the house 
had clearly been affected by significant  settlement previously. He said the extent of the 
recent movement was only moderate . 
Mr and Mrs J sent Amtrust a report from their structural  engineer.  He thought  the 
foundations had subsided due to water escaping from damaged drains softening  and 
eroding the soil under  the foundations. He recommended that the property  be underpinned.
Amtrusts loss adjuster  said any recent  movement was just a continuation  of ongoing 
movement in the property. Amtrust said Mr and Mrs Js policy  didnt cover damage  that pre-
dated their policy. It agreed  to monitor the property to see whether it was still moving. It said 
it wouldnt pay for loss of rent since the tenant  hadnt moved  out due to the subsidence 
works.
Mr and Mrs J asked Amtrust to reimburse  £6,716 which  they say theyd  spent on repairing 
the damage that had become evident since 2014.  Amtrust offered to pay £3,000  (after  
deducting the policy excess) towards these costs. It said if Mr and Mrs J didnt accept this, it 
would require a period  of further  monitoring which might lead to it withdrawing its settlement 
offer. Mr and Mrs J said this offer wasnt acceptable  and the full cost of repairing the damage 
was £16,800.
Mr and Mrs J complained  to Amtrust  about  its loss adjuster and claims handler. In particular 
they said the loss adjuster hadnt  put his view in writing. They  wanted  Amtrust to appoint a 
new loss adjuster and claims handler. Amtrust arranged  for the loss adjuster to send a 
written report  on his findings. It said if Mr and Mrs J still werent  satisfied, it would obtain a 
third professional opinion  from an independent  structural engineer at its cost. It also said it 
wouldnt pay for loss of rent on the ground  that the property could still have been lived in.
Mr and Mrs J brought  their complaint to this service. Our adjudicator didnt uphold the 
complaint. He didnt  think Amtrust had treated them unreasonably or that Amtrust needed to 
change its loss adjuster  or claims handler.
As Mr and Mrs J didnt  agree, the matter has been referred to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Mr C has raised a number of queries and 
points. I dont propose to answer them all. In this decision Ill look at what I consider the most 
important issues in Mr and Mrs Js complaint.
Ref: DRN88495812Before looking into Amtrusts handling  of this claim,  Ill deal with the important issue  of what  
should happen next. Mr C has made a number of points as to why he thinks the findings of 
Amtrusts loss adjuster  were flawed. When two professional experts disagree with each 
other as in this case, this service often finds that the most appropriate way forward is for a 
third expert to be appointed. This is what  Amtrust  offered. I agree with this solution. But Ill 
comment on some issues  that I think are important.
Mr C says that the terms of the appointment of the independent expert are opaque. If Mr C 
wanted more information on this, he could  have asked Amtrust to clarify.  Amtrust will be 
aware that in these  circumstances  this service thinks the chosen expert should be jointly 
appointed and both parties  should have the opportunity to give the chosen expert any 
reports (including this decision) and/or arguments  they think appropriate.
Amtrust is only obliged to repair damage that occurs after the start of the policy  unless that 
damage cant be properly  repaired without repairing some or all of the earlier  damage.
Mr C says that his fees in this matter of £7,020 have been paid by Mr and Mrs J and he 
thinks they should be reimbursed by Amtrust. I usually consider it fair in this type of case for 
an insurer to reimburse a policyholder for any professional  fees they incur if the 
professionals involvement led to a change in the claim  outcome. Thats  unclear at the 
moment because its still to be decided  whether  Amtrusts  loss adjuster was wrong in his 
assessment that any recent movement was a continuation of ongoing movement which  pre-
dated the policy. So I dont think there are grounds  for me to require Amtrust to reimburse 
these costs at the moment.
But Mr and Mrs J are free to approach Amtrust following the independent experts conclusion 
if they feel that it shows their engineer was correct  and so Amtrust  should reimburse their 
costs. And if Amtrust  doesnt settle the matter to their satisfaction theyre entitled to complain  
and bring a new complaint to us.
With regard to the loss of rent claim  Im likely to take the view that a home is uninhabitable if 
the kitchen or bathroom isnt useable. The independent expert should express an opinion  on 
whether Mr and Mrs J are entitled to claim for loss of rent bearing in mind  the condition  of 
the property and their policy wording.
Ive considered the actions of Amtrusts loss adjuster and in particular whether he 
misrepresented the finding in the pre-purchase  report that there  was no evidence  of ongoing 
movement. This report was a valuation  for Mr and Mrs Js lender rather  than a detailed 
survey. I dont think it was unreasonable for the loss adjuster not to consider it very 
significant. In his preliminary  report  the loss adjuster said site investigations were needed to 
find the reasons  for the movement in the property. Im not persuaded that he was biased  
against Mr and Mrs J or failed to follow appropriate procedures.  In any event if I had been 
persuaded of that, Id have thought the best option  would  be to obtain  the opinion  of an 
independent expert  which is what has Amtrust has already suggested.
Mr C has also referred  to the way Amtrust handled Mr and Mrs Js complaint. There  are 
certain things I cant look into. Of relevance  here,  I can only look into things that Amtrust 
does that are regulated (known  as regulated activities). Complaint handling isnt something  
thats regulated.  So, regardless of how well or badly Amtrust might  have  handled the 
complaint, thats  not something I can make  a decision on. 
Ref: DRN88495813my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 February  2019.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8849581