K820x#14complaint
Mr W says Nationwide Building  Society mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
background and summary to complaint
Mr W bought the policy  in 2003 at the same  time as taking a loan. Mr W has told us it was 
sold during a meeting. Nationwide says its records show it was sold during a phone  call.
Mr W was employed  at the time as a lorry driver and had been there six years.  From what  he 
has told us, he was entitled to no more than statutory  pay if he couldnt work due to sickness  
or redundancy. Hes told us he also had £2000 in savings he couldve used to pay his loan if 
he couldnt work  less than three  months pay, from what  hes told us about his salary.  From  
what Mr W has told us, he was in good  health at the time and hadnt had any health issues.
The policys  one-off upfront  premium of £275.22  was paid in advance  by being added  to the 
loan (a single premium)  where it attracted interest  over the term of the loan. The loan was 
repayable over 36 months and the policy term matched  that of the loan. The monthly  loan 
repayment was around  £93 with the PPI costing around an additional £9, making the total 
monthly repayment around £102.
The policy provided  cover  for Mr W for accident,  sickness and unemployment, and also had 
life cover,  subject to its exclusions and limitations. For a successful claim, it offered to pay 
Mr Ws total monthly repayments for up to the remaining loan term for disability and for up to 
12 months for unemployment. The life cover, subject to its terms, would clear the loan on 
death. Nationwide has sent us evidence  to show the loan was repaid in 2005.
Mr Ws representative has made  lengthy  and substantial representations on his behalf. Ill 
not restate  them all here,  but I have read and considered them  all carefully. In summary,  
Mr Ws representative says:
Nationwide failed  to meet  the sales standards which  applied  at the time. In those  
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should be presumed Mr W wouldnt have taken the 
policy and the complaint  should  be upheld. Mr Ws representative  believes  there  to be no 
evidence to rebut that presumption;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a successful 
claim meant  the policy was of inherently poor value  as shown by the low claims ratio. 
The common law duty of utmost  good faith means  Nationwide  shouldve told Mr W about 
the poor value;  
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Nationwide  should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr W and the 
impact they would have had on his chances of making a claim;  and
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of cover.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr W disagreed with the adjudicators opinion for 
Ref: DRN88988112several reasons.  As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me 
for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ws. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ws complaint.
This sale took place  in 2003 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated in January 2005.  So, the FSAs  (and FCAs) overarching  Principles for Businesses 
and insurance  conduct  rules  (ICOB and ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint, nor is the 
FCAs Perimeter guidance  (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2005. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at the time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC code, which  set out minimum standards of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Nationwide, selling insurance at this time.
The ABI code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct Marketing/ 
Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
Ref: DRN88988113I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Nationwide at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take these codes and 
these other  publications into account when deciding, what  is in my opinion,  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Ws case.  
 
I have also taken account of relevant law in reaching  my decision, including: the law relating 
to negligence, misrepresentation and contract (including the express and implied  duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Nationwide was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mr Ws complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If Nationwide gave  advice, whether  it advised  Mr W with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him, given his needs  and 
circumstances. 
-Whether Nationwide gave Mr W sufficient,  appropriate and timely information to enable 
him to make  an informed  choice about  whether to take the policy,  including  drawing to 
his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr W, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent he suffered loss or damage  and 
what I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or damage.
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr W and 
Nationwide, Ive decided  not to uphold  Mr Ws complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Mr W know he had a choice?
Nationwide had to make it clear the PPI was optional. It has provided a copy  of the printed 
credit agreement for the loan, which included PPI. I expect the main  loan details on the 
agreement reflected choices Mr W made  about  how much to borrow,  over what  period and 
so on, in the discussion that took place before the agreement was printed.
On balance I think its likely that discussion also involved  Mr W being given a choice  about  
the PPI, with the printed  agreement reflecting  his choice. I say this bearing in mind  that the 
agreement refers to the PPI as Optional Credit Insurance and sets out PPI costs separately 
from the main loan costs   so I think it likely Mr W signed the loan agreement aware he was 
taking optional insurance with a separate  cost. 
Ref: DRN88988114If the agreement  was given to Mr W at a meeting  like Mr W says,  I think  it likely Nationwide  
wouldve presented  the PPI in line with its presentation on the agreement  - as optional with a 
separate cost.  If it was sold by phone like Nationwide says, what we know  of Nationwides 
sales process at that time makes me think it likely Nationwide wouldve quoted for the loan 
with and without  PPI, which wouldve also given an indication the PPI was optional.
Mr W hasnt said anything to make me think he was pressured into the PPI. He has said he 
had no interest in PPI and has said it was just included as part of the loan package - and Ive 
thought about this carefully. Taking  everything into account, and with all Ive said above in 
mind, I think  its more  likely Mr W knew the PPI was optional and agreed to take it without 
undue pressure.
did Nationwide provide  advice?
Nationwide says it didnt  provide advice  during  this sale. Mr W hasnt disagreed.  With all this 
in mind, Im persuaded Nationwide didnt provide advice. This means Nationwide  didnt have 
to check if the PPI was suitable for Mr W. Instead,  it had to give him sufficient, appropriate 
and timely  information  to enable him to make an informed choice about  whether to take the 
policy, including drawing  to his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  
way  the main  provisions  of the policy and significant limitations and exclusions. 
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr W was given a broad description of what the policy  
was intended  to cover (that is, it would protect his payments  if he were unable  to work due to 
accident, sickness or unemployment). Ive reached this conclusion because I think it unlikely 
Mr W wouldve  taken  the PPI without  any sense of what it was. Also the loan agreement also 
referred to Mr W as being insured for disability, unemployment and life. 
I also think Mr W knew the single premium being added to the loan was £275.22, the interest 
added to the premium  was £33.66,  the total cost was £308.88 and the monthly cost £8.58 - 
as this information was, in my view, sufficiently clear  on the loan agreement  Mr W signed. 
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Nationwide gave sufficient 
information about the exclusions  or limitations before Mr W agreed to take the policy. So I 
dont think Nationwide  gave Mr W sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable  
him to make  an informed  choice about  whether to take the policy,  including  drawing to his 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.  
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Ws representative  has raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Ws. I have 
considered these carefully and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have explained 
the low claims  ratio  what Mr Ws representative considers to be poor value. 
Ref: DRN88988115-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just told 
Mr W about the limitations and exclusions, it should have  gone  further  and explained the 
significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Ws representatives views on this. The duty of utmost  good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find this extended to the insurer having to disclose the claims 
ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations and exclusions  in the way 
Mr W has suggested. And, taking into account the law, industry codes and standards  of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude Nationwide  ought to have done  either.
What effect did Nationwides shortcomings  have on Mr W? To what extent did Mr W 
suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found Nationwide didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  to Mr W. So 
Ive gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude  Mr W suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether  or not Mr W would have  
still taken the policy,  had Nationwide done  things properly.  Mr W says he would not have 
taken it and believes I should presume this to be the case  given the significant failings 
identified above.  
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr W had to weigh  up in his own mind the cost of the policy 
against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if he didnt insure against the 
risk of being  unable  to work. As Ive found above,  he chose to take the policy, so I consider it 
reasonable to conclude  he had some interest in the benefits offered by this type of policy.  
But he made this decision based  on incomplete information. So what Mr W thought  he was 
getting isnt exactly  what he got. The extent to which this differed is a relevant consideration 
when determining if Mr W has suffered any loss or detriment. 
As Ive already  said, the information Mr W was given  about the cost was clear   he was told 
the total cost of the policy, how much the interest  was and the monthly  policy cost. But the 
information about other aspects of the policy, such as the benefit  and the limitations and 
exclusions, wasnt as clear as it should have been.  
Im not persuaded Nationwide made clear exactly what Mr W would get back for a 
successful claim  on the PPI. But I think it unlikely his expectations about what it would pay 
(for disability or unemployment, an amount sufficient to meet  his monthly  loan payment) 
were significantly  at odds  with what the policy actually did. 
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr W thought  hed bought and what 
he actually bought, were the following:
The policy limited, and in some situations  excluded, unemployment  cover  if Mr W wasnt  
a permanent employee;
To be eligible  for disability, Mr W had to be not only unable  to do his own job but unable 
to do any work;
The policy excluded claims for disability or unemployment  related to health issues Mr W 
knew or should reasonably have known of at the policy  start;  or related to health issues  
for which he received  advice or was referred  for investigation in the 12 months before the 
start and which recurred in the first 12 months  of the policy.
Ref: DRN88988116I do accept theres a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Mr W pause for thought   and may well have caused him to conclude the PPI policy wasnt  
as good as he thought,  and he might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the 
cover, when  coupled  with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have  dissuaded some  
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr W from taking the policy.  
But, the evidence  about Mr Ws circumstances at the time of the sale shows  the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong for him. He was eligible for its benefits and it provided cover 
that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proven valuable to him should the 
insured risks have  become a reality. I also havent  seen any evidence to suggest he 
wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions  he was in permanent 
employment and didnt have any existing health  issues or pre-existing medical conditions.  
So, I think he still had some good reasons to take the policy.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr W would have 
expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some  evidence to 
support that claim. Also, the policy did provide a pro-rata  refund  if it was cancelled early,  so 
the policy provided flexibility in case Mr W decided to repay the loan early.
If Mr W had known he could only claim for disability if he were  not only unable  to do his own 
job but unable  to do any work, this might have played into his thinking about  what to do. And 
I accept it may have given  him pause  for thought  but, given his circumstances, on balance 
I think he wouldve likely still been  interested in taking the PPI.
Having considered all the evidence and arguments in this case,  I consider  it more likely than 
not Mr W would still have  taken the PPI. It was sufficiently close to what  its likely  he thought 
he was getting  and it provided  benefits  that would help him manage the consequences  were  
he made redundant, or unable  to work  through accident or sickness. In the circumstances, I 
consider it more likely  than not Mr W wouldve taken the policy in any event,  notwithstanding  
the limitations on cover.
Mr Ws representatives say the rules  about  how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption. 
They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances. That guidance  is for 
firms, but it is a relevant  consideration so I take it into account  along with many  other  things 
when I decide  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable.  Considering the purpose of the 
guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended  to be at odds with the approach  I have taken.
I have thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, I have found  it would be reasonable to conclude  there  
were substantial flaws  in the sales  process.  In those  circumstances, DISP App 3 says it 
should be presumed Mr W would  not have bought the PPI he bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
I am satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude  the presumption  is rebutted  
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr Ws 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  he found  
Ref: DRN88988117himself in as a result of the sale was the same position he wouldve been in had the breach 
or significant failings  not occurred.
 
Mr W believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales process  
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments.  
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr W in the position he would have  been  in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
That is because,  while I accept its possible he wouldnt have taken the policy,  Im satisfied, 
of the two possibilities, its more likely than not Mr W wouldve still taken the PPI had he 
been given clear, fair and not misleading  information about the policy  he was buying. So Im 
not persuaded it would  be fair and reasonable, in those circumstances, to conclude 
Nationwide should  pay Mr W compensation, as that would put him in a better position than 
he would  have been in had everything happened  as it should have done. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Ws representative says a court  might  take and the 
remedy it might award if it were to find Nationwide had been in breach of its duty of utmost  
good faith. But this doesnt persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint   including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out, I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr W in a better position than if everything had 
happened as it should have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 May 2021.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8898811