K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains about the way Integrated Financial  Arrangements  Ltd went about 
telling him and his Financial Adviser  (IFA), about the upcoming closure of a holding  
in his Transact portfolio account. Transact  is an operating name  for Integrated  
Financial Arrangements  Ltd. For ease of reference,  I will refer to Transact in the rest 
of this decision. 
Mr W says hes lost out financially as a result, and Transact should compensate him 
for this loss. 
background
In 2011, Mr W opened  a General Investment Account (GIA) portfolio with Transact 
to hold his pension in. He signed the application  form,  which  said at the top it must  
be read with the Transact Key Features Document and the Terms and Conditions. 
Transact is an advised  platform, this means that it only accepts clients who have 
an authorised financial  adviser. Mr W gave Transact  his advisers details. Transact  
does not provide advice on investments.  
One of the holdings within Mr Ws portfolio was the Global X Consumer ETF 
(BRAQ) Fund. Ill refer to this as Global X. 
On 22 September  2017, the Global  X Fund announced fund liquidations. The data 
vendor, providing  Transact with information  about market announcements, sent an 
email to Transact on Friday, 22 September 2017  at 7.34 PM about the closure  of 
Global X. The email showed a listing status  change. There  was a supplement from 
Global X setting out the decision taken by its board  to liquidate  and terminate the 
Global X Fund.
Transact says it reviewed the data the next working day, on 25 September 2017. It 
sent an email to Mr Ws IFA, at 2.03 PM on 26 September 2017, notifying Mr Ws 
IFA of the closure  of the Fund. Ill refer to this as the closure  email.   The  closure 
email said there was an attachment. 
The IFA called Transact to clarify things on 27 September 2017 at 10.33AM. The 
IFA asked about  the missing attachment and whether the closure email had, also, 
been sent directly  to their mutual  client, 
Mr W. Transact told the IFA, during  that call, there was no attachment - it had used 
an old email template and not deleted this, by mistake.  It said that the closure  email  
wasnt sent directly to clients because corporate action emails, were  considered  
technical in nature, and sent to the adviser.  
The IFA notified Mr W at 5.14PM on 28 September 2017 that Global X was closing. 
Mr W placed a trade  on the same  day at 7.02PM. The trade was actioned on 29 
September 2017 at 2.50 PM, in accordance with Transacts order  execution  policy. 
The policy said that Transact aggregates trades received before 1PM. And it  
transacts them after 2PM,  on the same  day of business.  
Mr W complained  to Transact about the delay and asked  it to compensate him for 
the difference between the sold price  of his Global X shares on 29 September 2017 
Ref: DRN84042292and the potential price that wouldve been  achieved on 27 September  2017,  had he 
been notified direct.
One of our adjudicators looked  into Mr Ws complaint. She concluded that Mr Ws 
complaint shouldnt be upheld. She said that Transact had forwarded the email to 
the IFA within a reasonable timeframe. She also said, it wasnt  inappropriate for 
Transact to send the information to Mr Ws IFA, rather than him.
Mr W didnt accept the adjudicators view. He provided further representations. In 
summary, he said, it was unethical of Transact to send the information to a third 
party without his knowledge. He also said that he had employed his adviser  to 
provide only intermediary services to operate his portfolio. He said he did not 
necessarily need  the IFAs advice  on investments.  
As agreement hasnt been  reached, Mr Ws case comes to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Having done so, and having  considered  the two views issued  by our adjudicator, I 
agree with the conclusion shes reached  not to uphold this complaint. My reasons 
are largely the same as our adjudicators and are set out below. I have taken into 
account everything that Mr W has said in reaching this decision.
should Transact have sent the information  about the closure of the Global  X 
Fund to Mr W directly?
Transact is an advised platform.  Mr W had to have an appointed IFA to open the 
account. Transact said it sent the corporate action information to Mr Ws adviser 
because it considered it to be of a technical nature.
The version of the terms and conditions that applied  when Mr W opened  his 
Transact account said:
8.2 Corporate Actions and Notices
(1) We  provide    intermediary   financial  and  wrap  services  only;   we  do  
not  administer   the investments,  or advise on the investments,  which we 
hold within your Portfolio for you.  
As a result:
(i) We will not normally forward  to you copies of reports and accounts, 
scheme particulars or meeting and voting information issued by the 
providers of investments; and 
(ii) We will normally  not exercise any voting rights attaching  to your 
investments;
Ref: DRN84042293Unless you expressly request otherwise, and we agree to such  request, on a 
case by case basis, Where we from time to time, do agree to such  a request  we 
reserve the right to charge a fee calculated in a commercially reasonable 
manner as commensurate to the amount of work which it is required  for us to 
undertake in respect  on any such request.
(2) It is the responsibility of you, in conjunction with your Adviser  where 
applicable, to monitor corporate  transactions  in respect of the investment which 
you have purchased or transferred into your Portfolio from time to time.  We rely 
on third parties for details of corporate  actions. Where we forward  any such  
details to you this is for your ease  of reference only  
Theres nothing in the terms and conditions that leads me to conclude that Transact  
ought reasonably  to have sent the corporate action  information about the Global X 
Fund directly to Mr W. Indeed  they make it clear  that its Mr W, and his advisers 
responsibility, to monitor  the investments. So, I cant fairly find that Transact did 
anything wrong  when it didnt sent the information  directly to Mr W. Transact  
considered the corporate action information to be of a technical  nature and given 
the  advised  nature of the platform,  I dont think it inappropriate that this information 
was passed on to Mr Ws adviser, rather than to him directly.
closure email and attachment
Ive considered what Mr Ws said about the email  not being labelled clearly, in short 
because it was headed, for information. Firstly, under the terms and conditions, its 
clear that corporate action  information  is provided for ease  of reference  which, in 
my mind, put another way, is for information. So, I dont think  there  was anything 
wrong in the way the email  was labelled. And, in any event, it was Mr W and his 
advisers responsibility under Clause 8.2, to monitor corporate actions.
Transact did make a mistake in the closure  email. It said there was an attachment,  
when there wasnt one But, I cant reasonably see that the mistake about the 
attachment caused Mr W to lose out financially. The email clearly flagged up that 
the Global X Fund  was closing. Its questionable whether  Transact was under any 
legal obligation to provide this information  given clause 8.2. But even if it was, Mr 
Ws IFA clarified  the position  regarding the missing attachment before the next 
aggregated deal deadline (1PM). So, I cant see that the time spent clarifying the 
position caused the loss.
was the information communicated  in a timely way?
Transact considered the information about  the Global  X Fund on 25 September  (it 
was sent outside of office hours) and passed this on to Mr Ws IFA on 26 
September. I think this was a timely response.
was it unethical  to pass information on to Mr Ws IFA?
 
Mr W gave Transact authority  to engage with his IFA when he opened his GIA 
account. Although 
Ref: DRN84042294Mr W felt able to manage his own investments, without  advice, this was a matter 
between him and his IFA. Mr W also authorised Transact to pay his IFA 0.25% 
per year from his portfolio to pay for the intermediary services his IFA provided. 
So, I dont share Mr Ws view that sending the corporate action  information on to 
his appointed adviser was unethical or inappropriate. 
my final decision
I do not uphold  Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 March 2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8404229