K820x#14complaint
Ms M complains about a mortgage  with Barclays  Bank UK PLC. Ms M says she didnt know 
what sort of mortgage she was taking out before she signed  the paperwork,  and that the 
property was overvalued.  The property has been on the market  since 2015 but is worth  less 
than the outstanding mortgage, and Ms M would like Barclays to help with a sale at a 
shortfall. 
Whilst the mortgage is in joint names  the complaint has been brought  by Ms M, with Mr Ms 
authority and agreement. Ms M says Mr M arranged the mortgage and she just signed the 
paperwork, so she wasnt party  to the discussions when it was set up.
background
In 2008 Ms M and her now ex-husband Mr M remortgaged with Barclays.  The mortgage  was 
for a little over £1.7m and was taken on an interest-only basis  over a 20-year term. The 
mortgage product  was a lifetime tracker of 1.25% above the banks base rate. On the 
application form Mr M and Ms M declared the estimated value of their property to be £2.3m 
and the surveyor  appointed by Barclays to value the house agreed  with that sum.
Ms M and Mr M divorced in 2010  and Ms M moved out. The property has been on the 
market since 2015 and since then there have been  a few offers - with the highest  being 
£1.65m - but none  of the offers have proceeded to a completed sale.
In 2016 Ms M discussed with Barclays the possibility of selling the property for less than the 
outstanding mortgage and she completed a sale at shortfall form. Unfortunately  Barclays 
had to turn down  the request as Mr M didnt  complete a form and it needed  both parties to 
the mortgage to join the request.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. He said the property  was valued when the 
mortgage was taken out and Barclays was entitled  to rely on that so Barclays  is under no 
obligation to cover any mortgage  shortfall. He also said the details of the mortgage were  
clear when it was taken out.
Ms M didnt agree, and so its been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Im conscious that Ive condensed the events of the complaint into rather  less detail  than 
they were presented. No discourtesy is intended by this; its merely a reflection of the 
informal nature of our service. Although Ive read and considered the whole  file Ill keep my 
comments to what  I think  is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific  point its not because  
Ive not considered it but because I dont  think I need to comment  on it in order to reach the 
right outcome.
We cant look at any complaint about the valuation itself. This is because the company that 
carried out the valuation isnt a business  thats covered by our service. That means I dont  
have the legal power to look at complaints against it. Ive also no power to consider a 
Ref: DRN85392982complaint against  Barclays concerning the surveyors  competence  or the valuations  
accuracy, as the firm of surveyors  is a completely  separate  business from Barclays.
I do appreciate that because Barclays  instructed the surveyor  to undertake the mortgage 
valuation, Ms M may consider that it should  accept  responsibility for the problem she now 
faces with the property  being worth less than the outstanding  mortgage.  However,  the only 
obligation required of Barclays  was to instruct a suitably qualified  surveying firm to carry out 
the valuation  a requirement that it fulfilled by appointing a member firm of the Royal  
Institution of Chartered Surveyors.  In doing so, Barclays didnt at the same time assume  
responsibility for any errors or omissions by the surveyor.
Barclays was entitled to rely on the valuation figure given by the surveyor  when deciding  
whether to lend  and how much to lend  to Ms M and Mr M. And so Barclays  has no 
responsibility to cover  any shortfall  either in full or in part  that there might be when the 
property is sold.
Ms M asked Barclays if she could sell the property  herself and pay Barclays  back  less than 
she and Mr M owe. This is known as a shortfall sale. In some cases a lender will agree to 
this as it may feel its the best way to get back some  of the money its owed, but its down to 
the lenders commercial discretion. There are also many possible outcomes if a sale at 
shortfall application is successful; it may be the lender decides to write off the outstanding 
balance (either in full or in part), or it may say the balance will still be owed but it wont 
actively chase either  one or both parties for it. Alternatively it may say the balance  is owed 
and it expects regular  payments  to be made.
Here, Barclays considered Mrs Ms request in 2016  but it was turned down. I understand it 
didnt have all the information it wanted to decide whether it was the right thing to do. This is 
because Mr M is named on the mortgage  account  and it didnt  have anything  from him to 
show his financial position or his agreement  for a shortfall sale to proceed.
It may be Barclays  is willing to agree to the property  being sold for less than the outstanding 
mortgage balance,  but it cant consider any request until both Ms M and Mr M fully complete 
and return up-to-date sale at shortfall  forms (with  any supporting information that Barclays  
might require). Until that is done Barclays has said it wont allow its legal charge to be 
released unless  the full outstanding balance is paid.
Ms M has said she didnt know the details  of the mortgage when  it was taken out as Mr M 
arranged it with Barclays without her being present. She says she just signed the paperwork 
that was put in front of her. I can see Ms M has said we may not believe that explanation,  but 
I can reassure her that its entirely believable as it was quite common  at the time she took 
the mortgage out. 
But thats not relevant here.  I say this because it was  and still is  a joint mortgage, so 
whilst Ms M might not have understood it, thats  not the test I need to consider. Instead 
I have to bear in mind  Mr M was also named on the mortgage, and so was equally 
responsible for it. We have to consider the whole picture, not just Ms Ms part in it. So Ms M 
telling us she didnt  know this was an interest-only  tracker mortgage isnt the whole picture 
as that doesnt  take into account Mr Ms awareness  back then. Having considered  
everything Ive got no reason to believe Mr M wasnt aware he was taking out an 
interest-only tracker mortgage,  and all the paperwork was clear to that effect. 
Ref: DRN85392983Ms M has also said she has never  been able to afford the mortgage payments but again 
thats not the test I need to use. At the time the mortgage was taken out Ms M was noted to 
be a housewife and the mortgage was agreed based on Mr Ms salary. That was completely 
acceptable  and not at all unusual   for a joint mortgage application. Barclays  didnt need to 
make sure the mortgage was affordable for Ms M on her own as that wasnt the application 
that Mr M and Ms M made. Barclays had no reason to believe theyd divorce  and no reason 
to believe Mr M wouldnt  continue to make the monthly payments  from his income as agreed.
For Ms M to be removed from the mortgage  Mr M would have to make an application (called  
a transfer of equity) to take the mortgage  over in his sole name. Ms M would have to agree 
to the application and all parties  would need independent  legal representation  to complete 
the transfer both of the mortgage  and the legal  title at the Land Registry. The application 
would be subject to Barclays normal lending criteria  and it may be that it is turned down. 
Unless that process is followed (and the application  approved)  both Ms M and Mr M remain 
jointly and severally  liable  for the mortgage debt, and both parties will need  to agree to any 
actions relating to the mortgage  (such  as making a sale at shortfall application).  Barclays  
had no responsibility  to explain to Ms M that she would remain liable for the mortgage in the 
event of a divorce  over and above the standard wording in the mortgage terms and 
conditions about  the parties being  jointly and severally liable.
I cant comment on how long the property has been  on the market or the difference  between  
the 2008 value and how much a person may be willing  to pay for the property now. Thats  
because I can only consider the actions of Barclays, and the valuation of the property in 
2008 wasnt its responsibility under our rules. As Ive explained above, if Ms M and Mr M 
wish to sell the property  at a shortfall  then theyll need to contact Barclays  and both complete 
the sale at a shortfall process.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im 
required to ask Ms M and Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 3 October  2019 .
Julia Chapman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8539298