K820x#14complaint
Mr T and Mrs H complain  that Lloyds Bank PLC increased the level of the fees charged for 
when they use the overdraft facility  on their current account.
background
In the summer  of 2017, Lloyds wrote  to Mr T and Mrs H to tell them that the terms and 
conditions of their current account were  going  to change.  The changes were  to take place in 
November 2017.  Lloyds told Mr T and Mrs H that the charging structure for the overdraft 
facility on their current account would mean a daily usage fee would be applied, depending  
on how much of the overdraft was being used.
Lloyds didnt introduce the change  straight away for Mr T and Mrs Hs overdraft facility.  
Instead, they agreed a three  month period, where an interim interest rate was applied to the 
facility. This meant Mr T and Mrs W would  be charged less each month  than they ordinarily 
would, under the change  to the charging  structure. Lloyds say they did this to allow time for 
Mr T and Mrs H to repay the overdraft balance if they wished to.
In late 2017, Mr T and Mrs H made  a payment into their current account which  repaid the 
majority of their overdraft  balance at the time.  By early 2018, Lloyds had ended the three 
month period  they had agreed  with Mr T and Mrs H, and the new charging structure was 
applied to their overdraft facility.
Soon after, Mr T and Mrs H spoke to Lloyds  to ask them if they could use the overdraft 
facility, with reduced charges for a further  period. At that time, Mr T and Mrs Hs account  was 
nearing the overdraft  limit. Lloyds agreed to waive any overdraft fees over the following 30 
days, whilst  Mr T and Mrs H thought further about  their options.
Mr T and Mrs H complained to Lloyds about the changes to the charging  structure  of their 
overdraft facility in April 2018. They said that Lloyds  had made  the changes, but hadnt  
negotiated with them, in light of the increased  fees they would have to pay. Mr T and Mrs H 
said that they needed a further period, where  lower overdraft usage fees could be applied  to 
their account, so they could repay  the overdraft balance. They told Lloyds it may take them 
six to nine months to do that.
In their final response to Mr T and Mrs Hs complaint, Lloyds said that they didnt hear back  
from them, when Mr T and Mrs H spoke to them in early 2018. They said that the charging 
structure for the overdraft facility wouldnt be changed and that fees hadnt been charged in 
error to the account. Lloyds said they gave sufficient notice about  the introduction of the new 
charging structure to Mr T and Mrs H. Lloyds  also offered to talk to Mr T and Mrs H about 
their financial  circumstances, to see what other  help theyd be able to offer.
Mr T and Mrs H disagreed and reiterated  their plan to Lloyds, to repay  the overdraft over a 
period of time. They  also referred their complaint  to us as they were unhappy that Lloyds 
had refused to change  their policy on the overdraft  fees, at a time when they needed some 
respite.
Our investigator looked into Mr T and Mrs Hs complaint and concluded that Lloyds had 
given them enough notice  about  the changes to the charging structure. She said that Lloyds  
were able to change the terms  and conditions of the account and that Mr T and Mrs H had 
previously been  able, and were  in the process of, repaying the overdraft balance.  The 
Ref: DRN85146022investigator also found that Lloyds had done enough  to help Mr T and Mrs H, by occasionally 
waiving fees.
Mr T and Mrs H didnt  accept that conclusion. They said that they are not in financial 
difficulty, but the changes to the charging structure  are not in the spirit of the industrys 
borrowing rules.  Mr T and Mrs H said that Lloyds werent treating them fairly.
The investigator didnt  change her conclusions and now the case has been passed  to me to 
make a final decision. It has been quite some time since that happened,  and Mr T and Mrs H 
have told us that they have now repaid the balance of the overdraft facility.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to be clear, that I havent  considered  whether the charging structures, past or present, 
that Lloyds have applied to Mr T and Mrs Hs current  account are fair and reasonable. The 
amount Lloyds choose to charge, for the use of an overdraft, is a commercial  decision made  
by them.
But, I have considered if Lloyds have acted  fairly  and reasonably  to Mr T and Mrs H, by 
notifying them appropriately of the changes to the charging structure. Ive also considered 
the fairness of Lloyds  actions once they became  aware of Mr T and Mrs Hs concerns and 
the effect the changes had on their financial circumstances.
Lloyds have regulatory obligations, but they also should follow good industry practice  and 
guidelines, such as the Standards of Lending Practice, which  replaced  The Lending Code in 
July 2016. So, along with Lloyds own terms and conditions  for Mr T and Mrs Hs account, 
Ive thought about the wider obligations on Lloyds and how they have applied them to this 
case.
The changing of the terms and conditions
Page seven, point  six of The Standards of Lending  Practice for personal customers  says that 
lenders should:
inform customers of any changes to the interest rates and fees on their overdraft. To help 
the customer compare costs. The old interest  rates and fees should be included  within  the 
information.
Page nine, point  six of The Standards of Lending  Practice for personal customers, 
Information for Practitioners  Account maintenance and servicing says:
Customers should be personally notified  at least 30 days  before any increase in an 
overdraft charge or the introduction of a new overdraft charge.
Having considered the wider obligations  on Lloyds, I think  the onus was on them  to tell Mr T 
and Mrs H about the changes to the charging structure of their overdraft, at least 30 days  
before the changes  were put into place.  
Page 21, point  11.1 of Lloyds own terms and conditions  say:
Ref: DRN85146023We can change the general or additional  conditions that apply to a particular account, 
benefit or service.
I think the terms and conditions of Mr T and Mrs Hs account, allow for Lloyds to make 
changes from time to time. On the following  page,  Lloyds terms and conditions  go on to say 
that they will notify customers at least two months  before any change to an overdraft 
charging structure.
I can see from the documents that Mr T and Mrs H and Lloyds have sent to us, that Lloyds 
notified them  of the upcoming changes to the charging structure of their overdraft facility  on 
13 August 2017.  The changes to the charging structure then took place on 2 November 
2017, which was over two months,  after the notification was sent.  
So, I think Lloyds gave  Mr T and Mrs H the 30 day notice, covered in The Standards of 
Lending Practice guidelines. I also think the notification period given to Mr T and Mrs H was 
longer than detailed in Lloyds own terms and conditions.
In all the circumstances, I think Lloyds treated Mr T and Mrs H fairly here,  and gave them 
more notice about the changes to the charging structure, than they could have normally 
expected.
Lloyds awareness  of Mr T and Mrs Hs circumstances
I have looked  at Mr T and Mrs Hs account  to see how they used their overdraft facility, when 
the changes to the charging structure were explained to them.  Ive done this to see if Lloyds 
should have treated Mr T and Mrs H any differently, based on their financial circumstances.
Between September and November 2017, Mr T and Mrs H made use of their overdraft 
facility every day. The balance of the account was often close to the limit of the overdraft  
facility and exceeded the limit on four separate occasions. Mr T and Mrs H paid funds into 
the account, when the limit was exceeded,  within a few days  and there arent any records of 
unpaid direct debits  or standing orders  over this period.
The majority of the payments leaving Mr T and Mrs Hs account were day to day living  
expenses. And there were  regular payments coming into the account.  I cannot see that there 
were significant payments  to other lenders  at the time, which may have shown that Mr T and 
Mrs H had borrowing elsewhere. I have  also looked  at Lloyds contact notes  from this time 
and they dont show any contact was from Mr T and Mrs H, to say that they were 
experiencing financial difficulties.
Mr T and Mrs H have  explained to us that their circumstances  in November 2017 were such  
that Mrs H was unable  to work due serious  ill health.  They  also said that Mr T was looking 
for new employment. So, I note that they were  not receiving as much income as they usually 
would. However, I also note that Lloyds were not made aware of these circumstances at this 
point.
Having considered everything  here,  I recognise  Mr T and Mrs H always  made use of their 
overdraft facility, often  towards the higher end of the limit. But, I dont think  Lloyds ought  to 
have noticed any financial difficulties, prior to November 2017, which meant that they 
needed to treat Mr T and Mrs H any differently than they did.
Ref: DRN85146024A payment was made into Mr T and Mrs Hs account in late November 2017. This repaid 
most of the overdraft  facility and the account  usage  continued as before. Where by 
eventually, the account neared  the overdraft  limit in February 2018. Within  this timescale, the 
transactions on the account were consistent  with those prior to November 2017. And there 
wasnt any returned direct  debit or standing orders.
Having considered the further usage  of the accounts overdraft  facility,  I think  Mr T and 
Mrs H were able to show that they could repay  the balance when they chose  to. And I dont  
think there was any suggestion from them, which placed a responsibility on Lloyds to help 
with any financial difficulties. So, I dont  think  Lloyds  ought to have been aware of Mr T and 
Mrs Hs circumstances at this time.
Lloyds records show that Mr T spoke to Lloyds  in February 2018  and said that he and Mrs H 
cannot manage repaying the overdraft facility  with the new charging  structure  in place. Mr T 
and Mrs H have told us that Lloyds discussed the possibility of a consolidation loan with 
them, in February  2018.  
I think it was at this point, Lloyds ought  to have been aware of Mr T and Mrs Hs concerns 
about how long it would  take them to reduce  the balance of the overdraft,  with the new 
charging structure in place. In all the circumstances, I think Lloyds spoke with Mr T and 
Mrs H at the appropriate time, to see if they could  do more to help. So, I dont think Lloyds 
treated Mr T and Mrs H unfairly  prior to February 2018.
Lloyds actions to help Mr T and Mrs H.
Mr T and Mrs H have  sent us a very detailed summary of the overdraft facility charges  
applied to their account  and of their conversations with Lloyds. This corresponds with Lloyds 
own records, where we can see what arrangements  were made,  whilst Mr T and Mrs H were  
looking to repay the balance  of the overdraft  facility.
Page four, point two of The Standards of Lending  Practice for personal customers, 
Information for Practitioners  Financial difficulty  says:
The appropriate level of intervention/support required will be dependent  upon the individual 
customers position and the information obtained.
The guidance goes  on to say that lenders  should  consider referring  a customer  to a free debt 
advice agency,  applying breathing space and to go through  an affordability assessment. 
Also, the guidance suggests  a customer should  be given the opportunity  to talk to a 
dedicated team, or to look at restructuring the account onto a loan.
When Lloyds initially advised Mr T and Mrs H about  the changes  to the charging structure, 
they said the changes would take place on 2 November 2017. However, Lloyds didnt  make  
the changes on that date for Mr T and Mrs Hs account. Instead, Lloyds extended the 
existing charging  structure on that account  for a further three  months, until February  2018.
Ive concluded  that Lloyds  didnt  need to take any action with Mr T and Mrs Hs account prior 
to February 2018.  But, by giving them a grace  period of three months, I think  Lloyds have 
treated Mr T and Mrs H fairly. I think this period allowed Mr T and Mrs H time to repay  the 
overdraft, which they subsequently did, buy making a lump  sum payment in early  November 
2017. I acknowledge though, that this was done  mainly to take some pressure off from the 
account, when  Mrs H was recovering from ill health  and Mr T was looking for further income.
Ref: DRN85146025Ive carefully considered  Mr T and Mrs Hs use of the overdraft in the years  up to November 
2017 to understand if they regularly  supported  the limit they were given by Lloyds. I can see 
that monthly payments were made the account,  which reduced the balance of the facility on 
a regular basis. So, I think Mr T and Mrs H were  able to service  the overdraft facility  limit and 
reduce the balance when  they needed  to. 
Lloyds records show that when Mr T and Mrs H wrote to them in February 2018, they 
suggested various things to try and help. The prospect of a consolidation loan, a downgrade 
to a different  account, a further 30 day hold on future overdraft charges and a review  of 
income and expenditure were offered. Mr T and Mrs H didnt take up the options put forward  
at this time,  but did accept the offer to suspend overdraft charges for a further  30 days.
I think that in February 2018, Mr T and Mrs H clearly told Lloyds that they would find it 
difficult to manage repaying  the balance of the overdraft facility,  with the new charging  
structure in place. So, I think there was a responsibility on Lloyds to make  some options 
available. 
Having considered the range of assistance available to lenders, I think  the measures 
suggested by Lloyds are consistent with that guidance.  I think Lloyds offered to review  Mr T 
and Mrs Hs income and expenditure to see if they could  still support the facility  limit. But, 
Mr T and Mrs H have  said they werent in financial difficulties and I think their actions to 
repay the balance  at several points in time,  support that. So, I think the options Lloyds 
chose, of suggesting a consolidation loan or downgrading the account,  were the most 
reasonable.
I acknowledge that Mr T and Mrs H didnt find the options given to them acceptable. But, I 
dont think this means Lloyds treated them unfairly,  given  their previous action with the grace 
period and the further suspension of overdraft charges.
Ive also considered the correspondence between Mr T and Mrs H from February to May 
2018. Within Lloyds letters to Mr T and Mrs H, similar options were  made  available.  I can 
see that during  Mr T and Mrs Hs complaint, Lloyds have continued to offer to review  their 
financial circumstances, with a view to exploring  the consolidation loan option again.  
I understand Mr T and Mrs H have now managed to repay the balance of the overdraft 
facility without any further assistance from Lloyds.  Looking at the statements for the account, 
over several years, I think Mr T and Mrs H have always been  able reduce the balance  when 
they chose to. 
But, I think Lloyds treated Mr T and Mrs H positively and sympathetically, when they became 
aware of their wish to try and pay it off gradually.
Have Lloyds treated Mr T and Mrs H fairly?
Having considered everything, I think that Lloyds were able to change the terms and 
conditions of the overdraft facility on Mr T and Mrs Hs account and that they gave sufficient 
notice, before they made the changes.  I also think Lloyds offered reasonable options, given 
Mr T and Mrs Hs situation, when they became aware of their concerns. In all the 
circumstances, I think  Lloyds have  treated Mr T and Mrs H fairly when the charging structure 
changed for their overdraft facility.
Ref: DRN85146026my final decision
My final decision is I do not uphold Mr T and Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 February  2021.
Sam Wedderburn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8514602