K820x#14Complaint
Mr M complains that Zurich Assurance  Ltd has mishandled and declined  a claim made under 
his term assurance with critical illness cover policy. He also complained that the policies he 
and Mrs M were advised to take out had been mis-sold.
 
Background
Mr and Mrs M took out individual Lifestyle plans in 2002. The policies provided each of them 
with a benefit of £50,000  in the event of their death or being  diagnosed with a critical illness.  
The policies had an initial  term of 15 years  but could  be renewed. The policies  were  sold by 
an adviser, Mr C, who at the time was a representative of a business now known as Zurich. 
Mr C has been a representative of another business, which  Ill refer to as O, since 2005.
In 2016 Mr M discussed his policy with Mr C as hed been  diagnosed with a heart  condition  
and would require  surgery in the future.  Mr M says he was led to believe he would be able to 
make a claim for critical illness benefit  under the policy. In March  2017 Mr and Mrs M 
renewed their policies for an extra 10 years.
Mr M says he contacted Mr C in September 2017  to confirm he would be undergoing surgery 
within the next six months although  he wasnt certain of the procedure  hed be having. Mr M 
says he was given  the same  assurance  that both of the procedures  mentioned  would be 
covered. Mr Ms surgery was scheduled for February 2018 and he had further  contact with 
Mr C about making a claim in the lead up to it. However, Zurich later informed Mr M that the 
procedure he was having wasnt actually covered by the Essential plan hed taken out. 
Instead, the procedure was covered under the Premier plan but Mr and Mrs M had decided  
against taking  this cover when  the policies were  sold in 2002.
After recovering from the surgery,  Mr M complained to Zurich about  the handling of the claim 
and to O about the information provided  by Mr C about the policy  and his ability  to claim.  
Mr M also complained that he wasnt aware hed only taken the Essential cover and having  
reviewed his policy documents, he didnt think they clearly set out what cover hed taken. He 
said he and Mrs M had asked for policies  that covered them for everything so he thought  
they had been mis-sold.
Zurich found that there was one occasion  in January 2018 where it had misquoted the cover 
available to Mr M when  Mr C had phoned  to discuss the potential claim.  It offered Mr M £250 
for the trouble and upset  caused by this and for a delay in confirming its decision about  his 
claim. But it didnt  think  the policy had been  mis-sold. It said the documents  provided  to 
Mr and Mrs M at the time showed theyd been  advised to take the Essential cover.  It also 
said Mr and Mrs M had been given sufficient information about what  critical illnesses and 
procedures were covered  by this.
Mr and Mrs M remained unhappy and referred  their complaint to our service.  Mr M says that 
the cost of the policy wasnt an issue and they wouldve paid whatever they needed  to pay to 
have the most comprehensive cover. Mr M added that he relied on what he was told about  
his surgery being  covered  and so had suffered financially as a result.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He thought the compensation offered by Zurich 
was fair in respect  of the misinformation provided in January 2018.  He didnt think  there were 
any other occasions where Zurich had misled Mr C or Mr M about his surgery  being covered.  
He wasnt persuaded that the misinformation provided in January 2018 caused any further 
Ref: DRN88393662financial detriment. This is because Mr M wouldve always  gone ahead with the surgery  so 
he wouldve been  in the same financial situation  regardless. The investigator  didnt think the 
policy had been  mis-sold  as the evidence from the time showed  Mr and Mrs M had chosen  
the Essential cover  to keep costs down  and the other documents  clearly  described what  
cover theyd taken out.
Mr and Mrs M disagreed and asked for a final decision. They  said they hadnt  specified a 
budget so didnt think the sales  documents were accurate.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding it for 
largely the same reasons  as the investigator.
I know this isnt the outcome Mr and Mrs M were hoping for and I appreciate  this leaves 
them in a difficult position. But I dont think their policies were  mis-sold and I dont think 
Zurich needs to pay any further compensation  in respect of the claim. Ill explain why.
Alleged mis-sale of policies
At the time of the sale, Mr C sent Mr and Mrs M a recommendation  letter, dated 
20 February 2002, setting  out the recommendations hed made  as a result of the discussions 
that had taken place. This letter included the following  statement:
You have  chosen  the Essential version  of the plan instead of the Premier version because it 
keeps costs within your budget.
The letter also says that Mr and Mrs M had been provided with a key features document and 
personal illustration.  These documents confirmed theyd chosen  Essential cover and set out 
the differences between Essential and Premier cover.
So, while Ive taken  into account what Mr and Mrs M have  said about asking for the most 
comprehensive cover  and cost not being  an issue, Im more  persuaded by the documentary 
evidence from the time.  This shows that the two types of cover were  discussed with Mr and 
Mrs M and Essential cover  was chosen  to keep costs down. If what  was set out in the letter  
conflicted with Mr and Mrs Ms understanding of things or if they didnt think the 
recommendation met their needs, I think they wouldve raised this at the time. As they didnt, 
it seems most likely to me that they were happy  with the cover  provided, although I accept 
with hindsight they may now feel differently.
Claim decision and communication
Mr M underwent an aortic  root dissection  and aortic valve  replacement  in February 2018. 
Neither of these procedures are covered  under the Essential plan. So, I think  Zurich declined 
the claim for critical  illness  benefit  correctly.
However, it was possible  Mr M would also need  coronary artery  bypass  surgery   a 
condition covered under the Essential plan. It couldnt be known whether or not Mr M would 
need this procedure until the surgery took place  Mr Ms surgeon decided  this wasnt  
necessary.
Ref: DRN88393663Zurich has provided  records of the conversations  Mr C had with it about Mr Ms claim. This 
includes several conversations  in February  2016,  a further conversation  in September  2017 
and another conversation on 31 January 2018.  
In February 2016  Mr M told Mr C he had an aneurysm and would need  an aortic  root 
dissection and potential coronary artery bypass  surgery. Mr C then phoned Zurich to ask 
whether Mr M would be covered for an aortic aneurysm. Zurich called him back the following 
day to discuss this. Mr C was told that an aortic aneurysm wasnt one of the listed 
conditions. Mr C asked for the policy terms and conditions  to be sent over and asked Zurich  
to call him back a few days later. Zurich called Mr C as arranged  to go through the 
conditions covered by the policy. Zurich says Mr C told it Mr M would be having open heart 
surgery, to which Zurich  responded that the policy  covered coronary artery surgery.  Zurich 
says Mr C said he felt Mr M would  qualify for this. However, Zurich didnt confirm  whether or 
not a claim would be successful as it didnt know the precise procedure Mr M would be 
undergoing.
In light of the above, I dont think Zurich provided any misleading information in these 
exchanges. I think it was made clear  what Mr Ms policy covered but it couldnt say whether 
or not a claim would be successful without knowing what type of surgery Mr M would have.
The conversation Mr C had with Zurich in September  2017  appears to have followed a 
conversation he had with Mr M. Mr M had confirmed to Mr C that hed be having an aortic 
root dissection and aortic valve replacement, and possibly coronary artery bypass surgery. 
Zurichs record  of this conversation shows Mr C couldnt give the precise  details of the 
procedures Mr M was having, so Zurich  sent him another set of the policy terms and 
conditions. So, I dont  think  Zurich  provided any misleading information during this call.
Zurich accepts it made a mistake in the call that took place on 31 January 2018.  In this call, 
it read out the definition of aorta graft surgery, which wasnt  a procedure  covered under the 
Essential plan. However, the Zurich representative  still didnt  confirm  whether a claim would 
be paid.
Zurich has offered £250 for the impact of this mistake  and for failing  to confirm in writing why 
Mr Ms claim  couldnt be accepted.
Mr M argues that he should be paid significant  compensation  because he was relying on the 
claim payment to cover his expenses whilst he recovered from the surgery. But at the time of 
the mistake made by Zurich, Mr Ms surgery was booked and it couldnt have postponed or 
cancelled it as it was a medical necessity. So, even if hed been  given the right information 
on this date, I dont  think  it wouldve made  a difference to his situation.  Overall, I think  the 
compensation paid by Zurich fairly  compensates Mr M for the impact of this mistake and for 
not confirming  the claim  decision  in writing  sooner.
Ref: DRN88393664My final decision
While I have sympathy for Mr and Mrs Ms situation, Im not upholding their complaint for the 
reasons given above. I think  Zurich Assurance  Ltd has already done enough to put things 
right for the mistake it made.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 January  2020.
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8839366