K822xcomplaint
L, a limited company, complains that National  Westminster Bank Plc damaged its business 
when it wrongly put a stop on its business account.  L is represented by one of its directors,  
who Ill refer to as Mr C. He asks for compensation of about  £150,000 for lost sales, 
increased costs and loss of goodwill  and reputation.  Mr C also asks that NatWest writes  to 
Ls business partners saying the problem was solely due to NatWests  error.
background 
Mr C says there was a stop on Ls account  from the end of November 2017 to mid January 
2018. He says L was unable to make or receive payments: it lost business and the directors  
had to make  payments using their own funds. Mr C says they tried numerous  times to 
contact NatWest. He says the £200 compensation offered by NatWest  isnt sufficient. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She said there was 
a stop on Ls account between 30 November and 19 December 2017.  But Mr C hadnt 
provided sufficient evidence that the losses he described had been caused  by this.
L didnt agree. Mr C said, in summary, that the account was stopped until mid January  2018. 
He said theres always  a surge in sales during Christmas week  and the first weeks of 
January. He said we should take a broader view of loss and the effect  on a small company 
with fewer resources and people available to deal with these difficulties in addition  to their 
usual roles. Mr C said hed provided  evidence of Ls losses and said our investigator had set 
the evidential  burden too high.
Mr C also asked about his request that NatWest provide a letter to its business partners 
taking responsibility  for the problems with Ls account. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
what happened?
NatWest says there was a cash line stop on Ls account from 30 November to 19 December 
2017. Ls officers  couldnt access online banking, use their debit cards or authorise 
payments by phone. NatWest says it doesnt know how this happened  and accepts it made  
an error. It also accepts it took too long to remove the stop. 
Mr C disputes that the stop was removed on 19 December 2017.  NatWest provided a 
statement of transactions  on Ls account. There are a number of transactions on and from 
20 December 2017 including payments using online banking,  debit  cards  and CHAPS and 
receipts into the account. NatWest records show it issued a new debit card to Mr C on 20 
December 2017.  So I think the stop was removed on 19 December 2017.
Ref: DRN87436492what compensation, if any, is fair and reasonable?
NatWest made an error when it put a stop on the account. If a banks error causes financial 
loss Id usually  consider  it fair for it to pay compensation for this. But Id need  evidence of the 
loss, the amount of the loss and that it resulted from the banks error.  
Mr C says the investigator set the evidential bar too high. But given the amount of financial 
loss Mr C says L suffered,  I think its reasonable that he provides evidence to support this.
lost business/increased costs:
Mr C provided  copies  of contracts L had entered into. He hasnt provided evidence to show  
that the stop on the account  meant  L couldnt provide services to its customers. While Mr L 
says clients cancelled contracts due to problems with Ls account the evidence he provided 
doesnt support  this. 
Mr C provided  emails  with a service provider  dated  12 December 2017. The service provider 
was chasing payment of two invoices from 10 and 20 November 2017. This email exchange 
was during the time that there  was a stop on the account. There appears  to be a payment 
from Ls account  to this service provider on 20 December  2017. I havent seen evidence that 
any delay in this payment  due to the stop on the account resulted  in an actual loss.
Mr C says L should  be compensated for damage  to its reputation.  But he hasnt  provided  
evidence of this or that any business was lost. As its over a year since the stop was 
removed Id expect  some evidence to be available.  Mr C says we should apply a but for 
approach. But he hasnt provided evidence  that but for the error Ls business would have 
grown or been  more profitable.  
Mr C says costs  were  incurred as they had to use personal accounts or an overseas account 
to make payments.  The evidence he provided  doesnt support this. 
lost web hosting:
Mr C says web hosting services were lost as subscriptions werent paid. But the evidence  he 
provided doesnt support this. While the emails  show  problems with payments due in early  
December 2017,  in most cases the threatened suspension of services would have started 
after the stop was lifted. I can see that payments were made to providers on 20 and 21 
December 2017  and 5 January 2018. In one case, an email  says that part of a service would 
be suspended,  but this was only a few days before the stop was lifted and the payment was 
made. Mr C hasnt provided evidence that these services were actually lost due to the stop 
on Ls account  or that there  was any resulting financial  loss. 
Having carefully considered the available evidence, I dont think it demonstrates that L 
suffered any financial  loss as a result of the stop on its account.  
Professional advice, inconvenience and distress:
We offer an informal dispute resolution service. I wouldnt  usually require a bank to pay a 
customers legal or other professional costs in bringing a complaint. I dont think the 
circumstances make it fair and reasonable to do so here.
This complaint is from L. As a limited company L doesnt feel upset or frustration. I cant 
usually award compensation to third parties  such as Mr C. So while Mr C says sorting out 
the problems with Ls bank account  caused Ls officers  distress I cant  require  NatWest  to 
pay compensation for this. 
Ref: DRN87436493But NatWests error  did cause Ls officers inconvenience and L can be compensated for that. 
Mr C and his colleagues contacted NatWest  about the account. They  also contacted third 
parties to explain there was a problem with the account. Given Mr Cs strength of feeling  and 
the amount of compensation he feels is due to L, it would be difficult  to come up with a figure  
that would  be acceptable to him and fair to both parties.  On balance, I think £200 
compensation for the inconvenience is fair and reasonable.  
NatWests letter about the problems with the bank account
Mr C asked that NatWest provide a letter saying its responsible for the problems with the 
bank account.  NatWest said its happy  to do this. 
I should make it clear that Id consider it reasonable for NatWest  to address the letter  to L (or 
to whomever it might  concern). I dont think its reasonable to require NatWest to write  to all 
of Ls customers or business  associates. Id also find it reasonable that NatWest states the 
nature of the problem and the duration  between  30 November and 19 December  2017.
While Mr C disputes that the stop was removed on 19 December  2017,  the evidence  I have 
suggest this is the case. So its not reasonable to require  NatWest to state otherwise in the 
letter.
I leave it to Ls directors  to decide if this letter is worthwhile  given  the problems were 
resolved more than a year ago. If so, they should  contact NatWest  using the contact details 
its provided. 
my final decision
My decision  is that National Westminster Bank Plc should pay £200 compensation, if it 
hasnt already, and, if requested by L, provide  a letter about the problems with the account.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 March  2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8743649