K820x#14complaint
Mrs B has complained Nationwide Building  Society  wont sort out the problems shes  had 
trying to reject a car which she believes wasnt fit for purpose. Shes  made a claim under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974.
background
Mr and Mrs B bought a car on 1 October 2018.  Mrs B paid £4,100 using her Nationwide  
credit card. She and her husband drove  the car some  distance home.  Unfortunately  they had 
two instances  where  the gears  didnt  engage  properly when being  changed.  They 
complained to the dealers, who Ill call A.
More than a fortnight later someone arrived  to pick up their car to get it repaired. Mrs B 
hadnt been informed by A this was about to happen. She and her husband wanted the 
problems with the car to be investigated to see what the fault was and the longer-term 
prognosis before committing to the repair.
They were  told thered been problems with a cable which had broken off. But Mr and Mrs B 
remained unhappy and told A they wished to return the car. A confirmed that although  the 
car was repaired, they appreciated Mr and Mrs B had lost faith in the car and as long as it 
was returned,  they could  get a full refund.
Mr and Mrs B didnt  believe  this was in the spirit  of existing  consumer  legislation.  They  
complained to Nationwide and asked  them to refund the money theyd paid for the car.
Nationwide reviewed the detailed evidence. This included Mr Bs forensic evidence, timeline 
and copies of emails. They believed Mrs B had accepted a repair was being made so 
therefore there was no right to reject. Nationwide rejected their claim under section 75.
Mrs B brought her complaint to the ombudsman  service.  Our investigator also believed  the 
evidence showed  Mr and Mrs B had agreed to the repair.  She wouldnt ask Nationwide  to do 
anything further.
Mrs B was extremely  upset with this outcome and submitted  further evidence  in support of 
her claim. A new investigator didnt believe this made  them change the outcome.
Mrs B has asked  an ombudsman to review her complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im afraid Ive reached 
roughly the same conclusion and for mostly  similar  reasons as our investigator.  Ill explain 
why.
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  allows a customer to submit a claim for breach 
of contract  or misrepresentation by a supplier to their credit provider. This applies when 
customers use certain types of credit  to buy goods  or services.  In this case Mrs B used her 
Nationwide credit card to pay for her and her husbands car. 
Ref: DRN80552342Its worth  clarifying Im not deciding Nationwides liability under section 75 of the Consumer  
Credit Act. We certainly consider the relevant law and that includes section 75. But we 
decide cases by considering what is fair and reasonable, as statute requires  us to do. What 
Im deciding is whether  Nationwide did enough in considering Mrs Bs complaint. And if they 
didnt, what else should they now do.
If there was a misrepresentation or breach of contract in the supply of the goods then its fair 
to ask Nationwide to put things right. 
Im aware that Ive summarised  this complaint  above in far less detail than either  of the two 
parties and Ive done so using my own words.  Im not going to respond  to every single point 
made by Mrs B in her and her husbands  detailed submissions. No discourtesy  is intended  
by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues  here.
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal  nature  of our service  as a free 
alternative to the courts. I dont need to comment on every  individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
Im also aware of the detail contained in our investigators views of 7 January and 15 April 
2020. I can reassure  Mrs B I have considered the detailed submissions she and her 
husband have  made.
The key complaint Mrs B has made is that there was a breach of contract  in the supply of 
their car which was not fit for purpose. Shes said that under the Consumer  Rights  Act 2015, 
she therefore has a right to reject  the car. I can see an email of 28 October 2018 sent to A 
confirming Mr and Mrs B were exercising this right.
However this right isnt absolute. What the CRA provides is a right of repair, replacement  or 
rejection. Mrs B disputes they accepted the car could be repaired. Rather they wanted an 
investigation to be carried out into any fault and to be reassured  it wouldnt re-occur. This 
isnt what happened.
Mrs B, through her husbands  submissions, has been very clear  about what she believes 
was said and when.  This clarity has been very helpful. However I dont agree with her 
interpretation.
On 10 October 2018, A sent an email. This followed an initial assessment which  said no fault 
could be found  but If a fault was to be confirmed, would you be happy  to accept vehicle 
repair and to continue  your ownership of the vehicle following successful repair?
The car was picked up on 17 October and taken away  to be repaired.  Although  I appreciate 
the pick-up came as a surprise to Mr and Mrs B, I believe the intention  is quite clear. Mr Bs 
notes of this state  the driver then confirmed that [A] had indeed initiated [this]  action, so we 
let him start loading  the car.
Mr B in a follow-up email  to A confirmed  he didnt know they were arranging for any action 
to be taken towards making the car safe and legally usable on public roads.
This makes it clear  to me that Mr and Mrs B were accepting that repairs were  going to be 
done to their car. 
Ref: DRN80552343On this basis, they couldnt  therefore  also reject the car (as they did in an email on 28 
October). I therefore believe it wouldnt be fair and reasonable to ask Nationwide to rectify 
the breach of contract  Mrs B believes exists.
However I note A did offer Mr and Mrs B the opportunity  to reject the car even though a 
repair had been  effected. Mr and Mrs B rejected  this offer because  of the logistical issues 
relating to the return of the car. This has resulted  in Mr and Mrs Bs car remaining at the 
garage who carried out the repair  for more than two years. Unsurprisingly this garage is now 
asking Mr and Mrs B to pay costs for the storage of their car.
I know the issues here have become extremely entrenched. Mr B has consistently felt A did 
not act properly right from the beginning but as our investigators have previously  explained, 
any failings in As service  do not amount to a breach of contract  under  section  75.
I note Mr and Mrs B have subsequently claimed there was a misrepresentation when the car 
was sold. Ive not seen any evidence which would  show  that the number of previous  owners  
would have dissuaded Mr and Mrs B from buying the car.
I appreciate that this has been a very difficult time for Mr and Mrs B and they firmly  believe  
they have right on their side.  I know therefore they will be very disappointed  that overall I 
dont believe,  after having considered the evidence,  it would be fair to ask Nationwide  to do 
anything further.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Mrs Bs complaint against 
Nationwide Building  Society.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 December  2020.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8055234