K821x#15complaint
Mrs Bs complaint is about the handling  of a claim under  her drainage  and plumbing  
insurance policy with British Gas Insurance Limited.
background
In January 2019, Mrs B made a claim under her policy  with British Gas as her bath waste 
was blocked and it was draining slowly.  British  Gas sent a contractor out who removed an 
outlet pipe but was unable  to clear the blockage. The contractor said hed need to come 
back. However, I understand he did not reconnect the outlet pipe until around six weeks 
later. 
Mrs B says that because  the bath outlet pipe was disconnected, water  damage was caused 
to the kitchen ceiling below and theres  also a damp patch on an outside wall, which has 
caused the paint to come off. Mrs B also says the contractor damaged her garden gate and 
damaged tiles when trying  to get to the pipework under  the bath. At the time Mrs B bought  
the complaint  to us, the bath waste trap had still not been cleared and it was still taking a 
long time for the bath water to drain  away.  
Mrs B is very unhappy about the handling  of the claim and has asked for the cost of the 
repairs and compensation. 
British Gas accepts that its contractor  damaged  Mrs Bs gate and paid for this repair  (£95 
plus VAT). It also says a tile fell off the bathroom wall but it refitted  it. British  Gas also offered 
to repair  the outside wall (£175 plus VAT), as a goodwill  gesture. 
However, it did not accept  that it needed  to do any more work on the bath,  as it said the 
water is running normally. British Gas also says that the damage to the ceiling below the 
bathroom has been caused  by Mrs B using the shower, which  is above  the bath, and water 
has leaked through rotted sealant around  the bath (which is not covered under the policy).  
It did, however, offer £150  (increased from £30) as compensation  for delays in dealing with 
the claim.
 
Mrs B remains unhappy. She says she still used the shower every day, while the outlet pipe 
was disconnected, but she had no choice as she had no other bathing facilities. The ceiling  
was damaged because the outlet pipe was left off for so long.  And she says other tiles were 
damaged. Mrs B therefore still wants British Gas to pay for the repair  of the tiles and kitchen  
ceiling. She has provided a quote for these works, of £66 +VAT and £196 + VAT 
respectively.
One of our investigators  looked into the matter. She initially  recommended  that British Gas 
pay £250 compensation, as there  were  several appointments (at least six) and the bath was 
still not flowing  freely; and that it should pay for the repair to the tiles, outside  wall and side 
gate. The investigator  didnt think there  was enough evidence that British Gas should pay for 
the damage to the ceiling below the bath, as Mrs B had been told not to use the bath and 
also it may have been caused by the problems with the sealant, as British Gas said. The 
investigator also recommended  that British Gas go back out to look at why the bath is still 
not draining properly.  
Mrs B reluctantly accepted the assessment,  provided the bath was fixed.  However, British 
Gas did not agree. 
Ref: DRN86328182British Gas went back out to look at the waste trap in December 2019. The contractor said 
he couldnt access the trap to clean it and so Mrs B would have to arrange access  and he 
would come back. When British Gas came back out, in February 2020, it reported that the 
gas meter and pipe work  is too close together and the pipe had not been installed at the right 
gradient, which affects its flow. The contractor said he had restored flow from the bath waste  
as much as it could. 
Mrs B is very unhappy that this problem with the pipework was not reported at one of the 
many earlier visits  regarding  the bath. Mrs B got an independent quote for the work required 
to the bath (replacing the trap and waste pipework) of £365 plus VAT.
The investigator considered the new evidence and felt it was unreasonable  to have  taken a 
year for British Gas to establish the problem with the bath. Also Mrs B only had the bath and 
no other bathing facilities  and she had been  left without the use of it for considerable time. 
Given the handling of the claim, the investigator  said British Gas should pay the cost of 
Mrs Bs contractor  for the bath repairs, as part of the compensation for the handling of the 
claim. The investigator also recommended that British Gas pay Mrs B for her to instruct  her 
own contractor to fix the bathroom tiles (£66.00 plus VAT), as well as further compensation 
of £500 for the trouble caused to her. However,  the investigator still didnt think British Gas 
was responsible for the damage to the kitchen ceiling.
British Gas does  not accept the investigators assessment and says it did all it could and the 
further work  needed  would not have  been  covered under the policy.  
As the investigator  was unable to resolve the complaint, it has been  passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
bath repair
British Gas diagnosed the waste pipe from the bath was not installed at the correct gradient  
in February 2020,  over a year after the claim was first reported. There  is no evidence to 
contradict this diagnosis  or say this is incorrect. If the waste  pipe is not positioned with the 
right gradient, it would make blockages more likely. The policy does exclude work required 
to rectify pre-existing faults  such as this and so ordinarily British Gas would not be 
responsible for altering the gradient of the pipework. However, it is still obliged to do as 
much as it can to clear a blockage; and it is obliged to do so competently  and within  a 
reasonable time.
I dont think British Gas did deal with this within a reasonable time or as competently as it 
should. There were over seven appointments in relation to this matter  and the bath was 
blocked to some degree all this time,  according to Mrs B, before the reason for the 
blockages was found. 
In addition, it appears the waste pipe was reconnected on 4 February 2019, having  been 
removed in early January  2019. No good  reason has been given as to why this was left 
unconnected and for so long. Mrs B was apparently told not to use the bath during that time 
Ref: DRN86328183but she had no other  bathing  facilities and so she says she did use the shower  that was 
above the bath. 
Given that Mrs B was without a properly usable bath for so long, and the multiple visits to 
resolve a relatively  simple  issue, I agree with the investigator that it would be reasonable for 
British Gas to pay the cost of the repairs to the bath. 
ceiling damage
Ive also seen a photo of the wallpaper Mrs B says was damaged by water  leaking through  
the ceiling. I disagree  with the investigator and think British Gas is responsible for this, as it 
left the bath outlet  pipe disconnected for six weeks. While some water may have  seeped  
through the sealant, not having an outlet pipe connected  and using the shower above it will 
inevitably have resulted in water  damage. British Gas told Mrs B not to use the bath but she 
had no other  bathing facilities, which was unacceptable. British  Gas has offered no 
reasonable explanation  was to why this was left disconnected for so long. I therefore 
consider it should  also pay the amount quoted  to repair the ceiling below, i.e. £196 plus VAT.
bathroom tiles
I have seen the photographs provided, which show a broken  tile and one loose tile next to 
the bath. It is difficult to be certain  how these were damaged but theres  apparently no 
evidence that they were  already damaged before this claim.  And, as British Gas has already 
accepted that one tile fell off while its contractor was working on the bath, I am satisfied it is 
likely these tiles were  damaged at the same time. I therefore agree that it would be 
reasonable for British Gas to pay for these to be repaired.   
outside wall
Theres also a photo of a cracked area of external render near a downpipe. This shows 
some small cracks in the render from the top of a window  frame to an area of timber (what  
looks like a part of the roof support) and a small area of render has/paint has fallen away. 
This is apparently where a pipe was removed but there  is little evidence about  this. However, 
British Gas has agreed to pay for this repair this as a gesture of goodwill. I think  thats  
reasonable. 
compensation 
The investigators recommended  that British Gas should also pay Mrs B the total sum of 
£500 compensation for the handling of this claim.  I agree that some additional compensation 
is warranted, to take account of the numerous attendances to carry out what should have 
bene a relatively  simple  repair, the additional damage to her property by the contractors, 
leaving her outlet pipe unconnected.  I agree that the total sum of £500  is appropriate. 
 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and require British Gas Insurance Limited to do the following: 
1.pay Mrs B cash in lieu of the following repairs:  
-£365 plus VAT for the bath repair,  
-£196 plus VAT for the ceiling  repairs,
Ref: DRN86328184-£175 plus VAT for the outside wall repair,
-£66 plus VAT to replace bathroom  tiles, and
-£95 plus VAT side gate repair. 
I understand British  Gas has already  paid for some  of these repairs and so it only 
now needs to pay the outstanding amounts.  
 
2.pay Mrs B a total of £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused  
by its handling  of her claim. (For the avoidance  of doubt,  any compensation amounts  
already paid to Mrs B can be deducted from the total of £500.)
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 January 2021.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8632818