K822xcomplaint
Mr Q complains that a motorbike he financed through BMW  Financial Services (GB) Limited  
(BMWFS) was faulty, or developing faults, when he received  it.
background 
Mr Q took receipt of a new motorbike  in May 2017. He financed  the deal through  a hire 
purchase agreement  with BMWFS. But in July, after washing his bike, Mr Q noticed the 
wheels had become discoloured. 
He complained to BMWFS and they talked to the dealership who thought  it was likely the 
damage had occurred because Mr Q had used the wrong cleaning  fluid.
Later in the year, in August, there was a safety recall on Mr Qs bike model. The recall  
required a new bushing  to be fitted to the fixed fork or for the fork to be replaced. It said that 
the fork tube could  suffer damage and through longer usage the seal plug could loosen; oil 
could leak; thered be a clacking  noise  whilst  driving and steering would be affected.  It said 
that, over time, if these symptoms were ignored, critical driving conditions couldnt be ruled  
out. 
Mr Q took his bike to the dealership to be checked but the new parts were delayed and not 
retrofitted until June  2018. Mr Q says he was wary of driving the bike during this period and 
chose to use a car instead. He complained to BMWFS but they didnt think this was a reason 
for them to take any action. 
So Mr Q referred  his complaint to this service and our investigator provided her view.  She 
explained that BMWFS  were responsible for problems with the bike at the point of supply 
and shed have  to decide whether there were problems at that point. She considered the 
safety recall but didnt  think there  was any evidence  anything  had gone wrong  with Mr Qs 
bike. She noted that the recall explained that thered be signs of problems developing and 
that, if not attended to, they would  worsen. But she didnt think there was evidence  this had 
happened and she therefore didnt think BMWFS needed to take any further action on that 
issue.
She went on to consider  the damaged wheels and here she had the benefit of a report  that 
had been commissioned  by BMWFS and completed  by an independent expert engineer.  The 
engineer thought the problem was most  likely to be a manufacturing defect  and explained 
that he was unaware  of any cleaning product that could cause such  damage. So the 
investigator thought  it was clear that there had been a problem with the wheels  at the point  
of supply. She suggested that BMWFS should  therefore replace both wheels  and pay Mr Q 
£150 to compensate him for the trouble and upset  hed experienced.
BMWFS accepted the investigators proposal  but Mr Q didnt. He wouldve preferred to get 
the wheels fitted at his own garage or simply receive  a cash settlement. But BMWFS were 
unwilling to do that and Mr Q therefore  asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN80625152I agree  with the investigators view and for similar reasons.  Please  let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr Q acquired  his bike under a hire purchase agreement. The relevant law says that the bike 
should have been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then BMWFS are 
responsible and Id think  it fair and reasonable to ask them to put this right. 
the safety recall
I dont think its reasonable to suggest that the fact there is a safety recall on a bike is a 
reason to suggest it was not of satisfactory quality when  supplied. 
I can understand Mr Qs concerns about  the recall but its clear  that the condition the 
manufacturer was concerned about  is not one that would happen suddenly. Its a condition  
that would  develop over time and that there  would be signs  of. The safety  recall  explains that 
the plug would loosen; oil would leak; thered be a noise and steering would become less 
reliable. All this would  happen before the bike became dangerous to drive and Ive not been 
provided with any evidence to suggest any of these symptoms had been present.
So, whilst its clear BMWFS were to replace the bushing,  it appears in this case that was a 
safety precaution  on a bike that wasnt demonstrably faulty.
I therefore dont  think it would be reasonable to suggest BMWFS  has done anything wrong 
here or need to take further action.
the wheels
Theres no dispute the wheels are tarnished.  
Ive seen evidence  from Mr Qs chosen  bike dealer that explains hes conscientious about  
cleaning and suggests damage of this nature wouldnt be caused by cleaning fluids.
On the other hand BMWFS have had discussions with the dealerships  and theyve 
suggested the damage was most  likely caused  by cleaning  products.
I think its reasonable to suggest that none of those parties is demonstrably  independent. 
So Im more persuaded by the independent  engineers report that says it must be 
considered to be a manufacturing issue and not one of a post production foreign substance  
use
I think the range of chemicals that Mr Q would have access to that would be capable of 
damaging wheels, designed  to withstand tough conditions,  would  be limited anyway. So, Im 
persuaded that its more likely than not that the damage wouldve been caused because  the 
wheels were of unsatisfactory surface  quality.
Ref: DRN80625153The relevant  law says that in these  circumstances BMWFS are allowed an opportunity  to 
repair the problem;  in this case to replace the wheels.  I can see that theyve now agreed to 
do that and I think  its reasonable for BMWFS to want to have that work completed  within  the 
BMW network.  The bike,  after all, is still their property  under the terms of the finance  
agreement. 
I dont think it would  be fair to ask BMWFS  to provide a financial settlement instead  of 
replacing the wheels. The law places an obligation on them to repair the vehicle; not to 
provide a settlement. Its therefore for BMWFS to decide if theyd like to offer an alternative 
solution and for Mr Q to decide if hed accept that. But in these circumstances, no offer has 
been made.
Its clear Mr Q has been inconvenienced by the problem with the wheels  on his bike.  The 
problem should  have been  resolved earlier and I therefore think the investigators  suggestion  
that BMWFS pay Mr Q £150  to compensate him for this is a sensible and fair one in the 
circumstances.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint in part and tell BMW Financial 
Services (GB) Limited to replace the wheels with no further cost to Mr Q and pay him £150 
compensation for the trouble and upset  hes experienced.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Q to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 June 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8062515