K822xcomplaint
Mr A complains that Bank  of Ireland (UK) plc (BOI) incorrectly recorded adverse information  
against his name with CIFAS, one of the UKs fraud  alert services and this caused him a 
number of difficulties.
background 
BOI recorded adverse information against Mr As name with CIFAS in the middle of 2013  
because, it said,  it was told by another bank  that a cheque Mr A paid into his account was 
fraudulent. After it investigated,  BOI accepted that the cheque wasnt  fraudulent  but it failed 
to remove the marker.
Mr A says that he only found out that he had a fraud marker against  his name in 2018. Over 
the years, he hasnt  been able to open  accounts,  has suffered financial difficulties, was 
turned down for a number of jobs with banks and this led to him being ill in 2016. Hed like 
compensation for the missed  opportunities.
BOI removed the marker in 2018  and has offered to pay Mr A £5,000  as a gesture of 
goodwill.
Our investigator thought BOIs offer was fair and reasonable. He said,  in summary,  that 
CIFAS wrote to Mr A in 2013  showing the adverse information but Mr A didnt follow  it up. 
And Mr A hadnt been able to provide anything to show that he had job offers from the banks  
or the reasons why they were withdrawn.
Mr A responded to say that he didnt receive  any information from CIFAS in 2013 and BOI 
should never have  registered the marker in the first place. He lost employment opportunities 
because it was there.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where there is a dispute about  what  
happened, I have based my decision on the balance  of probabilities   in other words, on 
what I consider is most likely to have  happened  in the light of the evidence.
CIFAS marker
BOI has said that it recorded the marker in 2013 because it was told, by another  bank, that a 
cheque Mr A paid into his account  was a forgery.  It accepted, after investigation, that the 
cheque was genuine and Mr A was entitled to it, but it didnt remove,  at that time,  the 
negative information  that it had recorded.  After Mr A complained about  it in 2018 it did 
remove the adverse  marker.
Mr A says that he didnt  find out that he had adverse  information recorded against  his name 
until 2018. But I find that he told BOI in 2013  that he had contacted CIFAS. CIFAS also says 
that Mr A contacted  it at the end of July 2013 asking for information as a Subject Access 
Request. Whilst Mr A says that he didnt receive  anything from CIFAS I find it wrote  to him, 
at his correct address,  providing details of two markers applied  to his record.  If Mr A didnt 
receive the information, when it is clear that he felt very strongly  about  BOIs actions, I would 
expect him to have  contacted CIFAS again  to ask for it.
Ref: DRN87366022application for other accounts
Mr A has provided copies of letters from other banks declining to open or giving notice to 
close accounts because  of information given  by credit reference  and fraud  prevention 
agencies. So I accept  that having markers recorded  against his name did cause Mr A some 
difficulties. But despite these letters, it doesnt  seem  that Mr A took any action to find out 
what was causing  this to happen.
employment opportunities 
Mr A says that the marker  BOI recorded  also prevented  him getting a number of different  
jobs with banks following  successful interviews.  I fully accept that Mr A did have a number of 
interviews in 2015  with banks and also had a provisional offer of employment  with one of 
them, subject to a vacancy becoming  available  and references and various  background 
checks. Mr A believes that he didnt  get these roles  because of the CIFAS marker  that BOI 
had recorded.
ill health
Mr A also blames the marker for a period of ill health he suffered in 2016. I accept that there 
was a link to Mr As lack of employment at the time and financial difficulties. I have no doubt 
this was an upsetting time for Mr A but I cant say that his situation was solely due to BOIs 
actions.
Having carefully considered all the evidence, whilst I recognise that the marker  caused Mr A 
some difficulties, I consider Mr A might reasonably have followed upon the cause somewhat 
sooner than he has. As Ive already explained,  if Mr A didnt receive his Subject Access  
Request information in 2013 from CIFAS  I would  have expected him to have chased for it. If 
he had done so, he would have seen  that there were two markers  recorded against him at 
that time.  And if he was turned down for a number of accounts  and jobs throughout 2015 
and 2016, following background and other  checks,  then I would have expected Mr A to take 
steps to find out why and to take action to correct the position.
So overall, although I find that BOI wrongly recorded  the marker, Im not persuaded that Mr 
As situation was solely because  of the banks actions. But I do accept this has been  very 
upsetting and caused Mr A some difficulties. BOI has now offered to pay Mr A £5,000  in 
recognition of this. I realise that Mr A feels this is too low but, taking everything that has 
happened into account, I consider this to be fair and reasonable.
my final decision
My final decision is I uphold  this complaint in part. I require Bank of Scotland (UK) plc to pay 
Mr A £5,000.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 March  2020.
Karen Wharton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8736602