K822xcomplaint
Mr M complains that Provident  Personal  Credit Limited (trading as Satsuma) lent to him 
irresponsibly.
background
Mr M took out six loans  with Satsuma between July 2017 and August 2018.
Loan Date borrowed
Amount Date repaid
No. of 
instalments 
1 17.07.17 £320 29.09.17 3
2 11.10.17 £130 01.02.18 3
3 02.12.17 £1,000 - 12
4 04.02.18 £100 01.06.18 4
5 04.05.18 £150 10.07.18 4
6 02.08.18 £350 - 9
Mr M says he had to take out more loans to repay  his borrowing, and it quickly spiralled out 
of control. Hes pointed out that Satsuma lent to him when he already  had a loan outstanding 
with it. And he says hes unable to pay his bills due to the amount of interest  on the loans.
Our adjudicator considered loans 1 to 5, and recommended that the complaint should  be 
upheld in part. In summary, she thought that if Satsuma  had carried  out proportionate 
checks, it would have realised that Mr M was having problems managing his money, and 
was unlikely to be able to repay loans 3 to 5 sustainably.  So she said Satsuma should refund 
all interest and charges  that Mr M paid on loans 3 to 5, with interest  on the refund. And she 
said Satsuma should remove any negative information about  those loans  from Mr Ms credit 
file.
After the adjudicator sent out her view, Satsuma told us that Mr M had taken a further loan 
(loan 6) in August  2018, after it issued its final response to his complaint  about loans 1 to 5. 
Both parties  agreed that I should consider loan 6 as part of the complaint.
my provisional findings
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr M 
and to Satsuma  on 9 December 2019. I summarise my findings:
Satsuma needed to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
that Mr M could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into 
account a number of different things, such as how much  was being lent, the repayment 
amounts and the consumers income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  
stages of a lending relationship, I thought  less thorough checks  might be reasonable and 
proportionate.
Ref: DRN85778662But certain factors might point  to the fact that Satsuma should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more  to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These  factors 
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting  that it could be more  difficult  to make any 
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment  from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become,  or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point  where the lending history and pattern of lending itself 
clearly demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I thought that it was important for me to start by saying that Satsuma was required to 
establish whether  Mr M could  sustainably repay  his loans  not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict  pounds and pence calculation.  
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication that a 
consumer could  sustainably make their repayments. But it didnt automatically follow  that 
this was the case. This was because  the Office of Fair Trading guidance  on Irresponsible 
Lending, and later the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), define sustainable as 
being without  undue  difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to 
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as 
without having  to borrow to meet the repayments. And it followed that a lender should 
realise, or it ought fairly  and reasonably  to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make 
their repayments sustainably if theyre  unlikely to be able to make their repayments  
without borrowing further. 
Id carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all meant for Mr Ms complaint.
Satsuma did a number of checks before it lent to Mr M. It asked him for details of his 
income and his normal expenditure. It gathered data from credit reference  agencies 
about other credit repayments that Mr M would need to make  over the coming  months. 
And it then used this information to calculate  how much  disposable  income Mr M had left 
over each  month. Satsuma also used  the credit reference agency checks to gather some 
more information  about Mr Ms financial situation  at that time.
I thought it was important to note that, generally, the information a consumer might  see, 
when they request  a copy of their credit  file, might be very different to that seen by a 
lender. A lender  might  only see a small portion of the credit  file, or some data might  be 
missing or anonymised, or the data might not be up to date. So this may explain any 
differences between  the information provided by Satsumas credit  check  to it and the 
information that could be seen in the credit  report provided to us by Mr M.
Ref: DRN85778663The credit  checks that Satsuma did failed to show any information that might have 
suggested Mr M was having problems managing his money.  And they didnt show  any 
other concerning  information such as a reliance  on other short  term loans, or delinquent 
or defaulted accounts.
The repayments that Mr M agreed to make on his first two loans were relatively modest 
compared with the income that he told Satsuma  about. And even after allowing for his 
other expenditure, I was satisfied that it would have looked to Satsuma as if Mr M would 
be able to afford the repayments relatively comfortably. So given the repayment  
amounts, what was apparent about Mr Ms circumstances at the time, and his borrowing 
history with Satsuma, I didnt think it would have been proportionate for Satsuma to ask 
Mr M for the amount of information that would  have been needed to show that his 
borrowing was unsustainable before  agreeing the first two loans.
But loan 3 marked a significant increase in the amount that Mr M was asking to borrow.  
And he applied  for it the day after hed repaid loan 2. Whats more,  Mr M was going  to 
have to make repayments for 12 months. So even though the monthly repayments 
remained a relatively small proportion of Mr Ms declared disposable  income, I thought 
Satsuma ought to have had some  concerns that Mr M might be having problems 
managing his money. And I thought it should  have realised that it couldnt safely  rely on 
the information Mr M was giving  it about his finances. So I thought it should have taken 
steps, at that stage,  to verify Mr Ms true financial  position  independently.
Id looked  at Mr Ms bank statements to see what better  checks  would have shown 
Satsuma. I could  see that Mr M was carrying out frequent  gambling transactions, was 
heavily overdrawn and already had a number of loans, including  loans with other short-
term lenders. So taking everything  into account,  I didnt think  Satsuma should have given 
loan 3 to Mr M. And Mr Ms financial position  hadnt improved when he applied  for loans 
4 and 5. Whats more,  he was still making repayments on loan 3. So I didnt  think  
Satsuma should have agreed  to loans 4 and 5 either.
Id considered all the evidence  that had been provided, and I thought that by the time 
Mr M applied for loan 6, Satsuma should  reasonably have realised that the pattern of his 
borrowing alone should have indicated that further  lending  was unsustainable, or 
otherwise harmful, for Mr M. And it shouldnt have provided any further loans.
I said this because:
This was now Mr Ms sixth loan request to Satsuma. By the time he asked for loan 6, 
hed been borrowing  from Satsuma for more  than a year,  with only very short  breaks 
between loans.
Loan 6 was for more  than loans 4 and 5, so Mr M wasnt  making any sustained  
inroads into his borrowing with Satsuma. And I thought the pattern of borrowing 
should have indicated to Satsuma that Mr M was likely to be having  significant 
problems managing his money.
Mr M was given  loan 6 while he was still repaying loan 3, and only a few weeks after 
hed repaid loan 5 much earlier than had originally been agreed. So Satsuma should 
have realised  that it was more likely  than not that Mr M was having to borrow  further  
to cover  the hole that repaying his previous  loans was leaving in his finances, and 
that his indebtedness  was increasing  unsustainably.  
Ref: DRN85778664Whats more,  by the time Mr M applied for loan 6, hed already complained to 
Satsuma that it shouldnt have given him the previous loans. So I thought Satsuma 
was on notice  that Mr M was struggling financially.
I thought that Mr M lost out because Satsuma  agreed to give him loan 6 because:
this loan had the effect of unfairly  prolonging Mr Ms indebtedness by allowing him to 
take expensive  credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time.
the sheer number of loans was likely to have had negative implications on Mr Ms 
ability to access  mainstream  credit and so kept him in the market for these high-cost 
loans.
So in summary, I didnt think Satsuma should  have  agreed to lend to Mr M from loan 3 
onwards. And my provisional view was that Satsuma needed to pay Mr M some 
compensation, as set out under the heading putting things right below.
further submissions
Both Mr M and Satsuma have confirmed  that they agree with my provisional  decision. And 
Satsuma has agreed  to do as Ive set out below.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I cant  see any reason to 
depart from the findings I set out in my provisional  decision.
putting things right
I dont think Satsuma should have agreed  to lend to Mr M after,  and including,  the loan that 
he took on 2 December 2017  (loan 3). So for each of loans 3 to 6 Satsuma should;
Refund any interest and charges paid by Mr M on those loans. 
Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per year to each of these amounts from the date they 
were paid to the date of settlement*.
Remove  any adverse information about loans 3 to 5 from Mr Ms credit  file.
By the time Mr M took out loan 6, the number of loans hed taken means any information 
recorded about loan 6 is adverse. So all entries  about loan 6 should be removed  from 
Mr Ms credit file once it has been fully repaid.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Satsuma  to take off tax from this interest. Satsuma  must  
give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
If Mr M still owes Satsuma any of the principal balance he borrowed on loans 3 and 6, 
Satsuma may deduct this from the compensation that is due to him. But, to be clear, that 
outstanding balance should be recalculated to remove any interest and charges, but taking 
account of any repayments Mr M has made on those loans as though  they were applied  
against the principal sums borrowed.
Ref: DRN85778665my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. Provident Personal Credit Limited (trading 
as Satsuma) to put things right by doing as Ive set out above, as it has now agreed  to do.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 January 2020.
Juliet Collins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8577866