K820x#14complaint
Mrs T says Lloyds  Bank PLC (Lloyds)  mis-sold her a payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mrs T bought the policy when she took out a loan for home  improvements in 2000. The loan 
included an amount to pay for the policy. The policy protected her repayments on the loan for 
up to twelve months if she became unemployed, and for up to the remaining term of the loan if 
she couldnt work because of an accident  or sickness. The policy  also provided her with life 
cover. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs T disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ts case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ts complaint,  Ill explain why. 
Lloyds had to make Mrs T aware  the policy was optional.  Lloyds has provided the loan 
agreement from the sale. On the loan agreement there is a section titled Optional Loan 
Protection and Yes and No boxes in the section to indicate  if cover is required. The yes 
box has been selected. And Mrs T signed this form to get the loan. So, I think its more likely  
than not Mrs T would have been aware she had a choice about  buying the PPI policy and 
that she chose  to take it out. 
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mrs T, so it needed  to check  that it was right for her. I think  
it was. Mrs T was eligible  for the policy and was employed. The main exclusions around 
employment and pre existing medical conditions didnt apply to her. 
Mrs T has said that she had good sick pay from her employer  and, as she had been  with the 
same employer for 27 years, she would have received some funds if she was made 
redundant. But the policy provided cover, in addition, to any employer benefits Mrs T 
wouldve had. And, potentially it wouldve paid out for a lot longer than Mrs Ts sick pay 
would have paid out at her full rate of pay. I think the policy was suitable  for her 
circumstances even  taking into account  her existing  benefits.  
I think Lloyds couldve explained the cost of the policy better than it did. Lloyds didnt include 
information on the amount of interest  which would be payable on the PPI policy  over the loan 
term. But even if it had, I think Mrs T would still have bought it. Given  how long the policy 
could have paid out for, if Mrs T made a successful claim she couldve got back quite a bit 
more than she paid for it. 
Mrs T wouldve got back only a limited refund of the PPI premium  if she cancelled  the policy 
early. I dont  know if Lloyds thought about  this when it recommended  the policy, or if it 
explained the situation clearly to Mrs T. But I havent  seen anything to suggest  at the time of 
Ref: DRN89640022the sale she thought shed repay the loan early. So I dont think  this meant the policy  wasnt 
right for her  or that better  information about  this wouldve stopped  her buying it. 
I cant  be certain that Lloyds provided full information to Mrs T. But for the same  reason that I 
think the policy was suitable, I dont think better  information would have led Mrs T to avoid 
the policy. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ts complaint about Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs T to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 April 2018.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8964002