K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs D are unhappy  that Civil Service Healthcare Society  Limited (CSH) didnt cover 
the full costs of Mr Ds surgeon  and anaesthetist, under their health insurance policy. They 
also say that CSH hasnt  acted fairly  when  sending out policy  renewal documents.
background
Mr and Mrs D took out a health insurance  policy with CSH  in 2008, through  a broker. That 
policy has been renewed each year and in 2012,  CSH  took responsibility for sending out the 
health insurance renewal  documents. 
In 2017 Mr D required a knee replacement. CSH confirmed that this procedure  would  be 
covered under the policy and allowed Mr D to use his preferred surgeon  for the procedure,  
at his preferred  hospital. 
A few weeks  before  the surgery  took place CSH notified Mr D of the amount it would pay 
towards the treatment  and that was less than the cost Mr D was going to be charged. Mr D 
went ahead  with the surgery and was left with a shortfall to pay. 
He doesnt think  CSH  acted fairly  by restricting the amount it would contribute as the policy  
says fees will be covered in full. If it transpires that the fees arent covered in full, he says he 
hasnt been given clear information  about what the policy covers.
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint. Mr and Mrs D disagree so their 
complaint has been passed to me to look at everything afresh and make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  it. 
The policy says:
All specialist / consultant, surgeon and anaesthetist  are paid in full according  to the 
rates of the (CSH) fee schedule (please refer to the medical fees section of our 
website for full details  or call the claims helpline...)
It also says:
Surgeon and Anaesthetist Fees:
Specialist / Consultants can legally charge a patient  whatever they wish and while the 
majority will charge within our guidelines,  a minority may not. (CSH) will reimburse  you 
the fees which we consider customary and reasonable, as per our fee schedule.
The maximum amount of fees we expect to pay for a procedure  will be clearly detailed  
on your Pre-Authorisation  Certificate; you may wish to discuss  this with your 
Consultant /Specialist prior to your surgery. A Specialist / Consultant  will consider the 
agreement to treat a person as a contract between himself and the patient, and if they 
are unwilling  to bill according to our customary and reasonable fees this could result  in 
you having a shortfall  which the Consultant will consider  your responsibility.
Ref: DRN89356012And goes  on to say:
For a single  procedure we will pay 100%  of the customary and reasonable Surgeon 
and Anaesthetist fees according  to (CSH)s fee schedule
Before the surgery  was due to take place, CSH sent Mr D a pre-authorisation certificate. 
This confirmed, amongst  other things,  that the treatment was authorised and that CSH would 
pay £1895  for the surgeon and £632 for the anaesthetist.
Ive checked CSHs  fee schedule  and Im satisfied thats the amount it pays  for the 
procedure Mr D underwent, and Ive seen evidence  that its more than most health  insurance 
providers pay for the same procedure. So I dont think CSH has acted unreasonably by not 
paying the surgeon and anaesthetists fees in full. Its acted in accordance  with the policy 
terms and I dont think thats unfair in the circumstances. 
Im also satisfied that Mr D was aware  that CSH wouldnt be meeting the full costs  of the 
surgery well in advance of the date it was due to take place, and he elected to continue with 
it, aware of CSHs decision.  
It follows that I dont think CSH  responsible for the shortfall between what it agreed to pay 
and what the surgeon  and anaesthetist charged.
Ive listened to the call between Mr D and CSHs representative which  took place before 
booking the procedure. And I accept what he says about not being told that fees wouldnt be 
paid in full. However,  at that stage, CSH didnt know what  type of knee  operation Mr D was 
going to elect  for as this was still something  he wanted to discuss  with his medical team.  
And, Im satisfied that nothing said in that call indicated that the fees would be met in full; 
CSH merely  confirmed that the surgeon and hospital were on its approved list.
Ive also taken into account what Mr D says about  the cost of the procedure  not being a lot 
less expensive if it had been done outside  of London. That may be the case  but ultimately, 
CSH has set the cost it will pay the surgeon  and anaesthetist for the type of knee surgery 
Mr D underwent and I dont think its acted unreasonably by limiting the amounts it was 
willing to pay in the circumstances, in line with the policy terms.
Ive also considered whether CSH  has acted  unfairly and unreasonably when sending 
Mr and Mrs D renewal documents. The relevant industry rules and guidance say that at the 
point of renewal an insurer should  make certain  information clear - such  as the premium  - 
and let the consumer know that they should check the level of cover  offered by the policy  is 
right for them. 
I can see CSH did this when sending out the renewal documents from 2012 onwards.  The 
annual renewal letters also purport  to enclose a summary of changes made to the policy 
terms for the coming  year.  I havent  seen the various summaries that were sent but Im 
satisfied they wouldnt  have included anything about  potentially capping the amount CSH will 
pay towards certain fees. Thats  because Ive seen the policy  terms and policy summary / 
key facts document from when the policy was first taken out in 2008  which  says all surgeon 
and anaesthetist  fees will be paid in full according  to CSHs fee schedule. And I can see that 
term hadnt changed over the years as it forms part of the policy terms which  were  in place 
at the time Mr D claimed on the policy. 
Ref: DRN89356013As that term hadnt  changed, I dont think CSH acted in any way unfairly  or unreasonably by 
not bringing that term to the explicit attention to Mr and Mrs D at the time it took over sending 
out the renewal  documents - or shortly  before each subsequent renewal. Mr and Mrs D had 
access to the policy  terms and were asked  to check that the level of cover  was right for 
them. If, at any time,  they werent happy  that surgeon and / or anaesthetist fees were 
capped to the amounts listed in the fees schedule, they couldve chosen to cancel or not 
renew the policy.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 October  2019.
David Curtis-Johnson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8935601