K820x#14Complaint
Mrs S says she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Although another business  sold the PPI to Mrs S, Allianz Insurance  Plcs accepted 
responsibility for the sale. So Ill refer only to Allianz in this decision.
Background
Mrs S applied for a personal reserve account in 1996. The PPI was sold to her at the same 
time. 
The policy cost 64p per £100 of the accounts  monthly outstanding balance.  It would  have 
paid 15% of the monthly outstanding balance if Mrs S was off work  sick or became 
unemployed. And it would  have continued to pay while she was off work until the outstanding 
balance (at the start of the claim) had been paid off.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld.  Mrs S didnt agree, so the case 
was passed to me to review afresh.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding  
Mrs S case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Allianz ought to have  informed Mrs S that the PPI was optional  and get her agreement  
before adding it. Ive seen  a copy of the postal account application form Mrs S signed,  which  
included a separate section for PPI. In that section, Mrs S marked  a box  which she could 
have left unticked  to take PPI and wrote her name and date of birth as the person to be 
insured. 
Overall, I think Mrs S was made aware  the PPI was optional and that she agreed  to take it. I 
havent seen enough evidence to show she was led to believe she had to have it if she 
wanted the account or that she was put under undue pressure  which  isnt surprising as the 
sale was carried out by post.
I dont think Allianz advised  Mrs S to take the PPI in the sense that I dont think it gave her a 
personal recommendation based  on her particular  circumstances at the time of the sale. So I 
dont think it needed  to take steps to ensure the PPI was right for Mrs S. 
But Allianz still had to give Mrs S clear,  fair and not misleading information  so she could 
make up her own mind about  whether the PPI was right for her. I cant say for sure if that 
happened, but I dont  think  having better information would have put Mrs S off taking  out the 
PPI in any case. I say that because:
It seems  Mrs S was eligible for the cover under the policy  terms. And she wasnt  
affected by any of the main things the policy excluded or limited  cover for.
Ref: DRN83201752The PPI provided  a relatively high level of benefit per month  for a prolonged period of 
time, and at a relatively low cost. Potentially, it would have continued to pay out until 
the outstanding balance  was paid off. So I think she still would have seen the PPI as 
worth having despite any sick pay entitlement or savings she might have had.
Ive seen nothing  to suggest  Mrs S would have found the premium unaffordable.  And, 
as it was payable  on a monthly  basis,  Mrs S could have cancelled the PPI at any 
time at no extra cost if she decided she no longer wanted it.
Taking everything into account,  I dont think Mrs S has lost out because  of how Allianz sold 
her the PPI.
My final decision
For the reasons  given,  Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 November 2019.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8320175