K822xcomplaint
Mrs C complains about the way Allianz  Insurance Plc (Allianz) handled a claim on her 
landlord insurance policy.
background 
In March 2018 Mrs C made  a claim on her landlord insurance with Allianz for malicious 
damage caused by her tenants. A few days later Allianz declined the claim, stating that the 
damage wasnt covered  by the policy terms  specifically that her policy  didnt cover  
malicious damage.
Mrs Cs insurance  broker  contacted Allianz  to inform it that the policy  did provide cover for 
malicious damage and the claim should be accepted. Allianz reviewed its decision and 
agreed that malicious damage was covered. It sent a loss adjuster to review  the damage  at 
the property around  two weeks  later.
The loss adjuster declined the claim and explained to Mrs C that the damage  wasnt  covered 
under her policy while they were at the property. Mrs C says the loss adjuster didnt look 
around the property.  But the loss adjuster told Allianz that the damage  had been  repaired 
before his visit, so he wasnt able to see the damage. Shortly  after, the claim was declined 
as Allianz said the damage hadnt been reported  to the police. Mrs C disagreed with this and 
Allianz carried out further investigations. It explained  that it had been given incorrect  
information by the police,  which had caused confusion.
Mrs Cs claim was accepted at the beginning of May 2018  around two months after it had 
been reported. As a result  of some  of the incorrect information Allianz gave Mrs C during the 
initial part of the claim, it has waived the excess of £100. And Allianz has now offered 
£563.71 in settlement of the claim. It has deducted £400 as it says Mrs C will receive her 
security deposit back and this can be used towards the damages.  It says it has only been 
able to partially accept  the claim as Mrs C repaired the damage  before its loss adjuster could 
see it. So it says she has prejudiced its position.  It also said that Mrs C would need to make  
a new claim for the garage door she had claimed for as it didnt think  this was part of the 
same incident.
Mrs C doesnt agree with the amount offered. She says it cost her thousands to repair the 
damage and so doesnt believe the settlement is fair. She says the damage to the property 
wasnt present in the month before it was vacated as it had been  shown to prospective 
tenants by her letting  agent and the damage wasnt reported to her after those visits. She 
also says that, although  she took photos of some  of the damage,  she had thought  the loss 
adjuster would review  the damage  during his visit and says it was still present for him to see 
if he had wanted  to.
Mrs C says she has lost out on several  months of rent due to the tenants not paying and 
believes she should be able to use the security  deposit towards that, rather than repairing 
the damage that was caused.
Mrs C has also said that she doesnt  want to make a further claim to Allianz for the garage 
door as it will affect how she is viewed by other insurers when she renews  her policy. She 
says it should  be included in this claim.
Ref: DRN88111902Our investigator thought the claim  should be upheld in part. He said that some  of the 
damage Mrs C was claiming for didnt appear  to be malicious damage and was more  likely 
to have been caused by the tenant being  neglectful. But he did think there were items that 
had been evidenced  and therefore  should  be included  in the claim  that hadnt been 
considered. And he thought Allianz should  pay Mrs C £150 compensation for its delay in 
handling the claim initially. He also said the garage  doors should be considered under a 
separate claim.
Allianz didnt respond to the investigators opinion. Mrs C disagreed with his opinion so the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Allianz has said the garage  door should  be considered under a separate claim if Mrs C 
chooses to make one. I have considered  whether it was correct. Allianz has said it is unlikely 
that the damage to the garage door was caused  by the same  incident as the damage to the 
inside of the house. So, it says a separate claim needs to be logged  for it to consider. Mrs C 
has said that she doesnt want to do this as it may affect how other insurers consider future 
applications, but I havent seen any evidence that the garage door was damaged as part of 
the same  incident  as the malicious damage  caused  to the inside of the house. So, based on 
the fact there is no evidence that this damage happened as a result of the same  incident, I 
dont think it was unreasonable  for Allianz to ask Mrs C to log a new claim for this  and I 
havent considered that issue further as part of this decision.
the claim
Mrs C has listed  several things  she believes Allianz  should reimburse her for as part of her 
claim. But having reviewed her policy documents, I dont think  all the building  work she is 
claiming for is covered under the policy.
Mrs Cs policy covered  her for malicious  damage. The policy doesnt define  this term, which  
isnt unusual, but I would consider this to mean  that the tenant  damaged  the property 
intending to do harm. This is different  to the tenant  acting  neglectfully, accidental damage  or 
wear and tear.
Allianz has accepted  the claim in part and has offered a settlement based  on replacing two 
doors, repairing  three radiators and some redecoration. It has based this on the loss 
adjusters report  but having reviewed that report,  I dont find it very persuasive. The report 
has very little information logged  on it, with most  of the pages left blank.  And there is only 
one photo of the property  from outside  and no photographs of the damaged items, which 
Mrs C says were  available for the loss adjuster to view at the time of his visit. There  are also 
no photographs  showing  that the property had been  repaired prior to his arrival.  I can also 
see that Mrs C contacted Allianz before  the loss adjuster  had submitted his findings to report  
that he had failed to review  the damage  to the property and had only told her the damage 
wasnt covered by the property, which turned out to be incorrect.
As Allianzs  loss adjuster  made an error  in not recording the damage here, I think  they are 
partly responsible for Mrs C now not being  able to evidence the damage done to her 
property. However, I have also seen that the policy states to help you prove any loss, we 
Ref: DRN88111903recommend that you keep  receipts, valuations, photographs  so I also think Mrs C should  
have been reasonably aware that she needed  to take pictures  and provide receipts to prove 
her loss.
In addition to the items already accepted,  Mrs C has explained that there were two additional 
doors damaged, a cooker and extractor fan damaged, carpets, two light fittings, curtain  rails,  
the front door bell, damage  to a fitted wardrobe,  which needed to be removed, damage to a 
chest of drawers  and repairs to the conservatory  windowsills.
Mrs C is aware  that some  of these  items  are not covered by the policy.  And there are some  
items, such  as the curtain rails, the cooker and the light fittings where Mrs C hasnt provided 
any evidence either in the form of a photograph or an invoice  to show  that the damage could 
have been caused as a result of malicious  damage. And, from the evidence  Ive seen, Mrs C 
has only been able to provide a photograph of the fitted wardrobe after it was removed  so 
the photograph doesnt show the damage that had been caused to it. So I dont think it 
would be fair to ask Allianz to consider those items as Mrs C hasnt  been  able to prove that 
she has a claim  under  the policy. However,  I would expect Allianz to consider those items 
should Mrs C be able to provide any evidence  showing  the damage.
Mrs C has provided photographs of the damage to the additional two doors, front door bell, 
the chest of drawers  and the conservatory  windowsill damage.  So, as Allianz has evidence 
of this damage, which I find more persuasive than the loss adjusters report, I think Mrs C 
has proven she has a claim under the policy for these items.  So it is now for Allianz  to 
consider these under the terms of the policy.
Mrs C has also referred  to electrical  work she says she had to have done and a replacement 
kitchen. Mrs C hasnt provided  any evidence of these and I havent seen anything that 
suggests the damage caused to the original items was the result of malicious damage, 
although I accept  that these were  badly damaged. But I have to consider whether there is 
enough evidence  to say that Allianz  should  consider these items to be malicious  damage  
rather than simply  the actions of a neglectful tenant   and I havent seen any evidence  that 
persuades me thats the case here.
settlement figure
Allianz has offered  Mrs C a settlement figure based  on its own schedule  of works but Mrs C 
says this should be calculated at the amount she paid as she should  be put back in the 
same position as she was before the insured  event   and I agree with Mrs C.
But Mrs Cs builder hasnt provided itemised costs  for individual items he worked  on in the 
property  rather he provided an overall invoice for all the works, including fitting a new 
kitchen and other items that arent covered by the policy. So without an itemised  list of costs, 
it isnt possible for Allianz to calculate the exact  cost of each of the items Mrs C claimed for. 
So in the absence of that information from Mrs Cs own builder, it has used the costs from its 
schedule of works to calculate the settlement figure, which I think is fair in the 
circumstances.
deductions
Allianz has deducted the tenants security deposit  from the settlement figure, despite Mrs C 
making it aware that she intended to use this to cover some  of the unpaid rent arrears, which 
werent insured  under  this policy.  Allianz  said she wasnt entitled to use it for this purpose 
Ref: DRN88111904under the terms  of the tenancy agreement  but I dont  agree. The tenancy agreement  
between Mrs C and her previous tenant  lists the situations where  she is entitled to keep the 
security deposit. One of the items on the list is to cover  unpaid rent.
I have reviewed the policy documents and havent  seen anything  that suggests Mrs C is 
unable to use the security  deposit  towards  her loss of rent. And Allianz  hasnt provided any 
comments to explain  why it would  deduct  this amount from the settlement. So based on 
everything Ive seen, I dont think Allianz  was correct to deduct the security deposit from 
Mrs Cs settlement figure.
delays and customer service
There is no dispute that there were some avoidable delays at the beginning of this claim, 
which took two months  to be accepted  as a result of Allianz assessing the claim incorrectly.
But I also think Allianz didnt do enough  at the time Mrs C made the claim to help guide her 
through the process. I havent seen any evidence that it told Mrs C to stop the reparation 
works when  she initially  logged the claim  and as Allianz repeatedly  declined  the claim,  I 
dont think it was unreasonable  of her to continue  to have the property fixed  so it could be 
ready for new tenants as soon as possible.
Allianz wrote to Mrs C declining the claim for incorrect reasons at the beginning of the claim, 
which added further confusion and frustration to this claim. And Mrs C has also asked Allianz 
for a breakdown of the settlement figure she has been offered, which it didnt provide to her.
This claim  would have been stressful  for most people,  but Mrs C has explained that she had 
recently lost her husband and this claim came  at a particularly bad time for her. So taking 
everything into account, I dont think Allianz handled this claim as well as I would have 
expected it to, and I think it should  pay Mrs C £150 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience it caused her through this. This amount is in addition  to waiving the £100 
excess on her claim.
putting things right
Allianz Insurance Plc should put things right by:
Allianz should reconsider the claim, including the items listed  above where Mrs C has 
been able to provide evidence of the loss.
Once it has done this, Allianz should settle  the claim without making any deductions 
for the excess or the deposit.
Allianz should pay 8% simple  interest on this amount from the date it offered the 
original settlement to the date it pays the claim.
Allianz should also pay Mrs C £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
it caused her.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. Allianz Insurance  Plc should  put 
things right by doing what  Ive said above.
Ref: DRN88111905Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 June  2020.
Sara Falzon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8811190