K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain Bradford & Bingley  Plc (B&B) mis-sold them  a premium payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out in 1993 with a mortgage. 
The policy was discussed in a meeting when Mr and Mrs C were applying for the mortgage.  
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mr and Mrs C disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
 
my findings
I have considered all of the available evidence and arguments from the outset, in order to 
decide what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Our approach to PPI complaints is set out on our website and Ive taken this into account  
when deciding this complaint. 
From the evidence I have  seen I dont think that B&B recommended  the policy  to 
Mr and Mrs C. That means it didnt have  to check it was suitable  for them,  given their 
particular circumstances   including how much sick pay and savings Mr C had. It did have to 
give Mr and Mrs C information that was clear, fair and not misleading in order to put them in 
a position where  they could make an informed  choice  about the insurance they were buying.
Mr and Mrs C say they didnt read any small print as they call it. So even  if B&B gave them  
all the relevant information it doesnt  look like theyd have studied it. Having said that, its 
possible Mr and Mrs C didnt get all the relevant  information, so Ive thought  about  whether 
they are worse off if that didnt happen. That is, would  Mr and Mrs C be in a less favourable 
position than the one they find themselves in now, had there been no problems with the 
sale?
I have decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. Ive set out my reasons below.
Mr and Mrs C say they arent sure what was discussed at the time and its likely they simply 
accepted any suggestions made by the member of staff  which included buying the PPI. 
They say theyve only recently discovered  Mrs C wasnt covered, which they think  is unfair, 
and didnt know they could cancel the PPI. Theyve  said they didnt need the PPI at the time 
as Mr C was in a well-paid job with very generous work related benefits  and also had some 
savings.
The paperwork completed during the meeting includes  a mortgage application form. That 
has a section about PPI, and asks if Mr and Mrs C want to buy it. They are asked to answer 
yes or no. The form has yes written on it. I think the way the form is set out makes it 
clear the PPI is optional.  There  are some further  details  completed which  suggest  some 
discussion took place  at the time  for example £200 cover has been entered on the form, 
and it says either or both mortgage  applicants  can take out PPI if they are eligible.
It seems  likely it would  have  been  clear to Mr and Mrs C that not only did they have  a choice 
about whether  or not to purchase the insurance but also that they had an option to tailor the 
Ref: DRN81620212level of cover to reflect  their needs  and decide how the benefit of the cover  would be split. 
This document was signed  and dated  by Mr and Mrs C. 
Overall, I think B&B made Mr and Mrs C aware that the PPI was optional  and that they 
chose to take it  
Mr and Mrs C say they dont understand why the cover  was in Mr Cs name only. But we do 
know he was the main earner at the time, and that might have  influenced their choice.  And to 
be eligible for the policy an applicant had to be employed full-time for no less than 16 hours  
a week. Mrs C seems  to have had two jobs  both of which were probably  part time. So it 
might well be she wasnt eligible for the PPI, which again would explain why it was in Mr Cs 
name only.
I dont know exactly when  the cost of the policy was communicated to Mr and Mrs C  it may 
have been in the meeting.  For this reason,  I have  considered whether clearer  information 
about the cost would have  affected  Mr and Mrs Cs decision to purchase the policy.  
Mr and Mrs C had chosen to take out the policy, knowing they would have to pay something 
for it and despite Mr Cs significant levels  of sick pay and savings.  The policy  was 
competitively priced and apparently affordable. So I think it unlikely they would  have made a 
different decision if better information about  the cost had been  provided.
Mr Cs circumstances do not suggest he would have been  caught by any of the conditions 
limiting the policys  main benefits (such as those affecting self-employed  people  or people 
with pre-existing medical conditions). 
In summary,  I think Mr and Mrs C agreed  to take out the cover (knowing they didnt have to). 
And given  it provided  broadly what I think they expected when they agreed to it, I didnt think  
they would  have made a different decision (and decided against taking it out) if they had 
been better informed.
Mr C has recently  told us he was promoted a short  while  after getting the mortgage and PPI, 
so he really didnt  need  the PPI. I can only look at the circumstances in place at the time of 
the sale, not afterwards.  And in a similar  way I can only look at the circumstances 
surrounding this particular sale  so I wouldnt take into account other complaints 
Mr and Mrs C might have  successfully  made.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 December 2019.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8162021