K821x#15complaint
Mr A complains that Advanced Payment Solutions Limited (APS) wont refund  a number of 
cash withdrawal transactions totalling £2,950 that he says he didnt make or authorise.
background
On 18 January 2019 Mr A reported  his debit card as lost. At the time APS told him that there  
had been a number of cash  withdrawals  from machines using his card.  Mr A said that he 
didnt make or authorise them.
APS accepts  that it caused delays in investigating  the transactions that Mr A disputes but it 
decided to hold him liable for them. It also agreed that its level of customer  service  wasnt  
satisfactory and paid him a total of £55 for any trouble and upset caused. However, it 
declined to refund the transactions. Mr A contacted our service about this.
 
Our investigator thought this complaint should be upheld. He noted APS hadnt provided any 
information (despite  a number of requests) about the disputed transactions  to support why it 
had decided to hold Mr A liable  for these. The investigator also didnt think £55 went far 
enough in recognising the trouble and upset caused.  He set out what  APS needed to do to 
put things right, which included refunding the disputed transactions  and paying a total of 
£200 compensation to recognise the impact the whole  situation had had on him. 
APS didnt respond to the investigators view. So the complaint has been  passed to me to 
decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A reported the loss of his card to APS on 18 January 2019.  The last time he says he 
used the card was on 12 January 2019.  He says that all the cash withdrawals  after then 
were made fraudulently.
The disputed transactions took place in January 2019. The regulations relevant to these are 
the Payment Service  Regulations 2017. In short, the basic  position  is that APS can hold 
Mr A liable for the disputed payments if the evidence suggests  its more likely than not that 
he made them or authorised them. So my primary concern is to come to a view about 
whether or I not I think Mr A authorised these payments. But for me to be satisfied  that these 
payments were authorised, I first need to determine  how they were authenticated.
Authentication is the use of any procedure by which  a bank is able to verify the use of a 
specific payment instrument, including its personalised security features. APS hasnt 
provided any evidence  to show how the disputed  transactions were carried  out but as they 
were all withdrawals  made from a UK bank cash machine I consider it more  likely than not 
that Mr As genuine card  was used with his PIN, not least  because hes said hed lost his 
card. But the regulations relevant to this case  say that it is not, on its own, enough  for APS to 
hold Mr A liable,  just because his genuine  card and PIN were used. So I also need to 
consider whether the evidence suggests  its more likely than not that he consented to the 
disputed transactions  being made.
Ref: DRN85129452Mr A says that he thinks someone saw him enter  his PIN when he made a purchase  at a 
petrol station. He thinks his card could have been taken then. The disputed transactions 
started on the same day and the maximum amount was taken each time, until the day before 
Mr A reported the card as lost. In a case of this type a full audit trail of the transactions would 
be key evidence in helping to establish  what happened. It would assist in seeing  whether 
there were any further attempts to use the card after it was reported as lost, any balance 
enquires and incorrect  PIN attempts  to help build a picture. But APS hasnt provided this 
information or crucially  explained why it cant.  In the circumstances, its very difficult for me 
to say APSs decision to hold Mr A liable is correct  and safely  conclude that he made  or 
consented to the payments.  
Without this evidence and taking everything  else Ive seen I dont think  I can fairly conclude  
that the withdrawals  were  made or authorised by Mr A. It follows  that APS should refund all 
the disputed cash  withdrawals and the cash withdrawal  fees and pay interest  on the 
refunded amounts at 8% simple.                                                                        
APS has accepted  that it caused  delays in investigating Mr As fraud  claim and it didnt 
provide him with a satisfactory  level of customer service. It has already paid £55 for this. But 
given the further delays  and length  of time its taken to resolve this complaint and the upset it 
has caused Mr A I dont think this is enough. I think a total of £200 is a fair reflection for the 
trouble and upset  caused.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Advance  Payment Solutions 
Limited to:
1.Refund the six disputed cash withdrawals and the related  fees.
2.Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum from the date of the transaction to the 
date of settlement.
3.Pay Mr A a further £145  for the upset he has been caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 May 2020.
Karen Wharton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8512945