K821x#15complaint
Mrs S complains about etika Finance UK Limiteds  (EFL) refusal to stop pursuing her 
for money  it says is owed  by her to it, under  two point  of sale loans.
Mrs S is represented in her complaint by her husband. But, for ease  of reading, Ive 
referred to all submissions from him as if they came  from her.
background
In summary,  Mrs Ss version of events goes  as follows. In February 2018 Mrs S 
purchased beauty  therapy goods and services from a supplier. Mrs S paid for this 
purchase in part, by means of two point of sale loans  provided by EFL.  She also 
suggests she paid two separate deposits that were paid by debit card. These  deposits 
are not noted  on the loan agreements which Mrs S complains about. The supplier went  
out of business before  Mrs S received  all of the services shed paid for. 
Further, Mrs S complained that EFL and its agents had acted inappropriately in trying  to 
recover the debt from her. She suggested that there were irregularities in the way the 
loan agreements were  credit brokered and with the information  included in the loan 
agreements that meant  the agreements were unenforceable. 
Mrs S relied on the rights that she said she had under  Section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 (Section 75) to ask EFL to take steps to put things right.
In short,  EFL accepted there had been a breach of the contract of supply, in that the 
contract had only been performed in part. EFL also accepted it had an obligation to 
provide Mrs S with a remedy for this. It agreed with her that this was because she had 
rights against it Section  75. 
EFL offered  Mrs S the opportunity to have the contract completed by a new supplier. It 
suggested this was a like-for-like replacement. Alternatively, it offered Mrs S a part 
refund to compensate her for the services  she not yet received. But EFL did not agree  
that it had acted incorrectly in the way it went about  asking her to repay her debt. Neither  
did it agree  that the loans were unenforceable.
Dissatisfied, Mrs S came to our service.
Our investigator looked into Mrs Ss complaint. In brief, our investigator  concluded  that in 
the circumstances repeat performance of the supply contract was not an appropriate 
remedy for the breach of contract.  However,  our investigator did think  a price  reduction 
using the formula  he outlined for working this out was a fair solution. In all of the 
circumstances, he considered that EFL could continue to pursue Mrs S for the balances 
that remained once  the price  reduction had been applied.  He did not agree that EFL had 
acted inappropriately  in trying to recover the debt from Mrs S.
It appears that EFL accepted our investigators  conclusions, but Mrs S did not. Mrs S 
provided detailed  objections including a letter containing 53 separately numbered points 
about issues she was not satisfied about.
We had reached an impasse,  so I was asked to take a fresh look at Mrs Ss complaint.
Ref: DRN84427312my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail  than the 
parties and Ive done so using my own words.  Im not going to respond  to every single 
point made  by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive 
focussed on what I think are the key issues here.  
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal  nature  of our service  as a 
free alternative to the courts.  If theres something  Ive not mentioned, it isnt because  Ive 
ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need  to comment on every individual argument  
to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome.
Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider  is 
most likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
As I mentioned already  above, Mrs S relies in part on the rights  she says she has under 
Section 75. Section 75 says, amongst other things, that in certain  circumstances if the 
debtor has, in relation  to a transaction financed by a relevant credit agreement, any 
claim against the supplier  in respect of misrepresentation or breach  of contract, then she 
has a like claim against the credit provider.  Both Mrs S and EFL agree that there  has 
been a breach of the contract. The issue here is how to fairly  and reasonably put this 
right. 
I think its important to set out my role here. In considering a complaint about a financial 
services provider, Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party  might  have 
under Section 75. Rather,  in deciding whats a fair way to resolve Mrs Ss complaint, I 
have to take account of relevant law, amongst other  things. Section 75 is relevant law. 
Therefore, Ive taken  it into account. The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is also 
relevant to this complaint. It implies  certain conditions into contracts made  between  a 
business and a consumer. Which is the situation we have here. The CRA  also provides 
for remedies  in the case of breach of contract. But all of this doesnt mean Im obliged to 
reach the same outcome  as, for example, a court might reach  if Mrs S pursued a claim 
for misrepresentation or breach of contract.  Our service is an informal alternative to the 
courts. Mrs S has indicated  that if she is dissatisfied with the outcome of her complaint, 
she may take this matter  to court.
Further, I can see that Mrs S has repeatedly put forward  points about  the legality and/or 
enforceability of the original loan agreements. The Consumer  Credit Act 1974 gives the 
courts discretion  to decide whether a credit agreement is enforceable, however  no 
comparable power  is given to this service  and I will make no finding on this point. If Mrs 
S wishes to pursue her points regarding whether her loan agreements  are 
unenforceable, she must do so in court.
Mrs S and EFL both accept that EFL is pursuing her for money  EFL says is owed to it by 
her under two loan agreements. They both also accept, as I have already mentioned, 
Ref: DRN84427313that not all the services  that Mrs S contracted for under the contract  of supply that was 
funded by the loans  were provided. It seems all the products  were  provided although 
some of them did not agree with her skin. Moreover,  there is some dispute  about the 
number of treatments  she actually received. 
Also, it seems both Mrs S and EFL now agree that a repeat  performance of the service, 
which is one of the remedies provided  for by the CRA is not appropriate here.  So, we are 
left with either EFL accepting that Mrs S need pay nothing further which  is the outcome 
Mrs S supports or a refund in part which is EFLs desired  outcome.
My starting point is that I think on the face of it, it is fair and reasonable that Mrs S 
should pay for the services and products I think it is most likely that she was provided  
with. Which although she asks to pay nothing  further  also seems to be an option Mrs S 
would consider after all as she points out. Until  it became  apparent that Mrs S would  not 
be able to obtain further treatments she did not cease her repayments. It seems she was 
therefore willing to pay for what she had received and only stopped paying when she 
stopped receiving her treatments.
I am satisfied there was one overall  contract  of supply with the supplier, but it was split 
into two bundles which were funded  by two loans. Loan 1 was meant to pay for 12 facial 
treatments, 4 diagnostics,  and 2 products. Loan 2 was meant to pay for 6 body 
treatments. 
Further I am satisfied that as EFL says and Mrs S appears to now accept, the first 
bundle was goods and services valued  at of £2,700, however the deposit paid up front 
by Mrs S meant that the loan amount  on this package  was for £2,430. The second  
bundle was for services  valued at £1,000. Again, because Mrs S paid a deposit of £100 
when she contracted  the loan amount on this bundle was for £900.  Mrs S borrowed  
£3,330 in total from EFL according  to the loan agreements. 
The CRA provides  that under a contract  to supply goods, there is an implied term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory . In summary, the CRA says the quality of goods  
is satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider 
satisfactory taking into account  of a number of factors including, any description of the 
goods, the price  fitness for purpose  and all the other  relevant circumstances. The CRA  
also indicates that services must be delivered with reasonable skill and care. 
I recognise that Mrs S is dissatisfied with some  of the products supplied. She found them 
unsuitable for her. However, just because she may have  found the products disagreed  
with her does not, by itself, mean  the products were not of satisfactory quality. Albeit,  
given the nature of the products and the nature of the service supplied I would have 
expected the products to have been patch-tested on her before use, as that is what  a 
supplier would need to do to carry out this service  with reasonable skill and care. 
Although Mrs S has not told us no such patch test was carried  out.
Moreover, it does not appear that she complained about this at the time. I would have 
expected her to have  done so given  she was using the products on an ongoing basis. 
And she has not explained  why she didnt make her dissatisfaction known earlier. In all 
of the circumstances, I dont find that it is fair and reasonable to say that EFL must not 
charge Mrs S for the products she complains  about.
Ref: DRN84427314Moving on to the services.  EFL has sent us details of the treatments  it says Mrs S 
received. She insists  she received less treatments than it says. She also wants to know  
why EFLs take on this might be preferred  to her account. I am persuaded by EFLs 
version of events as it seems that the supplier kept records of the treatments it gave her, 
and these are the records EFL relies on. I think the supplier had every reason to keep  
good records not least of all because I think it likely it did not want to run the risk of 
giving Mrs S, or any other  customer, more  treatments than theyd paid for. In other 
words, for reasons of self-interest, amongst other things, I think  the supplier would  have 
kept a tight rein in this area. Whereas  whilst Mrs S suggests she received less 
treatments than EFL says she did, she cant back up what  she says with dates for 
instance of when she received her treatments.
According to the documents I have  seen the contract had 24 elements. Neither party 
appears to dispute  this. The total cost of the contract  according to the sales invoice I 
have seen was £3,700.  That gives a price per element of £154.17 (= £3,700/24). I think  
this is a fair and reasonable way to place a value  on the individual elements of the 
contract. EFL initially took a different approach which would have left Mrs S owing it 
more. However, it appears  EFL now accepts the formula I have set out. Mrs S does not 
appear to reject the formula. Rather, as I have already mentioned, she appears  to 
dispute how many elements of the contract she received. But I have already dealt with 
that point above.
From the information I have Mrs S received the 14 of the 24 elements.  Meaning she did 
not receive 10 of the elements. It follows that the cost of 10 of the elements  should be 
taken off what she owes. This means  that the price reduction that should  be applied  to 
what Mrs S owes is £1,541.70 (= £154.17 x 10). The total price was £3,700 and this 
therefore means the total amount Mrs S is liable  for is £2,158.30  (= £3,700  - £1,541.7).
I dont  know what amount Mrs S has paid under the two loan agreements. However,  
on balance I think it is fair and reasonable to say that if Mrs S has already repaid more  
than £2,158.30 (including any deposit she may have paid and EFL seems to accept 
that Mrs S did pay the two deposits  she says she paid), then the overpayment  should  
be refunded to her, plus 8% simple  interest per year.  
On the other hand, if the total of Mrs Ss repayments and deposit are less than the 
£2,158.30 that I have found EFL can pursue  her for then it can continue to pursue her 
for the balance until she has paid it the £2,158.30. 
EFL asked  that I work out what was owed by reference to the two loan agreements, 
rather than give a global  figure. I am sorry to disappoint it, but whilst I can see why it 
asks me to do this, I cannot  do it as I dont  know  how much Mrs S has paid it. 
However, it knows what elements of the contract have been delivered, it knows  which  
loan was meant to pay for each element so it should  be able to work  this out for itself.
Mrs S is upset  that EFL pursued her for money it says was owed under the loan 
agreements. I think  there  is nothing  wrong in EFL pursuing a debtor for outstanding 
sums. Plus, nothing  in the nature  or the tone of the debt recovery  actions appear to have 
been inappropriate.
During the course of this complaint Mrs S told us she did not know that she was signing 
up for loans  to pay for the supply  contract.  This appears to be a new matter  and has not 
Ref: DRN84427315been considered by EFL in its final response  to Mrs S. It follows  that I am unable  to look 
at this matter in this final decision.
my final decision
My final decision is that etika Finance UK Limited  can only pursue Mrs S for £2,158.30. 
As I mention above. In particular:
If Mrs S has already repaid more than £2,158.30  (including any deposit she may have  
paid and EFL seems to accept that Mrs S did pay the two deposits  she says she paid), 
then the overpayment should  be refunded to her. Interest should  be added to any such 
refund at the rate of 8% simple interest  per year, the interest to run from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement*
However, if the total of Mrs Ss repayments  and deposit are less than the £2,158.30 that 
I have found EFL can pursue her for then it can continue to pursue her for the balance 
until she has paid it the £2,158.30.
EFL must remove any information it has asked  the credit reference  agencies to register  
on Mrs Ss credit file in relation to the non-payment  of the loans from the point that the 
supplier stopped providing  Mrs S with the services it contracted  to perform.
*If EFL considers its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest,  it should tell Mrs S how much  its taken off. It should also give Mrs S a 
certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue  
& Customs if appropriate
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 February  2021.
Joyce Gordon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8442731