K820x#14complaint
Mr A, for S, complains that National  Westminster  Bank Plc (Nat West) wont refund to the 
account of S, a limited company, transactions that he says he didnt authorise.  He says that 
as he didnt make or authorise them, S shouldnt continue to be held liable for them.  
Mr A is a signatory on the account held by S and he brings this complaint here,  on behalf of 
S, as a director of S. 
background
Mr A attended a club, abroad, which is where the disputed transactions  took place. He says 
that he authorised  the first payment that was made  to the club  although he says he didnt 
know it would debit  for such a large sum.  
The transactions made were:
Date                  UK Time      Place                Type  of transaction                Amount
11/06/2018        02.34am     Abroad                Retailer - *** Club                    £662.40
11/06/2018        02:55am     Abroad                Retailer - *** Club                    £610.08
11/06/2018        03:32am     Abroad                Retailer - *** Club                    £622.40
11/06/2018        04:05am     Abroad                Retailer - *** Club                    £684.03
11/06/2018        04:39am     Abroad                Retailer - *** Club                  £1029.12
                                                                                                          Total    £3,608.03
Mr A says he attended the club with a work colleague and he left a previous venue between 
2:15am and 2:20am, roughly. They were recommended  the second  venue and on entering 
it, they were told they had to make a minimum purchase, to the value (in local currency)  of 
just over £80. To reserve a table, they agreed  to purchase a bottle of champagne.
Mr A says he paid for this on S debit  card.  No tab was set up at this time.  He says he didnt 
see what the terminal showed. But during the payment process, he said the dancers  and 
host were nearby so its possible they saw him enter the personal  identification  number 
(PIN). Mr A has been inconsistent though about  how and when the card was returned to 
him and its whereabouts while Mr A was in the club. 
He says he then went on to purchase more champagne as well as a few glasses of spirits 
and soda. But he maintains he only made one transaction with the card and wasnt provided 
with any receipts for any of the transactions that night. He says he paid for the remainder of 
the transactions using cash he had with him.
At around 4:45am, Mr A says he left the club and returned to the hotel using a local cab. He 
says he later used the card to pay for room service and other charges so he wasnt  aware 
the card had been used beyond the first payment made in the club.  Once hed returned to 
the UK, Mr A realised a large  had been spent  on S account.
As already mentioned,  there have been  some discrepancies  in the recollections provided by 
Mr A as to how payments  were made in the club and what  became of S card during the 
night. Mr As colleagues have said that payments were made during the night  and each time 
S card was taken away to make the payment.  At one point Mr A said that the card was left 
with the club staff, after the initial  payment.
Ref: DRN84064052But Mr A has also told NatWest he didnt  know how someone obtained S card.  And as Mr A 
still had S card, after returning to the hotel from the club, theres  a question over how 
someone would have been  able to  on four occasions  take the card and return  it to Mr A, 
having noted what PIN had been  entered when  the initial transaction  was made.
Our investigator was satisfied that NatWest had evidenced that all the transactions were  
made with the cards  chip being read and the PIN being entered to authenticate the 
payment. He was satisfied the genuine card had therefore been used. But he went  on to 
consider whether Mr A had made the transactions and whether S ought to be liable for them.
As regards  the first payment, Mr A admits that he made that himself.  So, although he may 
not have noticed the amount that was showing on the screen  and he was expecting to pay 
a lower figure for the champagne,  the investigator  said Mr A did authorise the payment by 
putting his card in the machine and entering  the PIN. So S is liable for the payment. 
Moving to the subsequent payments, if the payments werent made  by Mr A, the investigator 
considered how a third party would have  been  able to learn  the PIN, in order to make them.  
Mr A maintains that no one else knows the PIN other than him. Mr A speculates that it was 
possible he was shoulder surfed by one of the clubs  staff as they were  around him when he 
entered his PIN first time. And the investigator  thought this possible. 
But as regards the card, most  recently, Mr A has said says that after the first payment was 
made, the host passed the card back to him and he kept this in a metal card holder.  He paid 
cash the remainder of the evening and didnt use the card again. Mr A has told us the card 
was still with him at the end of the night and he went on to use it after leaving the club.  
But this would mean that the card would  have been  repeatedly taken from him and returned 
 or not returned and the risk taken of Mr A being  alerted  to the fraud while in the club.  First, 
thats a completely different account  of events than what Mr A had previously given.
And the investigator  considered all this evidence  against the background of Mr As 
colleagues saying  that S card was used  to make the other  payments, for further  goods  and 
services. Given  the lack of a single and clear explanation as to how S account  was 
compromised, the investigator considered it unlikely that any version, as noted above, of 
how a club member had accessed the card, and ended up leaving it with Mr A at the end of 
the night, was most likely.  
The investigator also commented on Mr As recollections in respect of the transactions 
themselves. In calls with NatWest Mr A initially told the bank he wasnt given receipts  for 
transactions he made and had expected the total spend to be around £500-£600 on S card.  
He also said the drinks they brought were all bottles of champagne so hes surprised the 
transactions werent for the same amount. 
In later calls, however,  Mr A changed  his recollections and explained he only carried out one 
transaction and this was to purchase  a bottle of champagne when they entered the club. He 
said he was expecting this to be the equivalent  of just over £80. Ultimately, Mr A is unable to 
accurately recall what transactions he did carry out at the time on this card.
Taking everything into account,  the investigator  thought it most likely  that Mr A agreed to 
make more than one payment and was in possession  of the card during the period the 
transactions were  carried out. 
Ref: DRN84064053The investigator also addressed Mr As concerns  that NatWest didnt stop the transactions 
when they were pending. He didnt think NatWest could have stopped  the payments. He 
said that once  the transactions  had been  authorised, the merchant was entitled to be 
credited with the funds. He said that NatWest could itself refund the payments if it had a 
valid reason to challenge their authorisation. 
But he didnt  think NatWest acted  unfairly  in this regard. And he also didnt think it was 
unreasonable for NatWest to have not blocked  the transactions; he accepted that while 
banks do have fraud prevention systems,  he couldnt say that those involved here were  
obviously such that the bank had acted  incorrectly in not blocking them. 
The investigator considered how NatWest had dealt with S disputed transaction claim.  He 
didnt think that advice given to Mr A by the banks employee, in terms of what  he might do 
next in pursuing  his claim, was unreasonable. He also thought  the ongoing advice and 
actions of NatWest, when dealing with S claim, were broadly fine and he didnt recommend 
that NatWest needed  to pay compensation.
Part of his considerations here were  that NatWest  hadnt acted incorrectly in not challenging 
the merchant  over the initial,  authorised  transaction  by way of a process called 
chargeback. There  are rules attached to making  such a claim and based on what  Mr A had 
said about how the transaction had been  made,  and his lack of evidence  in respect of that 
transaction, the claim had no prospect of succeeding; so, it was entitled  not to pursue that.       
The investigator expressed a further opinion about S complaint. He reiterated  what he 
thought was the relevance of Mr As changing evidence as to what  happened on the night of 
the disputed transactions. He also addressed Mr As concerns about the way he was 
quizzed about the night  in question, when he made  his claim. 
He explained  that the bank was entitled to investigate claims being made in any situation 
involving disputed transactions, in order to make an appropriate judgement  about  whether a 
refund is due or not. Clearly, those conversations can be difficult but they are unfortunately 
necessary. He concluded by reiterating what hed said previously about the bank not being  
under any obligation or having the ability to block the payment from being made either  at the 
time of its authorisation or after Mr A phoned to dispute them.
Mr A has asked  that an ombudsman review  his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A has said he understands  how the investigator arrived  at his opinion of the complaint. 
He says that he may also have come to the same conclusion himself, in the shoes of the 
investigator. But he remains adamant that he did not purchase goods or services to the 
value of more  than about £80, when he authorised the initial transaction;  and that hes been 
a victim of fraud, not authorising any of the four subsequent payments.
Having carefully looked  at everything, Im afraid Ive come to the same conclusions  as the 
investigator. First, Ill address the issue of the four transactions Mr A says he had no 
knowledge of. Im also satisfied the payments were authorised by use of the genuine card 
issued to S and the correct entry of the PIN, required in order for the payment to go through.
Ref: DRN84064054Like the investigator, I understand  how slightly evolved versions of events can be told over 
time. But here, Mr A, has told wholly  different versions of what  became  of his card on the 
night. I accept what Mr A says about  how stressful  it can be to make a fraud claim, how we 
can all remember  things as we go along  and realise our mistaken  recollections.
However, Mr A answered a straightforward  question about the whereabouts of the card after 
he made the first payment  and, given he was disputing making further  payments, he replied 
that the club staff kept the card. Yet later he said he received it back and believes he had it 
on him from that point.  First, in short, I have  to say it would be problematic for me to be able 
to award S a refund  of the disputed  payments  if Mr A had left the card with the clubs staff.
But given hes now saying that this wasnt the case,  I wont  expand on that further.  Rather, 
Mr A says he had the card on him all the while  the four later disputed  transactions were  
made. So, while I can understand how a member of the club staff was able to view Mr A 
entering the PIN, and remember it for later use, Mr A has provided no sufficiently credible 
explanation for how the club staff obtained  the card to make the transactions.
So, taking account  of the changing explanation  about the cards whereabouts and also that 
its also been said that Mr A actually  made  the transactions, I agree with the investigator and 
conclude its only safe to say that its most  likely that Mr A authorised the transactions  
himself. It may well be that Mr A has no recollection of that and now believes  he wouldnt 
have spent as much as was spent in a club. But they are not factors on which  I might  require  
the bank to refund the value of the transactions  to S.
As regards  the first payment, Ive considered that payment  in the context  of both 
authorisation and chargeback.       
Simply, the matter of a payer authorising a bank to make a payment transaction to a payee 
has no link to the relationship that exists between the payer and payee, even if, as in this 
case, the payer is saying the payee, intentionally or otherwise, took an action that resulted 
in an incorrect payment being made.
The relevant  regulations  here are the Payment Services Regulations 2017. These establish 
that in respect  of a payment there  exists  a:
payment service user  a person when making use of a payment service as a payer 
or payee, or both
payment service provider  a business  carrying out payment services such as a bank 
or credit provider
payment order   the instruction by a PSU to their respective  PSP requesting the 
execution of a payment  transaction.
The regulations also define a:
payment transaction  an act initiated  by the payer or payee,  or on behalf  of the 
payer, of placing, transferring or withdrawing funds,  irrespective of any underlying 
obligations between  the payer and payee;
payment instrument  any personalised device or set of procedures agreed  between 
the PSU and the PSP, and used by the PSU to initiate a payment order.
Ref: DRN84064055The regulations say a payment service user, in this case S (albeit via the actions of Mr A), is 
liable for authorised transactions. And they say:
1)A payment transaction is to be regarded as having been authorised  by the payer   only 
if the payer has given  its consent to
a)the execution  of the payment transaction; or
b)the execution  of a series of payment transactions of which that payment 
transaction forms part.
2)Such consent 
b) must be given in the form, and in accordance with the procedure, agreed between  the 
payer and its PSP.
So, a payment transaction is authorised if the payer has given his consent  to the execution 
of it by using the form and procedure that has been agreed upon  between the payer  and his 
PSP. And the concept of giving consent is a formal one  if the payment  service user uses 
the agreed form and procedure  for making payment orders they have given consent  to the 
execution of the payment transaction. 
Whether someone has given consent  or not is objective, its not about what  the payment 
service user subjectively  knew, whether  the payment transaction was fully explained to 
them, or indeed   as suggested  here  whether  a payment is processed for a different 
amount than a separate agreement suggested would be processed.  
This all means that when  a payer gives  a payment order, the underlying relationship  or the 
obligations between  the payer and payee are, Im afraid, irrelevant  the payment 
transaction is independent of any underlying obligations. Indeed, the payment order requires 
that the payment be made without  regard to whether the payee has any right to receive  it or 
an obligation  to return it. And the payment service provider must promptly and accurately  
execute any authorised payment order unless executing it would be unlawful.
So, what  this means for S complaint, as Ive already said Im afraid,  is that the payment 
initially made to the club was properly authorised  and theres  no basis  on which  I can ask 
NatWest to refund it, or a portion of it, based on the legitimacy  or otherwise - of the 
payments authorisation.
Of course,  as has been mentioned, there are mechanisms in place for the payer  to seek  
redress where a payment  has been  made and something has gone wrong in the relationship  
that lies below the need for the payment  to be made. Here  the relevant mechanism is the 
chargeback process.  
I note that Mr A says that NatWest ought to have at least activated a chargeback  claim.  I 
understand why he would say that. Hes clear in his mind that he thought  he was spending 
about £80 on champagne but he was charged  well over £600. However, the bank would  not 
be expected to raise  a chargeback claim unless  there was some prospect of the claim being 
successful. 
Here, the bank could  see that Mr A had entered  his PIN into the merchants payment 
terminal to authorise the payment. On the face of it, a bank is entitled  to start with a belief 
someone wouldnt enter that PIN unless they were happy to be making the payment  shown 
on the terminal. Theres no evidence  that the terminal showed anything  other the foreign 
currency equivalent of £662.40. 
Ref: DRN84064056Mr A also has no evidence  that he was over charged for the champagne. He accepts that he 
made a payment for champagne,  in a club, but he says not for that much.  However, in the 
absence of any evidence  beyond what Mr A says happened, against  a background of him 
authorising the payment, I have to agree that the bank was entitled  to think  that this 
chargeback claim seemed  hardly  likely to succeed.   
I recognise that Mr A is disappointed with the experience of making this fraud claim. But Im 
afraid there are no grounds on which I can require the bank to refund to S, the value of any 
of the transactions disputed by Mr A as being authorised,  or properly  authorised, by him 
when he was abroad.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A, for S, to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 April 2020.
Ray Neighbour
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8406405