K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1999. Mr and Mrs M say National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest)  mis-sold  them  the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ms case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold  Ill explain why. 
NatWest have given  me copies of paperwork from the sale.  This includes a copy  of the 
mortgage advice  and recommendation form. On it I can see some  handwritten  text that 
shows the PPI was taken forward but at a reduced cost. Theres also a ticked box on this 
form which shows a discussion took place about  how the mortgage would be paid for should  
there have  been  a change  in Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances. 
 
Ive also been  given a copy of Mr and Mrs Ms Application for Mortgage Services  form. 
Under the PPI section  in it, I can see the word  Yes next to where  it says Do you want  
MRP. The monthly benefit amount of the policy is also quoted  here. I also note Mrs M has 
signed a separate direct  debit for the PPI. 
So taking all of this in to account,  I think NatWest  made it clear that Mr and Mrs M didnt 
have to take out the PPI and they chose to take it out. 
Ive also considered that Mr and Mrs M say they felt pressured into taking out the PPI. But 
they havent given much detail about  what made them feel pressured. For me to uphold  their 
complaint on this point  I would  have to find that its more  likely than not that NatWest acted 
in this way. Having looked at all the available information carefully, I simply dont have 
compelling evidence  to say that an advisor  put any unfair pressure on Mr and Mrs M.
NatWest say it didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs M. But from the paperwork Ive 
seen, I think it did. So it had to check that the PPI was right for them   and based on what 
Ive seen of their circumstances at the time  including what  theyve said about their sick pay 
provisions  I think that it was. For example they werent affected  by any of the exclusions to 
or limits on the PPI cover  and they seem to have had a need  for the cover.   
Its possible the information NatWest gave Mr and Mrs M about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But they chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted  this type of cover. 
And it seems like it would  have been useful for them if something went wrong.  It also looks 
like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put them  
off taking out the cover. After all, it protected their mortgage which was a big and long term 
commitment, secured  on their home
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs M has said - including what they say about  not 
having had cause to make  a claim.  But I would  note that the nature of insurance is to protect 
against unforeseen circumstance, and that generally, not having to claim upon  insurance is a 
sign of good fortune. So these points dont change my decision.
Ref: DRN80729502Ive also thought about the commission Mr and Mrs M paid on their PPI  and whether 
NatWest treated them unfairly.  
NatWest has told us that the commission  for Mr and Mrs Ms PPI was less than half of what 
they paid for each  premium. Weve looked  at how NatWest has been  working  this out and 
based on what weve seen it looks like its right  Mr and Mrs Ms commission  was less than 
half the cost of the PPI. As thats the case,  I dont think it needed to tell them about the 
commission  so I dont  think  NatWest treated them unfairly. This means  it doesnt need  to 
pay Mr and Mrs M back any of the commission they paid for the PPI. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 February  2019.
Ketan Nagla
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8072950