K820x#14complaint
N, a limited company  has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc has closed  its current 
account. The complaint has been  brought by Ns representative, Mrs R.
background
N used to hold a current account  with HSBC. In March 2018 HSBC wrote  to N saying it 
intended to update the details it held about  Ns business. In April 2018  HSBC wrote to N 
again asking it to complete an online form to provide the information  it required. It said it 
might have to close Ns account  if it didnt  receive the information within  60 days.
HSBC says N didnt  complete  the online form within 60 days.  It wrote  to N again in June  
2018 extending the time limit to July 2018. It says it still didnt receive the information  and it 
wrote to N in July 2018 giving two months  notice to close  the account.
In September  2018 HSBC closed Ns account  and drew a cheque  in favour of N for the 
balance in the account before closure.  Mrs R complained to HSBC  about the action  it had 
taken. HSBC reopened the account and re-credited the cheque so N could withdraw  the 
balance. The account was then closed. Mrs R wasnt  satisfied  with this and referred the 
complaint to this service.
our initial conclusions
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld. He thought  HSBC  had 
followed a correct process and was entitled to close the account.
Mrs R didnt agree with our adjudicators recommendation.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs R has said she did complete the online form giving the required information  in April 
2018. She says she was then told by HSBC she didnt need to give any further information. 
She says N didnt receive some of the letters sent by HSBC as they were  addressed  to 
someone who was no longer  connected  with N.
Ive carefully considered  Mrs Rs comments.
I think that, if the online form had been completed  HSBC would have had a record  of the 
information being provided and it wouldnt have written to N again  to ask for it. So, on the 
evidence Ive seen,  Im not persuaded N gave HSBC the information it had requested.
The letters HSBC sent N arent addressed to a named individual.  The address to which  they 
were sent is recorded  as Ns registered office  at Companies House. Consequently, I think  N 
would have received the letters and should  have  been aware of the requirement  to complete 
the online form and the consequences  of not doing this.
In all the circumstances, Im satisfied HSBC  has acted  fairly and reasonably  in requesting  
information from N and closing Ns account  when  the information wasnt  provided.
Ref: DRN82206392my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final response  is I dont uphold  this complaint. I make  no 
award against HSBC  UK Bank Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 May 2019.
Charles Bacon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8220639