K821x#15complaint
Its been agreed in this case that Financial  Insurance  Company Limited  (FICL), as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. 
To keep things  simple, Ill refer to FICL  as the seller in my decision.
Mrs M says FICL mis-sold her a payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy on a store card.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out on a store  account  in 1997. 
The policy cost was £1.00 per £100  Mrs M owed on her store  card. The policy would have 
paid 15% of the outstanding balance on the card each  month  if Mrs M couldnt work  because 
she had an accident,  was unwell or lost her job. 
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. FICL  has not agreed with the view so the complaint has 
been passed to me for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ms case. 
Ive decided to uphold  Mrs Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
The policy was taken  out during a telephone call some years  after the account was 
opened in store. FICL has said it didnt recommend the policy  to Mrs M. And from what I 
know about their sales  practices,  I think its more  likely that FICL didnt give advice to 
Mrs M during the sale. So it didnt have to check that the policy was right for her but it did 
need to give her clear enough  information  to enable  her to decide for herself if this cover  
was right for her.
I dont have a recording of the call with Mrs M so I dont know what  was said. So I havent 
any evidence to show that Mrs M was given  clear information about the cost of the policy. 
Its possible FICL may have explained the amount she would pay for each pound she 
spent on the card, but I dont know if it explained  that interest would be charged  on those 
premiums if there was an outstanding balance or that she would need to keep paying  the 
premiums during a claim. So I dont think its likely Mrs M would  have been  made  aware of 
the true cost of the policy.
I think this would have  mattered to Mrs M as she has told us that she would have been 
paid full sick pay for three months, followed by half sick pay for three months  if she was too 
ill to work.  FICL have  questioned  this and have given us paperwork which shows  Mrs M 
told them  she was entitled to this level of sick pay after two years  of service. Mrs M 
appears to have been in her employment  for around eight months. But considering what 
Mrs M has told us about her job role and her motivations for taking this role I think  its likely 
she wouldve been entitled to at least some  sick pay at the time the policy was sold.  
Ref: DRN87241792Mrs M has also said she had a generous amount in savings that she could have used to 
meet her repayments   and has given us details of where these savings were held and 
what they consisted of. Shes also told us these savings were not earmarked for any 
specific purpose. So, having thought carefully about  all of this this, on the balance on 
probabilities, I think its more likely that Mrs M would  not have thought the policy  was value 
for money  if she had fully understood  the costs.
So, overall, based on what Ive seen and been told, I dont think FICL gave clear enough 
information to Mrs M to enable her to decide if the policy was right for her. And, if it had, I 
dont think she would  have taken the policy out as I dont think  she would have considered  
it value for money.  So I think Mrs M has lost out as a result of what  FICL did wrong.
putting things right
FICL should put Mrs M in the financial  position hed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
A.FICL should find out how much  Mrs M would have owed when she closed her store  card 
account if the policy hadnt  been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mrs M owed when she closed her 
account and what  she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs M made a successful claim under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
B.FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs M would have 
owed when she closed her account  from when  she closed it until she gets the refund. 
The interest rate should  be 8% a year. 
C.If  when  FICL works out what Mrs M would have owed each  month without PPI  
Mrs M paid more than enough to clear her balance,  FICL should also pay simple  interest  
on the extra Mrs M paid. And it should  carry on paying  interest until the point when Mrs 
M wouldve owed FICL something  on her card. The interest rate should  be 8% a year. 
D.FICL should tell Mrs M what its done  to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give 
Mrs M a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
Financial Insurance  Company Limited should  put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 June  2019.
Ref: DRN87241793Gemma Farrell
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN8724179