K820x#14complaint
Mrs D has complained about A-Plan  Holdings  (APH) service concerning her motor 
insurance policy.
background
APH is a broker which arranged Mrs Ds motor  insurance. She changed the car on the policy 
and expected her premium to go down. That didn't happen and she brought her complaint 
about that to us. Our adjudicator didn't think APH had done  anything wrong. Mrs D didn't 
agree so her complaint's been  passed  to me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
it. 
APH is a broker which means it arranges policies  and collects the premiums. But it doesn't 
set the price.  Thats done by the insurance  underwriter (the insurer) which is a different 
business. Mrs D has made a separate complaint about the insurer which  weve dealt  with 
under a different reference. So Im not going to comment on the insurers  actions in this 
decision.
Its clear that Mrs D thought her premium would reduce when she changed her car. Shes  
said that she feels ripped  off because that didn't happen. But as I've already said APH isn't 
responsible for the premium Mrs D paid, the insurer is. In fact when she changed car the 
insurer said Mrs D would  need to pay an additional premium of about £153. APH managed  
to negotiate that down  to roughly £16. And it covered that cost itself as a gesture of goodwill.  
Thats certainly not something it had to do. And its actions meant  Mrs D didn't have to pay 
anything extra in that policy year.
I've also noted  that APH looked  to see if it could find her a cheaper policy  with a different 
insurer. It wasn't able to do so. But most brokers like APH will work with a select  panel  of 
insurers. So they won't usually look to the entire  insurance market to see if another insurer 
might offer a cheaper price. And I think that's reasonable.
I understand that, when Mrs Ds policy was due for renewal, she took a policy  from a 
different insurer not through APH.  I believe that's because  she could find a cheaper premium 
elsewhere. But I don't think  that means that APH did anything  wrong. As I've already said, it 
wasn't responsible  for the premiums that its panel  of insurers  offered.  So there was always a 
possibility that another  insurer not on its panel could offer a cheaper premium.  And APH had 
ensured that Mrs D didn't  have to pay anything extra for the remaining term of her policy it 
arranged. So I think it dealt with her fairly and reasonably.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 July 2019.
Ref: DRN87687242Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN8768724