K821x#15complaint and background
Mrs W says Barclays  Bank UK PLC (trading  as Barclaycard)  mis-sold her two payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policies. The first policy was taken out in 2006 online when Mrs W 
applied for her credit card. The second,  which replaced the first, was taken out on a phone 
call in 2009. Both polices gave Mrs W accident, sickness and unemployment cover  the first 
also included some life insurance.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint saying Mrs W had a pre-existing medical condition  that 
wouldnt have been covered under either policy. Barclays didnt point this out clearly to 
Mrs W and she thought  this would have mattered to Mrs W and meant  the cover  wasnt right 
for her. Barclays disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the complaint was passed to 
me.
In my provisional decision (which forms part of this final decision)  I set out why I was 
planning not to uphold  the complaint. I asked Mrs W and Barclays  to let me have  any more 
information by 4 March 2019  before I made  a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Our approach to complaints about the 
sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here. 
Both Barclays and Mrs W responded  to my provisional decision saying they had no further 
information to provide.  So it follows I have  no reason  to change the findings or outcome I set 
out in my provisional  decision. As I explained,  Barclays has paid back some of the cost of 
the PPI to Mrs W because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premiums) - so it should have told Mrs W about  that. Because  Barclays didnt tell Mrs W, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premiums  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN81867362my final decision
My decision  is I dont  uphold this complaint. I dont think the PPI policies were mis-sold  so 
Barclays Bank UK PLC does not have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs W.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Mrs W any commission  and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premiums. I understand it has already done 
this, so I am not awarding any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 April 2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN81867363copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mrs W says Barclays  Bank  UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) mis-sold her payment protection  
insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about  two credit card PPI policies. The first was taken out in 2006 online at the 
same time as Mrs W applied  for her credit card. The second, which replaced the first, was taken  out 
on a phone call in 2009. Both polices  gave Mrs W accident, sickness and unemployment cover  the 
first also included  some life insurance.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint saying Mrs W had a pre-existing medical condition that wouldnt 
have been covered under  either  policy.  Barclays didnt point this out clearly to Mrs W and she thought  
this would  have mattered to Mrs W and meant the cover wasnt right for her. Barclays disagreed with 
the adjudicators  opinion so the complaint was passed to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Our approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here. 
Im currently  not planning to uphold Mrs Ws complaint. Ill explain why.
Mrs Ws pre-existing medical condition
Barclays had to make sure Mrs W had enough  clear information  so she could make an informed 
decision when she was buying the policies.  And in 2009, as it recommended the policy to her, it had 
to take reasonable steps to find out about  her circumstances and check the policy would be suitable 
for her.
It seems that Mrs W couldve been affected by the exclusions in both policies  relating to 
pre-existing medical conditions. This is because Mrs W had a condition when she took out the 
policies. This means she wouldnt have been able to claim on the PPI if she was unable to work 
because of it. And I cant see that Barclays highlighted  this during either  sale. 
But I dont think better information about this exclusion wouldve changed Mrs Ws decision.  I say this 
because Ive seen no evidence that Mrs Ws condition  wasnt under  control. Instead, shes told us 
that, apart from hospitalisation when it was diagnosed  in about 1990/1, its been well managed and 
shes had no related long term sickness absence. In such circumstances, its generally not a condition 
that causes  people to be off work for as long as needed to claim  on the policies.  And the policies 
wouldve still covered Mrs W for conditions  that were unrelated. 
So when she took out the policies, I dont think she wouldve felt her condition was a likely reason she 
might need to claim on them. I think it unlikely  Mrs W wouldve made a different decision  if better  
information had been provided. On balance  I think she would still have taken  out the policies. And I 
dont think it meant the second policy wasnt suitable, either.
the other aspects of the sales
Ive also reviewed the other aspects of the sales to make sure Mrs W hasnt lost out because  of any 
other problems. I dont  currently think she has and Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN81867364Barclays had to make it clear the PPI was optional and Mrs W had to agree to buy it. Mrs W doesnt  
recall doing that, and thinks  it was just added to her account. So Ive looked  into whats most  likely to 
have happened. 
In 2006 the PPI screen that I think she wouldve seen during her online application  set out the options 
to select  or decline PPI with equal prominence. And Barclays records show she selected PPI. 
Barclays cant  provide  a call recording from the 2009 sale so I am relying on the call script from the 
nearest date available, which I think is likely  to give me a good indication of what Barclays  adviser will 
have said to Mrs W. This told the adviser  to make clear PPI was an optional insurance  and ask for the 
customers consent before  adding it. So I think both times its most likely Barclays made it clear that 
PPI was optional and Mrs W agreed to buy it.
In 2006 Barclays didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs W so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. It 
was up to her to decide, bearing  in mind her other ways  to make her credit card repayments if she 
was sick or lost her job.
In 2009 Barclays recommended the PPI to Mrs W, but it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable for her 
based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. Mrs W told us she had no sick pay 
entitlement at that time,  and no substantial savings or other insurances. The PPI wouldve paid out for 
up to 12 months for each successful accident, sickness  and unemployment claim.  So overall, I think 
the PPI offered her useful protection. And as she was paying  for it monthly, she could cancel  it if her 
situation changed or she no longer wanted it.
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mrs W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have 
been. But Mrs W chose to take out the policies and so appears to have wanted this type of cover.  The 
policies were  competitively priced and apparently  affordable. Ive explained above why I dont think  
Mrs W would  have made a different decision with better information on the exclusion  for pre-existing 
medical conditions. And I cant  see she was affected by any of the other  main exclusions or 
limitations. So overall I think it unlikely Mrs W wouldve made  a different decision if better information  
had been provided. I think its most likely she would  still have taken out the policies.
It follows I dont currently think Barclays mis-sold either policy.
But Barclays  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs W because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission  and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premiums) - 
so it should have  told Mrs W about that. Because Barclays  didnt tell Mrs W, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premiums - and I think that is fair in this case.
my provisional  decision
I currently dont think the PPI policies  were mis-sold   so Barclays Bank UK PLC will not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs W.
But Barclays  Bank  UK PLC does  have  to pay back to Mrs W any commission and profit share  it got 
that was more  than 50% of the PPI premiums.  I understand  it has already  done this, so subject to any 
more information I get I will not be awarding  any further compensation.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8186736