K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains that TSB Bank plc has unfairly  decreased the interest rate on his account 
after it said it wouldnt.
background
Mr F has a current account with TSB. Following some much-publicised problems with its 
computer systems TSB decided, from May 2018, to increase the interest paid on existing 
customers current accounts  up to 5% to thank  them  for their loyalty. In a radio interview  
TSBs Chief  Executive  Officer (CEO) said that this rate increase would be there for good. 
Shortly after, TSB issued a statement that clarified this saying that the rate wont  be taken 
away after a year.
In April 2019, TSB got in contact with its customers to say it intended  to decrease the 
interest rate to 3%. Mr F didnt think this was fair after he said it had given a commitment to 
keeping the rate at 5%. So he complained  to TSB.  It said it had made the amendment after 
reviewing current market  conditions and it said the account terms and conditions  allowed it 
to do this. 
Mr F remained unhappy and complained  to us. Our investigator said the interest rate on the 
account was variable and TSB was permitted to make  changes in line with the terms and 
conditions. She also explained  that this service cant tell a business what interest rate it 
should pay its customers. 
Mr F remained unhappy with this and asked an ombudsman to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, Ive reached the 
same conclusion as our investigator  and for broadly  the same reasons. I realise Mr F will be 
disappointed so Ill explain  my reasoning.
Before I explain my findings, I need to be clear that I cant  tell TSB what interest  rate it 
should pay its customers. But I can consider if the change was applied  fairly to his account.
The starting point  for my decision is what the terms and conditions  of Mr Fs account say. 
These set out the details of the agreement between Mr F and TSB. They  define  what Mr F 
can expect from the account  and his relationship  with TSB. Because  of this, I place 
significant evidential  weight on them.
These clearly explain that the interest  rate on the account is variable which means  it could 
go up or down. From  this, Im satisfied it was clear  there was always the possibility interest 
rates might go down  independent of any statement TSB made that might  suggest otherwise.
Theres a mechanism in place within the terms and conditions  that sets out how TSB can 
decrease the rate on the account and thats  by giving its customers  two months  notice of its 
intention to do so. This would allow  them time to consider  alternative  banking arrangements.
Ref: DRN86858682In this case TSB let its customers  know in April 2019  that it intended to decrease  the interest 
rate on the account from 2 July 2019 so Im satisfied this fulfilled the obligation set out within 
the terms and conditions.
Ive listened to the interview with TSBs CEO in which he said 
The rate wont change. Were  not like other  banks  who give you a high rate and then take it 
away. Its there for good   
I accept this statement  may have suggested to Mr F that TSB would leave the interest at 5% 
indefinitely. But this would be a very unusual  thing for a bank to commit to given the 
unpredictability of interest rates and market conditions.  In  my view,  the statement TSB 
made subsequently  clarified its position on this statement:  
we are also increasing the interest  rate on our Classic Plus account from 3% to 5%. We 
promise this wont be taken away after a year
I think this statement explains TSBs position  that it wont change the interest rate within a 
year  which it didnt. 
In this case, Mr F benefitted  from the higher interest rate for more than a year,  from May 
2018 to July 2019. So I dont think TSB has misled  Mr F and Im satisfied it complied with its 
commitment that the rate wouldnt  be taken away by the first anniversary of the increase.
But the fundamental point  here is that the account  was a variable interest rate account  
meaning that Mr F would  have known that the rate could go up or down from time to time. 
And TSB gave him the appropriate notice to allow  him time to decide if he wished to remain 
banking with TSB or seek alternative arrangements with a better interest rate.
So in summary,  even if I felt TSB could have explained its intentions more  clearly, Im not 
persuaded that its acted unfairly.  So I wont be asking it to do any more.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 September 2019.
Paul Phillips
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8685868