K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about mortgage payment protection insurance  (MPPI)  policy taken out in 
2006. Mr B and Ms K say NRAM  plc (NRAM) mis-sold them the MPPI.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr B and Ms Ks case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Mr B and Ms K say they dont  recall agreeing to MPPI. NRAM says the policy was sold 
over the phone. Mr B and Ms K have asked  for a recording  of the call. But NRAM says 
its no longer available. I dont think that this is surprising given Im looking at events  from 
over a decade ago. In any event,  NRAM has provided a copy of the call script its agents 
used at the time of the sale.  So I think its indicative of whats likely to have been 
discussed. The script does suggest it was the usual sales  process  for the policy to be 
presented as optional. Im also mindful  that Mr B and Ms K cancelled the policy in 2007 
and kept their mortgage. This does indicate  that Mr and Ms K were aware they had MPPI  
and crucially that they could have the mortgage  without it. As this is the case and having 
taken everything into account, I think its more  likely than not that NRAM made             
Mr B and Ms K aware that the MPPI was optional and they chose to take it out.
I dont think that NRAM recommended the MPPI to Mr B and Ms K so it didnt have to 
check if it was right for them. But it did have to make sure Mr B and Ms K got the 
information they needed to decide  if it was right for them. 
Its possible the information NRAM gave Mr B and Ms K about the MPPI wasnt  as clear 
as it shouldve been. But I think that they more likely than not chose to take it out - so it 
looks like they wanted this type of cover. Equally  while  they mightve been entitled to 
some sick pay from their employers, the MPPI wouldve paid out in addition to this. So I 
think the MPPI wouldve been  useful if either  of them had to stop working suddenly  
especially as it was protecting the payments to their mortgage.  In these circumstances, I 
dont think better  information  about  the MPPI would have  put them off taking out the 
cover in the first place. 
All of the above means  NRAM doesnt  have to pay back all the cost of the PPI to          
Mr B and Ms K.
But NRAM has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr B and Ms K because:  
When the policy was sold,  NRAM expected  to get a high level of commission and profit 
share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should  have  told Mr B and Ms K about 
that. Because NRAM didnt tell Mr B and Ms K, that was unfair. 
To put that right, NRAM has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN86123232Ive thought about everything Mr B and Ms K have said. But these points dont change my 
decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so NRAM plc does not have to pay back  all of the cost of 
the PPI to Mr B and Ms K.
But NRAM plc does  have  to pay back to Mr B and Ms K any commission and profit share  it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already agreed to do 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr B and Ms K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 April 2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8612323