K820x#14complaint
Mr M, who was a sole trader, has complained about  Allianz Insurance Plc, the insurer  for the 
commercial business  he ran from a shop  premises in 2018. It declined his claims made  for 
two burglaries.
background
Mr M first made a claim to Allianz  in 2017. At that time thieves entered  via the rear of his 
shop. Allianz and Mr M discussed the security at his premises   Mr M had bars across the 
shopfront of his premises, but not a grill or shutters   but the claim was settled.   On 
20 June 2017,  in an email which confirmed the claim had been settled, Allianz sent Mr M a 
copy of his schedule  and policy wording and told him to check that his security arrangements 
complied with those  detailed in the documents.
Mr Ms policy renewed in September 2017.
In June 2018 Mr Ms premises were burgled again.  He made  a claim to Allianz. Whilst that 
claim was underway, in July 2018,  a further  theft occurred at Mr Ms premises.  On both 
occasions entry was gained via the shopfront. In September 2018 Allianz loss adjuster told 
Mr M it was declining his claims as his security  arrangements didnt comply with the policy  
wording. The adjuster  also referred to a previous  bankruptcy  Mr M had suffered which  hadnt 
been notified to Allianz.
Mr M was confused and unsure about  why Allianz was declining  his claims, and how the 
bankruptcy might be relevant. He felt it was significant that Allianz had accepted and settled  
his claim in 2017.
Allianz issued a final response  to Mr M. It said it hadnt handled the claim well, there had 
been delays and the adjuster hadnt properly explained the reference to bankruptcy.  It 
offered £100 compensation.  But it felt the decline of the 2018 claims,  on the basis that Mr M 
hadnt complied  with the security arrangements required by the policy  the shopfront didnt 
have shutters, was fair. Mr M complained to this service.
Mr M said that Allianz knew in 2017  what his security arrangements were,  but it had 
accepted renewal anyway. Mr M said the policy schedule referred to the need for an alarm 
but not shutters, and the policy wording referred to what type of shutters were needed if such  
were present, but not that they were  compulsory.
Our investigator accepted that the policy wording required Mr M to have a roller shutter 
across the shopfront of his premises,  that this was not present and it was material  to the 
thefts which occurred.  He said it wasnt clear what Allianz had known in 2017  but he did 
think the policy requirements had been drawn to Mr Ms attention.  He noted Allianz had 
explained it had needed to draw  the bankruptcy issue to Mr Ms attention,  but hadnt relied 
on it. He felt the £100 compensation was fair and reasonable.  
Mr M said he disagreed with the findings.  Mr M said Allianz had known what  his security 
requirements were and he sent copy emails from May and 9 June 2017 showing the detail 
hed provided  to Allianz. He said that it seemed unfair for Allianz to have accepted  his 
renewal knowing his security arrangements didnt meet the terms of cover.
Ref: DRN86250892my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, with regret for any 
disappointment this causes Mr M, Im not upholding his complaint. 
I accept that Allianz  knew in 2017  what security arrangements Mr M had in place. But Allianz 
knowing that doesnt change the situation  Mr M is in. I say that because  subsequent to 
Allianz being made aware of the security arrangements, Allianz emailed Mr M on 
20 June 2017  (Mr M supplied us with a copy of this email in his original submissions). The 
email said (my emphasis):
I have attached  a copy of the policy wording  for you as well as your policy  schedule  (this 
shows the specific cover you have from the policy).
This is just for your reference  in regards to the security requirements.
Your schedule confirms  that there is a Security level 2 & audible  alarm requirement, so 
please refer  to the policy  wording  so you can check that your current security  
complies.
The 2017  renewal occurred after this. Allianz offered  renewal on the same  basis  as before, 
with the same policy wording applying. The policy wording explains what is required by the 
different security levels and says that cover  is granted  pursuant  to the premises meeting the 
conditions of the security  level set out in the schedule. For Mr M that was security level 2. 
Allianz had drawn  Mr Ms attention to this in 2017, it had no reason to expect,  when offering 
the same  cover at renewal, that Mr M wouldnt have complied with the conditions. And it 
wasnt for Allianz to check that he had or to offer further advice about the suitability of cover. 
Whilst security  level 1 does explain what type of shutter  is needed if one is in place, under 
security level 2 it says (emphasis as in the policy):
Shopfront doors and windows
Unless agreed otherwise  in writing Allianz  will require the Insured to fit grilles or shutters.
In 2018 the thieves came in through the front of the shop. Allianz  felt it was relevant that the 
shop front hadnt  been protected by a security shutter (or a grill). I think  its conclusion in that 
respect is reasonable. Because the breach (not having a shutter) was material to the loss 
(the theft wouldnt have  taken place and/or the loss would have been limited  if there  had 
been a shutter),  Allianz declined the claims.  Given the policy  wording and the loss which 
occurred, I think Allianz  decision was reasonable. 
Ive also considered the compensation Allianz offered, for the claim failings it accepted  had 
occurred. Allianz should  have acted  quicker  to send an adjuster and it should have been  
clearer that it was only notifying Mr M about what it had found  regarding his previous 
bankruptcy. But none of that changes the fact that Mr M suffered a loss, at least  in part, 
because he didnt ensure his premises complied  with the security conditions  which  Allianz 
policy explained were  necessary for the cover to engage. In my view,  £100 compensation for 
the upset Mr M suffered due to the delay and lack of explanation, is fair and reasonable.   
Ref: DRN86250893my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  I dont make any award against Allianz Insurance Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 August 2020.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8625089