K822xcomplaint
Mr S complains about the way that Capquest  Debt Recovery Limited has dealt with the debt 
on his credit card account. Hes being helped with his complaint by a representative.
background 
Mr S opened  a credit card account with a bank in January 2004. His account went  into 
arrears and a reduced repayment plan was arranged in about August 2010  under which  he 
repaid £32 each  month. The repayment  plan was extended in August 2011 - when the 
outstanding balance on his account  was £14,366.10.  Mr Ss account  was assigned to 
Capquest in November  2012 and reduced monthly payments of £32.75 continued. He 
complained to Capquest in January 2018 about  the way in which  his debt was reported to 
credit reference agencies. It upheld his complaint because it accepted that it had incorrectly 
recorded the payment activity on his account  between December 2012 and April 2013. It 
wrote-off two disputed payments as a gesture of goodwill and it sent Mr S a cheque for £100 
compensation. Mr S wasnt  satisfied  with its response so complained to this service.
The investigator recommended  that this complaint should be upheld  in part. He said that he 
was unable to consider  as part of this complaint the issues that Mr S experienced in 2010 
when his financial difficulties had started because  that was before his account had been 
assigned to Capquest. Capquest had written-off  two disputed payments as a goodwill 
gesture and had offered Mr S £100 for the trouble and upset caused  and he said that it 
had acted fairly and had offered suitable redress. But he thought  that Capquest should  apply 
a default marker  to Mr Ss credit file at the point  after an initial  twelve month  repayment  plan 
wouldve ended in August 2011.
Capquest has asked  for this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. It says,  in 
summary, that back-dating a default would represent credit  washing.
my provisional decision
After considering all of the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr S 
and to Capquest  on 3 July 2019. In my provisional  decision  I said as follows:
Its clear  that Mr S experienced  some difficulties on his credit card account  which  led 
to the account  going  into arrears. Reduced repayment arrangements  were then 
agreed with the bank  that had provided the credit  card to Mr S. Capquest had no 
involvement in those repayment plans   and Im unable to consider  any issues about 
how those repayment  plans were set-up as part of this complaint.
Mr Ss account was assigned to Capquest in November 2012 and it continued with 
the reduced repayment arrangement that Mr S had agreed with the bank  under  which  
he repaid £32.75 each  month. But I consider that Capquest  shouldve reviewed the 
repayment arrangement  on Mr Ss account  when the account was assigned to it in 
November 2012.  Mr Ss outstanding debt was about  £14,000  and hed been on a 
reduced repayment plan for more than two years. So I consider that there was no 
likelihood of Mr S being  able to repay  that amount within a reasonable period of time 
at a rate of £32.75 each  month. And I consider that, if Capquest  had properly 
reviewed his account at that time,  it ought to have concluded that his account should  
be defaulted reasonably soon after the account  was assigned to it.
Ref: DRN88526062Ive seen no evidence  to show that Capquest  has regularly  reviewed  the repayment 
plan since then  and Mr S has continued  to make monthly repayments of £32.75  
when there  was no reasonable likelihood of him being able to repay his debt. So I 
find that Capquest  should treat Mr Ss account  as if it was defaulted in November 
2012  and that it should report that information to the credit reference  agencies. 
I dont consider that to be credit washing  I consider that to be true and accurate 
information about the state of his account. And Im not persuaded that it would be fair 
or reasonable in these circumstances for me to require Capquest to apply a default 
marker to Mr Ss credit  file with effect from August 2011. For these reasons, I find 
that Capquest  should default  Mr Ss account  from the date that his account  was 
assigned to it in November 2012.
Mr S complained to Capquest in January 2018 about some issues with his account. It 
wrote-off two disputed payments as a gesture of goodwill and sent Mr S a £100 
cheque as compensation for the time that hed spent dealing  with this matter and the 
distress caused. I consider that to be a fair and reasonable  response to those issues. 
So  other than recording the default  that Ive discussed above  Im not persuaded 
that it would  be fair or reasonable for me to require Capquest  to pay any other 
compensation to Mr S  or to take any other action in response to his complaint.
So subject to any further representations by Mr S or Capquest my provisional decision was 
that I was minded to uphold this complaint in part.
Both Mr S and Capquest  have accepted  my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As both Mr S and Capquest have 
accepted my provisional decision  theres  no reason for me to change it.
my decision
For the reasons  set out above, my decision is that I uphold Mr Ss complaint in part. And I 
order Capquest Debt Recovery Limited to treat Mr Ss account as if it was defaulted  in 
November 2012   and to report  that information  to the credit  reference agencies.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 September  2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8852606