K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain about  a whole-of-life policy that Sun Life Assurance Company  of 
Canada (U.K.) Limited arranged in 1988. Theyre unhappy that, following a policy review, 
theyve been told that an increase in premiums  is now required to maintain the policys  
existing level of cover. They say they were not told at the time of the sale that this was a 
possibility. They believed that the policy would build  in value and eventually be worth more 
than the amount of life cover it provided.
background
The policy started  in February 1988 and provided £58,000 of cover, payable on the first 
death, for a premium  of £20 a month.
The policy was reviewable  after the first ten years and then after every five years.  The policy  
was reviewed four times with no changes being  necessary. But at the fifth review 
Mr and Mrs C were told that, to keep the same level of cover,  the premium  would  increase  to 
around £85 a month. Or they could pay the same  premium  for 30% of the benefit.
Mr and Mrs C complained  to Sun Life, believing they were mis-sold the policy.  They said that 
the salesman  at the time was pushy and as they had recently got married, they didnt want 
the additional expense at that point in time. Sun Life looked into Mr and Mrs Cs concerns 
but disagreed  with their complaint  so they brought their complaint to us.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He said the policy was reviewable and this had 
been done in line with the terms and conditions which  set out what the policy  reviews  meant.  
He thought the policy was appropriate  for Mr and Mrs Cs needs at the time it was arranged. 
He didnt think it had been mis-sold to Mr and Mrs C.
Mr and Mrs C didnt accept the investigators conclusions and asked for the complaint to be 
reviewed. It has therefore been assigned to me so a decision can be issued. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
The type of policy Mr and Mrs C are complaining  about is known  as a reviewable whole of 
life insurance. Its not set up for a specific  term,  but is instead designed to pay out on death 
whenever it occurs. At the start of the policy, the amounts of the cover  and monthly  premium  
are based  on assumptions  about  a number of different factors,  including  the future cost of 
life cover and investment  performance, that arent known at the start. 
In simple terms, each premium paid into the policy is split two ways.  The first part is used to 
pay for the cost of cover in that month.  The remainder is invested into a fund or funds. So, 
its not practicable to invest more  of the premium.   I note in this case  Mr and Mrs C chose to 
invest in the managed fund. 
The cost of the cover is also not fixed and increases with age, taking account of the higher 
risk the insurer will have  given the policyholders increased age. The assumptions used at 
the start of the policy try to predict  how much  the investment element will need to have  
grown by to fund the shortfall when  the cost of cover exceeds  the premium.  But there are no 
guarantees. 
Ref: DRN89684262Policies are reviewed regularly to check how theyre performing against the original 
assumptions. I note,  albeit  with hindsight, their policy (on a maximum cover basis) has run 
satisfactorily for 30 years on its initial  premium  of £20 a month.  But at each review,  the 
insurer also needs to make new assumptions about the cost of cover  and investment 
performance in the future. Thats  why its near impossible to predict future premium 
increases.
Once these calculations are completed, the insurer can determine whether the policy  has 
passed the review,  usually meaning  no changes  to cover or premium are required, or 
failed  usually  meaning the policyholders will be offered the choice of either paying a 
higher premium to maintain the same level of cover  or accepting  reduced cover for the same  
premium. 
Ive carefully considered  what Mr and Mrs C have  said about what they were  (and werent) 
told about the policy when it was arranged.  But having  considered  everything they and the 
business have  said, I dont think their comments alone are enough for me to say the policy 
was mis-sold. I must take into account the explanatory literature  that the business says they 
were given when  the policy started, but also the correspondence following the reviews.  
This explains the premiums were  reviewable and were subject to increase. So on balance, 
Im satisfied the policy allowed the business to do what it was doing and that it didnt mislead  
Mr and Mrs C about how it would work. In other words Im satisfied that they were made 
aware that the policy was reviewable  and that the premiums were likely  to increase to 
maintain the level of cover they wanted. 
Sun Life appear to have  administered the policy correctly, in line with the terms, reviewing it 
a number of times over the years   including in 2013  when it was explained that it was likely 
that premiums would only support the ongoing cover for another  five years.
So, in all the circumstances,  I cant reasonably  conclude that Sun Life needed to have done 
more.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  29 April 2019.
Stefan Riedel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8968426