K820x#14complaint
Ms N has complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) unreasonably 
increased her premium for her pet insurance  for her dog and wrongly  then took the incorrect 
amount from her bank  account after the premium  had been reduced.
background
Ms N had insured  her dog with RSA since  2005.  She never made a claim. Ms N negotiated a 
reduction of her premium  with RSA in 2016.  The original maximum amount of vet fees 
insured was £7,500 per year. In 2016,  RSA had raised that to £8,000  per year for this policy 
type. That then meant  it was able to downgrade Ms Ns policy then so her premium  per 
month reduced to £38.47 from £42.68 per month.
In 2017, her premium  increased to £40.89 per month, which  Ms N paid. In 2018, on her 
renewal invitation,  her premium rose to an annual premium of £663.16, which  meant a 
monthly payment  of £50.30 Ms N spoke to RSA on 22 March  2018 about this increase.  
Again, she managed to negotiate  a downgrade of her policy so that her monthly premium 
amount would then be £34.06. However,  in May 2018, RSA took £55.26  from Ms Ns bank 
account, and then refunded £21.15 back  to her account. Unfortunately,  in June 2018, the 
same thing happened again and this time Ms N cancelled her direct debit, effectively 
cancelling her policy and received the refund of the full amount back  via a bank indemnity 
claim.
She complained to RSA who apologised for its errors and paid her £50 compensation.
Ms N remained unhappy  and brought her complaint to us. The adjudicator  ultimately thought 
RSA had done enough in trying to put things right by apologising for its system error and 
paying her £50 compensation.
Ms N didnt agree and so her complaint has been passed  to me to decide.  In the meantime, 
Ms N very sadly had to put her dog to sleep.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint and Ill now explain why.
First, though, I wish to offer Ms N my sincere  condolences on the loss of her dog. I do 
understand how dreadfully  distressing  and sad it is to have  to do that.
The adjudicator investigated the increase  to Ms Ns premiums and Im satisfied that her 
premium increases were  in line with what every other customer  in Ms Ns particular 
circumstances were  being asked to pay, bearing  in mind the increasing age of Ms Ns dog. 
Pet insurance does  become more expensive the older the pet becomes.  So theres no issue 
here that Ms N was singled out or treated differently to anyone else by RSA.  Further, Im 
satisfied that RSA was able to reduce her 2018  monthly premium to £34.06,  which seems 
reasonable to me. This was because again like in 2016, it was able to downgrade her policy.  
I consider that good customer service provided Ms N was satisfied with the reduced  cover 
and theres no mention  that she wasnt.
Ref: DRN82869112As the adjudicator explained,  this service has no power to tell insurers  what premiums they 
should charge  for any particular insurance product  or any individuals circumstances. That is 
a commercial matter for insurers and thats  looked  over by the regulator. But this service  isnt 
the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority is. Our remit is simply to see if the insurer has 
done anything  wrong and if so, has it then done  enough to put things right.
So although  Ms Ns premium for 2018 was considerable  higher than the previous year, again 
like in 2016, RSA was able to reduce her premium for her. As I said above, I consider that 
appropriate customer service.
What RSA did wrong here was to take the wrong  premium amount from Ms Ns bank not just 
once but on two consecutive occasions. That distressed Ms N very much and I can 
understand why. However, the first time RSA ensured Ms N was refunded.  Sadly Ms N 
cancelled her direct debit the second time before RSA could  again  put things right and 
obtained a full refund through a bank indemnity claim.
RSA had a system error. Of course,  it shouldnt have happened,  but sadly,  these things do 
occasionally. So my remit is to see how it tried to put that right. Ms N felt she couldnt trust 
RSA any further so in effect cancelled her policy. That was of course  her decision to make in 
these circumstances.  So therefore there  was nothing RSA could do to put things right other 
than apologise,  which it did. Ms N didnt actually suffer any financial loss because RSA 
refunded the over payment  the first time and Ms N received a full refund of what  it took the 
second time. 
Ms N though, was deeply distressed by this, because it meant she had no insurance for her 
dog. RSA recognised  this distress and paid Ms N £50 compensation. Thats because it was 
Ms Ns decision  to cancel  her policy, not RSAs. I consider this amount of compensation to 
be reasonable, as it would have  been amount of compensation I would have awarded in 
similar situations where no financial loss was suffered. 
Very sadly in the middle of our investigation of Ms Ns complaint, Ms N had to put her dog to 
sleep. And obviously,  I cant  hold RSA responsible for that but I can see from what  Ms N has 
said, it grossly  added to the level of her distress over the whole issue,  very understandably. 
However, although I do appreciate Ms N will be very disappointed with my decision,  I do 
think RSA did enough to try to put things right.
my final decision
So for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2019.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8286911