K821x#15complaint
Miss L complains that Tesco Personal  Finance PLC rejected her claim under Section  75 
Consumer Credit Act 1974  in respect of a kitchen.
background
In August  2017  Miss L bought a kitchen from a business I will call F. It was installed  in 
November, but a table and chairs  werent delivered and she says the fitting  was very poor. 
Around the same time she ordered  a dressing  table  from the same  company which  wasnt  
delivered.
She paid a deposit for the kitchen of £2,527.50 and a further sum of £4,702.50 immediately 
prior to delivery. A payment of £348 was made for the dressing table. The kitchen was fitted, 
but there were many faults and problems with it. F didnt respond to Miss L in any 
meaningful way and she took the matter  to Tesco. It made a successful chargeback claim for 
£348 in respect  of the dressing table. However it rejected her claim  under  Section 75 for the 
kitchen.
Initially, it said that as the second payment was made to another person the debtor-creditor-
supplier (d-c-s) link was broken and so the claim wasnt  valid. Miss L was able to provide 
evidence that F had asked her to make  the second  payment to an account held by what  I 
presume to be a person  connected with F. Tesco then accepted  the link was valid. However, 
it said the invoice  from F didnt make  clear what had been purchased. It wanted a 
breakdown of items of the items  or details of the amount she agreed for the fitting.
It said it would review  an independent report on the kitchen,  but it wouldnt guarantee this 
would lead to a successful claim. However,  it recognised it hadnt handled the claim well and 
paid her £100 compensation.
Miss L brought  her complaint to this service  where it was considered by one of our 
investigators who recommend it be upheld. She was satisfied there  was a d-c-s link. She 
also thought it was clear  from the evidence provided by Miss L that she did not get what  she 
had ordered. She had supplied photographs of the incomplete kitchen and those  parts which 
were damaged. 
The message trail showed Miss L discussing her concerns with the kitchen. She believed  the 
second payment  was connected to the purchase of the kitchen. She noted  that one of the 
messages confirmed what had been  paid and what was due. The evidence showed the 
second payment  was made at the request of F and to an account it specified. She thought  
the claim should be honoured. 
Tesco didnt  agree and said the figures  used by our adjudicator didnt  match those on the 
invoice from F. It added  that the invoice didnt detail  what  had been purchased and so there  
was no legal basis to say there had been a breach of contract. 
Our investigator asked  for clarification of the cost of remedying the defective kitchen and 
Miss L provided a quote from a kitchen fitter for £4,680. She put this to Tesco and it 
reiterated its positon that there was no clear  contract and so there could be no breach.
Ref: DRN86448712my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint has been submitted as a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 
1974. Section  75 offers  protection to customers who use certain  types of credit to make  
purchases of goods or services. Under section 75 the consumer has an equal right to claim 
against the provider of the credit or the retailer  providing the goods or services,  if there  has 
been a misrepresentation or breach of contract on the suppliers part.
For section 75 to apply,  the law effectively says that there has to be a:
Debtor-creditor-supplier chain to an agreement and
A clear breach of contract  or misrepresentation by the supplier in the chain.
I consider it is clear that Miss L ordered  a kitchen from F after having had it designed and 
she paid a deposit. It is clear from the exchanges that F insisted on payment of balance  
before delivery  and installation and it is also clear that it asked  that the money be paid into a 
specified account which I am satisfied is connected to F. While I can understand Tescos 
concerns I do not consider the d-c-s link to be broken.
The invoice reads: Solid shaker kitchen. Kitchen with solid wood doors. Colours to be 
confirmed by client shortly as we are painting before delivery.  6 seater  solid wood table and 
chairs (soft hinges/bin/plastic racking  in larder.  Other exchanges add further detail to what 
was agreed between Miss L and the supplier. As Miss L has explained F sent a designer  
who produced  plan and the quote was based  on this without each individual  item being 
priced separately.
The invoice didnt  detail  each element of the kitchen,  but taken with the extensive exchanges 
between Miss L and F I am satisfied that it is sufficiently clear as to what  was ordered. The 
fact that it is not neatly  wrapped up in a single document  doesnt mean that the key elements 
of a contract  are not in place.
I have seen the report by the inspector and the photos provided by Miss L and it is clear 
there are significant faults and a number  of items are missing. I am satisfied  that Miss L 
offered F the opportunity  to rectify the faults and supply the missing items, but it decided not 
to do so.
Tesco has raised  the issue of a lack of clarity as to how much was paid by Miss L for the 
kitchen. She has sent us an exchange  which includes the following:
If [Miss L] wants to pay the whole of the kitchen with fitting but without worktops  fitted then it 
will be £7430 minus £2527.50 already  paid.  Total £4902.50 minus £200 for worktops  
£4702.50 to pay. This will mean that she pays nothing to the fitters and no more money for 
the kitchen. This takes into account  the deposit  paid on the table and chairs.  So when we 
deliver the table  and chairs then she will owe us £995.
I think this makes it clear what has been paid and for what. As such  I believe there was a 
contract by F to supply and fit a new kitchen and the end result  is far from satisfactory. I 
believe it can be presumed  that the work was to be carried out to a reasonable standard. It 
Ref: DRN86448713hasnt been so carried out and elements  are missing. As such I believe there has been  a 
breach of contract.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Tesco Personal Finance PLC to 
pay for the necessary repairs to the kitchen of up to £4,680 on receipt of an invoice or 
receipt. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 October  2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8644871