K820x#14complaint
Miss W says National Westminster Bank  Plc (NatWest for short)  mis-sold her a mortgage 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
Miss W took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 2005. Miss W paid for the PPI with a regular 
monthly premium, which didnt attract interest.  It covered her mortgage payments in case 
she was off work sick or lost her job.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Miss W disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Ws case. 
Ive decided that Miss Ws PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Miss Ws mortgage application had a section  for PPI, with the option  to take the policy or 
turn it down. Its recorded that NatWest asked  Miss W if shed like PPI and she chose to 
have it. Miss W signed the application, along  with the record of the discussion. She also 
signed and submitted an application form specifically for PPI, as well as a direct  debit  
mandate to pay for it  separately from the mortgage itself. Then the mortgage offer 
reiterated that the PPI was optional, set out its cost separately from the mortgages  cost, and 
said Miss W didnt  have  to buy any insurance  from NatWest if she didnt want  to. Overall, 
I think that NatWest made Miss W aware  she had a choice about buying  the PPI, and that 
she chose to take it  though I understand if she no longer remembers this after so long.
NatWest didnt recommend the PPI to Miss W, so they didnt have to check if it was right for 
her. They did have to give Miss W clear  information  about the PPI.
Its possible that the information NatWest  gave Miss W about  PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  The question, then,  is whether  I think better information was likely to have 
changed her mind.  Here, Miss W chose to take out PPI, so it looks  like she wanted this type 
of cover.  And Miss W wasnt affected by any of the main things the policy  didnt cover.
While Miss W had sick pay through work, the PPI paid out on top and covered  her more 
comprehensively, especially when her sick pay reduced to just half pay. And she doesnt 
seem to have had any other protection in case she lost her job. Its worth bearing in mind 
that the mortgage was Miss Ws sole responsibility,  and if she fell behind on her payments 
she was at serious risk of losing her home. So I think the PPI couldve really  been useful for 
her in protecting her home. The policy  wasnt bad value  given  how much it would pay out in 
a claim,  and if Miss Ws circumstances changed  she could cancel it at any time without a 
penalty. So overall, I dont think that better  information was likely to have put her off taking 
out the cover.
Ref: DRN80820322my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Miss Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 May 2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8082032