K820x#14complaint
Mrs S says Nationwide Building Society  mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
background
Mrs S bought the policy when she took out a loan in 2001. The loan included an amount to 
pay for the policy. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Mrs S has said that this policy was sold during a meeting. Nationwide have said that it was 
during a phone  call. Ive considered that a phone  call may have taken place and the Mrs S 
has signed a credit agreement.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ss case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ss complaint because:
I dont know what was discussed  during the phone call between Nationwide  and     
Mrs S as theres  no call recording available due to the time thats passed since the 
sale took place.
Mrs S has said that PPI was added  without her knowledge. 
But on the loan agreement that shes signed,  PPI and its associated costs  are set out 
under a heading Optional Credit Insurance. I think its reasonable to assume that, if 
PPI had been added without Mrs Ss knowledge  following  the phone  call, that she 
would have questioned why PPI was on her loan agreement when she signed it. But I 
havent seen evidence that she did.
I think that its more likely than not that Mrs S was made aware that PPI was optional  
and she chose to take it out. Given the time thats  passed, its possible that Mrs S 
might not recall everything  clearly now. 
Nationwide didnt  recommend the PPI to Mrs S, so it didnt have to check if it was 
right for her. 
The cost of the policy was shown  including the amount of the premium, the interest  
payable on the premium and the total cost.  So I think Mrs S would  have understood 
how much  the PPI would cost if she kept the policy for its full term. 
Given how long the policy  could have paid out for, if Mrs S made  a successful claim 
she couldve got back quite a bit more than she paid for it. 
Ref: DRN89651482Having reviewed the policys cancellation terms, Mrs S would have  received  a refund
in proportion with her upfront costs. Many  policies of this type, sold around this time, 
didnt offer a proportionate refund. This means that Mrs S could have cancelled  the 
policy early without losing out very much.
Its possible Nationwide didnt point out the main things the policy  didnt cover, 
including pre-existing medical conditions (PEMCs). But based on what  Mrs S has 
told us about a PEMC she had at the time of sale, I dont think, on balance,  that 
better information about the PEMC exclusion would have changed her decision to 
take PPI. 
I say this because  I think  that the chances  of Mrs S needing to claim because of her 
PEMC were low  based on what shes told us about the impact on her life. So I think  
its reasonable to assume that Mrs S would still have wanted  to be covered for all of 
the other reasons that might mean  she was unwell and unable to work  potentially  
for a lot longer.
So although  Nationwide  may not have given Mrs S good enough  information,  I dont  
think that Mrs S has lost out as a result  and I dont uphold this complaint for this 
reason.
Ive also considered Mrs Ss wider  circumstances, such as her employment at the time. 
I dont think that it would have been very difficult for her to be able to make  an 
unemployment claim on the policy.
Ive taken into account Mrs Ss comments,  including what  shes said about her other means 
of making her repayments if she was unwell and unable to work or if she was made 
unemployed. But I still think that Mrs S could have found the PPI useful because:
This policy could have paid out for longer than I think Mrs Ss savings  likely  would have  
lasted. The policy also would have paid out in addition to Mrs Ss savings, allowing her the 
option of using her savings  to pay for other living expenses that she may have had or 
keeping them intact for future use.
Ive also noted  what Mrs S has told us about other  insurances she had at the time of sale.  
But I dont think that they are directly comparable to this PPI policy.  I say this because a 
successful PPI claim would pay out if Mrs S was unwell and unable  to work or if she was 
made unemployed. Critical  illness cover would usually pay out if Mrs S was diagnosed with a 
serious illness.
Although Mrs S has said that she would have been  entitled to a redundancy payment that 
could have covered  her salary for approximately six months, based on her length of 
employment at the time of sale, its a possibility  that her redundancy entitlement could have 
been less than she remembers. In any case, this PPI policy  would pay out for up to    
12 months for an unemployment  claim longer than her redundancy entitlement likely would 
have lasted, so I still think that Mrs S could have found it useful.
So these points dont  change my decision.
my final decision
Ref: DRN89651483For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs S to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 February  2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8965148