K820x#14complaint
Mr M1 and Mr M2 complain that Nationwide Building Society  unfairly declined  to port 
Mr M1s  mortgage. Mr M1 asks that it refunds the product fee and early  repayment charge 
(ERC) and pays compensation for the costs of taking out a mortgage with a different 
provider. 
background
Mr M1 had a mortgage with Nationwide. He took out a new mortgage product in early 2018. 
In September  2018 he contacted Nationwide about porting the mortgage to a new property. 
Mr M1 also wanted to add Mr M2 to the mortgage. Mr M1 says Nationwide wrongly  declined  
to port the mortgage. He says it didnt properly explain this, just saying there was a problem  
with Mr M2s defaults and affordability. 
Mr M1 says he had to pay an ERC of over £3,000. He also incurred costs  to change lender 
and his new mortgage has a higher interest  rate. Mr M1 says Nationwide should have asked 
him whether he was likely  to move before he took out the new product and highlighted the 
potential costs. And it should  have explained  the consequences of adding Mr M2 to the 
mortgage and given them the opportunity to restructure their debts or extend  the mortgage  
term if there was a problem with affordability. Mr M1 says he put forward  proposals which 
Nationwide didnt consider fairly.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint be upheld.  He said it was reasonable 
for Nationwide  to check Mr M2s  credit  file. It declined the application as it said adding Mr M2 
increased its risk. The investigator said Nationwide did consider the options put forward by 
Mr M1, but it didnt agree with them. He said it wasnt reasonable to require Nationwide to 
refund the product fee or the ERC. 
Mr M1 and Mr M2 didnt agree, and so the complaint has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M1 took out a new product  in early 2018 on a non-advised basis. The product offer said 
an ERC applied  if the mortgage was repaid before March 2020. Mr M1 says he was 
intending to move, so chose a product that was portable. 
Mr M1 contacted Nationwide on 12 September 2018  about porting the mortgage. He also 
wanted Mr M2 to be added to the new mortgage. I understand his frustration  that this wasnt  
possible, but I dont think Nationwide acted  unfairly  when it said it wouldnt port the 
mortgage. This was due to the adverse information on Mr M2s credit  file. I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Nationwide to make credit  checks as part of its decision making process  in 
a situation like this, where  there was a change  of borrowers.
Nationwide was also concerned about the mortgage being affordable. Mr M1 questioned 
this, saying hed been making monthly payments and after the port his borrowing would have 
reduced. I also appreciate he was frustrated that Nationwide didnt find his suggestions 
about ways to address its concerns about  affordability acceptable.  However, Nationwide 
Ref: DRN88501222responded to Mr M1 saying it had considered his proposals but couldnt agree to them,  so I 
dont think its fair to say it didnt  consider  them. 
I have also seen details  of some of Nationwides lending criteria. Im satisfied that 
Nationwide wont generally agree  to remove an applicant in order to reconsider an 
application when  that application was originally made in joint names. So, in turning down 
Mr M1s  proposals, I find Nationwide was applying its policy   and it was treating Mr M1 as it 
would any of its other customers in similar  circumstances.
The product  offer said an ERC would apply  if the mortgage is repaid before March  2020. 
While it said the product was portable, it also said theres no guarantee a loan application 
would be accepted. I dont think Mr M1 was misled about this when  he took out the new 
product.
Mr M1 contacted Nationwide about porting on 12 September,  and the decline was confirmed 
on 21 September 2018. Nationwide responded to Mr M1s further proposals on 5 October  
again to decline  to port on the basis proposed by Mr M1. By that time, it seems, Mr M1 and 
Mr M2 had successfully applied for a mortgage elsewhere. 
Nationwide said it had concerns about affordability  and adverse information  on Mr M2s 
credit file. I appreciate that Mr M1 and Mr M2 were disappointed with the outcome  and 
dont agree with it  but overall, I dont think the way Nationwide dealt with their request was 
unreasonable. 
It follows that I dont think its fair and reasonable to require Nationwide  to refund the product 
fee or ERC, or to require it to pay compensation to Mr M1 and Mr M2 for the costs  of taking 
out a mortgage with another provider.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M1 and Mr M2 
to accept or reject my decision before 24 April 2020.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8850122