K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold payment  
protection insurance (PPI) to Ms D. FICL didnt actually sell the policy, but it has taken 
responsibility for the sale. So Ill refer to it as the seller. 
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out in 1996, a few months  after the start of the 
store card that it covered.  Ms D was sold the policy by phone. 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  be upheld. Ms D disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
Ive considered what Ms D has said, but Ive decided not to uphold her complaint. This is 
because:
 Ms D has said she wasnt aware  of the PPI being added. The evidence  is that the PPI 
was sold by phone sometime after the account  started. There is no recording available  
of that call  which  isnt surprising as this happened  about  22 years  ago. But, given the 
length of time that has passed,  I also cant be sure how well Ms D will have 
remembered the detail  of what happened.
Without stronger  supporting evidence, I cant fairly  conclude  that FICL  did something 
wrong in the way the PPI was added to the account.  
 It doesnt seem that FICL recommended the PPI as being particularly suitable for 
Ms Ds individual  needs. This means  it didnt have to check  if the PPI fitted her 
circumstances. It would  have  been for Ms D to decide whether it was suitable.
 However FICL did need  to give Ms D clear  and fair information, so she could make an 
informed choice.  And I dont have  clear evidence it did do this properly  at least the 
information on the form itself wasnt full enough,  and I dont know what other 
information was given to Ms D. So Ive thought  about  whether better  information  is 
likely to have made  a difference. But in Ms Ds circumstances  at the time, even if shed 
been given all the necessary information,  I dont think  its likely to have made a 
difference to her decision. (This is assuming she was given a choice  which  I accept 
she says didnt  happen.) I say this because its fairly  likely that the PPI could have  paid 
out for longer than her full employer sick pay lasted. And it would  have been  in addition 
to any employer sick pay or redundancy pay. Also its not clear  she had many 
alternative means to pay her living expenses and credit account  for long, if she lost her 
income; and even if she did, she could have kept that in reserve for longer. So the PPI 
is likely  still to have seemed potentially useful. Also it doesnt look like shed have been 
affected by any of the significant  exclusions in the policy. 
Ref: DRN88357022Mrs D has said that, if shed  been  given better information, she wouldnt have taken the 
PPI. But as this happened  so long ago, I cant be sure. And if, as I think  is likely, she 
did agree  to take PPI, the balance of evidence still does suggest that fuller information 
wouldnt have made a difference. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding Ms Ds complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision  5 April 2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8835702