K820x#14complaint
Mrs M says Bank of Scotland  plc mis-sold  her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mrs M bought the policy in 2002 at the same time as taking out a loan. She applied for the 
loan and PPI policy in branch. 
The loan was repayable over a 138-month term. The monthly loan repayment was £227.41 
with the PPI costing  an additional £23.59  making the total monthly repayment £251.  The 
policy didnt attract interest  and could be cancelled by either  party with 30 days notice 
without penalty.  
The policy provided  cover  for Mrs M for accident,  sickness, unemployment and life  subject 
to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay Mrs Ms monthly  loan repayment for up to 
60 months in the event  of a successful disability  claim  and 12 months in the event of 
unemployment. 
At the time,  Mrs M was employed as a factory worker. She has told us she was not entitled  
to any sick pay and didnt  have any other  means of repaying her loan should she be unable  
to work. However, she told us that she would have  received redundancy pay of at least three 
months pay and death in service benefit.  Mrs M has said she was in good health  at the time 
of the sale. 
Halifax has sent us screenshots  to show that the loan account closed in 2005.  
Mrs Ms representative has made  lengthy  and substantial representations on her behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mrs Ms representative  says:
Halifax failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  APP 3, it should be presumed  Mrs M wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mrs Ms 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Halifax  should have 
told Mrs M about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Halifax  should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mrs M and the 
impact they would have had on her chances of making a claim;
Ref: DRN86617702The policy contains an unfair contract  term that gives the business  the right to 
unilaterally vary the cover and premium.  Mrs M also says that the non-disclosure  of 
this term is a breach  of the duty of utmost good faith; 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mrs M disagreed  with the adjudicators  opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Ms. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ms complaint
This sale took place  in 2002 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated in January 2005.  So, the FSAs  (and FCAs) overarching  Principles for Businesses 
and insurance  conduct  rules  (ICOB and ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint, nor is the 
FCAs Perimeter guidance  (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2005. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC code, which  set out minimum standards of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Halifax, selling insurance at this time:
Ref: DRN86617703The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Halifax at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI code  and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mrs Ms case. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost  duty of good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Halifax was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mrs Ms complaint.  
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If Halifax gave advice,  whether it advised  Mrs M with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether Halifax gave Mrs M sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to enable 
her to make an informed choice about  whether to take out the policy,  including  
drawing to her attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mrs M, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mrs M suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mrs M and 
Halifax, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ms complaint.  Ive set out my reasoning  below. 
did Mrs M know she had a choice?
Ref: DRN86617704Halifax had to make it clear that the PPI policy  was optional.  
As the sale took place many years  ago, not all the paperwork is available from the time.  
Thats unsurprising as businesses  arent required to keep paperwork it holds indefinitely. 
Halifax has however  been able to provide a sample application form from the same  period 
and I think this likely represents what Mrs M saw at the time. On it there is a section about 
protecting your payments.  If Mrs M wanted  the cover, she would have had to sign the box to 
say she wanted  to take the PPI out. There was also a box to sign if Mrs M didnt want to take 
advantage of the insurance. 
Following completion of the application for the loan and the PPI, Mrs M was sent a loan 
agreement. I have been provided with the completed agreement  from the time.  The form is 
completed with Mrs Ms details including her name  and address, the loan details and the 
cost of the loan and the PPI is also set out on the agreement. As Mrs M was taking on a new 
financial commitment, I think it more likely she read the form and understood she was 
entering an agreement  for the loan and the PPI. She has signed and dated  this document.  
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mrs M knew  the policy was 
optional and she agreed to take it out without undue  pressure. 
did Halifax provide advice?
Mrs M says no advice  was provided but Halifax says this was an advised sale. From what  
we know about  these types of sales I think Halifax provided advice and to be clear I will look 
at this as an advised sale as this put more responsibility  on Halifax  for how it sold the policy.
 
This means  Halifax had to advise Mrs M with reasonable  care and skill, in particular whether 
the policy was appropriate or suitable given her needs and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps Halifax took to establish  whether the policy was a suitable 
recommendation for Mrs M. It seems Mrs M cant remember clearly  what happened  and 
there is no record of what the adviser discussed  in relation to the policy.  This is unsurprising  
in respect of a sale during a meeting. The adviser had some limited  information about Mrs 
Ms financial  circumstances, but there is no specific evidence  to show the adviser took steps  
to establish whether Mrs M would have been caught  by the significant exclusions and 
limitations which might have meant the policy did not fully meet her needs. For example, 
there is nothing to suggest  Halifax  considered  whether Mrs M had any pre-existing medical 
conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Halifax did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mrs M given her circumstances. So Im not 
persuaded Halifax advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Halifax did all it should have done to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mrs M, I do think its more likely than not that the policy was ultimately suitable 
for her. In reaching  that conclusion Ive taken  into consideration:
-Mrs M met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
Ref: DRN86617705-Mrs M had a need for the policy  she would  not have received any sick pay if she 
was unable to work  due to illness, her redundancy benefits are likely to be limited 
and she didnt have  any savings  she could fall back on. The policy would have 
helped Mrs M manage the consequences were she unable to work.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mrs M.
-   The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mrs M. There 
was nothing about Mrs Ms employment or occupation which  would have made it 
difficult for her to claim. And she hasnt  told us about any pre-existing medical 
conditions that could affect her ability to claim.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Halifax gave Mrs M sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable her to understand what  Halifax 
was recommending to her and make an informed decision  about  whether to follow that 
advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mrs M was given a broad description of what the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect her payments if Mrs M was 
unable to work through accident,  sickness and disability) and of the approximate costs.  I 
have reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mrs M would have taken out the 
policy without any sense  of what the policy was for and of how much  the premium  might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Halifax gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mrs M agreed to take out the policy.  
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mrs M Im not persuaded Halifax  did 
enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a way that was fair 
and reasonable to Mrs M. Im not persuaded Halifax gave  Mrs M all of the information  she 
needed about the policy to make an informed decision  about  whether to follow the 
recommendation and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mrs Ms representative has raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mrs Ms. Ive considered  
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mrs Ms representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
Ref: DRN86617706-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mrs M about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Mrs Ms representatives views  on this. The duty of utmost  good  faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mrs M has suggested. And taking  into account  the law, industry  codes and standards  of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Halifax ought to have  done  either. 
What effect did Halifaxs  shortcomings have  on Mrs M? To what extent did Mrs M 
suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that Halifax  didnt do all it should  have done when it sold this policy  to Mrs M. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mrs M 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Mrs M 
would have still taken  out the policy, had Halifax done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded Halifax took the steps  it should have done to establish whether  the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mrs M, I have found  that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for her.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mrs M has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if Halifax  had explained things properly, 
Mrs M would  have  acted differently, or whether she would have taken out the policy in any 
event.
Mrs M says she wouldnt have  taken it out and believes  I should presume this to be the case  
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mrs M had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when Halifax advised her that there  was a suitable 
product she could buy that would protect  her loan payments in the event she was unable  to 
work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, she concluded she wanted that 
product. But she made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning what  she 
thought she was getting is not exactly what she got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mrs Ms circumstances at the 
time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her.
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mrs M knew she would have to pay something 
for the policy, it doesnt appear Halifax told her the exact premium at the point Mrs M applied 
Ref: DRN86617707for the policy. Having  said that, it seems likely Mrs M would have been  told the cost before 
the policy started and I can see it was set out on the PPI application form which  more  likely 
followed a discussion and she paid for the policy for a while,  so if the costs  were significantly 
at odds with her expectations  at the point  of sale, its possible she might have raised that 
with Halifax at the time, or reconsidered her decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mrs M would  have found  the cost unacceptable  if she had been 
given the exact figure during the meeting in which they agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Halifax made clear exactly  what Mrs M would get back  in 
return in the event she made a successful claim. But I think  its unlikely Mrs Ms expectations  
about what the policy would pay in the event of a claim (an amount  sufficient  to meet  her 
loan repayment) were  significantly  different to what the policy actually  did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mrs M thought  she had bought  and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions for which treatment and /or 
advice had been suggested during the 12 months prior to the start date and recurred 
within 12 months of the start date; or a condition which  was diagnosed during the 12 
month period  prior to the start date and recurred  within 12 months  of the start date or 
symptoms were  experienced  or investigations  commenced during the 12 month 
period before the start date which recurred within  12 months of the start date or a 
chronic and continuing  disease  that Mrs M was aware of at the start date and 
recurred within 12 months of the start date; 
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mrs M 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mrs M be unable  to 
do her own job, a similar job or any paid work  which her experience, education or 
training reasonably qualified her to do.
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mrs M pause  for thought  and may well have caused her to conclude the policy wasnt as 
good as she thought and she might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the 
cover, when  coupled  with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have  dissuaded some  
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mrs M from taking out the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mrs Ms circumstances at the time of sale shows the policy  wasnt  
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. She was eligible for its benefits and it provided 
cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to her should  the 
insured risks have  become a reality. I also havent  seen any evidence to suggest she 
wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions  Mrs M didnt have  any pre-
existing medical conditions and was in permanent employment. So, I still think she had some 
good reasons  to take the policy  out.
Ref: DRN86617708I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mrs M might 
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely she would have expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without  having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  And while this 
limitation might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances to Mrs M 
from taking out the policy,  Mrs M, in her circumstances, still had some good reasons to take 
it out.
If Mrs M had known  she could only claim for disability if she was not only unable  to do her 
job or any similar job but also unable  to do any job which in the insurers view she might 
reasonably be qualified for, it might have played into her thinking about  what she would  do. 
And I accept  it may have  given her pause for thought  although given Mrs Ms 
circumstances and the limited other means  she had to make her repayments if she wasnt  
working, on balance,  I still think she would have been interested in taking  out the cover.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mrs M would still have taken  out the policy. The policy was suitable for her, was 
sufficiently close to what its likely she thought she was getting  and provided benefits that 
would help her manage  the consequences  were  Mrs M made redundant, or unable to work 
through accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not Mrs M 
would have taken  out the policy  in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mrs Ms representatives say the rules about  how to handle PPI complaints (DISP  App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mrs M would  not have  bought  the PPI she bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mrs Ms 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mrs M 
found herself in as result of the sale was the same  position she would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mrs M believes the presumption may only be rebutted  when the flaws in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
Ref: DRN86617709represent fair compensation to put Mrs M in the position she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that she would not have taken out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that she would still have 
taken out the PPI had she been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy she was buying. So Im not persuaded it would  be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude Halifax should  pay Mrs M compensation, as that would put her in 
a better  position than she would have been in if everything had happened  as it should have 
done. 
Im also aware that Mrs M thinks this policy contains an unfair contract term  allowing the 
business to unilaterally vary the cover  and the premium. 
I accept Halifax shouldve  done more to clearly  bring the contractual term about the insurers 
right to unilaterally vary the cover  and premium to Mrs Ms attention. Im satisfied this was a 
significant term and I think Mrs M would have wanted to know  about this. Because  Mrs M 
wasnt clearly  told I dont  think Halifax acted  fairly  and reasonably in this case.  
But even if Halifax had done more to highlight the term clearly to Mrs M, I dont think  this 
wouldve made a difference  to her decision to buy the PPI. As Ive set out above, Mrs M had 
good reasons  to take out the policy. Im also mindful  that Mrs M had the right to withdraw 
from the policy with 30 days  notice at any time. So if any changes were proposed by the 
insurer, Mrs M had a reasonable amount  of time to consider if she wanted to continue  with 
the policy. 
So while I accept Halifax shouldve done more to bring this term to her attention,  for the 
reasons Ive set out above, I dont  think she wouldve been put off buying the policy if Halifax  
had done more. 
I note Mrs M says the failure to tell her clearly about this clause was a breach of the duty of 
utmost good  faith. Ive set out above  my findings  in connection  with the duty of utmost  good  
faith and I consider that similar  considerations apply in connection with this clause. So Im 
not persuaded by Mrs Ms comments on this point. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mrs Ms representative says a court might take if it 
were to find Halifax had been in breach of its duty of utmost  good  faith.  But this doesnt  
persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mrs M in a better  position than if everything had happened as it 
should have done. 
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Ref: DRN866177010Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 September 2021.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8661770