K820x#14complaint
Miss B has complained  about  the service she received from Unum Ltd around the time her 
dental insurance policy automatically  renewed.
 
background
Miss B held a dental insurance policy with Unum. The policy  was due to renew  automatically  
on 1 May 2019.
On the renewal date,  Miss B contacted Unum to complain that she hadnt  received any 
renewal notification despite previously asking for this to be sent to a particular email 
address. She said she wanted to cancel the policy with immediate effect.
Unum issued its final response letter on 29 May 2019. It apologised for any inconvenience 
caused. It explained that it had sent the renewal email on 9 April 2019  to the email address 
which it had on file. It noted that it had then sent the same email to Miss Bs new email 
address on 18 April 2018. It nonetheless agreed to cancel the policy  and refund the new 
monthly premium which had been  taken.  
Miss B referred her complaint to us. She thought Unum had provided  a poor service and that 
she should be compensated  for the time and effort  she had spent chasing it up.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. He considered  that 
while Unum  could have  provided a better service, its response had nonetheless  been 
reasonable. He didnt  consider it had acted so poorly that it needed to pay compensation.
Miss B didnt accept  the investigators  findings. She said Unum  had repeatedly failed to 
contact her after it had promised to do so. She said she had therefore  been forced to chase 
matters up. She believed  she should be entitled to at least £75 compensation for the trouble 
to which  shed been put. 
In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I shall explain  why.
Unum has provided evidence to show it sent the renewal notice on 9 April 2019 to the email 
address which  it had on file for Miss B. Im satisfied  this was reasonable. Miss B said she 
was no longer using this email address and that, since taking out the policy, shed 
corresponded with Unum using a different address.  However, it is not uncommon for a 
consumer to use more  than one email address. I wouldnt have expected Unum to amend its 
records to show a new email address for Miss B unless she specifically asked it to do so. 
Unum has also provided evidence to show it changed its records to reflect  Miss Bs new 
email address on 18 April 2019, after she had requested  this. It also re-sent  the renewal 
notification to this new address  at that time. Im satisfied this was reasonable. I dont know  
why Miss B apparently didnt receive  this.
Ref: DRN85050602Miss B complained to Unum on 1 May 2019  and said she wanted to cancel the policy. It 
issued its final response well within the eight week period it is allowed under the regulatory  
rules. It apologised for any inconvenience  and agreed to cancel the policy from the renewal  
date and to refund the one months  premium which had already been  taken from Miss Bs 
account. Im satisfied this was fair. Miss B has confirmed that she has since  received this 
refund.
Miss B says that she had to chase  up Unum repeatedly. I havent seen evidence  of this until 
the time she made  her complaint. It might be that Unum didnt acknowledge her complaint as 
quickly as it should  have done  but overall I dont  consider there  are reasonable grounds for 
me to say Unum must pay Miss B compensation. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 February  2020.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8505060