K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a secured bridging facility Mr O and Miss M obtained from 
Social Money Limited under  its trading  name of bridgecrowd. They  say the facility  was 
mis-sold because it didnt provide enough  money for them to extend the lease and improve 
the property after purchase.
background
In what follows, I have  summarised events in rather  less detail than theyve been presented, 
using my own words and rounding some of the figures involved. No discourtesys intended 
by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I dont mention something, it 
wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think  it was material to the outcome 
of the complaint. This approach is consistent with what our enabling legislation  requires of 
me.
It allows me to focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be 
side-tracked by matters which, although  presented as material, are, in my opinion peripheral 
or, in some instances,  have little or no impact on the broader outcome. Another reason I 
have left out a lot of the detail is to avoid the risk of identifying Mr O and Miss M when my 
decision is published. 
Mr O and Miss M already  owned their own home, and were looking to buy an investment 
property, financed by a bridging  facility.  They planned to buy it, extend the lease and carry 
out refurbishment. In all, Mr O and Miss M say they needed about £280,000. Using a third 
party broker  (Ill call it B) they applied to Social Money for the money.  
On 20 April 2017, Social Money  issued an offer subject  to valuation; this was for a total of 
£262,000, but included  all of the fees and interest up front. The net amount to be advanced 
to Mr O and Miss M was given  as just over £215,000, repayable after twelve  months.  After  
the valuation was carried out, the total advance  was increased to around £276,000 and the 
net amount to a little under £229,000.
In May 2017, B contacted Social  Money to say that Mr O and Miss M would need  more 
money to cover the cost of extending  the lease. Social Money didnt reply and in July 2017, 
the funds were drawn down and the transaction completed. 
Mr O and Miss M say Social Money mis-sold the facility. Our investigator  didnt  agree;  he 
said that Social Money lent the maximum it would lend as a percentage of the property value 
and Mr O and Miss M chose to go ahead  with the terms as offered. For Social  moneys poor 
customer service  in not replying to the request for more  money,  he said it should  pay Mr O 
and Miss M £250 compensation.
Mr O and Miss M rejected  the proposed settlement and instead  asked for their complaint to 
be reviewed by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im afraid Ive some  
disappointing news for Mr O and Miss M.
Ref: DRN82019292I think a useful starting point here is to clarify which party was responsible for what  in the 
transaction. Social money  was lending money  to Mr O and Miss M, and that is all. It wasnt  
responsible for advising them on their needs,  or recommending a particular facility as being  
suitable for those  needs. That was Bs role. If Mr O and Miss M think B didnt advise them  
well, theyre free to complain separately to B.  
To be clear, Im not saying they should  complain to B (they  need  to make their own 
judgement), and nothing  I say here should be inferred as commenting in any way on the 
actions of B. My decision here is solely about Social  Money, and the complaint cant be that 
Social money mis-sold the facility  because it didnt sell it. The complaint against Social 
Money can only be that it misled Mr O and Miss M about how much  it was willing  to lend 
them.
Social Money had already decided how much  it was willing to lend to Mr O and Miss M, and 
had set out in writing  the amount, and terms, of the facility it was prepared  to provide. I dont 
know how much  of the information  Mr O and Miss M assimilated, but as I said, Social  Money 
wasnt responsible  for ensuring its facility met their needs.
Its regrettable, and a little discourteous,  that Social  Money didnt respond substantively  to 
the request for more  money; but thats  all it is, and in my view £250 is fair compensation for 
that. Mr O and Miss M knew  (or should  have known) how much Social Money was willing  to 
lend them, and if it didnt  meet their requirements,  they could have looked elsewhere. It was 
their right not to do that, but it was also their choice, and so Mr O and Miss M must accept 
the consequences of the choice they made.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint in part by 
ordering Social Money Limited to pay Mr O and Miss M £250. I dont make  any other order  
or award.  My final decision  concludes  this services consideration of this complaint, which 
means Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O and Miss M 
to accept or reject my decision before 19 June 2020.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8201929