K820x#14complaint
Mr H says Yorkshire Building Society  (Yorkshire) mis-sold him a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr H bought the policy in 1996 at the same  time as taking a mortgage.  Hes told us he was 
sold the PPI by post. Yorkshire thinks it was sold in a branch.
Mr H was employed at the time as a warehouseman and had been there 13 years. Hes told 
us he was entitled to less than three  months  full sick pay, at least  three  but less than six 
months redundancy pay and he didnt have any other means,  like savings, with which  to pay 
his mortgage if he couldnt work.
Mr H has told us of a health issue he had an operation for around 12 years before the sale 
and a health issue he missed a couple  of weeks work with around five years before the sale.  
He hasnt told us of having had any other,  or more recent, health issues or health-related 
work absences in the period before the sale.
The policy provided  cover  for Mr H for accident, sickness and unemployment  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. For a successful claim it offered to pay £150 a month for up to 12 
months to help with Mr Hs mortgage related  costs.  It cost £10.66 a month at the start but the 
first six months were  free. 
Yorkshire has told us Mr H made  an accident claim on the PPI policy  around  six years after it 
started, and received benefit payments from the policy  totalling  over £1,200 as a result.
Yorkshire has also sent us evidence to show the mortgage account closed in 2005. Mr Hs 
representative has made lengthy  and substantial representations on his behalf. I will not 
restate them all here,  but I have  read and considered them  all carefully.  In summary, Mr Hs 
representative says:
Yorkshire failed to meet the sales standards  which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should be presumed Mr H wouldnt have taken  the 
policy and the complaint  should  be upheld. Mr Hs representatives believe there to be no 
evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a successful 
claim meant  the policy was of inherently poor value  as shown by the low claims ratio. 
The common law duty of utmost  good faith means  Yorkshire  should  have  told Mr H 
about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Yorkshire should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr H and the impact  they 
would have had on his chances of making a claim;
Ref: DRN86396302The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is generally 
someones biggest ever long-term  transaction  cover would stop at the time it would be 
most needed; and
The information Mr H received was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had a chance to 
give their responses to the adjudicators  opinion.  Mr H disagreed  with the adjudicators  
opinion for several  reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been  
passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Hs. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Hs complaint.
This sale took place  in 1996 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2005. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at the time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
Ref: DRN86396303The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct Marketing/ 
Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Yorkshire at the time.  So Im satisfied  I should take the ABI Code and 
these other  publications into account when deciding what is, in my opinion,  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Hs case.
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   the Office of the Building Societies Ombudsman  
in this case  might  have  been expected to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Building  Societies  Ombudsmans terms of reference  the Ombudsman  
was required to decide complaints by reference to what  was, in his opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Yorkshire was required  to take into account the provisions  in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mr Hs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Yorkshire gave advice, whether it advised Mr H with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him, given his needs  and 
circumstances. 
-Whether Yorkshire gave Mr H sufficient, appropriate and timely  information to enable  him 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take the policy,  including  drawing to his 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions 
of the policy  and significant limitations  and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr H, I must  
then go on to consider  whether  and to what extent Mr H suffered loss or damage  and 
what I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr H and 
Yorkshire, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below.  
did Mr H know  he had a choice?
Ref: DRN86396304Yorkshire had to make it clear the PPI was optional. Mr H has said he had no interest in PPI 
and has said it was just included as part of his mortgage package. I give what  he says some 
weight, but I also bear in mind the sale took place over 20 years  before Mr H set out for us 
his recollections of it - so it wouldnt be surprising if he didnt recall all the details of the sale.  
With this in mind, what Mr H has said isnt, on its own,  enough  to make me think he wasnt 
given a choice  about the PPI  and I havent seen anything else to make  me think  this.
Also, Mr Hs mortgage application  form, which  he signed to apply for the mortgage, had a 
separate Mortgage Payment Insurance  section for the PPI, with a box to tick if more  details 
of the PPI were  wanted. So it looks from this like the PPI was presented as something Mr H 
could ask for more  details  of if he wanted  and, as the box on his form is ticked,  it looks like 
Mr H wanted more  details  of the cover  at the time.
Also, to apply for the PPI, Mr H signed a Mortgage Payment Insurance  application  form, 
separately from signing the mortgage  application itself. The use of a separate  application  
form for the PPI I think wouldve tended to indicate the PPI was something separate  from the 
mortgage - and that Mr H had a separate decision to make  about it. 
The PPI application  form offered disability  (accident  and sickness) or unemployment cover 
or both.  It also offered a choice of benefit  periods and excess  periods. With this and all Ive 
said above in mind, what I have doesnt persuade me the PPI was just included with Mr Hs 
mortgage package. What  I have from the time of the sale indicates instead that the PPI was 
something separate from the mortgage  itself, and something Mr H could have if he wanted it. 
I say this taking into account  also that nothing on the mortgage  application  says Mr H had to 
take PPI or says he had to sign the application  form for the cover  if he didnt want  the cover.
Mr H hasnt said anything to make  me think he was pressured into opting  for the PPI. Taking 
everything into account, I think its more likely Mr H knew the PPI was optional and agreed to 
it without undue pressure.
did Yorkshire provide  advice?
Yorkshire says it didnt provide advice during this sale. Taking into account also what Mr H 
has said, what I have persuades me Yorkshire didnt provide advice. This means Yorkshire  
didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable  for Mr H. Instead, it had to give him sufficient, 
appropriate and timely information to enable him to make an informed choice about whether 
to take the policy,  including drawing  to his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr H was given a broad description of what the policy 
was intended  to cover (that is, it would protect his payments  if he were unable  to work due to 
accident, sickness or unemployment) and of the approximate costs. I have reached this 
conclusion because I think  its unlikely  Mr H wouldve taken the policy  without any sense of 
what it was for and of how much  the premium  might be. Also, Mr Hs PPI application form set 
out the monthly benefit of £150 and was ticked to select accident, sickness  and 
unemployment cover  with a benefit period of 12 months and an excess period of 30 days.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Yorkshire  gave sufficient 
information about the actual cost or about the exclusions or limitations before Mr H agreed  to 
the policy. So I dont  think Yorkshire gave Mr H sufficient, appropriate and timely information 
Ref: DRN86396305to enable him to make  an informed choice about whether to take the policy,  including  
drawing to his attention  and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Hs representative has raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Hs. Ive considered  
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have explained 
the low claims  ratio  what Mr Hs representative  considers  to be poor value  and the 
fact much of the premium went to the business rather than the insurer.  
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just told 
Mr H about the limitations and exclusions,  it should have gone further and explained  the 
significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Hs representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find this extended to the insurer having to disclose the claims 
ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations and exclusions  in the way 
Mr H has suggested. And, taking into account  the law, industry codes and standards  of good 
industry practice applicable  to this complaint, I dont think its fair and reasonable to conclude 
Yorkshire ought to have  done either. 
what effect did Yorkshires  shortcomings have on Mr H? To what extent did he suffer 
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found Yorkshire  didnt  do all it should have done  when it sold this policy to Mr H. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude he suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether  or not he would have 
still taken the policy,  had Yorkshire done things properly.
Mr H says he wouldnt have taken it and believes  I should  presume  this to be the case  given 
the significant failings identified above.  Ive considered the representations of both sides and 
the evidence relating  to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr H had to weigh up in his own mind  the cost of the policy  
against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if he didnt insure against the 
risk of being  unable  to work. 
As Ive found above, Mr H chose to take the policy. So I consider  it reasonable to conclude 
he had some interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But he made this 
decision based on incomplete information.  So what Mr H thought he was getting is not 
exactly what he got. The extent to which this differed is a relevant consideration when 
determining if Mr H has suffered any loss or detriment.  
Ref: DRN86396306The information Mr H was given  about the benefit was clear.  Also Im satisfied Mr H was 
aware the benefit would  be paid for 12 months   as this was selected on the application form 
he signed for the cover. But the information about other aspects of the policy, such  as the 
cost and other limitations and exclusions, wasnt as clear as it should  have been.
Although I consider it more likely than not Mr H knew he would have to pay something for 
the policy, it doesnt appear  Yorkshire  told him the exact premium at the point he applied  for 
it. Having said that, it seems likely Mr H was told the cost before the policy started   as the 
cost was set out in his mortgage offer. So if the cost there had been significantly at odds with 
what hed expected when hed agreed to the PPI, Mr H mightve raised that with Yorkshire  at 
the time or reconsidered his decision.  Instead he paid for the policy for a number of years.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr H wouldve found the cost unacceptable if hed been given the 
exact figure when  he agreed to the policy.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr H thought he had bought and 
what he actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to any chronic or continuing health issue Mr H had at 
the policy start - and claims relating to any health  issue  he knew  or should reasonably 
have known of at the policy start, or for which hed received treatment or advice during 
the 12 months before the policy start;
The policy limited, and in some situations  excluded, unemployment  cover  if Mr H wasnt  
a permanent employee; and
The requirement that to qualify as disabled Mr H be not only unable to do his own job but 
be unable to undertake any paid work.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Mr H pause for thought   and may well have  caused  him to conclude the policy wasnt  as 
good as he thought and he might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the cover,  
when coupled with the other shortcomings  in this sale,  might have dissuaded some 
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr H from taking the policy. 
But the evidence  about Mr Hs circumstances at the time of sale shows  the policy  wasnt 
fundamentally wrong for him. Mr H was eligible for its benefits  and it provided  cover that, 
despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proven valuable  to him should  the insured 
risks have become  a reality. 
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr H would have  
expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some  evidence to 
support that claim.
Mr H couldnt have  claimed for future  work absences if related to the health issues  hes told 
us hed suffered  in the past. But, taking into account  all hes told us about those, including 
how long ago they were and the limited work absences hed suffered as a result (neither of 
which exceeded the selected  excess period on Mr Hs policy) Im not  persuaded Mr H would  
have thought that work absences exceeding  30 days and arising  from those issues were so 
likely that the PPI wouldnt be worth taking if it didnt cover these. I havent seen anything to 
suggest Mr H wouldve been caught  by any of the other significant exclusions  he didnt 
Ref: DRN86396307have any other pre-existing health  conditions and he was in permanent employment.  So with 
this and Ill Ive said above in mind,  I think he still had some good  reasons to take the policy.
If Mr H had known he could only qualify  as disabled if he were not only unable  to do his own 
job but unable  to undertake any paid work, this might have played into his thinking about 
what to do. And I accept  it may have  given him pause for thought   although, given  Mr Hs 
circumstances, on balance I think he would  still have been interested  in taking the cover.
Having considered all the evidence and arguments in this case,  I consider  it more likely than 
not Mr H wouldve still taken the policy. It was sufficiently close  to what  its likely he thought  
he was getting  and provided  benefits  that would help him manage the consequences  if he 
were made redundant, or unable to work through accident or sickness. In the circumstances, 
I consider it more likely  than not Mr H wouldve taken the policy  in any event notwithstanding 
the limitations on cover.
Mr Hs representatives say the rules  about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption. 
They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances. That guidance  is for 
firms, but it is a relevant  consideration so I take it into account  along with many  other  things 
when I decide  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable.  Considering the purpose of the 
guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended  to be at odds with the approach  I have taken. 
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr H would  not have bought the PPI he bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr Hs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  he found  
himself in as a result of the sale was the same position he would have  been  in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr H believes  the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments.  
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr H in the position he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
Thats because,  while I accept its possible Mr H wouldnt  have taken the PPI, Im satisfied, 
of the two possibilities, its more likely than not he would still have taken the PPI had he been  
given clear, fair and not misleading  information  about the policy  he was buying. So Im not 
persuaded it would be fair and reasonable, in those  circumstances, to conclude Yorkshire 
should pay Mr H compensation, as that would put him in a better position than he would 
have been in if everything had happened as it should have  done.  
Ref: DRN86396308Im also aware Mr H thinks Yorkshire misrepresented the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Yorkshires statements  misrepresented  the contract, in my opinion  the reason why Yorkshire 
failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in the 
information it provided  but because the overall  information Yorkshire  gave Mr H, in the way 
it did, was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to 
have met in 1996 when providing information about  an insurance policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Hs representative  says a court might take if it were 
to find Yorkshire negligently  misrepresented the contract to Mr H and about  the remedy a 
court might award if it were to find Yorkshire  had been in breach of its duty of utmost  good 
faith. But this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what is fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out, I dont think  it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr H in a better position  than if everything had happened  as it should 
have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 September  2021.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8639630