K821x#15complaint
Miss D complains that Mutual Clothing & Supply Company Limited  (Mutual) lent to her 
irresponsibly.
background
Using information from Mutual I have created this loan table of the approved  loans. Each 
was for a 102 week agreement  just under two years.  Miss D took longer than that to repay 
some of the loans and some are outstanding still. Mutual has told us that Miss D started  to 
have problems repaying her loans at the start of 2015. Mutual mentioned  in its final response  
letter in March 2018 to Miss D that no payments have been made on the accounts since  
May 2017. 
loan date amount Total to 
repayWeekly 
repayments
(rounded)Settlement date
1 24 July 2010 £500 £775 £8 28 September 
2013
2 27 November 
2010£1,000 £1,550 £15 28 September 
2013
3 5 October 2013 £1,000 £1,550 £15 open
4 19 April 2014 £600 £930 £9 open
5 2 August  2014 £600 £930 £9 open
Miss D originally complained by email to Mutual in February 2018 and that email may have  
been lost. So, Miss D complained again on 8 March  2018. Mutual treated her complaint  as 
having been received  on 7 February 2018  and replied within 8 weeks of that date. 
In November 2019 one of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and thought that Mutual 
should put things right for Miss D in relation to Loans 3, 4 and 5. 
Mutual sent us 12 pages of submissions to explain its position and I have taken all those 
points into account.  I do not plan to summarise them all here, but I make references to some 
specific points in this background section. 
Mutual has explained its approach to loan applications. It knew Miss Ds weekly  income  and 
expenditure and part of Mutuals consideration was the repayment record  of earlier  loans. It 
has said that Miss Ds lack of problems  repaying  earlier loans was part of what it assessed 
when she applied for new ones, and it considered that she would be able to afford similar 
repayments going forward. 
Mutual says that agents cannot  issue credit  immediately after the application has been 
taken and have  no authority  to approve credit. The agent will return with the loan application 
to the local office  where their line manager will either approve or refuse the credit applied 
for. Miss D did have some  loans refused but these were after Loan 5 and so not relevant to 
this complaint. 
Mutual explained that it did credit checks on the first loan and whenever  Miss D applied  for a 
loan of £1,000 or over.  It has said that Miss Ds customer profile  cards  show we had verified  
her major outgoings of her rent and that she told us she had no other credit. Mutual has not 
Ref: DRN88734992been able to send to me any records of the credit check reports  it would have used as these 
were done  manually at the time on a web browser and none of that data was stored by it. 
Mutual has sent documents which include the application  form for Loan 3. It was applied for 
on 29 September 2013. Mutual said that Miss D was in arrears  in the lead up to applying  for 
Loan 3  Miss D was repaying 58% of the amount  due (£24.91)- which was £14.45 each 
week. The new arrangement for Loan  3, after Miss D had repaid loans 1 and 2, was going to 
cost her £15.19  which was £0.74  more. When Miss D applied  for Loan 4 Mutual says that 
she was ahead of her contractual repayment  obligations  on Loan 3. For Loan 5 Mutual has 
said: In the 13 weeks prior to our lending decision she had a payment performance of 85 
percent.
Mutual has records that for each of the applications  for Loans 3, 4 and 5 she told the agent 
that the reason was to go on holiday.  Mutual  has said it did not think that three holidays  in 
one year was excessive. 
Mutual has said that it charged  fixed interest, that there were  no additional charges or extra 
interest for late payment. It describes itself as a lender which  charges less than others  in its 
field.
Mutual does not accept  that Miss D borrowed from it to repay earlier  loans. It does not think  
it would  be in Miss Ds best interests for any alterations to be made to her credit  report.   
A second view was sent with the same  outcome which can be summarised  as: I think  that 
the manner in which she was borrowing from you suggested that she was reliant on this type 
of borrowing  and so I still think that loans three, four and five should  not have been 
provided
Miss D has not disagreed  with the adjudicators findings that the complaint about 
Loans 1 and 2 ought not to be upheld.  So, I consider  those to be undisputed and I will not 
review them,  but they remain relevant to the overall lending relationship and picture.  
The complaint remained unresolved and was passed to me for a decision.
After that Mutual  sent further  submissions  to defend the complaint and I have considered  
them all. 
And when  the case was passed to me, I asked Mutual and Miss D for additional information  
most of which I have received  but not all. Then  I issued a provisional decision on 
9 March 2020 and gave  both parties  time until 23 March 2020 to send  me anything further 
and any additional  evidence they wished me to see. My provisional  decision was that I was 
not planning to uphold  Miss Ds complaint. I have not heard from either party.  
my findings
I have reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time the loans were  offered.  
I have received nothing further from either  party and so I set out here my reasoning and my 
final decision  which is that I do not uphold Miss Ds complaint.  
Ref: DRN88734993I am not reviewing Loans 1 and 2 as they appear to be undisputed. They date from 2010.  
I know that Mutual has questioned whether we are able to look at these  loans as they were  
approved more than six years before  Miss D complained. It has agreed for these  to be 
included in the complaint  review and the pragmatic approach is for me to proceed on the 
review of the disputed  loans  which  are Loans 3, 4 and 5. So this decision does not address  
any jurisdiction issues. 
When Loan 3 was being applied for the Office of Fair Trading Irresponsible Lending Guide 
(ILG) had been  in place for some time. Mutual would  have known  by then that the Financial 
Conduct Authority  (FCA)  would be taking over as regulator for lending  businesses such  as 
Mutual in April 2014. The FCA Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) superseded the ILG 
but often referred  back to it and specific ILG paragraphs. So the concepts established in the 
ILG were built upon and extended into CONC. 
Before lending money to a consumer, a lender should take proportionate steps to 
understand whether the consumer will be able to repay what they are borrowing in a 
sustainable manner  without it adversely impacting  on their financial situation. 
A lender should gather enough  information  for it to be able to make an informed decision on 
the lending. Although the guidance  and rules themselves did not set out compulsory checks, 
they did list several things  a lender  could  consider  before  agreeing to lend. The key element 
was that any checks  needed to be proportionate and had to consider several different things, 
including how much was being lent and when  the sum being borrowed was due to be repaid. 
Turning to Mutuals submissions, some have been  set out in the background section of this 
decision. And I can see that a lot of time has been spent to compare its offering to 
competitors offerings to demonstrate its interest  rates are lower than those others.  And the 
fact that Miss D took more than the agreed 102 weeks to repay  Loans  1 and 2 has been 
explained by Mutual in this way: even if the customer takes 5 years  to repay a 2-year  long 
loan they would not pay any extra than they would have done  if they had repaid the loan on 
time. The Financial Conduct Authority  describe  [sic] this as a mitigating factor.
I have read that part of the FCA document from which the phrase mitigating factor  is taken 
and the FCA is not referring to Mutual specifically, but is making  a general comment. The 
FCA goes on to express concern still. It says in the paragraph after the one to which Mutual 
has referred me: Our concerns centre  on the costs of repeated use of home -collected  credit 
rather than the costs of any individual loan.  our proposals directly  address the source of 
harm to consumers  from the costs  of repeat borrowing and in particular from refinancing.
Mutual has said that: Our loans contain inherent protections for customers  that 
unexpectedly experience  financial difficulty and are unable to pay at the expected rate. 
Because there are no further  charges  applied,  the real APR  of a product drops considerably 
for customers that pay back very slowly.  
Mutual says that Miss D was not able to keep up repayments well after loan 5 was approved 
as her job changed and her weekly  income  fell from £380 - £400 a week  to £275  a week and 
later to part time work  at £150-£200 a week. It says it knows this from the website 
applications Miss D made to it after Loan  5. These were declined by Mutual  in October  2014,  
April 2015, November 2015 and August 2018. The last application by Miss D for a loan was 
after she had complained to Mutual  and after she had brought  her complaint to this service. 
Ref: DRN88734994I have no records to show me this and even if I did then the later repayment difficulties are 
not relevant to the initial approvals.  
I have asked Miss D to send to me copies of bank statements or other  financial  details, but 
she has said that she no longer has access to the account she had at the time. Miss D has 
sent to me screenshots of a credit report which are difficult  to understand or place in context 
entirely as it is not the complete document and so what I have does not have enough details. 
But this is not the first time Miss D has either  been  asked  or had the opportunity to send in 
this information  including  the past two weeks since I issued my provisional decision. The 
complaint has been ongoing for some  time and both parties need resolution, and so I do 
think it is reasonable for me to proceed  to this final decision.
Similarly, Mutual has sent to me a lot of detailed explanations but not much in the way of 
records, credit check results or account notes. So, I have had to go on what  I have and what  
I have been able to piece  together.  Its not ideal but it is not unusual in relation to complaints 
where the lending was several years ago. 
In relation to Loan 3, I do think that Mutual ought to have considered the fact that Miss D did 
not repay Loan 1 until about 14 months after the agreement date and for Loan 2 about  
10 months after. On its own explanation  it has said that she had been paying in arrears. And 
she applied  for Loan  3 on 29 September  2013  which was the day after the first two were 
both repaid. It may not have  been a refinance  but it does demonstrate that Miss D needed 
additional money immediately after having completed the repayments for the previous loan, 
and a large amount - £1,000. This was three years after applying for £1,000 in 
November 2010.  I asked Miss D about the purpose of the loan and she does not recall it 
being for a holiday as is noted on the application  form.  It may have been the reason. 
I do not have enough  from either Miss D or Mutual  to demonstrate  to me that Miss Ds credit  
record or financial situation was poor when she applied for Loan 3. And on balance I do not 
think that there is reason enough to uphold Miss Ds complaint that it was irresponsible of 
Mutual to lend to her. 
So, I do not to uphold Miss Ds complaint for Loan 3.
Loan 4 was in April 2014 and was just 6 months  into the two-year loan period for Loan  3. It 
was Mutuals policy not to carry out a credit  check for loans under £1,000.  Mutual has made  
many points about the repayment history and how important that was. Loan 4 was for £600  
and so at that time it was not likely  to have done  a credit check. There was no specific 
requirement for Mutual  to carry out such a check, and Miss D has not provided anything to 
show me her financial situation  at the time. So, I do not think  that Miss Ds complaint  for 
irresponsible lending  for Loan  4 can be upheld. 
I do not to uphold Miss Ds complaint for Loan  4. 
Now I turn to Loan 5. By the time Miss D came back again,  just four months  into the Loan 4 
agreement period and ten months into the Loan  3 lending period, and both Loans 3 and 4 
still had a long way to go until they were due to have been repaid, then I think  Mutual ought 
to have paused. Mutual  ought to have carried out additional checks  to find out if Miss D was 
going to be able to repay  that loan sustainably. 
Ref: DRN88734995I think that for Mutual  to have seen  that she had effectively asked to borrow £2,200 in ten 
months it would  have reviewed her previous  borrowing and repayment history and seen that 
this was a large  overall increase compared with her pattern of borrowing in the years  2010 to 
2013.
I think proportionate checks ought  to have  been a full financial review by this stage in the 
lending relationship. I dont think Mutual did that. But equally, the information I have from 
Miss D is not enough for me to be able to reconstruct what her financial position was at that 
time. So, I am not able to look to see what Mutual  would have seen if it had carried  out the 
checks I think it ought to have carried out at the time. 
So, I do not to uphold Miss Ds complaint about  Loan 5. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Miss Ds complaint and under the rules  of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service  I have to ask Miss D whether she accepts or rejects my 
decision before  25 April 2020.
Rachael Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8873499