K820x#14complaint
Mr B has complained about Society of Lloyds. He isnt happy about the settlement offer it 
made to repair  his car following  a claim on his motor insurance policy.
background
Mr B was involved  in a minor motoring incident  with another driver in 2013. Mr B touched  the 
car in front at a very low speed and minor damage  was caused to his car. 
The claim was looked into by Lloyds and a number of quotes  were gained around  that time.  
The repair quotes  ranged from around £300 to £850  and the claim was further  complicated  
by the fact that Mr Bs car was over 20 years  old.
Unfortunately, the claim wasnt finalised at that time and Mr B raised a complaint about this 
that he eventually  brought  to this service.  Lloyds got an independent engineer to look at the 
damage to the car in 2018 and eventually decided that it should pay Mr B £400 cash-in-lieu  
for the damage  and agreed  to waive his excess as a gesture of goodwill.
Our adjudicator looked into things for Mr B but didnt uphold his complaint. Mr B wanted 
about £900 cash-in-lieu plus an award  for loss of use and storage costs but our adjudicator 
didnt agree. She thought  that Mr B was able to use his car after the accident, as the 
damage was minor, and thought any storage costs had been  incurred  in recent times. 
As Mr B didnt agree  the matter has been passed to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I dont think that the 
complaint should  be upheld.  Ill explain why.
The only issue that Im considering here,  as Mr Bs other complaints about  the way the claim  
has been handled and the service provided have  been dealt with separately, is whether 
Lloyds cash-in-lieu settlement offer is fair. And whether Mr B should  awarded additional 
costs.
This decision is complicated by a number of issues  particularly the passage of time 
between the incident and the final cash-in-lieu offer, the age of Mr Bs car and the likely need 
to use second  hand parts. Mr B made  his claim in 2013 and there appears to have  been  a 
number of delays  from both sides. I know Mr B feels that Lloyds shouldve finalised things in 
2014. But Ive seen communications from Lloyds that I wouldve expected Mr B to follow  up, 
especially if he wanted his claim settled.
Furthermore, I know Mr B would like payment for the loss of use of his car and for storage 
costs. But as outlined  by our adjudicator the level of damage to his car was minor and Mr Bs 
car passed its MOT over a number of years so I dont  think  it would be fair to ask Lloyds to 
pay any loss of use. The only storage costs that I have  seen  evidence  for stems from recent 
times in any event and I dont think it would be fair to ask Lloyds  to pay storage from 2018,  
when it is likely that other issues with the car are likely to have contributed to it not being 
driveable. Plus, Im satisfied that it was driveable after the minor incident  Mr B was involved 
in.
Ref: DRN80361902Turning to the cash-in-lieu offer Lloyds has made. It has offered £400  and offered to waive  
Mr Bs excess of £150 as a gesture  of good  will. Lloyds appointed engineers looked at the 
car recently  and concluded that it was difficult to separate out the damage  caused by the 
accident from damage that was pre-existing. I know that Mr B got three  quotations and he 
feels that the higher of those should  dictate the cash-in-lieu offer. He says the higher quote  
outlined a requirement to get the car jigged in addition to other minor repairs identified. 
But the independent engineer didnt identify this as a requirement  from the accident  damage 
attributed to this accident. So Im satisfied  that the lower quotations seem  reasonable. And 
Lloyds has looked  to pay more than the lowest quote and to waive  the £150 excess  so I 
think it has acted reasonably.
So, although  I know Mr B will be disappointed with my decision,  I think that Lloyds has acted 
reasonably. I wouldve  expected Mr B to chase Lloyds earlier if he wasnt able to use his car 
and it is clear that his car was driveable as it had an MOT  a few months after this incident 
and the following year. Plus, the level of damage  caused to the front of his car was minimal 
in any event and the car had other areas  of damage  that wouldve affected its 
roadworthiness at a later stage, certainly  when his car was off the road in 2018.
my final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above,  that I dont  uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 December 2019.
Colin Keegan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8036190