K820x#14Complaint
Mr P says Bank of Scotland  plc (trading as Halifax)  mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy for a secured loan.
Background
Mr P took out a PPI policy with a secured loan in 2003. Mr P paid for the PPI with a regular  
monthly premium, which didnt attract interest.  It covered his secured loan in case  he was off 
work sick or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr P disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ps case.  
Ive decided that Mr Ps PPI policy wasnt mis-sold   Ill explain why.
I can see Mr Ps secured loan agreement  had a section for PPI, which  offered him the choice 
to take it out or turn it down. The option  to buy PPI was chosen, and Mr P signed the 
agreement to confirm  his choices. The cost of the policy was set out separately  to the cost of 
the secured loan, and not as something that was necessarily included. Overall,  I think  that 
Halifax made Mr P aware he had a choice about  buying the PPI, and that he chose to take it. 
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr P, so it had to check it was right for him. And based  on 
what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think it was. For example, it looks  like Mr P 
was eligible for the cover  and wasnt affected  by any of its main exclusions or limitations. 
While he had some  benefits through work,  the PPI offered him more comprehensive cover  
and wouldve paid out on top of those benefits.  Its worth bearing in mind  that Mr Ps secured 
loan was a significant, long-term  commitment that was in his sole name. And if he fell behind 
on the repayments he couldve lost his home. So it looks like the PPI couldve really been 
useful for Mr P in protecting  his home  and giving some peace of mind.
The cost of the policy was set out clearly when Mr P applied for it. So I think  Mr P wouldve  
understood how much he would need  to pay for PPI if he chose it.
Lastly, its possible that Halifax didnt point out the main things the policy wouldnt cover.  But 
as I explained  above, Mr P doesnt  appear  to have been affected by any of those things.  
Ref: DRN86389422My final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 31 August 2019.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8638942