K820x#14complaint
Mrs B is unhappy with her home insurer QIC Europe Ltd because it has declined  her claim 
for damage  caused  by a storm and/or lightning strike.
background
Mrs Bs home was damaged in May 2018.  She said there was a storm and the house was 
struck by lightning. The house shook,  power  was lost and tiles on the roof, as well as the 
fascia board,  fell off. When they did, the bay roof below was damaged too.
QIC said the weather  hadnt equated  to a storm. But if Mrs B got some quotes  it would 
review. QIC made a settlement to Mrs B for the damage to the bay roof as it accepted this 
was covered under the accidental damage cover  afforded  by the policy.  It sent a surveyor  to 
consider the damage to the main roof. The surveyor said the roof was in a generally poor 
state and the fascia board  only seemed to have had a few fixings  still holding it in place, and 
these were rusted. 
Mrs B said she had the gutters cleaned about a year ago and hadnt  been told then there 
were any issues with the roof. She noted shed had no trouble until the storm/lightning strike 
and felt it was unfair for her claim to be declined when this was exactly  the sort of instance 
that shed taken insurance  out for.
QIC wrote  to Mrs B. It said it didnt think the damage  to her roof was consistent with that 
usually caused  by storm or any other insured  peril. Therefore, it said, the policy wouldnt 
offer her cover for this damage. QIC further pointed out that the policy  has a general 
exclusion for maintenance related loss or damage  (wear and tear). Mrs B complained to 
this service.
Our investigator considered the weather  records and felt there  hadnt  been a storm. But he 
noted there had been lightning occurring in the area. He considered  what the surveyor had 
found though, about the state of the roof, and felt the conclusion  that the damage had 
resulted from wear and tear was fair and reasonable.
Mrs B wasnt  happy. She said it should be noted that QIC declined her claim because  it felt 
there hadnt been a storm. It hadnt mentioned lightning  which was the cause of damage 
she had claimed  for. Her complaint was passed to me for a decision to be made.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, with regret for any upset 
this causes Mrs B, Im not minded to find any differently to our investigator.
The weather  conditions, in Mrs Bs area,  around the time of the loss werent  sufficient to be 
considered a storm. I know Mrs B reported  that the house was struck by lightning,  but given 
the damage reported, it doesnt surprise me that QICs response to the claim focused on the 
cover for storm. But I note its final response  did comment  that the damage wasnt  consistent 
with any other insured  peril either. So I think  it has considered the possibility of the damage 
having been caused by lightning.
Ref: DRN83845332Unfortunately for Mrs B, whether considering  storm or lightning  damage,  the answer to the 
claim is the same from QIC  the damage  was caused by wear  and tear which isnt covered 
by the policy.  This was its surveyors  opinion and Mrs B hasnt provided any expert 
consideration that might make me think QICs surveyor was wrong.
Ive also considered what the surveyor  has said. He notes  the fascia  had only a few nails left 
 and these were rusty. There is no sign in what he says of scorching or other  marking  that 
one might expect to see if lightning had caused  damage. In fact the surveyor  notes that apart  
from being on the floor, the board is otherwise intact. The photos  of the tiles dont suggest 
any lightning  damage either.
I appreciate that Mrs B had the gutters  cleaned previously. But the contractor who did this 
may not have been looking for other maintenance related work that might need  doing. Whilst 
Mrs B wasnt  aware her roof was suffering from wear and tear, that doesnt mean QIC 
should cover  the cost of the repairs. Exclusions for maintenance  related damage are quite 
common and insurance policies (which generally cover damage  caused by certain events 
only) dont offer cover for every instance of damage  howsoever caused.
Im satisfied that QIC acted fairly and reasonably when it declined the claim. I know Mrs B is 
frustrated that it kept asking her for more information, but I think  those  requests  were 
reasonable in the circumstances.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  I dont make any award against QIC Europe  Ltd.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 February  2020.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8384533