K820x#14complaint
Mr M says Bank of Scotland  Plc (trading as Halifax)  mis-sold him a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr M took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 2000. Mr M paid for the PPI with a regular 
monthly premium, which didnt attract interest.  It covered his mortgage payments in case he 
was off work  sick or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ms case.  
While I know this will disappoint Mr M, I dont think this PPI policy was mis-sold  Ill go 
through my reasoning.
Mr M initially applied for his mortgage through an intermediary, and together they filled out a 
mortgage application. The application  had a section for insurance, which  explained that 
Mr M had to have buildings insurance. It then said Halifax also offered other  insurance,  such  
as PPI, though  they only recommended he take that  it wasnt  a requirement.  Lastly,  it said 
Halifax would prefer to contact Mr M to discuss his insurance. And below, Mr M filled in his 
contact details so they could  get in touch, asking  them to call him in the evening.
The PPI was then sold over the phone.  Because the call was so long ago, there isnt a 
recording of it anymore.  But I can see the adviser  filled out an internal application form, 
which says they discussed the cost of the PPI and what it would pay out, they checked that 
Mr M was eligible for it, and they checked his medical history.  So it looks  like they went  into 
some detail when  they discussed his circumstances. It also looks like Mr M was then sent an 
insurance quotation, which set out the PPIs  cost separately, rather than as something  that 
had to be included  in the mortgage.
I understand that Mr M doesnt  remember taking out PPI. But I think thats understandable 
given that the sale was over 18 years ago, and that buying insurance isnt often memorable. 
It wouldve  been a very serious failing for Halifax to have added  the PPI without Mr Ms 
permission, and Ive got no evidence which shows thats what they did. Whereas I do have  
some evidence that Mr M was given  details about  the policy and that it was discussed with 
him. And according to the internal records from the time, he took it out. So I think its more 
likely than not that Mr M wouldve been  aware he had a choice about buying PPI, and that 
he chose to buy it at the time.
Ref: DRN83344812Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr M, so they had to check  it was right for him. And based 
on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think  it was. For example, Mr M doesnt 
seem to have been affected by any of the policys main exclusions or limitations. Mr M said 
hed have to wait 90 days before starting  a claim,  but he actually only needed  to wait 
30 days, which I think is reasonable.  And Mr M said he was only entitled  to the basic 
statutory sick pay and redundancy  pay, which wouldve been a serious drop in income. 
Whereas the PPI offered  Mr M much  more comprehensive protection, and covered him for 
much longer  than his sick pay or redundancy pay. Its worth bearing  in mind that if Mr M fell 
behind on his mortgage, he risked losing his home.  So I think  the PPI couldve really been 
useful for Mr M in protecting  his home  in case something went wrong.
The cost of the policy was shown on the insurance  quotation, so I think  Mr M wouldve 
understood how much he would need  to pay for it. It also looks like the PPI wouldve been 
affordable for him.
Lastly, its possible that Halifax didnt point out all the main  things the policy wouldnt cover. 
But as I said above,  Mr M doesnt  appear  to have been affected by any of those  things. 
my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 February  2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8334481