K822xcomplaint
Miss B complains  that Clydesdale Bank Plc didnt refund transactions she says she didnt 
make.
background 
Miss B had a prepaid card and, in May 2017,  the account  was used to make a number of 
payments she didnt recognise.  In November 2017, Miss B contacted one of the businesses 
that provide relevant services  for her account to say she wasnt happy about this. The 
business treated  Miss Bs dispute as a request for a chargeback and told her that, under the 
relevant rules here,  she couldnt pursue the chargeback because  she was outside of the 
timeframes to do so. But Miss B was offered £50 for the additional work she had to do to 
pursue her claim.
Miss B didnt agree with this and referred  her complaint to our service.  Our investigator 
looked into this and didnt think that Miss B had been treated fairly  here.  She said that, while 
her disputes  had been treated as a chargeback  they shouldve  been treated as disputed  
transactions that Miss B hadnt authorised. If this was the case, our investigator thought  that 
Miss B would and should have been refunded  these.  So she felt that the transactions should 
be refunded and Miss B paid £100 to make up for the confusion  and distress caused.
Clydesdale eventually agreed to refund the transactions and to pay the £100. But Miss B felt 
that it should pay more compensation to her. Our investigator put this to Clydesdale, but it 
didnt agree to pay any more. So the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Theres been some confusion as to who the right business to accept this complaint is. But 
Clydesdale has now confirmed that it accepts us considering the complaint against it. The 
main business responding to our service  is a company thats linked to Clydesdale but has 
been making representations on its part. So Ill refer to all submissions  as being made by 
Clydesdale directly to avoid confusion.
All parties  now agree that the disputed transactions should be refunded  here. So I wont 
consider that part of the complaint in detail  as this has now been resolved. What  remains  
outstanding here is whether Clydesdale should  pay any more compensation to Miss B. 
Having considered this, Im satisfied that what Clydesdale  has now offered to do here is fair. 
Ill explain  why.
Its clear to me that Clydesdale shouldve treated Miss Bs dispute about these transactions 
differently to how it did. It treated her dispute as a chargeback,  which doesnt really  allow  for 
a full consideration of the reasons that Miss B was saying she was due a refund. She was 
telling Clydesdale  that she didnt authorise  the transactions. Where this was the case,  I think 
Clydesdale shouldve listened to her and looked more carefully into whether or not she had 
authorised the transactions and how they came to be made.
That means that Miss Bs claim was delayed  by how Clydesdale handled it. This delay 
clearly confused and frustrated Miss B. So its fair that Clydesdale  compensates  her for this.
Ref: DRN81360282I realise that, to Miss B, this situation  has been going on for a long time.  But, its also my role 
to be fair to both sides here. In doing so, Ive taken into account  that dealing  with the dispute 
Miss B raised wasnt straightforward.  Even  when we became involved, we needed lots of 
information from Miss B and from Clydesdale to investigate whether the transactions  were 
authorised. So it wouldve  never  been an immediate process to refund these transactions,  
even if Clydesdale  had treated them as it should.
And there were further delays when our service had to speak to Clydesdale about which 
business we should set the complaint up against. I realise that will have delayed Miss Bs 
refund further,  but that was an important step for us to take as a service and not something it 
would be fair for me to say that Clydesdale should have to pay Miss B more compensation 
for.
So overall, taking  into account all thats happened here, I think  that what Clydesdale has 
offered here is fair. The most important thing here is that Clydesdale has offered to refund 
the transactions. Its offered  what is, in my view, a proportionate amount of £100  to 
recognise the confusion and upset  caused  by how it handled Miss Bs dispute. So while  Ive 
taken on board that Miss B feels that £1,000 would be a fairer amount here, for the reasons 
above, I think that £100 is reasonable and more in line with what we would recommend as a 
service. 
my final decision
My final decision is that Clydesdale Bank Plc should  refund the transactions Miss B disputed 
(if it hasnt done so already) and pay her £100 for the confusion  and upset caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 April 2019.
James Staples
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8136028