K820x#14complaint
Mrs S says Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background
Mrs S bought the policy in 2002  at the same time as taking out a credit  card.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ss case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ss complaint because:
 Mrs S signed on the application form to indicate she wanted  PPI, separately to where 
she signed for the card.  So I think FICL made Mrs S aware that she had a choice 
about buying the PPI, and that she chose to take it. 
 FICL  didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs S so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. 
 Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Mrs S doesnt  appear  to have been affected by any of the main  
things the policy  didnt cover  and based on what I know about  her circumstances it 
looks like the policy couldve been  useful to her. So I dont  think  better information 
wouldve stopped  her buying  it. 
Ive taken into account Mrs Ss comments,  including what  shes said about being able to rely 
on friends and family if she couldnt work,  and having only been in her job for less than 12 
months. But these points dont change my conclusion.  The help of friends and family 
wouldnt be guaranteed, as it would  depend on their circumstances at the time. And her 
length of employment wouldnt have affected her ability to claim. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 October  2019.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8364441