K822xcomplaint
Mr D complains Coutts & Company mis-sold him a mortgage with a five-year term and 
unfairly refused  to offer him another mortgage  at the end of the term, despite assurances it 
would. Because  of the term, Mr D couldnt  re-mortgage as a result  of rules brought in 
following the mortgage market review (MMR).
background 
In around November 2007 Mr D and his wife opened an interest only mortgage loan facility 
with Coutts for £510,000 over a term of five years. 
In around January 2013, after Mr D and his wife had separated,  Mr D was offered a facility in 
his sole name of £500,000 over five years, and a further £100,000  for a shorter period, all on 
an interest only basis, secured over his residential  property.
Mr D couldnt repay  his mortgage when the term ended in 2018. Coutts reviewed Mr Ds 
mortgage arrangements and he wanted  to go ahead with a mortgage based on an illustration 
Coutts gave him. But Coutts decided not to lend to Mr D then. And in December 2018  it gave  
formal notice to Mr D to end the banking relationship  between  them.  It gave him a grace  
period until around  the end of March  2019  to repay his mortgage. 
Mr D thinks he was mis-sold the mortgage in January 2013 as it had a term of only five 
years. He says hed made it clear  to Coutts  he intended to repay the mortgage  from the sale 
of his business when he was aged 65. And he says that, based on what Coutts had told him, 
he reasonably  expected  it to give him a new product  when his mortgage term ended  in 
March 2018.
Mr D says even though the rules about mortgage lending  had become  tighter in 2014, his 
financial situation hadnt changed,  Coutts gave him overdraft facilities in 2016 and 2017 and 
Coutts should have continued  to lend to him in 2018. I understand hes currently  re-
mortgaging with another lender. 
Mr C wants to be put back into the position he thinks he wouldve been  in had Coutts not 
mis-sold the mortgage  to him in 2013.  He says this would be with an interest  only mortgage 
for £600,000  at available rates until he is aged 65. 
While Mr Ds complaints  been with this service, hes also said hes unhappy Coutts has 
continued to charge him interest after the term ended and while  weve been looking into his 
complaint. 
Our investigator thought Mr D had understood the advice Coutts gave him and the mortgage 
hed taken in 2013 was suitable for him. Coutts agreed to refund an overdraft fee charged on 
an account that had been closed. Mr D didnt accept our investigators  view,  so Ive reviewed  
everything afresh to come to a final decision about his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision based on the balance of probabilities   
Ref: DRN83776872that is, what I consider  is most likely to have happened bearing in mind the available  
evidence and wider  circumstances.  
Mr D met a representative of Coutts in around  January 2012 to discuss  the mortgage facility 
which would end later that year. Even though  notes  from the meeting suggest Mr D told 
Coutts he didnt  want any advice, Mr D says he relied on Coutts  advice, Coutts has agreed  
it advised him and the offer says the mortgage was recommended.
Mr Ds explained that, although hes a financial adviser, he isnt experienced in mortgages. 
But I think his knowledge and understanding of financial matters is likely  to be greater than 
that of someone  without  his professional background. And I think hes likely to have 
understood the advice Coutts  gave  him, the terms and conditions of the loan it offered him, 
and that financial  rules and markets can change  over time.
But, since  the sale was advised, I need to think about whether the advice was suitable.
The mortgage facility  was an arrangement that allowed  Mr D to draw  down all or part of the 
loan amount and to repay and draw  down sums again. Interest was debited each month to 
Mr Ds linked current account.  The facility  gave Mr D flexibility  about  how to use the funds 
and arrange his financial affairs. Since  he was looking to renew the facility, I think its likely  
Mr D understood and was happy with the way it had been working  for him from 2007 
onwards, even though his personal situation  had changed.
Mr D suggests Coutts  steered him towards  renewing the facility, when they would  have had 
cheaper better products available that met his needs, because it had a higher profit  margin  
for Coutts.  I havent  seen any evidence of that.
Mr D took time between the January  2012 meeting and deciding to go ahead  with the loan in 
around December  that year. Coutts records show Mr D was unhappy about the fee hed 
have to pay and thought  hed get a better deal with another  lender. It was left Mr D would 
contact Coutts if he wanted  to go ahead with it. 
Mr D says he didnt review other  options  and wouldve found a mortgage  with the term he 
wanted at a cheaper interest rate if he had. But he didnt go back  to Coutts until around  
December 2012.  And, on balance,  I think its likely Mr D was looking for alternatives deals in 
the meantime.
Mr D wanted the flexibility  to draw down up to £600,000 which  was more than hed borrowed 
in 2007. Coutts  records suggest hed seen  a business opportunity he was considering  
investing in, although Mr Ds told us he had a different reason for wanting the extra amount. 
Whatever the reason was, the facility gave him the flexibility he seems to have  wanted.  
Mr D says hed always made it clear to Coutts  hed repay the loan when he was aged 65 
from the sale proceeds of his business.  Whilst I accept Mr D may have intended to repay his 
borrowing in this way, I havent seen any record he told Coutts this. The mortgage offer says 
Mr D hadnt told Coutts at the time how he planned to repay  the loan and reminded him of 
the importance of making sure he had the funds available to pay off the loan at the end of 
the term. 
Mr D points out the mortgage  terms say the facility  will be reviewed after five years.  I dont 
think this means it would necessarily be renewed or that it was reasonable for Mr D to think 
that it would  be. The offer also explained Coutts  would review  the facility  each year and 
could review it at any time.  
Ref: DRN83776873Overall, I think the offer was clear, fair and not misleading. I think  Mr D ought to have  
understood it and that its likely he did. And I havent  seen any evidence  Mr D was assured 
by Coutts the facility  would be renewed or that it would lend to him again in 2018. Bearing 
everything in mind,  I dont  think Coutts mis-sold the mortgage to Mr D. 
Mr Ds acknowledged Coutts  wasnt in breach of the terms of the mortgage agreement  when  
it refused to provide him with a new mortgage. The term of the mortgage had ended so Mr D 
had to repay the loan. 
In early 2018 Coutts provided Mr D with an illustration for a new mortgage  for £500,000 at a 
fixed rate of 2.99% over 14 years  and nine months. The mortgage didnt go ahead. And 
Mr D argues Coutts put him in a position  where he couldnt re-mortgage because  of new 
rules about  affordability  that had been  introduced  following  the MMR. 
Ive thought about whether Coutts shouldve extended the term of Mr Ds mortgage in 2018. 
Although I think Coutts could have set aside an affordability assessment if it had been in 
Mr Ds best interests to do so  in line with the relevant mortgage rules  Coutts  decision  not 
to lend to Mr D was also a commercial one. And ultimately Coutts ended its banking  
relationship with Mr D altogether. I cant interfere in that.  
I think Coutts acted reasonably by giving Mr D more time to pay, even after the banking  
relationship had ended.  Although  some of the letters Coutts  sent to Mr D suggested no 
interest would  be charged, since Mr D hasnt repaid the loan, I think its reasonable for 
Coutts to have continued to charge interest on it.
Finally, I note Coutts agreed to refund a fee charged on an account that had been closed 
although this wasnt initially part of his complaint to this service.
Bearing everything in mind, I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint.  Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or reject  my decision 
before 6 June  2020.
Julia Wilkinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8377687