K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that he was mis-sold an Additions Active Account (AAA) by Barclays  Bank 
UK PLC (Barclays). 
background
Mr A took out the AAA in January 2009  which incurred a monthly fee. Mr A says that the 
AAA was mis-sold.
Our adjudicator looked into Mr As complaint and decided that the AAA wasnt mis-sold. Mr A 
disagrees so the complaint has come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mr As complaint.
Its difficult for me to be clear what Mr As complaint is because  he has put forward  a number  
of different  arguments  either directly  or through his representative.  Initially Mr As complaint 
was that he couldnt speak English at the time of sale, wasnt  aware  that hed been upgraded 
to an AAA and had never used the benefits. He then said that hed noticed the charges after 
a certain time and been told that fee free accounts were  no longer available.  So to be fair to 
Mr A Ive decided to look at all aspects of the sale of the AAA.
Having done so, in my view, I dont agree that the AAA was mis-sold  and Ill explain  why.
Firstly Ive considered whether Mr A was given a choice whether to take out the AAA or not, 
and whether he chose to take it out.
Mr A had had a fee free account with an overdraft facility from Barclays  for two and a half 
years before this sale. So even though  his spoken English may have been limited,  I think he 
was aware that the AAA was optional. The account  fee was £14 a month, so I think its more 
likely than not that if he had not agreed to it he would  have quickly noticed it and 
complained. And even  if Barclays  had said to him that it no longer had a fee free account 
with an overdraft for him, I think he would have been aware by then that free bank accounts  
were widely available  from all banks and other  financial institutions in the UK. 
So I think its more likely  than not that he was aware  that he couldve had a free account with 
an overdraft but instead chose the AAA.
Barclays says that wasnt  an advised sale, and Ive not seen any evidence such as an 
assessment of Mr As needs to show that it was. So, I think its more likely than not that it 
was a non advised sale and Barclays only needed to provide  Mr A with sufficient information 
about the AAA to make an informed choice.
The AAA contained a range of benefits including card protection,  extended warranty,  mobile 
phone cover, car breakdown cover, worldwide  travel insurance and an interest free overdraft 
facility up to £300. I dont know what Barclays said or what  information it gave Mr A but 
Ref: DRN84231612Barclays was trying to sell the AAA to Mr A so I think its likely it gave him a full description of 
the benefits. 
I also think its likely that Mr A wouldve  have  been interested in some of the benefits. I say 
this because, for example, he had a car, and hed been overdrawn on several occasions in 
the months leading up to the sale. And there  was nothing about Mr As personal 
circumstances as hes described them that would  have prevented him from using the 
benefits. 
As this was an information  only sale, it was for Mr A to decide  if he wanted the benefits and 
then arrange to use them if he wished. 
So in my view I can see why Mr A mightve been interested in the AAA and there was no 
information that he didnt receive that would likely have put him off taking it out.
So I dont  think Barclays mis-sold the AAA to Mr A.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr As complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 October  2019
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8423161