K821x#15complaint
Mr G complains that Brewin  Dolphin  Limited  (BDL) didnt inform  him that he could move his
investments into less expensive unbundled form.
background
Mr G said he had an insurance  company SIPP and held investments through  Stocktrade a 
business which was owned by BDL. He complained  BDL didnt warn him that some of his 
investments were available in unbundled form and didnt give him the option  to convert. 
This meant he paid higher fees and he wanted a refund of the additional amount paid. He 
was also concerned that BDL had received trail commissions. He said BDL should  either  
have changed  the investments to unbundled  funds or notified him of the option to do so. He 
referred to the regulators published policy statement 13/1 from May 2013,  finalised in May 
2014 changing customers  to post RDR unit classes. He said he shouldve been advised  by 
then at the latest. He also said that principle  six of the regulator provisions regarding the 
customers interests said, a firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and 
treat them fairly.
BDL said it agreed to sell the Stocktrade  business in 2015 and the transfer completed in late 
September 2015. It said Stocktrade was not a platform but an execution only service. The 
service provided to Mr G was execution only so there was no requirement to provide advice 
relating to individual investments and whether additional charges were applied  compared to 
unbundled investments. Therefore, any due diligence  on the investments within  the portfolio, 
including the applicable charges, was the responsibility of Mr G.
It was Mr Gs responsibility to inform BDL of any changes  he wished to make, and it wasnt  
responsible for providing any information as to whether the holdings  should be moved.  It 
said it couldnt find any evidence that BDL received any trail commission.  It said that it 
ceased accepting  any incoming trail payments  before  6 April 2016 if any were paid, they 
were rejected and returned to the payer.
I issued several provisional decisions as further information emerged.
my first provisional  decision
I issued a provisional decision. In summary  I said the following.
BDL said Stocktrade was an execution only service but not a platform. But I didnt agree. 
The Regulator provisions  define a platform service  as one which:  -
(a) involves arranging  and safeguarding and administering investments;  and
 (b) distributes retail investment products which are offered  to retail customers  by more than 
one product provider;
But is neither 
(c) solely  paid by adviser charges;  nor
(d) ancillary to the activity  of managing investments for the retail client
Ref: DRN88462722Based on the Stocktrade terms and the rate card I thought Stocktrade provided a platform  
service.
Much of the provisions introduced following the retail distribution review  (RDR),  focused on 
hidden commission payments and resulted in the creation of many new versions of 
investment funds with a different or clean/unbundled charging structure, which in many but 
not all cases were  more favourable for investors  in terms of charges. 
The early  regulator  provisions considered whether conversion to these new funds was in the 
best interest of individual clients and how to assess that, who initiates the conversion, 
consent for conversions  etc. A policy statement  re the introduction  of clean unit classes  
came into force on 6 April 2014  for new business  and 6 April 2016 for legacy  business  such 
that platforms were required to have access to clean unit classes or be able to pass on 
continuing payments  they received from providers. (Policy statement 13/1 and COBS 6.1E.)
The regulator issued  guidance to platform services  providers  in April 2013 regarding  
payments to platform service providers  and cash rebated from providers to consumers. This 
guidance specifically  confirmed that the platform service definition covered execution-only 
firms that white-label a platform or also provide  custody services. The associated regulator  
provisions came into force over a period between April 2014 and April 2016. 
I didnt need to consider the issue of trail commissions as none  have  been  identified at the 
relevant time.
It was clear Stocktrade was not providing  investment  advice to Mr G regarding  his 
investments. It was also clear that it couldnt  convert funds without express  instructions  from 
Mr G. However,  the 2013 guidance said that a platform service  provider  should  pay due 
regard to its obligations under principle 6 (customers  interests)  and principle 7 
(communication with clients) and ensure it presents information without bias.
While Stocktrade was not providing investment advice it was clear the regulator considered 
the importance of the provision of information  without bias.  BDL suggests  that providing  
information about unbundled funds  wouldve  been investment advice. However, I didnt 
agree and would distinguish  between  advice and information.
My view was reinforced by later regulator  guidance  issued in 2018 guidance (FG 18/3: 
changing clients to post-RDR unit classes) which considered COBS rule 2.1.1R (1). This 
indicates that notification that a clean unit exists without any specific recommendation to 
convert to that class  does not constitute advice. I thought this was useful further confirmation 
of the distinction between  advice and provision of information and that notification that 
something exists wasnt advice. 
I was aware the four bundled funds identified by Mr G were  held before the new guidance 
was issued. But given  the duty to act in the interests  of the client  and the obligation to ensure 
information about funds wasnt biased, I thought  BDL shouldve  given  Mr G some 
information about the new unbundled  funds that became available alongside the bundled 
funds he held. 
I said that because  the absence of information  meant Mr G wasnt  aware there was an 
unbundled version of the funds he was in. This meant that his perspective wasnt  supported 
by full information and was in effect  biased  in favour of the bundled fund.  The information 
that couldve been provided  could  at least have been a generic note that many  unbundled 
Ref: DRN88462723funds were being created (and at best highlighting the specific  new parallel unbundled 
funds). That information could have emphasised the issue of conversion and whether to take 
advice was up to the client. Based on the date that at least  one unbundled version was 
available this notification  couldve  been  done in 2014.
I thought that at least Stocktrade shouldve highlighted the change.  Failure to do so couldve 
meant it wasnt meeting  its obligations under the provisions discussed above. Such information 
couldve enabled Mr G to review or take advice and switch into unbundled funds and saved fees.
While there  was no certainty that he wouldve converted I thought it was likely that he would  
have, as it was beneficial for him. I thought the failure to provide that information even on a 
generic basis was a mistake and Mr G had lost out financially as a consequence.
I concluded BDL shouldve taken steps to issue a notification during the time of its ownership 
in 2014. The terms of the transfer of the new business didnt seem to have passed  on liability 
for actions  or failure to act before  the business was sold.  So, I thought BDL remained liable for 
that mistake up to the time of the transfer.
I considered whether Mr G had suffered distress and inconvenience  as a result of this failure  
to notify. I thought that the failure to notify meant Mr G missed  an opportunity. I thought  the 
impact on Mr G was moderate and an award of £150 would be fair and reasonable.
I proposed to uphold  the complaint in part and direct that BDL should  pay Mr G £150 for 
distress and inconvenience
Mr G said he didnt agree that BDL shouldnt compensate him just because  they didnt 
benefit from the additional commission for the fund. He felt that wasnt correct at law or fair 
and would allow BDL to escape  liability for its failings. He presented his calculation  of the 
loss in accordance  with the provisional  decision. He estimated  this was around £880  pounds 
plus interest based on the time period covered in the provisional decision.
BDL said it acted within the regulations and Stocktrade was sold in September  2015  and 
wasnt required to extinguish trail commission before the date it sold Stocktrade.  It said the 
Policy statement 13/1 said no further trail commissions should be retained for legacy 
business after 5 April 2016. It sold the Stocktrade business in September 2015 so was not 
required to extinguish these before  the sale. 
It said it understood there were merits in providing information to clients  about  the option  to 
switch into clean shares classes and the existence of the opportunity to convert. However,  it 
felt it was unfair to penalise BDL as this was not an explicit  requirement  of the regulations  or 
suggested by guidance. 
It had no obligation  to provide advice relating to individual investments and had not breached 
any regulation  or guidance to that effect. It didnt believe it was required to provide 
information about cheaper unbundled  classes prior to April 2016  and in any event the 
business was sold in September 2015.  It didnt think Mr G was entitled to any compensation.
BDL also said that it didnt provide information  to Mr G about  fund choices it was up to him to 
find that information in the public domain and instruct Stocktrade with his desired trades. In 
addition, the unbundled funds would  not have been made available to him on the Stocktrade 
platform during its ownership.
Ref: DRN88462724Mr G said he was able to find information about  the funds available on the Stocktrade 
platform. Hed had an investment  adviser  until June 2014. He didnt have an adviser during  
the period thereafter up to and including the time when he left Stocktrade and became aware 
of the fact he held bundled funds.
My second  provisional  decision
I issued a second provisional decision in short, I said the following.
BDL said that the regulations didnt require  legacy trail commission to stop completely  until 
April 2016 which is after the date it sold the Stocktrade business. As BDL advised  no trail 
commission was being paid it wasnt relevant to consider that issue  further.
BDL accepted that there was merit in providing  information about the option to switch  to 
clean shares but said it shouldnt  be penalised  as this was not an explicit  requirement  of the 
regulations or suggested by guidance  and it didnt believe  there  was any requirement to do 
so before April 2016 which was after the business  was sold. I accepted there was no explicit 
direction by the regulator to provide such notification but failing  to provide such  information  
could result in bias. Even if I was wrong in that I thought failing  to notify wasnt in line with 
the spirit  of the regulator requirements which aimed to increase transparency  for consumers. 
However, BDL said it didnt offer unbundled funds  at the time. The new provisions
for legacy  payments didnt come into force until 6 April 2016  which  was after it sold the 
business. Mr Gs funds  would fall within the legacy  class.  So, I couldnt reasonably conclude 
that it shouldve  made  unbundled units available to Mr G before that date and therefore 
couldnt conclude  it shouldve notified  him of their availability.
So, I didnt think I could  reasonably conclude that BDL shouldve ensured  Mr G was aware  
there were unbundled  funds available before September 2015 when it ceased  to own 
Stocktrade.
In the light of the information I changed my view on the award for distress and 
inconvenience. As BDL had not made a mistake I was no longer able to make such an 
award. I proposed  to change my view of this complaint and didnt propose to uphold  it. 
Since I issued my second provisional decision and contrary  to previous information provided, 
it has become clear and BDL has confirmed, that Mr G was transferred to the new business 
at a much  later date being 30 April 2016.  This is a material  change in facts  and changes my 
conclusions as the provisions regarding legacy  business applied from 6 April 2016 which is 
before Mr G was transferred to the new business owner. 
This was raised with BDL who commented as follows.
BDL confirmed that Mr G was transferred to the new business owners on 30 April 2016. It 
confirmed again  that it stopped accepting trail payments from 6 April 2016 and it said this 
meant itd met its regulatory obligations.  It further said that the FCA guidance FG 14/4 which 
was replaced by FG 18/3 didnt detail a requirement to initiate communication or 
communicate the availability nor any obligation  to advise the client  of the availability of 
cheaper units. It quoted relevant sections from FG 18/3 as follows  
Ref: DRN884627251.1This guidance  sets out what we expect from firms that are involved in the transfer of 
fund investors  from pre-Retail Distribution Review (RDR) unit classes  l to post-RDR 
unit classes. This guidance  replaces  the guidance in FG 14/4 on the same subject.
The requirements were  in relation to where a firm initiates a conversion  and the need in those circumstances  to 
act in the best interests of the client.
1.12 It is our view that under this provision and Principle 6 of the Principles for 
Businesses, a conversion initiated by the AFM, platform  or other intermediary acting 
on behalf of a client should normally  take place only if it is fair and, in the clients, 
best interests.
1.15 To mitigate  the risk that some clients  may be worse off, firms should ensure in all 
cases that clients have sufficient notification of, and information on, the proposed 
conversion to enable them to seek  advice or make  an informed decision  on whether 
to transfer their investments to another  platform. *The  notification  should include 
information on whether  there is likely to be an overall increase in charges for clients, 
as a result of the reduced AMC  combined  with the new platform charge  (or other 
charges).
*Under COBS 6.1G.1R, such transfers must  take place when  requested by the client  within a reasonable time 
and in an efficient manner.
It said the only prior notification was in relation to a conversion that is going to take place. 
There was never any obligation, by guidance or rule to advise the client that they may switch 
to a different  class  of unit. It continued to assert that it had not failed in this regard and 
therefore no compensation was payable.
In short  Mr G said 
1. Whether or not BDL was entitled  to retain any trail commission he felt their payment 
was relevant because  he was continuing  to incur  charges when he could have 
converted had he known  about them. Their payment was also relevant to any 
compensation.
2.BDL had never denied  they had received trail commission. He felt BDL should be 
asked to produce copies of their records so that it is clear if none was received. 
3.He said the sole reason  for rejecting his complaint following my earlier  provisional  
decision upholding his complaint,  was because  BDL had no obligation to make 
unbundled funds  available to him before  April 2016. He said he shouldve been  
asked what he wouldve done had he known that BDL did not offer unbundled  funds 
at that time. He says he wouldve switched to unbundled funds by transferring his 
holdings or liquidated  them and transferred to another platform  to invest  in unbundled  
funds. He wouldve  regarded the failure to provide  the unbundled  option as poor 
practice notwithstanding the RDR  particularly  given other  providers were  offering a 
switching service  which reinforced his willingness  to transfer out of Stocktrade.
4.In the light of this there was no basis for finding that because BDL did not themselves 
offer unbundled  funds  they had no obligation  to tell him about the existence of such  
funds and give him the opportunity  to review or take advice and switch  into 
unbundled funds  and save (fees).
Ref: DRN88462726I had previously concluded that Mr G shouldve been informed  of the availability of 
unbundled funds  in accordance with the 2013  guidance and I referred to principle 6 and 7 
and the spirit  of the regulator requirements.  Further I concluded that such information would 
not be advice  and therefore  consistent  with BDLs provision of an execution only platform. 
He didnt think my statement that Id need to conclude BDL had a general  obligation  to keep 
him informed  about market changes to succeed in this complaint  had been  explained. He 
didnt think this new conclusion was consistent  with my previous decisions. The use of the 
2016 end date to overturn  earlier conclusions  about  the 2013  guidance had not been 
explained. Earlier  decisions had considered the impact of the absence of information.
My further provisional decision
I issued a final provisional decision.  I said in my first provisional decision the early regulator 
provisions considered whether conversion to new unbundled funds was in the best interests 
of individual  clients and how to assess that, who initiates the conversion,  consent for 
conversions etc. A policy statement re. the introduction of clean  unit classes  came into 
force on 6 April 2014 for new business and 6 April 2016 for legacy business such that 
platforms were  required  to have  access to clean unit classes or be able to pass on 
continuing payments  they received from providers. (Policy statement 13/1 and COBS 6.1E.). 
As Mr G invested in bundled funds before 2014,  I regard his holdings as legacy holdings  and 
the new obligations would therefore have been  relevant  from no later than 6 April 2016. It is 
now clear that BDL remained the owner  and operator of the Stocktrade business in respect  
of Mr Gs account up until 30 April 2016 and the provisions were therefore applicable during 
its ownership.
The 2013  regulator guidance said that a platform service provider should  pay due regard to 
its obligations under  principle  6 (customers interests) and principle 7 (communication with 
clients) and ensure  it presents information  without bias. It was clear  the regulator  considered  
the importance of the provision of information  without bias because it expressly refers to it.
I didnt think providing  information was advice.  My view was reinforced by later regulator  
guidance issued  in 2018 (FG 18/3: changing  clients to post-RDR  unit classes ) which  
considered COBS rule 2.1.1R (1). This indicated that notification that a clean unit exists  
without any specific recommendation to convert to that class does not constitute advice. This 
was useful confirmation of the distinction between advice and provision of information  and/or 
notification that something  exists  wasnt  the same as advice. 
Given the duty to act in the interests  of the client and the obligation re absence of bias,  I 
thought it wouldve helped Mr G to have some information about the existence of new 
unbundled funds  that were being  introduced (whether or not made available) alongside the 
bundled funds  he held. 
I said that because  the absence of information  could mean Mr G wasnt  aware there were 
other unbundled versions of the funds  he was in. That would mean his perspective  wasnt  
supported by full information and was in effect biased in favour  of the bundled fund. 
But even if I was wrong in my view about bias, the absence of information about  unbundled 
funds wouldve been in breach of the spirit of the new RDR provisions  that encouraged 
transparency.
I therefore needed to consider what information  was available . BDL previously said that it 
didnt provide information to Mr G about  fund choices it was up to him to find that information  
Ref: DRN88462727in the public domain and instruct Stocktrade with his desired trades.  It hadnt  suggested  it 
issued any information  about the new unbundled classes specifically or generically. It also 
said the unbundled funds would not have been made available to him on the Stocktrade 
platform during its ownership. So, it seemed clear to me that Mr G didnt receive  any 
information from Stocktrade about the changes prior to 30 April 2016.
BDL previously said it understood  there  were  merits in providing information  to clients about  
the option to switch into clean shares classes and the existence of the opportunity to 
convert. It didnt say it had provided any information and went  further to argue it didnt need  
to as it felt it was unfair to penalise BDL as the provision of information was not an explicit  
requirement of the regulations or suggested by guidance. It had no obligation to provide 
advice relating to individual investments and had not breached any regulation or guidance to 
that effect. 
But I have already considered the difference between information and advice and highlighted 
that the regulator didnt  think the provision of information about  unbundled funds was advice. 
I accept the provision of information isnt an express  provision of the guidance.  But the 
guidance is clear  about the overriding principles I considered above and the objective of 
transparency. The guidance didnt need to instruct BDL exactly  what  to do it was up to BDL 
to comply with those overarching principles.  But I didnt think  it did for the reasons given 
above. 
In an earlier  reply BDL said it didnt believe it was required to provide information  about 
cheaper unbundled classes prior to April 2016 and in any event the business  was sold in 
September 2015. In effect it accepted that the provision of such information was required 
after that date which supports my conclusions. It was now clear that BDL remained 
responsible for Mr Gs account  after 5 April 2016.
I thought the absence of awareness, or absence  of an alternative fund, or the option of 
access to that or a similar fund meant that Mr Gs perspective was biased.  So, Mr G was 
unaware of the changes  and his choices. So, I didnt think  BDL satisfied the principles set 
out above. 
I considered BDLs comments about  the FCA guidance FG 14/4 which  was replaced by FG 
18/3. It said it didnt  detail  a requirement to initiate communication  or communicate the 
availability nor any obligation  to advise the client of the availability of cheaper units. I think  
and indeed BDL noted that the guidance it quoted  is explicitly  relevant to the offer of a 
conversion service, which BDL didnt do so they do not assist  it. Even  if I was wrong  in that, 
there would be no reason  to give a direction about  communication or information where such  
a service was offered.  I said that because the business would necessarily be in 
communication with and providing information for clients to highlight  their choices in order to 
offer such  a service. So, I didnt think the absence of a provision  about  information means 
that none was needed.  I remained of the view that the position I considered remained 
appropriate. 
I considered Mr Gs comments  that he felt my early conclusions supported  the position that 
he shouldve  been provided with information before 6 April 2016. In the light of my review of 
the guidance and my subsequent conclusion that his funds were legacy funds I had 
concluded that the provisions of the guidance were relevant  from 6 April 2016 onwards. 
While on general principles I might  conclude that BDL shouldve provided information before  
that date I thought that general provision was rebutted but the explicit  direction from the 
Ref: DRN88462728regulator that the guidance applies to legacy from that 6 April 2016. So, I thought  that explicit 
direction superseded any general obligation  I might infer.
In the light of all of these points  I didnt change my mind about my conclusions regarding  
bias and transparency for the reasons  set out above. Given the new information about the 
date BDL ceased to be responsible for Mr Gs account those conclusions were  now relevant 
to this complaint.  
I noted Mr Gs comments  about proving no trail commission was paid. BDL has expressly 
confirmed it didnt receive any trail commission after 6 April 2016 but hadnt proved it didnt 
receive any. I am content to accept the express  confirmation from BDL that this was the 
case. Even if the confirmation was incorrect, my award for loss proposed below would 
compensate Mr G for any higher amount that has been paid on the bundled  fund.
Mr G says that had he been  aware he wouldve switched  to the unbundled versions or if 
none to similar unbundled  funds or he wouldve transferred  to another  provider who did offer 
unbundled funds/version  of his funds. I think that is reasonable.  Any award for loss would  
seek to put him back in the position  he wouldve  been in but for the failure  to provide 
information to prevent  bias and ensure transparency.
So, I thought his loss is the difference between the management charges of the bundled and 
unbundled funds  for the period from 6 April 2016 to the 30 April 2016 when Mr G was 
transferred to the new business owner  of Stocktrade.
I proposed to direct that BDL should  pay this amount to Mr G plus interest at the rate of 8% 
per annum  simple from the date each charge  was deducted to the date of payment to Mr G.
I considered whether Mr G had suffered distress and inconvenience.  It was clear that Mr G 
was frustrated and upset that he wasnt aware  of the changes and able to take steps to 
protect his investments in his pension. Having  regard to the relatively short  time period 
during which  BDL couldve assisted Mr G, I thought an award  of £50 is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances.
BDL said it remained of the view that the Financial Guidance set out at the time did not 
mandate firms to advise  the client they may switch to a different class of unit. It continued to 
assert that there was no failure by BDL in this regard.
Mr G accepted my provisional  decision.  He asked that BDL should provide him with details 
of their calculations in a clear and simple format.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I have not changed my 
mind for the reasons  already set out in my provisional decision.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and direct that Brewin Dolphin  Limited should pay Mr G: -
1.£50 for distress and inconvenience 
Ref: DRN88462729and 
2. the difference between the management  charges of the bundled  and unbundled  funds for 
the period from 6 April 2016 to the 30 April 2016.  If such difference  shows,  there is a loss 
because Mr G has paid higher fund charges than wouldve  been  the case  Brewin  Dolphin  
Limited must  pay Mr G the difference plus interest  at the rate of 8% per annum simple  from 
the date each charge was deducted  to the date of payment to Mr G.
Brewin Dolphin Limited should provide details of its calculations to Mr G in a clear and 
simple format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 March  2021.
Colette Bewley
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8846272