K820x#14complaint
Ms G complains on behalf of E, a limited  company,  that Ageas  Insurance Limited unfairly  
declined a claim under a business protection insurance policy.  
background
Ms G took out an insurance policy for E through a broker. It covered  amongst other  things 
 employers liability for costs in the event of an accident or injury to an employee. In 2014,  
one of Es employees  suffered  a head  injury  whilst  at work. 
In June 2017, E received  a letter from the employees solicitors with notice of a claim for 
injury. E responded to the solicitor setting out their understanding  of events and sharing  
information they had about the incident. E was then served court papers in early  
November 2017.  It gave a deadline of 20 November 2017 to respond to the court.  
The court papers were emailed by E to their broker on 15 November 2017. The broker then 
forwarded them on to Ageas the next day. As no defence was put in by E by 
20 November 2017, a judgment  was made  in favour  of the employee. E sent the judgment  to 
their broker  in December  2017 and wanted  to know why Ageas hadnt assisted them in 
defending the claim.  The broker then sent this onto Ageas.
Ageas said it never received an email  from the broker  in November 2017. It also said E had 
never told it about the incident in 2014 or the claim until after the judgment had been issued. 
It said even if it had received the email in November  2017 this would have given it less than 
three working days to investigate the entire claim,  decide if it was going to provide cover and 
put forward a defence.  It didnt think that was enough  time. 
Ageas said that even  if it did have enough  time it wouldnt have provided  cover anyway. It 
said this was because  E hadnt complied with the policy terms. In particular, E was required 
to report the incident in 2014 and E had responded to the employees solicitor. Ageas said 
these actions had prejudiced its position  so it wouldnt be prepared  to provide cover  for that 
reason. 
Ms G accepted that cover wouldnt have been  provided because E had responded to the 
solicitor. But she thought Ageas had received details of the claim on 16 November 2017 and 
should have told E then it wouldnt provide cover. She said had it done this then E could 
have found their own solicitor in time to file a defence. She says E had now incurred 
unnecessary costs in getting the judgement overturned. 
Our investigator didnt  think Ageas had done anything wrong. She thought  Ageass  position 
had been prejudiced by Es actions  so it hadnt done anything  wrong  in not providing  cover.  
She also didnt think  Ageas had received the claim forms  until December 2017 so it couldnt  
have responded  to E any sooner than it did. 
Ms G didnt agree. In summary  she said Ageas had compromised Es position  by doing 
nothing with the claim forms they were sent in November  2017. 
The complaint has been passed  to me for a final decision. 
Ref: DRN88659572my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There doesnt appear to be any dispute  that Ageas wouldnt provide  cover.  Im satisfied 
E didnt  comply with the policy terms by not reporting the accident back in 2014.  E also 
responded to the employees  solicitor  without consulting Ageas first. Im satisfied Ageas has 
shown these actions  would have potentially prejudiced  its position  in defending any claim. 
For this reason I dont  think Ageas has done  anything wrong in declining  to provide cover.
What is in dispute is whether Ageas received notification  of the claim earlier  than 
December 2017.  Based on everything Ive seen,  I dont think  it did. I say this because Ageas 
didnt send any acknowledgment to suggest it had received the email in November 2017.  
Ive also not seen anything from Ageas records that would lead me to think  it was more  
likely than not the email  was received.  When the broker emailed in December 2017, Ageas  
responded the next day. I think  this demonstrates  its likely Ageas would have responded or 
acknowledged the original email if it had been  received.  
I accept its possible Ageas did receive the email in November  2017 and was accidently 
deleted or missed before a response  was sent.  But even if I agreed Ageas had received the 
email, I dont think that means Ageas are at fault for the judgement  being issued. 
E had received the court documents on 7 November  2017 but didnt send  the details over to 
the broker until 15 November 2017,  which was five days before the court deadline.  Given the 
urgent nature of the deadline and that Ageas had never previously been told about any claim 
or possible claim, I think it would have  been reasonable for E to chase up receipt of these 
documents with Ageas. 
Ive also considered that E didnt get any acknowledgement from Ageas (or the broker) prior 
to the court  deadline to say cover would be provided. For this reason I think  the onus was on 
E to ensure  it either had cover in place or that it sought alternative legal assistance. In 
circumstances like this its reasonable to expect  E to take steps to protect its position.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 August 2019. 
Tero Hiltunen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8865957