K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Northern Bank  Limited told them  they had to take PPI as a 
condition of their mortgage  offer in 1998.  Theyve  since learned that this wasnt  true and 
wouldnt have done so if theyd known this.
background
In 1998 Mr and Mrs H took out a £230,000  mortgage (£68,000 interest-only and £162,000 
capital repayment). The interest-only part was covered by existing endowment policies. They  
were recommended  cover for the capital repayment  part, and agreed to level term cover 
rather than the more obvious decreasing term cover.
In 2004 Mr and Mrs H changed their mortgage and say the adviser didnt talk about the 
existing policy so they assumed it was still required.  
Northern Bank rejected  Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. It said it did insist on life cover  as part of 
any mortgage offer in 1998, this was not a form of PPI, and it was satisfied the policy was 
appropriate. It accepted that such cover was no longer required when Mr and Mrs H took out 
a different mortgage  in 2004  but said it was not obliged to inform  them  of this.
An adjudicator at this service  accepted  that Northern Bank  in common with many lenders - 
made life insurance/suitable protection a condition of its mortgage offers in 1998.  He said it 
was entitled to do so although  he felt it hadnt made this clear. He also noted that Northern 
Bank no longer  made this a requirement by 2004  and felt it had made  this clear.
He noted that the terms and conditions of the new mortgage made clear that life cover  
wasnt a condition of the facility: The Bank  recommends that you carefully consider whether 
you take out insurance for the sole purpose of ensuring complete  or partial  repayment  of the 
Facility in the event  of your death.
Mr and Mrs H didnt agree and made the following comments:
Northern Bank never told them when it no longer required life cover. Surely when 
they changed the mortgage in 2004 this was the perfect opportunity to do so? It 
should have been  more open with the requirements.
Section 10.3 of the terms and conditions of the new mortgage suggests that they 
must retain any existing  security agreement.
The adjudicator replied,  saying condition 10.3 related only to anything  legally assigned to 
Northern Bank as security  for the mortgage.  That would include the Mortgage Deed and 
potentially any guarantee from a third party (if it had been needed) or the legal assignment of 
the proceeds of the policy theyd taken out. He said that as Northern Bank had never  taken a 
legal assignment  of the policy so it was never held as formal  security for their mortgage. It 
was not therefore covered under section 10.3 of the accounts conditions.
Mr and Mrs H did not agree, and said:
Paragraph 10.3 is not just talking about  formally  held securities;  it says this also 
applies to any other agreement made between you and the bank. It is clear to them  
Ref: DRN86373632that this would include the policy they were required take out in 1998.  If the bank did 
not require them to retain the policy at this point it should have made this clear.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case I agree with the adjudicator and for broadly the same reasons.
It is important  to explain that my role, when considering a complaint, is to decide  whether a 
business clearly did something wrong or made a mistake, not whether it might have done 
things differently (such as tell customers when life cover ceases to be a condition  of a 
mortgage).
I have no reason to doubt that Northern  Bank  did make life cover a condition  of mortgage 
offers back  in 1998, and the policy recommended was not a form of PPI. In my view 
Northern Bank had no regulatory  duty to tell Mr and Mrs H when life cover was no longer a 
condition of their mortgage.  So while I understand, and sympathise with Mr and Mrs Hs 
argument I cannot agree that Northern  Bank  was obliged to tell them about the change in 
2004. I cannot uphold their complaint  on that basis.
I am also satisfied the terms  and conditions for the new mortgage did not say that life cover 
was compulsory. I have  considered the specific clause which  Mr and Mrs H refer to which 
talks about The Security (2.1) held by the bank.  I agree that this clause is open to 
misunderstanding but I dont think this is sufficient  to warrant  upholding this complaint  for 
various reasons.
Firstly, Mr and Mrs Hs policy had never  been assigned  to the bank so it had not been 
security for their existing  mortgage, even though the bank had insisted on it. Secondly,  if 
this was the case then there would be no need for the clause 16.9 which says that the bank 
recommends taking out insurance to protect this loan. This sentence clearly talks about this 
being a recommendation  in contrast  with the following clause which  states that buildings 
insurance is compulsory.
Crucially, I am not persuaded that Mr and Mrs H studied clause 2.1 in detail at the time and 
concluded that this meant  their existing cover  continued to be compulsory. This is because 
they did not mention this clause when  making their original complaint or when bringing  it to 
this service. Instead, they only brought it up after Northern  Bank  explained that the policy  
had been compulsory in 1998,  and although  this was no longer the case  in 2004  it was not 
required to tell them about this change.
Mr and Mrs H were perfectly entitled  to raise  this issue, and it is a valid point for me to 
consider but it does  not suggest  they were heavily  influenced by this clause, and were 
misled by it, back in 2004. It seems  to me more likely that they kept the policy after 2004  
because they assumed  it was still necessary given Northern Bank had not told them 
otherwise. But, as Ive explained above,  I dont think this is sufficient to uphold  their 
complaint.
Ref: DRN86373633my final decision
I do not uphold  the complaint or make any financial award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 June  2019. 
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8637363