K820x#14Complaint
Mr and Mrs S bring this complaint on behalf  of L Limited, of which they are both directors.  
They complain, in summary, that The Royal Bank of Scotland plc took security to support 
proposed borrowing more quickly than it should  have  done  and without their knowledge. 
The proposed facilities were not, in the end, approved by the bank  but because  the 
security had already  been taken they have had to pay to have it released, which has caused  
unexpected costs, inconvenience, and has added to the delay in setting up their business.  
Background
Several years ago, Mr and Mrs S asked Royal Bank of Scotland  to help them  set up their 
new business.  In  2016, the bank agreed to do so  and it issued facility agreements which, 
amongst other things,  contained a number  of conditions which needed to be met before the 
money could be released.  However, circumstances continued to develop  and change, and 
the bank eventually declined to help.   But when Mr and Mrs S were  negotiating alternative 
borrowing with a different  lender it came to light that Royal  Bank of Scotland had already 
taken security it had said it would need to support the 2016 facility  agreements.
Mr and Mrs S complained to the bank, but they werent told straightaway that they would 
have to pay the legal costs of having  the security released.  Along with explaining the other  
costs their company  would have to meet, they asked the bank to cover the fees to release 
the security  but it declined to do so.  (More recently, Mr and Mrs S have told us that the 
bank caused a further delay in actually releasing  the security   but I understand it has all 
now been discharged.)
Our adjudicator concluded, in summary, that  when they signed the 2016 facility  
agreements  Mr and Mrs S would have been aware that the security  would then be taken, 
not least because  the lending could  not have been  made available to L Limited until the 
security had been completed.  She also felt that, in saying what  he did about releasing  the 
security, their relationship manager might  not initially have known what the process entailed  
 but once he did know he gave them the correct information.  The  adjudicator did not 
recommend that the complaint should be upheld.
In response, Mr and Mrs S said  in summary:
-The 2016 offer of facilities  was only provisional   it was subject to many  conditions.  So, 
even though they signed it, nothing was going  to be final until all the conditions  had been 
met. Indeed,  amendments could be made  as their plans and projections developed.
-Whilst they accept the agreements said that security would be taken before any money 
would be released (and they would have to pay the costs for doing so), they didnt know 
it had been completed   indeed,  other  conditions had to be satisfied first.
-Their relationship manager  didnt  know the security had been completed, and they want  
to know why they werent told it had been.   It cant be right for the bank  to have taken 
something  and then held on to it  when it wasnt rightfully  theirs.  A bank has no right 
to hold on to security without releasing  any money against it, and when their borrowing 
was finally declined  in 2018 the bank didnt tell them the security had to be released.
Ref: DRN89976672My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments in order  to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the individual circumstances of this complaint.  Where  the evidence  is 
contradictory, as some  of it is here, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities   that 
is, what I consider is most likely to have  happened  in light of the evidence  that is available  
and the wider surrounding circumstances.
I do very much understand Mr and Mrs Ss disquiet  at what happened.   Theyve been 
working on setting up their new business for a long time, and its not surprising that  when 
they approached  their new lender  after Royal Bank of Scotland  ultimately said it couldnt 
help  they were  alarmed  to discover  that the bank  had already taken the security  they then 
needed to offer to the new lender.
Theres a difference  of view between Mr and Mrs S and the bank about what was initially 
made clear about taking  the security.  Their relationship  manager  has said he recalls  telling 
Mr and Mrs S, back in 2016, that the bank would  go ahead  and do so while they worked  on 
satisfying all the other lending conditions  as he set out by email after the June 2016 
meeting.  But  they dont  remember it quite  that way, and believe they needed to get closer  to 
complying with all the other conditions  before  the security would actually be taken.
At this distance in time its difficult to know  precisely  what was said and agreed in 2016.   But 
what is clear is that, at that time,  the bank anticipated being  able to help Mr and Mrs S, and 
they reasonably  expected (subject  to meeting all the various conditions) that Royal  Bank of 
Scotland would  provide them with the money they needed.  Its also the case  that it can take 
some time to complete security.  So, on balance, I find it likely  that the bank did make  it 
adequately clear to Mr and Mrs S  especially because the security would have to have 
been completed before it would lend any money   that it would press ahead, as 
contemplated by the agreements, with that part of the preparatory  work.  Its also the case, 
as Mr and Mrs S accept, that they paid for the security to be taken.  So,  after careful 
consideration, I do not believe  it was wrong  for Royal Bank of Scotland to have completed 
the security before Mr and Mrs S had met all the other lending  conditions.  I also consider,  
on balance, that they either knew  or reasonably  ought to have been  aware   that that was 
going to happen.
I agree  that, in general terms, a bank should not hold security without there  being  a good 
reason for it doing so.  But, on the other  hand,  its not wrong for a bank  to hold security in the 
expectation of being able to provide  borrowing facilities   not least  because, if the security  is 
already in place,  it can help speed up the provision  of those facilities.   So whilst  I do follow 
what Mr and Mrs S mean when they say the security  was not rightfully  the banks, equally 
when it became apparent to them that they needed  to approach another  lender I consider it 
was for them  to check the position over any security  and (if already taken, as it was) to ask 
for it to be released.  And although  there  was some  initial confusion about the process and 
who would  have to pay any costs, the general principle is that it is for the customer  to do so. 
I do not consider  it would be right,  therefore,  for me to require the bank to meet those costs.
Mr and Mrs S have  recently made a supplementary point that the bank delayed sending  the 
security release paperwork to their solicitor.  I agree that this was unfortunate. However, 
Mr and Mrs S also accept  that this was overlooked  by their solicitor  as well.  So I dont 
believe I can fairly hold the bank any more  responsible for this than anyone  else.  In addition,  
as Ive already  said, having checked the position at Companies House I see that Royal  
Bank of Scotlands security has now been discharged.
Ref: DRN89976673My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my Final  Decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S, on 
behalf of L Limited, to accept or reject my decision before  12 March 2020.
David Millington
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8997667