K820x#14complaint
Mrs R says CashEuroNet UK LLC trading as QuickQuid lent to her irresponsibly. She says 
she couldnt afford to make the repayments as she was in severe financial  difficulty.   
background
This complaint is about one payday  loan. Mrs R borrowed £200  in April 2009. She was due 
to make two payments  to this loan over a 45 day period. I understand Mrs R has been 
unable to fully repay  the loan. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs R disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
QuickQuid needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly.  In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs R 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  
These checks could take into account  a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early  stages  of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might  be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Rs complaint.  Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Rs 
complaint and have  explained why below.
Ive seen a record  of the information Mrs R provided  when she completed her loan 
application. Mrs R said she had a monthly  income of £1,000. So it would have  been  
reasonable for QuickQuid to assume that she could afford the two repayments to this loan, 
the highest of which  was £250.  
I havent seen  any further information  that shows its likely QuickQuid was made aware of 
any financial  problems Mrs R mightve been having.  Or anything  that wouldve prompted  it to 
investigate Mrs Rs circumstances further.  
I can see that Mrs R was in financial difficulty when she took this loan from QuickQuid. But at 
this early point in a lending  relationship, and when  the amounts borrowed seem reasonable, 
I wouldnt have expected QuickQuid to make  in depth enquiries into Mrs Rs financial 
circumstances at this stage. I dont think its reasonable to say that QuickQuid shouldve  
found out about all of this. So I think it was proportionate for QuickQuid to rely on the 
information it obtained.
Ref: DRN83994462So overall, in these circumstances, I think the assessment QuickQuid did for this loan was 
proportionate. And I think its decision to lend was reasonable and Im not upholding Mrs Rs 
complaint about  it. 
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mrs R is hoping  for. But I hope she understands why I 
have reached my decision. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Rs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 September  2019.
Andy Burlinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8399446