K821x#15complaint
Miss L complains about Aviva Insurance Limiteds delays and handling  of her claim for water  
damage to her home  under her residential  insurance  policy.
background
In December 2016 Miss Ls home  suffered water damage from a neighbouring property. In 
November 2017  she complained to Aviva about its handling of her claim. Aviva issued a final 
response in March 2018. Miss L brought her complaint to our service but did so out of time.
Miss L raised further issues with Aviva in 2018  as the claim was still not resolved and she 
was unhappy  with how it was being  dealt with. Aviva issued a further  final response in 
January 2019  and said it was unable to refer to any issues before March 2018 as these had 
already been investigated. Aviva said it didnt think it had done  anything wrong since  then. 
An ombudsman at this service decided that under  our powers  set out in the rules, we 
couldnt consider  Miss Ls complaints about:
Whether the claim in general has taken too long, up to 22 March  2018.
The delay by the original loss adjuster in installing  de-humidifiers.
Delays between new claim handlers  being appointed in November 2017  and the air 
quality report being provided.
Aviva  refusing the ombudsman service consent to look at the complaint points it dealt 
within its final response in March 2018.
The final response  of March 2018  sent before the claim investigation had concluded.
The ombudsman said we could  consider:
Whether there have  been delays in the claim in general since  22 March  2018.
The loss adjusters refusing a request for alternative accommodation in April 2017.
The reports on air quality, their contents and whether it was reasonable for the Aviva  
and its appointed claims handlers to rely on these.
Dehumidifiers being left on in Miss Ls property  for longer than they shouldve been.
The works to Miss Ls utility room not being carried  out to the correct  standard.
Aviva  abandoning recovery action against  the party considered responsible  for the 
escape of water,  which meant nothing was recovered in respect of Miss Ls contents.
Aviva  taking more than eight weeks to answer an email  Miss L sent on 13 November 
2018 saying she was unhappy with delays.
The ombudsman also said this service  could consider the increase  in the excess  and overall 
premium for the policy. But Miss Ls policy is a group  policy for the freeholders. This means  
a complaint about the excess and premium  will need  to be brought  as a separate complaint.
Miss L also wants compensation for a health issue due to the claim; financial loss by being  
not able to live in or rent her property for almost two years and not being  able to sell it. She 
also wants compensation for having  to take time off work and having to relocate regularly.
Aviva said that it appointed experts  to carry out tests to determine  if her property was a 
health risk. It said the results showed no concerns and it told Miss L the alternative 
accommodation (AA) would cease. Aviva said in order to be certain, further testing was 
Ref: DRN89778102undertaken and these  results again  showed  no concerns. Aviva  said Miss Ls property was 
safe to live in and it hadnt caused any unnecessary delay.
The investigator recommended  the complaint be upheld. He said Aviva should  have offered 
AA sooner and should pay Miss L £100  compensation. He said it was reasonable for Aviva 
to rely on expert reports to conclude Miss Ls home  was safe. He said Aviva accepted the 
dehumidifiers were  left in Miss Ls home  too long, offered £100 compensation and agreed to 
pay the electricity. He said it should  pay interest on the bill. He said Miss L provided  emails 
from a specialist to say prolonged exposure to non-sealed dehumidifiers can cause ill-health. 
He said she was exposed  for two months,  which may have contributed to her feeling  unwell  
and Aviva should pay £300  compensation.  He said Aviva agreed  to pay a contractor of 
Miss Ls choice to rectify the poor repairs. But he thought Aviva  should have dealt with this 
more quickly and should pay Miss L £200 compensation for the unnecessary delay.  
The investigator said Miss Ls contents  werent  covered by her policy and Aviva is allowed to 
decide if it wanted to pursue a third party for the damage.  But he said Aviva had to consider 
all the evidence before  reaching  such a decision and it hadnt  considered  a video Miss L 
sent that appeared to contradict its view that her neighbour was unaware  of the issue.  He 
said Aviva  should  review it and seek an independent legal opinion about  whether, in light of 
this, theres a reasonable chance  of success in court.  The investigator said Avivas offer of 
£50 compensation  for its delayed response  to Miss Ls email  of 13 November 2018  was fair.
Aviva agreed to the investigators recommendations, but Miss L didnt. She said Aviva's 
refusal to provide AA in April 2017  hadnt  been addressed  in a previous complaint and it 
should compensate  her. She said Aviva cant say her home was habitable as water  was in 
her basement for months before  anything happened, and damp  was the consequence.  She 
disagreed about  the reports on air quality  saying Aviva couldnt rely on a test that happened  
a year late and wasnt independent.  Miss L requested an ombudsman review her complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss L has raised a number of points within her complaint. I hope she doesnt take it as a 
discourtesy that I havent addressed every point and have concentrated on what  I consider 
to be the main points.  
Miss L brought  a previous complaint to our service  about Avivas  handling of her claim, but it 
was outside the time limits that apply to complaints and we couldnt consider it. This means 
that we cant consider  complaints that are within the first list above. I have considered the 
points of Miss Ls complaint that the previous ombudsman  decided  are within our jurisdiction. 
So far as Miss Ls complaint about  delays is concerned, I have dealt with this where  
applicable below.
Avivas original decision to refuse  AA in April 2017
When a property becomes uninhabitable,  we expect insurers  to offer policyholders AA. 
Miss Ls home was damaged by a flood in her basement  which  she used as a utility  room. 
Avivas loss adjuster  visited  in January  2017 and said other than the basement the rest of 
her home was dry. From  this report I think it was reasonable for Aviva  to decide AA wasnt 
required. 
Ref: DRN89778103But Miss L told Aviva in April 2017  that she was experiencing ill health which she thought 
was due to the condition  of her home. I think Aviva should have responded by arranging  AA 
for Miss L until air quality checks were completed and the outcome known.
Miss L said she was forced  to stay with friends until Aviva arranged AA in February 2018. I 
dont think it was fair for Aviva to delay  its offer of AA and I think  it should  pay Miss L £100  
for the distress and inconvenience it caused.
Was it reasonable for Aviva to rely on the reports on the air quality in Miss Ls home?
Aviva arranged experts to test the air quality of Miss Ls home.  She said had this happened 
sooner the results might have shown what she had suffered and so for this reason and 
because the samples  werent wide enough Aviva  shouldnt  have relied  on the results.
From what  Ive seen the reports were  compiled by expert air quality analysts. And I think it 
was reasonable  for Aviva to rely on the results of the reports. I understand Miss Ls feelings 
about this, but as both the expert reports concluded  there were no unusual levels of 
contaminants in the property it appears to have been habitable. I cant  be sure what  the 
results might  have been had the test been conducted before. 
I was sorry to learn that Miss L still suffered ill health  after the tests were  completed.  But I 
think it was reasonable  for Aviva to conclude, on the basis  of the evidence, that whatever 
was causing Miss Ls ill health, wasnt related to the air quality in her home.
Dehumidifiers left on in Miss Ls property  for longer than they shouldve  been
Aviva accepted the dehumidifiers were left in Miss Ls property longer than they shouldve 
been and agreed to pay for the electricity used (£1,040) and offered £100 compensation. I 
agree with the investigator that the electricity  payment is fair so long as interest is also paid 
to compensate Miss L for loss of use of the money  while awaiting payment. 
Miss L said her health worsened because of the dehumidifiers  and provided  emails from a 
specialist to show that prolonged exposure  to non-sealed dehumidifiers can cause adverse 
health symptoms.  The specialist said they should  be placed in a sealed area. I understand 
the basement wasnt sealed from the ground floor of Miss Ls home and so she was exposed 
to the action of the dehumidifiers. 
Miss L suffered continued ill health  after removal of the dehumidifiers and so I cant  be sure 
they were the only cause.  But I think  prolonged exposure likely  to have contributed  to her 
feeling unwell at this time.  And I think Aviva  should pay Miss L £300 compensation for the 
probable contribution to health problems  from which  she suffered.
Delays in Miss Ls claim from 22 March 2018  and poor  work  to her utility room
After the initial work was completed the air quality  test showed Miss Ls home was habitable 
and Aviva closed the claim. But Miss L complained to Aviva about the quality of the work and 
it sent a loss adjuster who agreed  the work wasnt  completed adequately. Aviva agreed  to 
cover the cost of a contractor of Miss Ls choice subject to quotes, to rectify  the work. I would 
expect an insurer to resolve poor repairs in this way and I think  Aviva acted fairly here. If 
Miss L has not done so already, she should arrange for a quote to be provided to Aviva.
Ref: DRN89778104Miss L notified Aviva of the poor work  in April 2019  and I think it caused an avoidable delay  
until it offered to cover the cost of her contractor in June 2019. I think this caused  Miss L 
further distress and inconvenience  for which Aviva should pay £200 compensation.
Aviva abandoning recovery action  against the party considered responsible for the 
claim in respect of Miss Ls contents
Miss Ls contents arent covered  by her Aviva policy  and the policy allows  Aviva  to decide 
about whether  or not it should pursue a third party for liability  for damage.  Aviva  has said it 
didnt pursue Miss Ls neighbour because it feels theres no reasonable prospect of success  
of proving they acted negligently in a court. This was because the leak in the neighbours 
property was concealed and therefore the owner  would  have  been  unaware of the issue.
It is for a court to decide if a third party is liable for damage.  But we would expect an insurer  
to consider all the available evidence  before  making a decision to pursue a third party  for 
liability. Miss L provided a video  from when her plumber discovered  the leak in the 
neighbouring property. The tenant explains theyd reported the leak in September 2016.  This 
contradicts what Aviva  says about  the owner of the property being unaware of the issue.  
Miss L said she provided this information at the start of the claim,  but it doesnt  seem to have 
been considered when  Aviva made  its decision not to pursue her neighbour. I think it would 
be fair to Miss L for Aviva to review this evidence  and seek  an independent legal opinion 
about whether,  in light of this, there is a reasonable chance of success  in a court.
Aviva taking more  than eight weeks to answer  Miss Ls email of 13 November 2018 
Aviva offered Miss L £50 compensation for its delayed response and I think  this was fair.
Miss L also wants compensation for health  problems due to the claim, and for not being able 
to live in or rent her home for two years and not being able to sell it. She also wants 
compensation for having to take time off work  and having to relocate regularly.
I have addressed Miss Ls health problem and aspects  of the delays above. Complex 
escape of water claims take a long time to resolve and so it follows  that activities such  as 
renting out or selling a property are delayed. I havent found that Aviva was responsible  for 
avoidable delays  other than those  Ive described above. Overall, I think the compensation I 
have put forward  in this decision is fair and reasonably reflects the impact on Miss L of 
Avivas poor handling of her claim.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given above it is my final decision that the complaint is upheld. I 
require Aviva Insurance Limited to do the following:
Pay Miss L £100 for the distress  and inconvenience it caused  by the delay in 
providing alternative accommodation  in April 2017.
Pay Miss L £300 for the health impact from the delay in collecting the dehumidifiers.
Pay Miss L 8% simple interest on its payment for the electricity the dehumidifiers  
used, from the date they should  have been  removed,  until the date of settlement.
Pay Miss L £200 for the distress  and inconvenience caused  by the delays in 
resolving a settlement  for the rectification  works of the poor workmanship.
Ref: DRN89778105Obtain an independent legal opinion about  whether there  is a reasonable chance of 
recovering its outlay from the third party.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 July 2020.
Andrew Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8977810