K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in
2006. Mrs M says Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Halifax had to make Mrs M aware  the PPI was optional and gain her consent  before  adding 
it to her card. I cant be certain what was said at the time Mrs M applied for her card and PPI, 
but Halifax has provided a copy of the available paperwork. Mrs Ms credit card application 
form had a separate section for PPI where the option to take the policy  was selected. Mrs M 
also signed separately to accept the PPI policy from signing for the card itself.  So, I think  
Halifax made it clear that Mrs M didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to take it out  
although I can understand why she may not remember  this
.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mrs M so it had to check that the PPI was right for her. Mrs 
M has told us she would  have been entitled to generous sick pay sick pay when she applied  
for the card so she wouldnt have needed PPI. But the PPI would have paid out in addition to 
Mrs Ms sick pay, and for longer than she would have  received full pay.
Based on what Ive seen  of Mrs Ms circumstances at the time, she wasnt  affected  by any of
the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover  and she seems to have had a need  for the cover. 
So, I think it was right for her.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mrs M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve
been. But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted  this type of cover. And it 
seems like it would have  been useful for her if something went  wrong.  It also looks  like it was
affordable. So, I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put her off taking out
the cover.
Which means Halifax doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs M. 
But Halifax  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs M because:
Halifax got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs M about  that. Because  Halifax  didnt tell Mrs M, 
that was unfair.
To put that right, Halifax  has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share  
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.  
Ive thought about everything Mrs M has said  but these points dont change my decision.
Ref: DRN81845992my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 November  2020.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8184599