K822xcomplaint
This complaint is about a Yorkshire  Bank-branded  mortgage and secured loan Mr and Mrs M 
hold with Clydesdale Bank PLC. Mr and Mrs M are unhappy that the mortgage  was switched 
to interest-only  in 2009. There are two issues with the secured loan, which are, in summary:
it consolidated  about £60,000 of unsecured consumer debt that would instead have been 
dealt with in a subsequent Individual Voluntary Arrangement (IVA); and
it was rescheduled  in 2013 on an interest-only  basis, leaving a balloon  payment to be 
settled when the term ended.
background 
In what follows, I have  summarised events in rather  less detail than theyve been presented, 
using my own words to do so, and rounding  the numbers involved. No discourtesys 
intended by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I dont  mention  
something, it wont be because Ive ignored  it. Itll be because I didnt think  it was material to 
the outcome of the complaint. 
This approach is consistent with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows  me to 
focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by 
matters which, although presented as material, are, in my opinion peripheral.  Another reason 
I have left out a lot of the detail is to avoid the risk of identifying Mr and Mrs M when my 
decision is published.
The mortgage Mr and Mrs M are complaining about was originally capital repayment with a 
starting balance in 2004 of around  £335,000. In January 2009, Yorkshire arranged a 
£60,000 secured  loan,  the purpose  of which was to consolidate and secure various  
unsecured debts owed to the bank through other credit facilities.  Monthly payments of 
around £1330 were required on the new loan.  In September  of the same year,  the first 
mortgage was switched to interest-only.
These changes had been prompted by a significant  reduction in household income following 
a change in Mr Ms employment situation. They say theyd already been talking to debt 
advisors about how to manage additional unsecured debts owed to other  creditors. 
Unfortunately, Mr and Mr M continued  to struggle  with their finances,  and eventually entered  
into IVAs in respect of those other  debts. 
In 2013, Yorkshire  refinanced the secured  loan (which at that stage had a balance  of about 
£54,000) to make the monthly  payments  more  affordable for Mr and Mrs M. It did this, by, in 
essence, switching  the loan to interest-only.  At the end of the term, Mr and Mrs M would 
have to make a balloon payment to settle  it in full. Their payments were revised periodically, 
according to what they could afford, and by the time the due date for the balloon  payment 
was approaching, they still owed over £30,000.
Mr and Mrs M started their complaint in 2017,  and referred it to us in January 2018.  In the 
initial phone call to us, they said, in summary:
theyd been  forced  to take out the consolidation loan, as a pre-condition for the bank 
agreeing to switch  the mortgage  to interest-only;
the consolidated debts could  have been dealt  with in the IVAs  if Yorkshire  hadnt  insisted  
on them  taking the loan; and
Ref: DRN80672612theyd only recently  realised there was a balloon payment due on the secured loan.
For the most  part, our investigator didnt think Yorkshire had done anything  wrong  in 2009. 
Given that the consolidation loan was arranged several months before the mortgage 
switched to interest-only, she wasnt persuaded the one was a condition of the other. And 
theres was nothing in the notes from the time that indicated  Mr and Mrs M were  about to go 
into IVAs.
But she didnt think it was right for Yorkshire to restructure the loan in 2013 with a balloon  
payment. She thought Yorkshire should  have set the loan up on a repayment basis,  with a 
term that corresponded with a monthly  payment of £600, which, according to the 
contemporaneous notes, had been  assessed as affordable at the time.
Yorkshire agreed to do this, but Mr and Mrs M didnt think  it went  far enough; they asked for 
the complaint  to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ill start with some  general  observations. Were  not the regulator  of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal  processes  or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct  Authority. We deal with individual  disputes between businesses  and their 
customers. In doing  that, we dont replicate the work  of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either  sides instructions on how we investigate  a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations  and reach our conclusions  without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have  to work  within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules  give us.
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As I said earlier, if I dont comment  on any 
specific point its not because Ive failed to consider  it but because I dont think I need to 
comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the wider  context.  My 
remit is to take an overview  and decide  whats fair in the round. 
Ill deal first with the 2013 restructure. I agree with the investigator that it would have been 
more appropriate  to refinance the loan on a repayment basis  with a term that corresponded 
to monthly payments of £600. 
If that had happened,  thered still be a significant  outstanding balance just now,  but the bank 
wouldnt be expecting Mr and Mrs M to pay it all in a lump sum. Instead, theyd simply be 
expected to continue to pay £600  a month going forward until they repaid the full amount. 
They should  be put in that position  now, and my award will reflect that. But I dont share 
Mr and Mrs Ms views  that Yorkshire  was wrong  to arrange the consolidation loan in the first 
place.
Its important here to remember that the money  Yorkshire lent on the consolidation loan 
didnt create  new debt that didnt already exist. It replaced an aggregate debt Mr and Mrs M 
already owed Yorkshire. I appreciate with hindsight, Mr and Mrs M would have preferred the 
debt to stay unsecured so that it could  be managed  through the IVAs,  resulting in partial 
settlement. I make  two observations on that point.
Ref: DRN80672613Firstly, the legal charge  for Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage is an all-monies charge, which allows  
the bank to rely on the charge to recover any money  it has lent Mr and Mrs M, not just the 
mortgage debt itself. Secondly, and I dont  mean  this unkindly,  I dont think  its unreasonable  
that Mr and Mrs M will end up paying back all of the money theyd  borrowed  from Yorkshire  - 
and presumably enjoyed  the benefit  of. Its certainly  not a reason  for finding that Yorkshire  
treated them  unfairly in consolidating  their unsecured debts  into the secured loan.
Lastly, I agree with the investigator that its unlikely that consolidating  the debt was a 
pre-condition  of switching  the mortgage to interest-only, given the eight-month  gap between  
the two. But even if it was, Id have no problem with that. I would consider it quite reasonable  
that a bank insist  on its customers  getting  their lower priority consumer debt under control 
before it will consider offering forbearance on the mortgage.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint in part only. In 
full and final settlement,  I direct Clydesdale Bank  PLC to reconstruct Mr and Mrs Ms 
secured loan from 2013 to the present day, to reflect how it would  have behaved if:
it had been  set up on a repayment basis with a term that corresponded to a monthly 
instalment of £600 a month; and 
Mr and Mrs M had paid the same payments that they have actually made during that 
period. 
I make  no other order or award.
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 January 2020.
Jeff Parrington 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8067261