K820x#14complaint
Z, a limited company, has complained about the amount charged by Aviva  Insurance Limited 
for its group private medical  insurance policy. Z is represented by its director, Mr S.
background
Z had held the policy for a number of years. The policy  provided  cover for Mr S and his wife. 
In 2016, the monthly premium was £225. In 2017,  it increased to £278. At the 2018  renewal, 
the premium increased again to £369. Mr S, on behalf of Z, complained to Aviva about the 
increases which  he believed were intended  to price members out of the market as they 
became older.
Aviva didnt uphold  the complaint. It gave Mr S an overview of the reasons  for the price  
increases. It explained that Z had been  treated the same as any other  policyholder with the 
same circumstances. 
Mr S was dissatisfied with Avivas  response. He noted that the premiums which Z had been  
charged since the policy began considerably outweighed the value of the claims made. He 
considered the premium  which  Z was being  asked to pay was excessive. On behalf of Z, he 
referred the complaint to us.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should not be upheld.  She was satisfied 
that Aviva  had calculated  the premium fairly.
Mr S didnt accept the adjudicators findings. He said the substantial increases occurred only 
after he made a claim  and when he and his wife had reached the age of 70. He felt the 
increases were unfair.
In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I shall explain  why.
We generally take the view it is up to an insurer  to decide how much to charge for its 
policies. Provided  it exercises this judgement  fairly and consistently, in accordance  with its 
internal guidelines, it is a matter in which we wouldnt normally interfere.
Aviva has provided a detailed explanation of how it has calculated  Zs premiums over the 
past three years. I cant share this information with Z because it is commercially  sensitive. 
However, I can confirm that the age of those  covered by the policy, and the claims  made by 
them, are both factors in the calculation. I can assure Z that I have  checked  the evidence  
provided and Im satisfied  the premium has been  calculated accurately and fairly. As Aviva  
has said, Z has been treated the same  as any other  policyholder with the same 
circumstances.
Mr S has pointed  out that the total amount of premiums paid by Z significantly  exceeds the 
value of claims paid out. This may be the case but it doesnt mean the price  being charged is 
unfair.
Ref: DRN82991552I understand the concern  of Mr S at the increasing  cost of his and his wifes medical cover. I 
recognise that there are difficulties if they try to switch private medical provider  because  it 
may mean the loss of cover for existing conditions.  However, I cant tell Aviva to provide  
cover at a cheaper price. In the end it is up to Mr S, on behalf of Z, to decide whether the 
policy represents good value for money. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S, on behalf  of 
Z, to accept or reject my decision  before 7 June  2019.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8299155