K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that the National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance  Society Limited  (NFU)  
turned down his agricultural vehicle insurance  claim. 
background
Mr G claimed  on his policy after his excavator was damaged while  he was digging  stone.    
Mr G said he had an accident  which broke the boom on his excavator. NFUs engineer  said 
the hydraulic crowd ram right hand  mounting had suffered fatigue failure. Because  of this 
NFU turned down the claim as it wasnt covered by the policy. 
Mr G didnt think this was fair and complained. He provided information from an engineer  
who said none of the excavators moving parts had excessive  wear. Mr Gs engineer also 
said the general condition of the excavator was very good for the amount of hours it had. 
NFU reviewed Mr Gs complaint and didnt  uphold it. They  said Mr Gs report had been 
reviewed by another engineer and a technician, upon review  they both concluded Mr Gs 
report supported the cause of damage  as being metal fatigue.  As Mr G disagreed he brought 
his complaint here. 
Our Investigator  reviewed Mr Gs complaint and found that the broken part of the excavator 
didnt show any signs of distortion from an impact. He also reviewed NFUs engineers  
comments and found that the fatigue  failure progressed  in a plane  expected  by continuing  
pulling and pushing  of the ram. For this reason he didnt recommend NFU do anything more. 
As Mr G disagreed the complaint  has come to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G has a comprehensive  policy that covers him for accidental  damage to his excavator. 
The terms and conditions  of the policy contain  an exclusion that says NFU wont  pay for any 
damage caused by wear  and tear. In order to fairly apply this exclusion NFU needs to show 
it applies in Mr Gs case. 
NFUs engineer said the damage falls within this exclusion. They said this is because the 
hydraulic crowd ram right hand mounting on the top of the main boom has suffered fatigue 
failure due to cyclic loading, this has led to excessive movement on the securing pin causing 
the mounting to break away completely from the boom.
Ive also considered the reports provided by Mr G, one of the reports which reviewed the 
damage says reason for the failure not obvious as none of the machines moving parts  have 
excessive wear and the general condition of the machine is very good for the hours. No 
signs of misuse. Potentially a flaw in the material but impossible  to tell
Ref: DRN86822212From reviewing these reports Im satisfied the damage to Mr Gs excavator is likely due to 
wear and tear. I say this because none of the reports have found the damage to Mr Gs 
excavator isnt due to wear and tear or the result  of accidental  damage. In addition  NFUs 
engineer said there  is no evidence  of distortion, bending or twisting  from any form of impact. 
They have also said the fatigue  failure has progressed in a plane expected from the 
continual pulling and pushing  on the ram, so the crack would have initiated from what  we call 
a stress riser and through continued  use it Creeps across the material.
I understand Mr Gs excavator was in good  condition apart from this issue  and hasnt  had 
any other problems because of wear  and tear since. NFUs engineers report has found this 
issue is due to wear and tear though. In addition Mr Gs report doesnt provide another  
reason for the damage and even says this is an unusual  failure.  Im therefore satisfied its 
fair and reasonable for NFU to apply this exclusion. For this reason I wont  be asking them to 
do anything else. 
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 October  2019
Alex Newman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8682221