K820x#14complaint
Mrs B says Bank of Scotland  Plc  trading  as Halifax - mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background
Mrs B bought the policy at the same  time as taking out a credit card. This was during a 
meeting with Halifax in 2000.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Bs case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Bs complaint. Ill explain why. 
Mrs B says the PPI was added to her account without her knowledge or her consent. Halifax  
shouldve made  Mrs B aware  she had a choice about taking  out the policy. It has provided a 
copy of Mrs Bs form. The form has a section for the PPI and this has been marked  with an 
x to opt for the policy. It also contains Mrs Bs personal information, such  as her job, 
mothers maiden name and date of birth. The form is pre-printed with these details. I think a 
conversation took place  between Mrs B and Halifax's employee and the form has been  
completed based on what was discussed and then printed out for Mrs B to read and sign. 
The application doesn't say PPI was compulsory. And Mrs B signed  the form so I think  if 
there was anything on the form she wasn't sure about or hadn't agreed to she would've  had 
the opportunity  to question it at the time.   
So I think its likely Mrs B was aware of the contents  of the form and she chose to take the 
policy  although  I can understand why she cant remember this. 
Halifax says it recommended the PPI to Mrs B. It says this because  it was sold during a 
meeting in branch, and branch sales at the time were advised. So it had to check that the 
PPI was right for her. And based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think 
that it was. For example  she wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover. 
Mrs B says she would  have received some sick pay benefits from her employer. The policy 
would have paid out alongside her benefits, as well as covering her repayments if she 
became unemployed. And it doesnt look like Mrs B had any other means   such  as savings  
 she could have  used. 
Ive thought about what Mrs B has said about her parents being  able to help out if she 
couldnt make her repayments. But circumstance can change  and whilst  I dont  doubt        
Mrs Bs parents wouldve wanted to help, this help couldnt be guaranteed.  Ive also 
considered Mrs Bs comments about being  able to sell her property if she couldnt make her 
credit card repayments. This is quite a drastic  option  and one with serious consequences. 
Ref: DRN89762432Having the PPI wouldve meant  she wouldnt have  had to take this kind of extreme  measure.  
So Halifax  wasnt wrong to recommend  the policy to her. 
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mrs B about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve  
been. But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted  this type of cover. And for the 
reasons Ive explained above, it seems like it would have been useful for her if something  
went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think  better information about the 
PPI would have  put her off taking out the cover. 
Overall I dont think Mrs B has lost out from anything Halifax  might have done  wrong.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 April 2019.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8976243