K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains Barclays Bank UK PLC should  have offered him a loan instead of an 
overdraft. 
background
Mr D held a standard  account with Barclays. Due to his personal circumstances in July 2015 
he successfully applied  for an overdraft. 
In November 2018 Mr D contacted Barclays to complain  he was given an overdraft when it 
would have been better financially to have been  offered  a loan. Mr D then contacted this 
service to ask us to raise  the complaint with Barclays. He said if he had been given a loan he 
would have repaid it within three years. So he would like Barclays  to recalculate his overdraft 
as if he had taken  out a loan. 
Barclays sent a final response letter  dated  27 November 2018 - not upholding the 
complaint. It said it didnt have a record of the conversation Mr D had with it about the 
overdraft in 2015. However, it felt Mr D had used the overdraft for everyday spending rather 
than a large purchase (which is normally what a loan is used for). And as it had sent the 
terms and conditions detailing the costs involved with the overdraft to Mr D at the time Mr D 
could have raised this matter earlier.  
Our investigator reviewed  the complaint but felt Barclays had treated Mr D fairly and 
reasonably. As there was no evidence Mr D had asked for a loan in July 2015  he didnt think  
Barclays had done anything wrong by giving Mr D an overdraft. Mr D disagreed  he felt 
Barclays should have  offered him another product. 
So this complaint has now been  passed  to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
it. And Ill explain why below. 
Mr D believes  he should have been  offered other  products  by Barclays in July 2015. Due to 
the time that has passed Barclays doesnt have a record of the application. It says this was a 
non-advised sale, by which it means that it didnt  recommend the overdraft  to Mr D 
personally or advise  him to take it out. I dont  know what was said during the sale,  but Ive 
not seen anything such as a record of a discussion about Mr Ds needs  and circumstances 
or a suitability check to show me clearly that it did make a personal  recommendation to him 
or that it should  have considered another product for him. 
Mr D feels he should have  been offered a loan. But I dont agree. Mr D approached Barclays  
about an overdraft  as this is the product he wanted. He said he needed the extra  money due 
to his personal circumstances at the time. Barclays completed the application  and sent Mr D 
the documentation about the overdraft and the cost of it. This is what I would expect 
Barclays to do in the circumstances. If Mr D was unhappy with anything about the overdraft 
then he had the option to change his mind. 
Ref: DRN84088832Mr D feels a loan may have been  cheaper in the long run. But Barclays  would  have based  its 
decision to lend on various factors such as how he was running  his account at the time of 
the application. Mr D has had the benefit  of the funds.  And although he hadnt repaid the 
overdraft three years  after taking it out, Im not satisfied this is the fault of Barclays  or its 
decision to lend to him in 2015.   
Therefore, Im satisfied  Barclays  has done nothing wrong here. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 December 2019.
Mark Dobson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8408883