K820x#14Complaint
Mr W complains that the charges Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc applied  at the end of his hire 
agreement were unfair.
Background
Mr W entered into a five year hire agreement with Hitachi Capital in March  2014 to lease a 
car. The car was collected at the end of the lease term in March 2019.  Mr W says that 
charges of £900 were applied to his account  which he disputed  and these were reduced to 
£615. However he doesnt think the remaining charges are fair given the car was five years  
old and had been driven 85,000 miles.
Mr W says that he paid for a scratch on the roof to be repaired before the car was collected 
and so had he been aware  of other damage he would have also got this repaired.
Hitachi Capital says that the car was collected under the Inspect and Collect process and a 
trained inspector assessed the car in line with British Vehicle Rental and Leasing 
Association (BVRLA) guidelines.  It says that damage was identified that fell outside of the 
wear and tear guidelines and charges were applied. It says certain  charges were  removed 
but that Mr W remained liable for the remaining charges totalling £615.
Our investigator didnt  uphold this complaint. He thought that Hitachi  Capital had acted fairly 
by reducing the charges applied to Mr Ws account  and that the remaining charges had been 
fairly applied  in line with the BVRLA  guidelines.
Mr W asked for his complaint to be referred  for an ombudsmans decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W entered into a hire agreement with Hitachi Capital and agreed to its terms and 
conditions. These include  the requirement to keep the vehicle in good  condition and repair 
and set out that Mr W will be responsible to Hitachi  Capital for any damage  or deterioration 
other than fair wear and tear as indicated in the BVRLA guidelines. Therefore it is 
reasonable that Mr W would be charged  for any damage that falls outside of the BVRLA 
wear and tear guidelines. 
I understand that Mr W has accepted the damage charge for the screen and the rear alloy.  
However he doesnt think the charges  for the dented  post and damage to the bumpers and 
bonnet were reasonable given he had the car for five years.  
I have looked  at the inspection report and can see that there is a dent on the post. The dent 
falls within  the size limit for acceptable wear  and tear but the paint has been  chipped. This 
means that the damage is outside  of fair wear and tear and so I do no find it unreasonable 
that this charge was applied. 
The scratch  on the bumper  is clearly visible and is larger than 25 mm and the paint has been 
damaged, so again I do not find it unreasonable that this charge was applied.
Ref: DRN86557822Finally there are areas of damage  on the bonnet and bumper and on balance I do not find I 
can say the charges for this shouldnt have been applied.
While I can understand why Mr W feels  the charges shouldnt have been applied  given  the 
time he had the vehicle  and the mileage  covered,  as the damage appears to fall outside of 
the fair wear and tear guidelines I do not find that I can say the charges have been applied 
unfairly. Because of this I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 April 2020.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8655782