K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1999. Mr N says Barclays Bank UK PLC (previously Egg)  mis-sold  him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ns case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Mr N says he spoke to Egg before completing the on-line credit  card application form, where 
he opted to take out PPI, and was told his application was more  likely to be approved  if he 
took PPI out. I accept  that (nearly 20 years later)  this is how he might remember things. But 
for me to uphold  his complaint on this basis, I need to be persuaded that his recollection of 
what happened is more  likely than the alternative  where he chose to take out the PPI 
because he was interested in the cover  it provided.  And in the absence  of any evidence  to 
support what Mr N says happened, there  isnt enough to convince  me of this.
Mr N hasnt given us any detail about  why he spoke  to Egg in the first place. Or why, having  
had the conversation,  he decided to apply for the credit card on-line, rather  than doing  so 
over the phone. There was nothing in the on-line application process  that would have given 
Mr N the impression his chances of getting  a card would be improved if he took out PPI. And 
he carried on paying for it for nearly seven years. 
Having carefully considered both sides, I think its unlikely Egg told Mr N his application was 
more likely to be successful if he took out PPI. I think its more likely  Mr N understood he had 
a choice about taking it out and chose to do so.
Egg didnt  recommend the PPI to Mr N so it didnt have to check if it was right for him. But it 
did have to make sure Mr N got the information he needed to decide  if it was right for him. 
The information Egg gave Mr N about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been.  But the 
on-line application  did set out what type of cover  the PPI provided  (accident, sickness  and 
unemployment) as well as explaining that it would cost 59p in every £100 of his outstanding 
balance every month. And Mr N chose  to take it out based on this information  despite  the 
sick pay hes told us he would have  received  from his employer.
The information about the exclusions to and limits on the PPI cover could have been better. 
But based  on what Ive seen of Mr Ns circumstances at the time it doesnt  look like he was 
affected by any of these  - so it would have been  useful for him if something went  wrong.  It 
also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont  think better information about the PPI would 
have put him off taking out the cover. 
This means  Egg doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr N.
Ref: DRN89766312But Egg has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr N because: 
Egg got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium)  
- so it should have  told Mr N about  that. Because Egg didnt  tell Mr N, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Egg has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does  not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr N.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Mr N any commission  and profit share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 April 2019.
Claire Allison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8976631