K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs P say Santander UK Plc (Santander) mis-sold them a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs P bought the policy  in 2003 sometime after taking out a mortgage. They applied 
for the PPI policy in branch.  
The policy provided  cover  for Mr and Mrs P for unemployment only  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  £680 a month towards Mr and Mrs Ps 
mortgage balance  in the event of a successful claim. The benefit was split between them  
60% was payable for Mr P and 40% was payable for Mrs P. At the time, it cost £29.30 a 
month. 
At the time,  Mr P was employed as a communications  manager. He has told us he was 
entitled to sick pay, redundancy  pay and death in service benefit through his employer. He 
also had a life insurance policy. Mr P has said he was in good health  at the time of the sale.  
Mrs P was employed as a programme manager.  She has told us she was also entitled to 
sick pay, redundancy pay and death  in service benefit through her employer. She also had a 
life insurance policy.  Mrs P has told us about  a series of health and life concerns she had 
before and at the time of sale. 
Santander has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage account  closed in 2006.  
Mr and Mrs Ps representative has made  lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Ps representative  says:
Santander failed  to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs P 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  
Mr and Mrs Ps representatives believe there  to be no evidence  to rebut that 
presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Santander should 
have told Mr and Mrs P about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Santander should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr and Mrs P 
and the impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
Ref: DRN84969882The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long-term transaction   cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mr and Mrs P received was misleading. These policies  were  
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs P disagreed  with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ps. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ps complaint.
This sale took place  in 2003 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So the FSAs and the FCAs overarching principles 
for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) are not applicable to this 
complaint; nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2006. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
Ref: DRN84969883The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Santander, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Santander at the time. So Im satisfied I should take these codes  into 
account when  deciding, what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
Mr and Mrs Ps case.
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Santander was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering Mr and Mrs Ps complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Santander gave  advice, whether it advised Mr and Mrs P with reasonable care and 
skill  in particular,  whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for them,  given 
their needs and circumstances. 
-Whether Santander gave Mr and Mrs P sufficient,  appropriate  and timely information  
to enable them to make an informed choice about whether  to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
Ref: DRN84969884-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of 
Mr and Mrs P, I must then go on to consider  whether and to what extent 
Mr and Mrs P suffered loss or damage and what I consider  would amount to fair 
compensation for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs P 
and Santander,  Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint. Ive set out my 
reasoning below. 
did Mr and Mrs P know they had a choice?
Santander had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional.  
Neither Santander nor Mr and Mrs P have been  able to provide me with copies of the 
original documents  from the time of sale. I dont think thats unreasonable  given how long 
ago the policy was sold. But it does mean I have limited information  about the sale,  so I have  
to decide what  I think is more likely based  on the available evidence  and the wider  
circumstances. 
My understanding is that Mr and Mrs P took out PPI in 2003 to cover  the payments on an 
existing mortgage.  As they already had the mortgage, I think they would have known they 
didnt have to take PPI to get the mortgage  and therefore that it was a separate  and optional  
product. 
Santander has provided a sample  copy of the PPI application form it says it was using 
around the time Mr and Mrs P applied for their PPI. I think  this is likely to be the same  as, or 
at least similar to, the form Mr and Mrs P used. This shows customers had the option of 
making a series of selections. They had to choose whether they wanted full accident, 
sickness and unemployment cover or accident and sickness  only or unemployment only. 
Joint borrowers also had to choose  how they wanted the benefit to be split. Finally, 
customers had to sign a declaration agreeing to take the PPI.  
Santanders records show Mr and Mrs P selected  unemployment cover  only.  Santander also 
says they selected a benefit split of 60/40 as mentioned above. So, they appear  to have 
exercised a degree of consideration and made a series of choices. Santander  says the PPI 
wouldnt have been added without their consent  and without evidence  to the contrary,  I 
think thats likely to be right.
Santander has also sent us records of contacts  Mr and Mrs P have had with it after the sale. 
I can see Mr and Mrs P contacted Santander  to change the benefit split, some time after the 
sale. They  also subsequently cancelled the policy. This indicates they were aware of the 
policy  and had they not agreed to it, I wouldve  expected  them to have questioned this 
once the existence of the policy came to light. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs P knew the policy was 
optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did Santander provide advice?
Ref: DRN84969885Santander says that advice  was provided  during this sale. Mr and Mrs P havent said if they 
agree. Looking at what happened when Santander  sold Mr and Mrs P the PPI, Im 
persuaded that it provided advice. I say this because Mr and Mrs P say this was sold in 
branch with an adviser present. From what Ive seen of sales made in branch, advice was 
usually provided.  Ive also got no reason to doubt what Santander says.    
This means  Santander  had to advise Mr and Mrs P with reasonable care and skill, in 
particular whether the policy was appropriate  or suitable given their needs and 
circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps Santander took to establish whether the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr and Mrs P. It seems Mr and Mrs P cant remember clearly what 
happened and there is no record of what the adviser discussed  in relation to the policy. This 
is unsurprising in respect of a sale during a meeting.  The adviser had some  limited 
information about Mr and Mrs Ps financial circumstances, but there  is no specific evidence  
to show the adviser  took steps to establish  whether Mr and Mrs P would have been caught 
by the significant exclusions and limitations which might have meant  the policy did not fully 
meet their needs.  For example,  there  is nothing to suggest Santander considered  whether 
Mr and Mrs P had any pre-existing medical  conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Santander did all it should have 
done to determine whether the policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs P given their 
circumstances. So Im not persuaded Santander  advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Santander did all it should  have done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs P, I do think  its more  likely  than not that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for them. In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr and Mrs P met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Mr and Mrs P had a need for the policy   it seems likely that Mr and Mrs Ps ability to 
continue to meet their mortgage repayments would have been put under strain if 
Mr and Mrs P were  not working for an extended  period of time  even  allowing  for the 
employee benefits they say they would  have been  entitled  to. Life insurance only 
pays out on death so wouldnt have provided  the same  type of cover as the PPI. 
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr and Mrs P.  
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr and Mrs P. 
There was nothing  about Mr and Mrs Ps employment or occupation which would 
have made it difficult for them  to claim.  Mr and Mrs P didnt buy cover for accident 
and sickness (i.e. disability),  but there were no additional restrictions  on cover  for 
mental health or back problems in any event. Mrs P has detailed a series  of medical 
conditions and life choices that couldve impacted her health, but she wouldnt have 
been affected by any of the exclusions or limitations  related  to the disability element 
of the cover as she didnt take it. And her health concerns would not have impacted 
her ability  to claim for unemployment.
  
-While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 months for each claim 
for unemployment, it still provided useful cover given  Mr and Mrs Ps circumstances.
Ref: DRN84969886Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Santander  gave Mr and Mrs P 
sufficient information  about the cover provided  by the policy  to enable them to understand 
what Santander was recommending  to them and make an informed decision about whether 
to follow  that advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs P were given a broad  description of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect their payments if 
Mr and Mrs P were  unable to work through unemployment) and of the approximate costs. I 
have reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mr and Mrs P would have taken out 
the policy without  any sense of what the policy was for and of how much the premium might  
be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Santander  gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr and Mrs P agreed  to take out the policy.  
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs P Im not persuaded 
Santander did enough to present information about the policy  it was recommending  in a way 
that was fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded  Santander  gave Mr and Mrs P all of 
the information they needed about the policy to make an informed decision about whether  to 
follow the recommendation  and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Ps representative  has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like 
Mr and Mrs Ps. Ive considered these  carefully and summarised  them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Ps representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs P about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Ps representatives views on this. The duty of utmost good 
faith in insurance  law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material 
facts and not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what a court  
would say  I think  its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer having to 
disclose the claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and 
exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs P have  suggested.  And taking into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that Santander ought to have done  either.  
Ref: DRN84969887what effect did Santanders shortcomings  have on Mr and Mrs P? To what extent did 
Mr and Mrs P suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Santander  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  to 
Mr and Mrs P. So I have  gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to 
conclude Mr and Mrs P suffered loss and damage  as a result. To answer  this, I must decide 
whether or not Mr and Mrs P would  have still taken out the policy,  had Santander done 
things properly. 
While Im not persuaded Santander took the steps  it should have done to establish  whether 
the policy it recommended was suitable  for Mr and Mrs P, I have found that the policy  was 
ultimately suitable for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr and Mrs P have suffered loss 
or damage  in this case primarily  depends  on whether, if Santander had explained  things 
properly, Mr and Mrs P would have acted differently, or whether they would have taken out 
the policy in any event.
Mr and Mrs P say they wouldnt have taken  it out and believe I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr and Mrs P had some  interest  in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when Santander advised them  that there was 
a suitable product they could buy that would protect their mortgage payments in the event 
they were unable to work because of unemployment, they concluded they wanted that 
product. But they made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning what  they 
thought they were getting is not exactly what they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr and Mrs Ps circumstances at 
the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally  wrong  or unsuitable  for them.
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs P knew  they would have to pay 
something for the policy, it doesnt appear Santander told them the exact  premium  at the 
point Mr and Mrs P applied for the policy. Having said that, it seems  likely Mr and Mrs P 
would have been told the cost before the policy started and they paid for the policy for a 
number of years, so if the costs were  significantly at odds with their expectations  at the point 
of sale, its possible they might have raised  that with Santander  at the time, or reconsidered 
their decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs P would have found the cost unacceptable  if they had 
been given the exact figure during the meeting in which they agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Santander made  clear exactly  what  Mr and Mrs P would get 
back in return in the event they made  a successful claim. But I think  its unlikely 
Ref: DRN84969888Mr and Mrs Ps expectations about  what the policy would pay in the event of a claim (an 
amount sufficient to meet their mortgage  payment) were significantly different to what  the 
policy actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs P thought  they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if 
Mr and Mrs P werent permanent employees;
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr and Mrs P pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude the policy 
wasnt as good  as they thought and they might have  decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs P from taking out the 
policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Ps circumstances  at the time of sale shows  that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them.  Mr and Mrs P were eligible for its 
benefits and it provided cover that, despite  its limitations and exclusions,  couldve proved 
valuable to them should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent  seen any 
evidence to suggest Mr and Mrs P wouldve been  caught by any of the significant exclusions 
 Mr and Mrs P were in permanent employment.  And as Ive said above, while there may 
have been exclusions  and limitations in relation  to accident and sickness  cover  (i.e. 
disability)  as Mr and Mrs P didnt  select this element of the cover,  they wouldnt have been 
affected by them. So, I still think they had some  good reasons  to take the policy out.
While there  may have been limits for making a disability claim, these were  not relevant to 
Mr and Mrs P as they did not purchase cover  for disability. The policy  also didnt exclude 
back or mental health conditions or place  any additional restrictions or more  onerous 
evidential requirements  in the event  of a claim on those grounds than would have applied to 
any other disability  claim. And again,  as Ive explained above, as they didnt buy the accident  
and sickness (i.e. disability)  element of the cover, they couldnt make a claim for time off 
work for disability in any event.
Santander may not have told Mr and Mrs P that any claim  they made would be limited  to a 
12-month period.  This may have differed from what they expected and might  have hoped for 
 but their redundancy entitlement was likely  to be significantly less than 12 months income.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr and Mrs P would still have  thought a policy that 
paid up to 12 monthly benefit payments  would  have been of benefit to them and would help 
them manage the consequences should Mr or Mrs P be unable  to work in the circumstances 
covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made,  it could help reduce 
their outgoings at a difficult  and uncertain  time and ensure their home was not placed at risk 
and might potentially  help preserve Mr and Mrs Ps redundancy money  for other  use.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs P would still have  taken out the policy.  The policy was suitable for them,  
was sufficiently close to what  its likely  they thought they were getting  and provided  benefits 
that would  help them manage  the consequences  if Mr and Mrs P were made redundant. In 
Ref: DRN84969889the circumstances I consider it more likely than not Mr and Mrs P would have taken out the 
policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr and Mrs Ps representatives say the rules about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP App 
3) make it clear  that, where  a significant failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs P would not have bought  the PPI they bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Ps 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  
Mr and Mrs P found themselves in as a result  of the sale was the same position they would 
have been in had the breach or significant  failings  not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs P believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs P in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that they would still have 
taken out the PPI had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy they were buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude Santander  should  pay Mr and Mrs P compensation, as that 
would put them in a better position than they would have been  in if everything had happened 
as it should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs P think Santander  misrepresented the terms of the policy  in 
how it described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court might conclude some  
of Santanders  statements  misrepresented  the contract, in my opinion the reason why 
Santander failed  to act fairly and reasonably was not because  of what it did or didnt say in 
the information it provided  but because the overall information Santander gave Mr and Mrs 
P, in the way it did, was insufficient to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to 
expect it to have  met in 2003 when providing information about  an insurance policy. 
Ref: DRN849698810Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Ps representative says a court might  take 
if it were to find Santander negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr and Mrs P and 
about the remedy a court might award  if it were to find that Santander had been in breach of 
its duty of utmost  good faith.  But this doesnt persuade  me to alter my conclusions  about 
what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the complaint  including  what  I think 
is fair compensation in the circumstances  of this case. For the reasons Ive already set out I 
dont think it would be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs P in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 March  2021.
Asma Begum 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8496988