K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc hasnt reimbursed money he says he has lost as a 
result of a scam.
background
On 9 August  2018 Mr H went to an HSBC branch and made a payment  of £900 from his 
HSBC account  to a third-party account  (the beneficiary account). Hes said that he told 
HSBC at the time that the payment was for a holiday.
Mr H subsequently  came to understand that hed been scammed and he reported  the matter  
to HSBC.
HSBC didnt recover or refund to Mr H the money  he lost. Mr H remained unhappy and 
referred the matter  here.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. In summary she concluded  that the payment 
wasnt unusual enough to say HSBC should have questioned Mr H more about it before 
allowing it through; and that Mr Hs payment  had already been removed from the beneficiary 
account by the time Mr H contacted HSBC  about  the scam, so there  was nothing further 
HSBC could have  done to recover the money afterwards.
Mr H didnt agree with the investigators conclusions, so the complaint  has been passed  to 
me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached materially the same  conclusions as the investigator,  and for 
materially the same reasons. I know Mr H has been  waiting for this final answer  for a long 
time and this isnt the outcome hes been  hoping for. I understand why he has wanted  to do 
all he can to try to get his money back.  And I have no reason to doubt that Mr H has, as he 
says, been the victim  of a scam. Im really  sorry hes lost this money. Here,  however, I need 
to decide whether it would  be fair and reasonable for HSBC,  in all the circumstances of this 
case, to be held responsible for this loss. Overall, Im satisfied that it wouldnt and Ill explain 
why. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules,  guidance  and standards;  
codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  what I consider to have been good  industry  
practice at the time.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank  is expected  to process  payments 
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make, in accordance  with the Payment  
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions  of the customers  account. And I have 
taken that into account  when deciding  what is fair and reasonable in this case.
Ref: DRN84009992Thats not the end of the story though.  The law recognises that a bank may be liable to its 
customer if it makes  a payment in circumstances where it has reasonable grounds (although 
not necessarily proof) for believing  that the payment  instruction  was an attempt to 
misappropriate the funds  of its customer (known as the Quincecare duty).  And regulated 
firms like HSBC  are required to conduct their business  with due skill, care and diligence  
(FCA Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to the interests of its customers  
(Principle 6). 
As a matter  of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have taken  
proactive steps  to identify and help prevent transactions   particularly unusual or out of 
character transactions   that could involve  fraud  or be the result  of a scam.  This is 
particularly so in light of the environment  created  by the increase in sophisticated fraud and 
scams in recent years  which banks are generally more familiar with than the average  
customer.
So, taking all of this into account, I have considered things carefully. Ive reviewed  Mr Hs 
account statements  leading up to the payment. The payment of £900  was for a greater  
amount than Mr Hs usual spend.  But Mr H has said he thinks HSBC asked him what the 
payment was for and that he said it was for a holiday. And I dont think  in the overall  
circumstances here that it would  be fair to say Mr Hs payment instruction ought  to have 
appeared sufficiently  unusual  that HSBC really  ought to have asked Mr H more questions  
before allowing it through.  So in the circumstances here, Im not persuaded I can say HSBC  
did anything wrong  by following the instructions Mr H gave  to send the money  or that 
HSBC unreasonably missed an opportunity to unearth the scam  before the payment  was 
made. 
Ive thought about the possibility that the beneficiary  account holders name  didnt match the 
payee name Mr H instructed. However,  at the time the payment was made, the relevant 
regulations  the Payment Services Regulations 2017  set out that payments are sent 
according to the unique  identifiers (typically the account number and sort code).
In particular, section  90 of the Payment  Services Regulations 2017 states:
(1) Where  a payment order is executed with the unique identifier, the payment order is 
deemed to have been correctly executed  by each payment service provider involved in 
executing the payment  order  with respect to the payee specified by the unique identifier.
(5) Where  the payment service user provides information additional to that specified in 
regulation 43(2)(a)the payment service provider  is liable only for the execution of payment 
transactions in accordance with the unique identifier provided by the payment service  user.
The impact  of this is that the payment was correctly processed if it went  to the account 
number and sort code  instructed by the payer (here, Mr H). There was no regulatory 
requirement to check the beneficiary name  provided. So, even  if the beneficiary account  
holders name didnt match the payee name Mr H instructed,  I cant  fairly say HSBC  didnt 
follow Mr Hs instruction  when it sent the payment to the account number and sort code 
provided, and Im not persuaded  it should have done more to check the beneficiary in the 
circumstances of this payment.
When Mr H contacted HSBC about  the scam,  it should have  acted quickly to try to recover  
Mr Hs money  from the beneficiary  account.  I understand HSBCs  systems record that Mr H 
first contacted it about the scam on 16 August 2018. I am aware that Mr H has said that he 
Ref: DRN84009993was in touch with HSBC about  the scam sooner than this but that he wasnt  given any help 
or advice.  I am satisfied  from the information Ive seen, however, that Mr Hs payment to the 
beneficiary account had already with utilised and removed  from the beneficiary account  
before either of those days  and that ultimately HSBC  wouldnt have been able to recover 
the money in either event, even if it had contacted  the beneficiary bank immediately when  
Mr H says he first went into branch to report the scam.
I know this is disappointing to Mr H and I do empathise with the situation he has found 
himself in. Ultimately, however, it was the fraudster that tricked Mr H. And for the reasons 
Ive explained  above, Im satisfied that it wouldnt be fair and reasonable for HSBC to be held 
responsible for his loss.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 January 2021.
Neil Bridge
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8400999