K822xcomplaint
Mr P says MYJAR  Limited irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about three instalment  loans  MYJAR provided  to Mr P between December 
2017 and July 2018. Mr Ps lending history is as follows:
Loan 1 taken on 30 December 2017  for £500 to be repaid in six monthly instalments, the 
highest being £149.39. This loan was repaid on 29 March 2018.
Loan 2 taken on 9 May 2018 for £300  to be repaid in six monthly  instalments, the highest 
being £87.09. This loan was repaid on 2 July 2018.
Loan 3 taken on 2 July 2018 for £725  to be repaid  in 24 monthly instalments, the highest 
being £56.55. An amount remains outstanding for this loan.
MYJAR offered redress for loan three. Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Ps complaint in part and 
thought loan three shouldnt have been given.  Mr P disagreed and the complaint was passed 
to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr P 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that MYJAR should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet  a 
higher repayment  from a particular  level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ref: DRN81027142I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MYJAR was required to establish 
whether Mr P could  sustainably repay  his loans   not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to 
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ps complaint.
As our adjudicator explained, MYJAR has already offered the redress which I may have 
required if Id upheld  loan three. So I wont consider that loan any further  but I will consider 
loans one and two. 
MYJAR asked Mr P for information  about  his income  and expenditure and it carried  out 
credit checks. For loans one and two, Mr P said his monthly  income was £1,800  and his 
outgoings were  between £1,019 and £1,250 a month. I cant see that there were  any 
concerns in the credit checks that should have prompted further questions. 
From the information Mr P provided, loans  one and two looked affordable for him. Mr P 
repaid loan one early  and then there was a six week gap before he asked for loan two, which  
was for a lesser amount.  
Mr P thought  MYJAR  should also have asked  him about his other lending for loan two. But I 
think this wouldnt be a proportionate check at this stage of his lending relationship with 
MYJAR. I think  the checks it carried out were sufficient. 
Given the loan amounts,  what  was apparent about Mr Ps circumstances at the time and his 
history with MYJAR, I dont  think it wouldve been  proportionate to ask him for the amount of 
information needed to show the lending was unsustainable. There  wasnt  anything in the 
information Mr P provided or the information  MYJAR  shouldve been aware of, which meant 
it wouldve  been proportionate to start verifying  what Mr P was saying. So I cant  say it was 
wrong for MYJAR to have  provided  loans one and two. 
So I think MYJAR should put things right for loan three, as its already agreed to do.
putting things right  what MYJAR needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr P paid on loan three and waive  any outstanding; offset  
this refund against the principal still outstanding and agree  an affordable repayment plan 
for the balance;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
Ref: DRN81027143remove any negative information  about loan three from Mr Ps credit  file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires MYJAR to take off tax from this interest. MYJAR must 
give Mr P a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I partially uphold Mr Ps complaint. I 
require MYJAR Limited to pay Mr P compensation as set out above and as its already  
agreed to do.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 January 2020.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8102714