K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that British Friendly Society Limited  (The Society) have terminated  his claim 
under his income protection  policy.
background
In September  2016, Mr D took out a short term income protection policy with The Society.  
The policy provided  for up to five years of payments in the event  that Mr D became 
incapacitated and was unable to work.  
In November 2016 Mr D had an accident at work  and injured his back and leg. Mr D made a 
claim, hed been  signed  off work by his GP due to soft tissue damage. The claim was 
accepted by The Society and payments began.  
In June 2017 The Society introduced a special term to Mr Ds policy  which was included in 
the revised schedule  they sent him. They say they did this as Mr D had made a 
misrepresentation at the start of the policy. And had they been aware of the information  
theyd recently discovered from his medical records, the exclusion would have applied from 
the start.  
In October  2018 The Society conducted  a review of the claim. They say Mr Ds medical 
records no longer  supported that he was being  treated for the condition he was claiming for, 
(soft tissue injury). They  said his treatment  was now more focussed  on a mental  health  
condition. As mental health conditions are excluded  from the policy by means of the special 
term, in November 2018 The Society decided  to terminate the claim.
Mr D appealed this decision. It was reviewed  by The Societys  Chief  Medical Officer (CMO) 
who maintained  their decision was correct.  Mr D submitted a letter from his GP which 
explained that he was still under regular treatment for leg and back  pain. The Society again 
reviewed their position and asked  for some further  clarity from Mr Ds GP. But ultimately they 
set out that the conditions he was being treated for werent covered by the policy.  And their 
decision to terminate the claim stood. 
Mr D didnt think hed be treated fairly and brought his complaint  to our service.  He pointed 
out he was in a vulnerable situation  and was struggling financially. The Society agreed to 
maintain payments until 14 February 2019 whilst  his complaint was investigated. 
One of our investigators  looked into Mr Ds complaint. She sympathised with his position, but 
didnt think that The Society had acted  unfairly and didnt uphold the complaint. Mr D 
disagrees and has asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. 
In order for me to decide  if the claim had been  fairly  terminated, I felt I needed to clarify that 
the special term had been fairly introduced in 2017. So I asked The Society for further 
information about this. I was satisfied with their explanation of this and shared it with Mr D. 
He disagreed and made some further  comments.  
Now this issue has been addressed, I can go ahead with my decision. 
Ref: DRN80066232my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with our 
investigator and for largely the same reasons. I understand this is going  to be very 
disappointing for Mr D, so Id like to explain why. 
In reviewing this complaint Ive considered the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). It sets out the roles  and duties of the consumer and 
insurer when entering into an insurance contract. CIDRA places the consumer under a duty 
to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation (i.e. to say something untrue or 
misleading), provided the insurer has asked a clear  question. If the consumer doesnt take 
reasonable care to answer the questions accurately it sets out the remedies available to the 
insurer.
When Mr D took out the policy in 2016  he was asked a number of questions about  his health 
and medical history.  One of these  was Have you ever had any mental illness  including  
depression, stress, anxiety, low mood, eating disorders or insomnia or have you ever been 
referred to a psychiatrist,  psychologist or counsellor? 
Im satisfied this question is clear. In September 2016 Mr D answered  No. The Society 
have highlighted  parts  of Mr Ds medical history which records the following:
5 August 2015  feels very stressed.
7 October 2015  mood very low.
2 December 2015  describing increasing  in emotional anxiety issues.
3 December 2015  in great distress, feeling desperate.
They also highlighted a letter sent from a Community Psychiatric  Nurse to Mr Ds doctor on 
6 November 2015 which refers to his disclosure of suicide attempts and suicidality. 
Mr D said that as he wasnt  referred to a psychiatrist, psychologist  or counsellor, he 
answered No. I think  the question is clear that there  is no requirement  to have been 
referred for any of the listed conditions. Based on his medical history,  I think  Mr D should 
have answered  yes and that by answering  no he failed to take reasonable care and made  
a misrepresentation.  
The Society have  shared  their underwriting criteria with our service. This has shown that 
they wouldnt have  offered  the policy on the same terms, were it not for the 
misrepresentation. Based on this Im satisfied that their decision to introduce the special 
term was fair as it is what they would have done from the start, had they known about Mr Ds 
previous issues. 
The term in question says No benefit shall be payable  under this policy for any illness or 
disability directly or indirectly due to any mental  disorder  including  but not limited  to 
depression, mood disorder, stress,  anxiety, or any behavioural disorder or any functional 
somatic disorder including but not limited to chronic  pain syndromes
Ref: DRN80066233During a review in 2018, The Society  decided  to terminate Mr Ds claim. They  said this was 
because the reason for his incapacity had altered from one of soft tissue damage,  to chronic 
pain, which  is specifically  excluded  under  the special term. They relied upon medical 
evidence including  that of their Chief Medical  Officer (CMO)  to support  this decision. 
The CMO concluded  that Mr D was suffering from chronic pain syndrome.  He highlighted an 
MRI scan  which  didnt  identify or diagnose  any physical condition. Mr D provided further 
evidence from his doctor in November 2018 which said he was still under regular treatment 
for leg and back pain. 
This prompted The Society  to ask the doctor  some  questions  and a further review from the 
CMO. The CMO maintained that it was a chronic pain condition that was preventing him 
from working.
It isnt for our service  to make an assessment of Mr Ds medical conditions.  We can only look 
at the actions of The Society  and consider whether theyve  acted  within the policy  terms and 
fairly. Based on all Ive seen, I think they have.
The Society themselves  arent medical experts.  So I think it is fair for them  to rely on suitably 
qualified medical  opinions when making a decision about a claim. I can see that The Society  
have considered the evidence from a variety of medical professionals who have  treated  Mr D 
as well as his own doctor and their own CMO. This is what Id expect them to do. 
Ive reviewed the available medical evidence and I cant see that The Societys  conclusion  is 
wrong. In particular Ive placed weight on an email from the CMO  written  in November 2018. 
This was based on a review of other recent  medical  reports and said I am sure that his 
current problem is of a mental health nature and there is no physical reason that he could  
not return to work. As all mental health issues are excludedincluding chronic pain 
syndromes even if actually present, then you are correct in terminating this  claim.
I understand Mr Ds point that his worsening mental  health is a result of his physical 
symptoms. But Im more persuaded by the CMOs opinion based  on the variety of medical  
evidence hed reviewed.
I know this is going  to be disappointing  for Mr D, but I think his claim has been fairly  
terminated in line with the special term in the policy. I also note that The Society has made  a 
number of ex-gratia  payments  to Mr D whilst  his complaint has been  with our service.  So 
taking a step back and looking at everything as a whole, I dont think hes been treated 
unfairly.  
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, my final decision is that I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2019.
Richard Annandale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8006623