K820x#14complaint
This complaint is brought by the Estate  of the late Mr H (The Estate) in relation  to a claim it 
made on the late Mr Hs Ageas legal expenses insurance policy.
The Estate says the policy was of no value  because it only covered adverse costs.  But the 
limited cover  available  under the policy was inconsistent with the way Ageas behaved during 
the course of the claim. Because of this The Estate wants Ageas to cover  the disbursements  
incurred and payable  by it in the underlying  litigation, as well as Counsels  fees.
background
I issued a provisional decision on this matter in February 2020, part of which is copied below:
In November 2013, the late Mr H instructed  his own firm of solicitors  to act for him in a 
personal injury claim. His solicitors approached Ageas for cover  under a before the event 
legal expenses insurance policy.
Ageas explained that the policy would only allow for their appointment when proceedings 
became necessary. At the time the late Mr H was elderly with limited mobility, so his solicitors 
asked Ageas if theyd  consider their appointment  before proceedings became necessary with 
a view to meeting with him at his home if necessary. Ageas agreed.  In doing so, they asked 
the solicitors a number  of questions about  the claim,  including  its merits and value, the identity 
of the third party, whether a barristers opinion  had been sought,  if the solicitors  had 
experience in the type of claim the late Mr H wanted to bring and the value of the other  sides 
costs to conclusion.  The solicitors answered  these  questions  in January 2014.
In February 2014,  Ageas  asked the late Mr Hs solicitors  to obtain a barristers  opinion on the 
merits of the claim. They said this was necessary to allow them to decide whether to accept 
the claim.  They also said they wouldnt be funding  any costs in obtaining further evidence as 
they hadnt yet confirmed  cover for the claim. 
In May 2014, the solicitors provided Ageas with a barristers opinion  which  said the claim 
had between 70-75% prospects of success.  They  also pointed out that the matter  of funding  
had become protracted and asked for an urgent  decision on cover. 
Shortly after that Ageas forwarded the solicitors  their terms of engagement. The solicitors 
signed and returned them, confirming their hourly rate and an initial  cost reserve for the 
claim. In reply,  Ageas told the solicitors In the interests of clarity, we can confirm that we 
pay adverse costs only and would not pay your hourly rate for the work undertaken as we do 
not pay own costs.  We will revert to you with signed terms if this is acceptable to you. In 
response the solicitors  said This was not clear in earlier correspondence  and I think should 
be raised as an issue  at an early stage  with solicitors. Having come  this far with Mr H, 
however, we are agreeable to your terms.
Matters proceeded  in the underlying claim.  The solicitors asked Ageas for their authority to 
obtain medical evidence, to which Ageas agreed. They  also provided updates on the 
progress of the claim as well as the merits of it, which  they said remained high, in light of the 
medical evidence.
Ref: DRN88229402When the solicitors said they were  looking to issue legal proceedings, Ageas asked a 
number of questions  in order to allow it to decide whether to give authority for this to happen. 
The solicitors answered these and asked for authority to instruct the barrister to draft 
proceedings. In May 2016 Ageas agreed to this and said On the basis  of the information 
that you have  provided  we can confirm that we are happy for you to instruct  Counsel. 
However, please note that our Terms  of Engagement only provide cover with regards  to 
adverse costs and no consideration is given  to own costs.
The litigation  commenced  and the solicitors again asked for Ageas authority to incur 
barristers fees to attend a hearing.  Ageas replied  in May 2017. They said we have no 
objection to you appointing Counsel and would remind you that Counsel's fees would not be 
covered by the client's legal expenses  insurance.  At this point the solicitors asked Ageas for 
the clause which confirms this. They also asked whether cost draftsman fees to deal with 
budgeting would be covered. Ageas pointed out the relevant clause of the policy  which 
stated it covered adverse costs only. They said they were happy for the solicitors  to incur 
barristers fees if they thought they could recover them. 
In June 2017 the solicitors wrote to Ageas. They said I am struggling  to find with reference 
with regards to fees that you refer to in the Terms of Engagement between us. I enclose a 
copy of my signed Terms of EngagementParagraph 13 suggests  that disbursements  
would be paid upon conclusion of the claim if they were obtained in accordance with the 
policy cover,  and I can see that where  a disbursement should be over £500 the fees should 
not be incurred  within the authority of the Claims Handler.
With regards to my own fees,  I accept  this is conducted at no cost to the underwriters, 
however, surely Counsels costs are a disbursement? 
In July 2017, Ageas replied. They directed  the solicitors to the terms of engagement  which  
said they would cover adverse costs only, which meant clause 13 as quoted by the solicitors  
did not apply.
In December 2017, the solicitors told Ageas the late Mr H had passed away. They  explained 
the next steps in proceedings which Ageas confirmed they were agreeable to. In responding, 
they asked for quarterly  updates.
In May 2018, the solicitors provided an update  on the proceedings.  In doing so they 
expressed concern  about the retainer  they had in place and the funding of disbursements.  In 
particular they said they thought the terms were unclear and the fact they were  having to 
seek authority for disbursements over £500 suggested Ageas would cover these in the event 
of an unsuccessful claim. They also made  the point that the late Mr H wouldve  been better  
advised to enter into a conditional fee agreement (CFA) so that his disbursements  would be 
covered. They asked Ageas to reconsider paying  disbursements. Ageas refused and 
repeated its earlier position.
In October  2018 the solicitors said theyd received a medical report which was unsupportive 
of the late Mr Hs claim. Because of this they said theyd be offering to settle  the matter  with 
the third party  for £10,000 but if that was not accepted, they would seek to discontinue the 
claim on the best possible terms. Later that month the solicitors discontinued the claim 
against the third party,  with each party being responsible for their own costs. Theyve since  
been seeking payment of their disbursements  from Ageas on behalf  of The Estate, which 
they say will be responsible for those sums  if Ageas is not prepared to pay them.
Ref: DRN88229403Our investigator considered The Estates  complaint  and concluded it shouldnt be upheld. 
The Estate doesnt agree so the complaint was passed to me to consider.
Ive since asked the parties a number of questions, which both parties have  now responded 
to. My provisional findings appear below.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I think  The Estates 
complaint should  be upheld  in part. Ill explain  why.
Ive looked carefully  at the communications between the late Mr Hs solicitors  and Ageas as 
well as the terms of engagement between them. And Ive laid out a detailed history of 
communications between  the parties  above.  Having done so I think Ageas made  clear  to the 
late Mr Hs solicitors that the legal expenses insurance policy would pay adverse  costs only. 
But I think that only happened in May 2014.  Before that Ageas didnt say anything  about 
what the policy would cover,  despite  the solicitors being in touch from November the 
preceding year. Had they done  so from the outset,  I agree with the solicitors, that the late Mr 
H wouldnt have claimed on the policy at all. Rather he wouldve entered  into a CFA so that 
his disbursements  wouldve be covered in the event of an unsuccessful  claim.
Because of this I think Ageas should pay The Estate the costs the late Mr J is responsible for 
from November 2013 until the date in May 2014 that Ageas told the solicitors  the policy 
would only pay adverse costs. For clarity, that includes  any profit  costs  or disbursements 
The Estate is responsible for during this period,  which  concerns seeking  and establishing  
legal expenses insurance cover. 
I also think Ageas should pay the barristers fees Ageas asked the late Mr H to incur and any 
profit costs  associated with obtaining  this opinion, which the Estate  are responsible  for. 
Thats because I dont  think  Ageas request for this expense to be incurred was reasonable. 
The policy requires any claim to have  reasonable prospects of success. When making the 
claim, the solicitors provided an assessment of merits  which they said stood at 70%. They 
also said they didnt  intend to obtain  a barristers opinion at that stage as they didnt routinely 
instruct one until they had a response from the other side.  If there was a denial of liability, 
the solicitors said theyd instruct a barrister before  incurring the costs  of medical evidence 
but if liability was admitted  they would get an opinion on the value of the claim at a much 
later stage. 
Ageas said their claims assessment identified concerns  about  the identity of the third party  
and that the claim  was complex, so they wanted a barristers opinion  to satisfy  them  of the 
prospects of it. Theyve also said their concerns were justified because the claim was 
ultimately unsuccessful.  I think that if the Ageas had concerns  about  the legal opinion  
provided, it was up to them to satisfy  themselves  at their own cost. The late Mr H had 
provided enough in the form of a legal opinion  to satisfy what was required of him under the 
policy. And given this policy covered adverse costs only, I think  it was unreasonable for 
Ageas to ask the late Mr H to incur disbursements for the purposes of obtaining insurance 
cover when there was a risk he wouldnt be able to recover them. For clarity, I dont agree 
that the ultimate outcome  of the claim justifies Ageas request. That outcome was based on 
medical evidence  obtained some significant  way into proceedings. Neither the solicitors nor 
Ageas couldve  predicted that could happen.
Ref: DRN88229404Beyond the barristers opinion being obtained however, I dont think any further costs are 
payable by Ageas.  In reaching this conclusion  Ive considered what the late Mr Hs solicitors 
have said about  the terms of engagement  being  misleading. I agree with them that they are. 
On one hand they impose reporting obligations and the requirement for disbursements  over 
£500 to be authorised by Ageas, but on the other  they say Ageas will pay adverse costs  
only. Given cover was so limited, there was little sense in putting such onerous obligations 
on a policyholder or their solicitors. In reality, all Ageas needed to know was whether the 
claim had reasonable  prospects of success on an ongoing basis and a general  update  on 
the progress of the claim. Beyond this, theres  nothing more that I think wouldve  made a 
meaningful impact on their ability to cover any adverse costs, should the litigation be lost. 
That having  been said, I do think that any misunderstandings by the solicitors  in this case as 
to the extent of cover  were clarified  by Ageas in their communications with them  on several  
occasions, starting in May 2014. Thats because  the solicitors  were told several  times  that 
the policy covered  adverse costs only. The fact that they chose to continue to pursue the 
claim with this in mind,  isnt something I can say Ageas is responsible for. I appreciate  that 
from May 2014 to the conclusion of things  in October 2018,  the solicitors  periodically 
disputed that the funding  arrangement should be exclusive  of disbursements.  But I dont 
think this changes anything. Ageas had made themselves clear as to the extent of cover from 
May 2014. So, I wont be asking them to pay anything else beyond  what Ive set out above.
fair compensation 
Ageas should  pay:
The Estate  the costs its responsible for from November  2013 until the date in May 2014 
that Ageas told its solicitors the policy would only pay adverse costs. That includes any 
profit costs  or disbursements The Estate is responsible for, which  concerns seeking  and 
establishing legal expenses insurance cover. 
The barristers  fees and any associated profit costs in obtaining them  that The Estate is 
responsible for, which Ageas requested to prove the merits of the late Mr Hs claim in 2014.
Interest  at 8% per year simple* on any costs The Estate of the late Mr H has paid in 
respect of the costs  Ive set out above,  from the date they were  paid,  until the date The 
Estate is reimbursed.
* I understand that Ageas  is required to deduct  basic rate tax from this part of the 
compensation. Whether The Estate needs  to take any further action will depend on its financial 
circumstances. More  information about the tax position can be found on our website.
developments
I asked the parties  to provide any other comments or information they wanted considered in 
response to my provisional  decision. Both parties  have responded. The Estate has said:
The terms of engagement, the reporting  requirements, the necessity to request 
permission before  incurring disbursements over £500 and clause 13 (which  said 
disbursements would  be paid on conclusion) all led to the misunderstanding  that the 
policy would  cover  disbursements.  
The policy terms were  not the industry norm at the time as all other legal expenses 
insurers The Estates solicitors had any dealings with paid disbursements- although 
some didnt  cover counsels fees which would be subject  to their own CFA. 
Ref: DRN88229405Because of the foregoing The Estates solicitor  told the late Mr H that disbursements would 
be covered by Ageas. It wasnt until May 2017 that they realised this wasnt the case.
In May 2017 Ageas explained that Counsels fees werent  covered. Before that theyd 
only used phrases such as own costs and adverse  costs  and the solicitors  assumed 
adverse costs included  disbursements,
Clause 13 shouldnt  have been  included in the terms of engagement  if it was not applicable.
The Estate  would like me to consider whether the complaint should  be upheld  beyond 
2014, up until the point where Ageas said disbursements would not be covered, which  
was in May 2017.
Ageas have also responded. Theyve said:
They accept  they should pay for Counsel's opinion dated April 2014.
In accordance  with the conditions of the policy, they dont provide cover  for any costs  
until they accept  the claim and are satisfied of prospects  of success.
They were  not provided  with any additional information from The Estates  solicitor  to 
enable them  to consider the claim until January 2014.
They dont  think much  work was undertaken by the solicitors  from January 2014 until the 
point of acceptance of the claim in May that year because the solicitors had written to 
the third party, but no response had been  received. This was the position at the time the 
barrister provided his advice in April 2014. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I remain  of the view that 
The Estates complaint  should be upheld in the same way I set out in my provisional 
decision.
I appreciate that The Estates solicitors misunderstood what Ageas had told them  about the 
extent of cover up to May 2017 and I accept  that the content of the terms of engagement 
were confusing. But I dont think this means Ageas need to pay anything  beyond May 2014. 
Thats because I think their communications  about  the extent of cover  from this date were 
clear. References to own costs and adverse  costs  are common  legal terms so even if The 
Estates solicitor was confused about  the content  of the terms of engagement at that point, I 
think the communications they received from Ageas in May 2014 wouldve been  enough  to 
correct any misunderstandings. At that point it was open to them to consider whether 
entering into a CFA with the late Mr H wouldve been more appropriate. The fact that they 
didnt do so isnt something I can say Ageas  are responsible for.
Ive also thought about what  Ageas has said. Generally  I agree  that an insurer doesnt  need 
to pay anything up to the point of acceptance of a claim. But in this case, the cover Ageas 
were offering  was of very limited value. In the interests of treating customers fairly Id have 
expected Ageas to be upfront about what they were offering to allow  the late Mr H to decide 
whether entering  into a CFA with his solicitors was likely to be of more benefit  to him. This 
was particularly important  in this case because the policy terms themselves dont explain the 
extent of cover at all. And for the same  reasons  The Estate has set out, I think  the terms of 
engagement are inconsistent and confusing. So, theres no reason why the late Mr H 
wouldve been aware of the extent of cover, until Ageas explained  the position to his 
solicitors in May 2014. Because  of this I remain of the view that the complaint should be 
upheld in accordance with my provisional decision, and that Ageas should pay fair 
compensation as set out below.
Ref: DRN88229406For the avoidance of doubt, I dont think it matters what profit costs The Estate incurred 
before May 2014. My award is limited to all costs concerning seeking and establishing legal 
expenses insurance  cover,  barristers fees and any profit costs  associated with obtaining this 
opinion and interest on any sums paid by the Estate in this regard.
 
fair compensation 
Ageas should  pay:
The Estate  the costs its responsible for from November  2013 until the date in May 2014 
that Ageas told its solicitors the policy would only pay adverse costs. That includes any 
profit costs  or disbursements The Estate is responsible for, which  concerns seeking  and 
establishing legal expenses insurance cover. 
The barristers  fees and any associated profit costs in obtaining them  that The Estate is 
responsible for, which Ageas requested to prove the merits of the late Mr Hs claim in 2014.
Interest  at 8% per year simple* on any costs The Estate of the late Mr H has paid in 
respect of the costs  Ive set out above,  from the date they were  paid,  until the date The 
Estate is reimbursed.
* I understand that Ageas  is required to deduct  basic rate tax from this part of the 
compensation. Whether the Estate needs  to take any further action will depend  on its financial 
circumstances. More  information about the tax position can be found on our website.
my final decision
I uphold The Estates complaint  in part against Ageas Insurance Limited and direct them to 
comply with my award of fair compensation set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask The Estate to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 March  2020.
Lle Hussein-Venn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8822940