K820x#14complaint
Mr R is unhappy with a settlement  Covea Insurance plc has paid to him in respect of a claim 
under his commercial  business policy for a damaged dental chair.
background
Prior to renewal of his policy  in 2018,  Covea  required Mr R to undertake an electrical 
inspection and complete any work recommended. Mr R says that Covea gave him a list of 
electricians, the required  work was done  but then his dental chair failed. Mr R had used a 
technician over the years to maintain  the chair. The technician found  a control board within  
the chair had failed,  he felt this was beyond repair, disposed of the chair and charged Mr R 
£500 for a second-hand replacement that had been kept in storage. There were costs  for 
fitting, income was lost and other  ancillary  charges needed to be paid by Mr R. Mr R made  a 
claim to Covea for all his costs incurred,  plus around £65,000 for a new chair.  
Covea accepted a claim  from Mr R for accidental damage and began  investigating  it. It had 
concerns that the chair had been disposed of without it having had the chance to inspect it. It 
felt it wouldve been reasonable  and in-line  with the policy wording for Mr R to have kept the 
chair. Whilst  it noted there was a written report from Mr Rs technician,  it noted there were no 
photos of the damaged board. It consulted an electrical forensic  expert for its opinion.  The 
expert noted incorrect technical terms were used by Mr Rs technician, felt it was unlikely the 
board had been damaged  in the way suggested, and that if it had been, it could likely have 
been simply repaired. The expert  also noted  there was a gap of several weeks  between  the 
electrical work completing at Mr Rs premises and faults with the chair  being found. 
Covea told Mr R that it wasnt  prepared  to pay for the replacement  cost of a new chair.  But it 
said it would  pay him the £500 he had paid for the second hand replacement, along  with the 
cost for installing that and other costs requested. Mr R felt Covea should pay for a new chair, 
as his policy entitled him to that. He also blamed  Covea for the damage on account  of it 
having recommended  the electrician hed instructed. He complained  to us.
Our investigator didnt  uphold this complaint. She felt that Covea had acted fairly  both in 
how it had handled  the claim and the settlement offer it had made. 
Mr R remained  adamant that Covea was responsible because,  in his view,  it had 
recommended the electrician who had completed the work which  had damaged his chair. 
Whilst our investigator explained  that the difficulty here was always  going to be that Mr R 
had disposed of the chair, Mr R wasnt minded to accept her findings. The complaint was 
passed to me for review.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate this will disappoint Mr R, but I dont intend to change  the outcome reached by 
our investigator. I know Mr R feels he should get more than Covea has offered in settlement 
but, on this occasion, I cant  see that requiring it to pay more would be reasonable. 
Mr R has said the policy doesnt require him to keep damaged  objects. Strictly speaking that 
is true. But the policy does require Mr R, as a condition precedent  to [Coveas] liability , to: 
Ref: DRN80534632provide at [his] own expense all assistance, details and evidence we may reasonably  
require.
In some instances I might not think it would be reasonable to keep an item  but here I really 
cant understand why such  an expensive item would be disposed of so quickly. It was large  
but Mr Rs technician took an old chair out of storage to install in its place  I dont  think 
Coveas view that the chairs could merely have been swapped over was unreasonable. 
Even if Covea had suggested  the chair should  have been placed into a private storage 
facility, I think  Id have  found  that to be reasonable. 
Mr R did obtain some evidence in respect of the damaged chair. But I take note that Coveas 
electrical forensic expert was somewhat critical of some of the terminology used in the 
findings. I find the forensic experts report to be persuasive and I can understand, having 
seen its content,  and in light of the condition precedent quoted above, why Covea was not 
minded to settle for the full price of a replacement chair. 
I dont think its clear  that the electrical work completed at the premises caused the damage 
to the chair.  And in saying that I note that even Mr Rs technician  only said the electrical 
work could have caused  the problems with the chair  not that it most likely did. I also dont 
think it is clear  that Covea introduced the electrician  to Mr R. But even if I were persuaded in 
this respect, and in light of the unclear findings  of the technicians  report, Id still think it 
unreasonable for Mr R to expect Covea to pay out over £60,000 without it having had 
chance to properly inspect the chair. Covea would reasonably need a fair chance to gather 
any evidence it might feel was necessary in order for it to seek to recover  its outlay. The 
disposal of the chair has, in my view, prejudiced Coveas position.
I can see that this claim did take a number of months to progress. But I bear in mind Mr R 
already had a temporary chair in place  and he had, therefore, limited  his loss. And I accept 
that the length of the claim directly  resulted from the chair having  been disposed of. Covea  
was entitled to investigate and I think it did that reasonably.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  I dont make any award against Covea Insurance plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2021.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8053463