K820x#14complaint
Dr P complains  Mapfre  Asistencia, Compania  Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A.
mis-sold her travel insurance and didnt cover  her claim for lost belongings.
background
Dr P bought an annual travel insurance policy with Mapfre over the phone.  This policy was 
needed to cover her and her family. During this call Dr P says she was told her policy  
provided cover if her trip was affected  by natural disasters.
Dr P and her family went on holiday shortly after taking out the policy.  Unfortunately,  their 
trip had to be cut short due to a natural disaster.  And the circumstances meant  Dr P and her 
family lost all their personal  belongings. When Mapfre  was made aware  of what  happened, 
they agreed Dr P and her family could make  a claim to return  home.
Mapfre assessed the claim and covered the costs Dr P and her family incurred for cutting 
their trip short. However, they didnt reimburse Dr P and her family  for their lost personal  
belongings. Mapfre  said there wasnt cover for them under the travel  disruption section of the 
policy. Dr P was unhappy with this outcome and raised a complaint.  Mapfre  said they would 
consider whether the personal belongings were covered under  the baggage section of her 
policy. But after doing  this they confirmed Dr P and her familys personal belongings still 
werent covered  because  they were caught  by a general exclusion  relating to natural 
disasters.
Throughout Mapfres complaint process, they identified a few occasions where they could 
have better  handled Dr Ps claim. And they awarded her a total of £100 in recognition  of their 
mistakes. 
Dr P remained unhappy, so she contacted  us to investigate her complaint. Dr P told us she 
felt her policy had been  mis-sold because she had told Mapfres  adviser she wanted to be 
covered against  natural disasters when she bought her policy.  And during this call, she had 
been led to believe  their personal belongings  would be covered in the event of a natural 
disaster. In light of this, she felt her familys claim should be paid. 
Our investigator reviewed  Dr Ps complaint, but he didnt think  it should be upheld. He said 
he didnt think the claim for personal belongings was covered under  the policy due to the 
natural disaster  exclusion. He also didnt think Mapfre had told her personal belongings 
would be covered under the travel  disruption section of her policy.  And because of this, he 
didnt consider her policy had been mis-sold.
Dr P disagreed with our investigator. She said her husband had been told their personal 
belongings would  be covered when he first logged the claim with Mapfre. Our investigator 
reviewed this and didnt agree Mapfre had told Dr Ps husband their personal belongings 
would be covered  rather  they told him he could  make  a claim for them.
As Dr P still disagreed with our investigator, her complaint  was passed to me to review.
Ref: DRN87807082my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done this, Im not upholding Dr Ps 
complaint. I know this will come as a disappointment to her. But Ill explain my reasoning 
below.
claim for personal belongings
Its not disputed  Dr P had travel disruption  cover under her policy.  So, Ive reviewed this 
section of her policy to understand the circumstances in which it could be used. Dr Ps policy 
booklet explains this section of cover applies in the event of travel  disruption caused either 
directly or indirectly by natural disasters  or civil unrest. There are three areas  of cover under 
this section, and they are extended delay departure, extended  missed  departure,  and 
extended accommodation cover. In none of these areas does the policy say claims can be 
made for personal belongings that are lost due to a natural disaster. As the policy  booklet  
outlines the circumstances in which Mapfre will settle claims, I dont consider they acted 
unreasonably by not paying for Dr Ps familys belongings under this section of her policy.
Dr Ps policy also has personal belongings  and baggage cover.  And claims can be made 
under this part of her policy  if personal  belongings are lost, damaged or stolen. However,  
Dr Ps family are also unable to benefit from this section of cover due to a general exclusion 
that applies to the whole policy.  The relevant exclusion says:
Any claim which  is directly or indirectly caused  by, results from or is connected with a 
natural disaster  or civil unrest (see Definitions on pages 13-14) unless you chose and have 
paid the appropriate extra premium for the Travel disruption option (see section R1, R2 and 
R3) which provides  cover  in this respect  for Delayed departure,  Missed  departure and 
Accommodation cover  only. Please also note  that this exclusion does not apply to 
section B  Medical  and other expenses . 
This exclusion clearly explains most  claims wont be covered if theyre caused by a natural 
disaster. It also outlines the exceptions to this rule  and unfortunately for Dr P and her 
family, baggage cover  is caught by this exclusion.
I appreciate Dr Ps holiday was cut short by distressing  circumstances. And losing their 
personal belongings would have been upsetting,  and expensive given the value of the claim 
they submitted.  However, the circumstances surrounding this aspect of their claim arent 
covered under her policy. And its for this reason  I cant say that Mapfre  assessed  her claim 
unfairly or incorrectly.
sale of the policy
Ive listened to the sales call between Dr P and Mapfre. Before Mapfres adviser started  the 
quote process she explained  she wouldnt be giving any advice or personal 
recommendations. She also went on to say she would provide abbreviated information 
about their travel insurance products so that Dr P could choose a suitable policy. After this 
information was provided, Dr P agreed she has happy to start the process  of getting a quote.
Ref: DRN87807083Dr P has said she asked several questions about baggage cover and travel  disruption cover 
during call. And the answers  to these questions led her to believe  their personal belongings 
would be covered under the travel  disruption section of the cover.  Having listened  to the call, 
I agree  Dr P did ask general questions about how to claim under the policy. And questions 
were asked about baggage cover and adding travel  disruption cover to her policy.  However, 
the two sections of cover  werent discussed  together. Most of the questions  about baggage 
cover were  discussed around 35 minutes  before Dr P mentioned she wanted travel 
disruption cover due the routes she often takes to travel. These points were  also discussed  
with two different  advisers at Mapfre because Dr P wanted to speak with a manager after 
going through the medical screening.
When travel  disruption cover was discussed with second adviser,  he explained it provided 
cover for extended delay  and missed departure. Dr P asked some more  general questions 
about making claims under the policy. But they didnt sound  like they were asked in relation 
to travel disruption cover. Thats because she had also been  asking questions about cover  
for her daughters mobile phone under  a separate head of cover,  shed asked to add to the 
policy. Mapfres advisers were helpful  during this call and answered all the queries Dr P 
raised. And I consider they did so clearly. Considering the content of this sales  call, I cant  
fairly say Mapfre implied personal belongings would be covered under  the travel  disruption 
section of Dr Ps policy.
When Dr P first contacted us, she said Mapfres adviser went  through key exclusions under 
the policy. However, they never mentioned other exclusions may apply, nor did they advise 
her to check the policy in detail. Our service  wouldnt expect an insurers adviser to go 
through every exclusion under a policy during a sales call. That would be impractical. 
However, it would  be encouraged to advise consumers to check theyre happy with the 
policy theyve taken  and that its been set up correctly. As mentioned  above, Mapfres  
adviser told Dr P she would be providing  abbreviated information about  their travel 
products. And Dr P confirmed she was happy to proceed with obtaining a quote on that 
basis. So, Im satisfied  Dr P was aware, at the start of the call, that she wouldnt be given all 
terms and conditions that related to any policy she may eventually  buy after getting a quote.  
Dr P has also said Mapfre told her husband  their personal belongings would be covered 
when he called to make a claim. Ive also listened  to this call and cant  agree thats exactly 
what happened. Dr Ps husband explained  they had incurred costs  returning home  and for 
unused accommodation  due to the natural  disaster. He also said they had lost their personal 
belongings and wanted to make a claim for them. The adviser explained that if Dr Ps family 
wanted to make a claim for their belongings, they would  need to do so under the baggage 
section of cover. The adviser went one to say Dr Ps family would need  to make a separate 
claim for the expenses they incurred as a result of having to cut their trip short.  So, while,  
claiming for their personal belongings was discussed, I dont consider Mapfres adviser  
confirmed their belongings would be covered. He simply explained they could  submit  a 
claim.
When an insurer is notified of a claim, its not always possible for them to immediately 
confirm whether it will be successful. They usually need some  time to review  the information  
provided by their policyholders  and consider it alongside the policy terms and conditions.  
Once theyve  done  that, theyll be able to confirm their decision. Thats  why Mapfres adviser 
telling Dr Ps husband to make a claim wasnt unreasonable in the circumstances. And 
I dont consider they implied the claim would be paid.
Ref: DRN87807084Taking everything into consideration, I cant fairly say Mapfre  mis-sold Dr Ps policy.  And Ive 
not seen a section of cover under her policy that applies to the personal  belongings aspect  
of her claim. So, I wont be asking Mapfre to do anything further to put things right.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding Dr Ps complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Dr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 March 2020.
Sarrah Turay
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8780708