K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that The Co-operative Bank Plc T/A Smile didnt tell him his account was 
overdrawn or that interest was being  charged.
 
background
Mr S had a Smile current account with an overdraft facility of £500.  In 2010 Mr S sent a 
secure message  to Smile  to explain that he was transferring  his banking elsewhere. He also 
said he had stopped using his debit  cards and cheque book. But he didnt ask Smile to close  
his account. 
In February 2011,  a cheque debited Mr S account.  Prior to the cheque debiting,  his account 
was overdrawn by a small amount. But after this cheque debited, Mr S account  became 
more overdrawn and interest was added on a monthly basis.  .
Smile said it continued to regularly send Mr S emails after this point, which  told him his 
statements were available  to view online.  But Mr S said he didnt receive these  emails  
because he changed  his email address in 2010. So, he said he didnt know his account was 
overdrawn.
Smile said it didnt hear from Mr S after 2010 until December 2017  when  he contacted it by 
telephone. Mr S said it was during this telephone call that he was made aware his account 
was overdrawn.  Smile  said it reset Mr S access to online banking during this conversation to 
enable him to view his account. Following this telephone call Mr S didnt speak with Smile 
again until July 2018, when he paid the overdrawn balance and instructed Smile to close  his 
account. 
Mr S was unhappy with the overdrawn balance that had accrued on his account. So he 
complained to Smile about what had happened. He said he thought  it shouldve  told him his 
account had become overdrawn, that the overdrawn balance was increasing and that he 
was being charged interest. He told Smile he didnt think  it was fair to charge  interest  in 
these circumstances  and he wanted  it to refund the interest he had been charged. 
After Smile investigated what had happened it told Mr S that it didnt think it had made an 
error. It said interest had been added in line with the terms and conditions of his account and 
that it had been regularly  emailing him his statements. So it thought  Mr S ought  to have 
known that his account balance was becoming  more  overdrawn each month
Being dissatisfied with Smiles response, Mr S referred his complaint to us. Our adjudicator 
empathised with Mr S but didnt think Smile had done anything  wrong.  And they thought  it 
had dealt with Mr S complaint fairly. But Mr S didnt agree. So his complaint  has been 
passed to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ss complaint relates  to what happened over six years ago because  his account became 
overdrawn in 2010. Under our rules, if a business  doesnt consent, we cant  consider  a 
complaint if its been brought more  than six years after the date of the event complained of 
or, if later, within three years from when  Mr S became aware (or ought reasonably to have 
Ref: DRN82476012been aware) that he had cause to complain  unless there are exceptional reasons to 
explain the delay.  Here, Smile said Mr S ought  to have known about his account becoming 
overdrawn in 2010. But it consented to us considering this complaint out of time.
The first part of Mr S complaint is about  whether Smile shouldve told him his account was 
overdrawn and that what he owed was increasing due to the interest he was being charged 
each month. So, Ill focus  on that issue first.
Mr S says Smile didnt  send him statements. But, Smiles confirmed that it wouldnt have 
posted statements  to Mr S because this account  was intended to be managed  online. It said 
statements were generated online.  So, there  was never an option  for it to send postal 
statements. It said that, instead, an automated email was sent to Mr S telling him his new 
statement was available  to view via his online account. 
Having thought about how this account was intended to be used by customers, I think  it was 
reasonable for Smile  not to post statements to Mr S. And I dont think  it did anything wrong in 
emailing Mr S each time a new statement was available for him to view.  Im satisfied it acted 
in line with the terms and conditions of Mr S account, which  say: 
statements are delivered to your Online Banking  area, which  you can view by logging in. 
We'll notify you by email  when your statement is available.
Mr S says he didnt receive  these  emails. And I understand that this is because  he changed 
his email address  in 2010 and didnt  communicate  this change with Smile. I appreciated that 
this meant  Mr S didnt  have any contact with Smile for a very long time but thats not 
something I can hold Smile  responsible for. Ill explain why.
Ive seen evidence  that Smile was regularly emailing  Mr S and I can also see it posted 
updated terms and conditions to him after 2010.  Smile has told us that the emails  and post it 
sent Mr S werent returned undelivered. And Mr S accepts he received post sent by Smile.  
So, Im satisfied Smile had no reason to think  Mr S wasnt receiving the electronic or posted 
correspondence it was sending him or that it was no longer able to contact Mr S via the 
email address he had previously given it. 
It was Mr S responsibility to manage his account  properly  and to keep Smile informed of his 
contact details. And I also think it was Mr S responsibility to monitor  his account in 
circumstances where  he knew his account  wasnt closed. He hadnt instructed Smile  to close 
his account and it couldnt have  done so where there was a debit balance  and accruing 
interest charges.  
Based on the evidence  Ive seen Mr S account became overdrawn in October  2010.  And Im 
satisfied he logged into his account in December  2010  as this is when he sent Smile  a 
secure message  explaining that he intended  to move his banking elsewhere. 
When Mr S logged  into his account in December 2010 I think he ought  to have been aware 
that his account  was already overdrawn. And I also think, having accessed  his account, he 
ought to have also been aware that there  was a cheque  pending  as it still hadnt been 
presented to Smile.  It follows that I think Mr S shouldve ensured  there  were  sufficient  funds 
available to cover  this cheque and the small overdrawn  balance.
Ive thought about whether Smile shouldve contacted him to tell him his account was 
becoming more overdrawn each month  especially because he wasnt making deposits to 
Ref: DRN82476013his account. But, having carefully considered  what both Mr S and Smile have said here Im 
not persuaded Smile  has acted unfairly or unreasonably. Ill explain why. 
Smile said Mr S had an arranged  overdraft  facility of £500. And it also said it would only 
contact a customer by letter, telephone  and secure  message if they had gone into an 
unarranged overdraft. Here, the overdrawn balance in Mr S account remained within his 
overdraft facility so Smile said it had no reason  to contact him about how overdrawn his 
account was becoming.  Having  considered what Smile has said here, Im persuaded it acted  
in line with its policy here and that it was reasonable for it to not contact Mr S about  his 
outstanding balance in the circumstances. 
Ive also taken into account the fact that Smile was already emailing Mr S to tell him 
statements of his account were available to view. It didnt know Mr S wasnt receiving these 
emails for the reasons  Ive already  outlined.  Had Mr S been able to view these statements 
he wouldve known that his account was becoming  more overdrawn. And I think  its most 
likely he wouldve paid the balance on his account and closed it sooner, which  wouldve 
prevented the debit  balance from continuing  to grow.
Smile said it also sent Mr S letters  asking  him to contact  it about his account because  it was 
continuously overdrawn. And when  Mr S contacted Smile in December 2017 it told him that 
his account was overdrawn.  It also reset his access to online banking to enable  him to 
review his account. But as Mr S didnt inform Smile he had changed  his email address he 
didnt receive the new password Smile had emailed him. So he couldnt log in online.  Had he 
done so, I think  its most likely he wouldve paid the balance on his account and closed it at 
this point. 
I think Mr S couldve managed his account  more proactively. After his telephone discussion 
with Smile in December  2017 he didnt contact Smile again until July 2018. By this point the 
amount his account was overdrawn by had increased even more. 
I understand that Mr S is unhappy  by how much his account had become overdrawn by 
when he closed his account. But Im not persuaded this is due to a error Smile made. Im 
satisfied Smile provided sufficient information  to Mr S about the status  of his account. It 
follows that I cant fairly conclude that Smile shouldve  done anymore.
Ill turn now to the second part of Mr S complaint, which is about the interest  that Smile has 
charged and whether  its been applied in line with the terms and conditions of his account.
Having seen the contact notes Smile has provided our service, Im satisfied that it posted  
updated terms and conditions to Mr S each time they were amended. From carefully  
considering the historic  and recent  terms and conditions  of Mr S account Im persuaded that 
Smile applied interest in accordance with those terms. So I cant  say its applied interest 
unfairly or done  anything wrong  here. It follows that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to 
require it to refund the interest that was charged.
I appreciate the reasons why Mr S brought this complaint  to our service  and, while I 
acknowledge his strength of feelings about  these  matters,  I dont think  Smile has done 
anything wrong  here or that it shouldve acted differently. So, I wont  be asking it to do 
anything more.
Ref: DRN82476014my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 May 2019.
Julie Robertson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8247601