K820x#14complaint
Mrs P complains that Aviva  Insurance Limited incorrectly diagnosed  a fault with her toilet 
after she made a claim  on her home emergency insurance policy.   
background
Mrs P contacted Aviva in September  2018 to claim on her home emergency insurance policy 
to fix a problem  with her toilet. Mrs P said her toilet had been making whirling noises and 
water wasnt  releasing and she thought this was caused by a blocked waste pipe. The 
engineer attended and said the problem wasnt because of a blocked pipe. And it was due to 
a faulty macerator  which wasnt something covered under Mrs Ps policy.  So Mrs P needed 
to instruct her own engineer to complete  the repair. 
Mrs Ps own engineer attended  a few days later to remove and repair the macerator but said 
he couldnt discover how to repair the part because it was sealed. So Mrs P went  online and 
purchased a replacement macerator for her own engineer to fit once it had arrived.  
Mrs Ps own engineer returned to replace the macerator she purchased  online but said the 
same problems persisted.  So Mrs Ps engineer  carried out further  checks and found a 
blocked pipe,  which he managed to clear to the cost of £70 to Mrs P. 
Mrs P called Aviva to complain that its engineer that had attended missed the fault with her 
toilet. Mrs P said had the engineer have  correctly identified the issue  was being cause by a 
blocked pipe;  she wouldnt  have incurred costs to replace the macerator.  
Aviva agreed its engineer  incorrectly  stated there  was no blocked pipe during the visit. So its 
agreed to reimburse  Mrs P the amount she paid to have  the pipe unblocked. And have 
offered Mrs P £75 for the trouble and upset caused to her. But it thinks Mrs P wouldve 
needed to replace the macerator  in any event. Aviva said this is because Mrs Ps own 
engineer said the macerator he replaced  was broken. Mrs P said her own engineer was 
repeating what shed been  told by Aviva when explaining the problem. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She agreed that Avivas  engineer  missed the 
blocked pipe,  but Mrs Ps engineer had said he thinks  the macerator wouldve required 
replacing in any event. 
Mrs P didnt accept the investigators opinion. She thinks Aviva misdiagnosed the fault with 
her toilet  which caused  her to replace something  that wasnt broken. So Mrs P asked for an 
ombudsman to review  the complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I agree with our 
investigators view and largely for the same  reasons.
Its not in dispute  that Aviva made a mistake by not identifying the blocked pipe. And Im 
mindful that this has been a cause of upset for Mrs P. But I dont  agree  Mrs P should  be 
reimbursed for replacing the macerator.  
Ref: DRN88414932The general exclusions under the policy set out whats excluded from cover  and Aviva  will 
not be liable  for. Within  the general  exclusions the policy says:-
 q) the following  are not covered:
   i. pumps  including; sewerage  pumps, drainage pumps, shower pumps, any associated      
electrics or valves;
   ii. water softeners;
   iii. waste disposal units, macerators;
While its not disputed  by Mrs P whether the replacement macerator  is covered under  the 
policy, I think its important for clarity  to note that a macerator isnt something thats covered. 
Her argument is that the macerator  didnt need to be replaced. 
The report  Mrs Ps own engineer completed states he replaced  a broken macerator, which  
Aviva thinks  confirms the original macerator  was faulty. But Mrs P has said her own engineer  
stated this because  he was repeating what hed been told by Aviva.  Mrs Ps engineer also 
said he couldnt inspect  the macerator  because its a sealed  unit. So I dont think  I can rely 
solely on this to determine whether the macerator  wouldve required replacing anyway or 
not. 
Mrs Ps own engineer described the purpose of a macerator, which  is to break up and push  
waste through the pipes. He said he thinks given there was a blocked pipe, its likely the 
motor wouldve been strained trying  to break up and push  the waste  through  the pipes. He 
also said this wouldve worn out the original  macerator and its likely Mrs P wouldve needed 
to replace this at some point. This information was provided to us by Mrs Ps own engineer  
during a phone  conversation with our investigator. Mrs P was provided with a copy of this 
call. 
Mrs P told us she maintains that the macerator  was working as normal until she carried  out a 
mini flush and heard the loud whirling sound. Mrs P remains  of the opinion that Avivas 
mistake in not identifying  the blocked pipe has caused her to incur  unnecessary  costs  in 
replacing a working  macerator. And she feels  all that was required was for the waste pipe to 
be unblocked. 
This is a finely balanced case  and neither Mrs P nor Aviva can be certain if the macerator 
was broken. Based on what Mrs Ps engineer has told us Im more  persuaded that the 
macerator wouldve  likely required replacement than not. So I dont  think Avivas mistake  has 
resulted in Mrs P incurring  unnecessary  costs.  
Aviva has reimbursed the cost Mrs P paid her own engineer to unblock  the pipe. It has also 
offered Mrs P £75 compensation  for the trouble and upset their mistake has caused her. 
In the circumstances of this complaint  Im satisfied that Aviva  doesnt need to do anything 
more. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above  my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 April 2019.
Ref: DRN88414933Martyn Tomkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8841493