K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that delays caused by Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited in selling 
some investments and transferring them to another  provider  have left them  disadvantanged. 
In particular, theyve  been left with funds outside  their ISAs that would otherwise have been 
sheltered from future capital gains  tax (CGT).  
background
On 2 January  2018, Mr H phoned Aberdeen  to enquire about selling some jointly held 
investments. Aberdeen has accepted that its employees responses were  unhelpful  and 
caused some delays in the subsequent  completion of the sale and the receipt of the 
proceeds. 
The investments were sold on 9 January and the proceeds sent to Mr and Mrs H by cheque 
(as no bank details were  held). On 22 January, Mr and Mrs H then reinvested  the proceeds  
with another firm, which Ill call B. 
Mr and Mrs H complained  to Aberdeen about the delay (the first delay). This included a 
complaint that their new investments  with B had been delayed  because of the late receipt of 
the sale proceeds. Because the share price of the new investments had risen during the 
delay, they had been able to buy fewer units when the money arrived.  
Aberdeen accepted that if everything  had gone  as it should have done, Mr and Mrs H would 
have received their sale proceeds five days earlier, on 17 January.  So it agreed to pay 
compensation. Aberdeen said that it would need to get in touch with B to confirm  exactly 
how many  units  of the new investments had been bought at what price, and what  the price  
would have been on 18 January. 
Aberdeen says that B didnt respond to its attempts to obtain this information  and wouldnt 
speak to Aberdeen on the phone, because of data protection rules. This went  on for some 
months (the second delay), until Aberdeens complaint handler thought of an alternative 
way forward and obtained the necessary information  from Mr and Mrs Hs contract  notes and 
Bs website.  In July, Aberdeen paid Mr and Mrs H two cheques for £348 and £87 (£435 in 
total) for the lost investment opportunity.  
Mr and Mrs H still werent  satisfied  that Aberdeen  had done enough to put things right. They  
said that theyd  each been  left with fewer units of the new investments  in their ISAs  than they 
should have had because of the delay. They wanted  compensation for the future potential 
CGT they might have  to pay. So they asked this service to investigate. 
One of our investigators  looked into things and didnt recommend Aberdeen do anything  
further. Mr and Mrs H disagreed. They said that theyd been compensated for tax 
implications in the past. And they used their full ISA allowance  every year.  Mr H provided a 
calculation showing an estimated CGT loss of £385 in the year 2043.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
it. Ill explain why below.
Ref: DRN84304252First, Aberdeen has accepted responsibility for the first delay and paid compensation of over 
£500. So I dont  need to look into the circumstances of the original phone call and sale, as 
nothing there is in dispute.  
The remaining  matter for me to decide concerns Mr and Mrs Hs ISAs  for 2017/2018  and 
whether they should be compensated for the fact that the compensation money is now 
outside their ISA and they have fewer units in the new funds in their ISAs than they could 
have bought on 12 January. 
Much of the arguments  have centred around the responsibility for the second delay. But I 
think this delay is largely irrelevant. Mr and Mrs H ended up with fewer units  of the new 
funds in their ISAs due to Aberdeen's first delay. Theyve also told us that theyd used  their 
full ISA allowances for 2017/18. So even if Aberdeen had got the information to pay the 
£348 and £87 earlier, that money couldnt  have  gone into Mr and Mrs Hs ISAs to buy more  
units, because  theyd used their full allowances. 
For that reason,  I dont  intend to make  any findings  on Aberdeens responsibility or otherwise 
for this second delay,  as I dont think it makes any difference.
I agree  that the fact that compensation is difficult to calculate isnt in itself a reason not to 
pay it. But in this case, it's not just that it's difficult,  it might never materialise. I appreciate 
that Mr H will disagree with his. He feels that its highly probable,  because theyre in a 
position to use their full ISA and CGT allowances every year.  
Any potential future tax liability is contingent  on several unknown factors,  including  how long 
Mr and Mrs H each keep the investments for (assuming they've used the compensation  cash 
to buy more units in the same things) and how they perform.  It also depends on how 
Mr and Mrs H each use their future ISAs and CGT  allowances. All of these  elements  are 
entirely outside of Aberdeen's  control.
As part of his argument for compensation, Mr H has sent us a calculation  of what  the capital  
gain might be on his and his wifes units. This is based on them  holding  the units for 25 
years (into his nineties)  and the units  achieving  a relatively high average return  of 7% above 
inflation. Even in this scenario, the potential tax liability in 25 years time is less than £400.   
I dont think its reasonable to expect Aberdeen  to compensate  Mr and Mrs H for a 
hypothetical loss  particularly one that may materialise sometime in the future  based  on a 
large number of assumptions.  
I know Mr and Mrs H feel that I will be sending  the wrong message by not requiring 
Aberdeen to pay further compensation. But Ive also thought  about  this in the context of what 
Aberdeen has actually  done wrong in this case.  Its employee could have been more helpful  
and asked more  questions on the phone. It has accepted responsibility for this. And it seems 
to me that, since it happened,  it has put a reasonable amount of effort into resolving things. It 
has also paid Mr and Mrs H over £500  in compensation. 
On balance, it seems to me that Aberdeen has done enough to put right its original error. I 
don't think  it would be proportionate to require it to do anything  more.
Ref: DRN84304253my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 March 2019.
Louise Bardell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8430425