K820x#14complaint
Mrs B says that Bank  of Scotland plc (trading  as Halifax) mis-sold  her payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  with her mortgage.
background
Mrs B took out a Halifax mortgage in 1995. She was sold PPI around the same time.
Our adjudicator didnt  think this was a complaint we should uphold. Mrs B disagrees with our 
adjudicators view. Mrs B mainly says that she had no need  for the PPI that Halifax  added   
and she didnt  agree  to have  it. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. Based on all the information Ive seen I dont uphold this complaint. 
Mrs B took out her mortgage at a Halifax branch. Ive seen  nothing  signed by Mrs B from 
then to show how she took out the PPI as Halifax  couldnt  provide any of Mrs Bs paperwork 
from the sale. But its not surprising, given how long ago this happened,  that documents  
arent still available.  And it wouldnt be reasonable to expect Mrs B to recall exactly what was 
discussed at the time. This means  that what Mrs B says about the way Halifax sold her the 
PPI isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold her complaint. I have to look at 
everything and decide  what I think is most likely.
Mrs Bs mortgage was a significant financial commitment for which  she was solely 
responsible and it was due to run for a long period of time.  Her home  wouldve been  at risk if 
her mortgage payments  werent paid in full and on time each month. PPI provided a 
dependable means of ensuring that Mrs Bs monthly mortgage repayments  were protected 
even if she couldnt  work.  
Its completely understandable that Mrs B mightve forgotten  some of the details from the 
sale. On balance, I think its more  likely  that Mrs B was persuaded of the need  to protect her 
home by taking out the PPI offered and she decided to buy the policy.    
Halifax says it recommended the PPI so it had to take reasonable steps to make sure the 
cover was suitable for Mrs B as well as giving her important policy information  in a clear way. 
Ive checked the available policy documents that were in use around the time Mrs B took out 
her mortgage. I think its reasonable to assume that the terms and conditions  in the policy 
Mrs B took out are likely to have been  broadly the same in all important respects. And I dont 
find that PPI wouldve been unsuitable  for her. 
Mrs B was eligible for the PPI. The policy terms wouldnt  have made  it difficult  for her to 
make a claim. And Mrs B wasnt affected by any of the main things the policy wouldnt have 
covered. So even if Halifax had given Mrs B more information about  the exclusions and 
limitations this isnt likely to have put her off buying  PPI. Mrs B couldve benefitted from 
everything the policy offered.  
Ref: DRN89934922Mrs B told us she wouldve got sick pay for at least 12 months. But I think PPI still couldve 
been useful. It wouldve  paid out on top of sick pay providing Mrs B with a useful benefit at a 
difficult time  especially  if she had some extra costs as a result  of being sick or disabled. 
PPI wouldve  also paid out for up to 12 months for any one claim if Mrs B lost her job and 
became unexpectedly  unemployed. Mrs B couldve made repeated  claims on the policy , 
giving her long term protection for her mortgage.
Relying on family and friends to help out in the event  of money  problems isnt as dependable 
as taking out PPI as everyones circumstances can change unexpectedly. 
Ive carefully considered  everything Mrs B has told us about her financial circumstances at 
the time  including information that she was a co-owner in another property and she 
couldve taken her share at any time. But I dont think this would make  the recommendation 
to take PPI unsuitable. Selling a property can be a lengthy process and this means its 
unlikely this would help Mrs B meet the monthly mortgage repayments due if she was unable  
to work due to an accident, sickness or unemployment. 
Having PPI meant she wasnt at risk of being forced to sell  perhaps  at a time when  
property prices couldve meant Mrs B mightnt  get as much as she hoped for. So I think that 
having cover  in place so Mrs B couldve continued to pay her mortgage without having  to sell 
a share  in another property, that I think she mightve preferred to keep as an investment  for 
the future,  or sell at a time of her own choosing, provided her with a worthwhile benefit.
With PPI set up, Mrs B could be sure shed always be able to keep up the monthly 
repayments in order to protect her home. I think this wouldve probably been  an important 
consideration for her at the time.  
Its possible  some information Halifax gave Mrs B about  the PPI costs wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But I havent seen anything to suggest that the policy  wasnt affordable  for 
Mrs B. And given the benefits  it offered her, I dont think  better information wouldve changed 
her mind  about buying the PPI for the reasons  Ive explained.
Looked at overall, it doesnt  look as if Mrs B has lost out as a result of anything  Halifax 
mightve done wrong. So it doesnt  need to do anything to put things right.
my final decision
For these reasons I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 March  2019 .
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8993492