K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a credit 
card in 1996. Miss C says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Cs case.
Having done so, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
When selling  the PPI, Lloyds had to make it clear to Miss C that she had a choice about it. 
But Miss C says it wasnt made clear to her that the policy was optional.
Lloyds has sent us a copy of Miss Cs application  form for the credit  card.  This included  a 
section on PPI, with a box to be ticked if Miss C wanted to take it out. And the box has been 
ticked.
If Miss C didnt  want the PPI, I think she couldve left this box blank.  And so I think Lloyds did 
make it clear  to her that she had a choice  about the PPI. And that Miss C chose to take it, 
knowing she didnt have  to.
Lloyds didnt recommend the PPI to Miss C, so it didnt have to check if the policy  was right 
for her. But it did have  to make sure Miss C got the information she needed to decide if the 
PPI was right for her.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Miss C about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve 
been. But, based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, it doesnt look like 
Miss C was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. The policy  
couldve paid out for longer than shes told us she wouldve been entitled to full sick pay. And 
shes said she didnt have  any other means  she couldve used to make her repayments if 
she wasnt earning. So the PPI would have  been useful for her if something  went wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have 
put Miss C off taking  it out.
Which means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss C.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss C because:
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Miss C about that. Because  Lloyds didnt tell Miss C, 
that was unfair.
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN83501572my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC doesnt have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Miss C.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Miss C any commission and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 September 2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8350157