K821x#15complaint
Mrs R complains that Provident Personal Credit  Limited was irresponsible  when it provided 
her with four loans.
background
Mrs R took four home  credit loans with Provident.  This table shows  some of the information  
Provident has provided about  Mrs Rs loans.
date 
takenprincipal 
amountterm 
(weeks)instalment  
(weekly)current situation
Loan 
108/07/06 £1,000 80 £22.50balance written 
off 2/6/09
Loan 
202/09/11 £300 52 £10.50
Loan 
321/10/11 £200 50 £7.00
Loan 
422/12/11 £200 52 £7.00outstanding 
balance  sold to 
debt collections 
agency 4/9/14
As the first loan was taken in 2006  this Service has no authority to consider Mrs Rs 
complaint about  it. But the later loans do fall within  our jurisdiction.  The three later loans 
were taken between  2 September and 22 December 2011. They varied  in amounts from 
£200 to £300. 
Loan 1 wasnt  repaid  in line with the credit  agreement and was written-off by Provident  in 
June 2009. Over two years later Mrs R returned to Provident for Loan 2. Mrs R failed to 
repay Loan 2, and the later loans,  as agreed and Provident sold them to a third-party  debt 
collection firm.
Our adjudicator looked into Mrs Rs complaint  and concluded that it shouldnt be upheld. 
Mrs R didnt agree and so the complaint came to me for a decision. A few weeks  ago I 
issued a provisional decision in which I explained  why I was minded to uphold  some aspects 
of Mrs Rs complaint. I invited the parties  to let me have anything  else they wanted  me to 
think about before I once  again considered my decision. Mrs R has said that she accepts  my 
provisional decision. I havent heard back from Provident.
my findings
Ive once again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Provident needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs R 
could repay  her loans  in a sustainable  manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
Mrs Rs income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
Ref: DRN87891772But certain factors might  point to the fact that Provident should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mrs R. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  any 
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Provident was required to establish  whether Mrs R could sustainably repay her loans  not 
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.  
Whilst that might be an indication a borrower  could sustainably make their repayments, it 
doesnt automatically follow. This is because the relevant  regulations define sustainable  as 
meaning that a borrower could repay the loans over the term of the agreement  without 
undue difficulties, on time, whilst meeting other  reasonable commitments and without having 
to borrow to meet those  repayments. And the regulations said that an assessment should 
take into account more than simply  assessing the customer's ability to repay the credit.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided and what  
this all means for Mrs Rs complaint.  But as I've not been provided with anything  new to 
consider I see no reason  to change my provisional conclusions. This is what  I said in my 
provisional decision (for ease of reference Ive rounded the figures  involved).
The information which is available  about  the loans is limited. When  Mrs R took Loan 2 in 
September 2011 her monthly  income was just over £817. This is a relatively  modest income  
in my experience  and it included some benefit payments. But from the bank statements  shes 
provided it seems that her normal outgoings were also relatively modest.  
This loan was due to be repaid over 52 weeks at £10.50  per week  around £45 per month.  I 
consider that if Provident had done proportionate checks before providing Loan 2 it would 
most likely have concluded that this loan would be affordable for Mrs R. And I dont think it 
wouldve been  wrong to come to that conclusion. I dont think  it wouldve  been propionate  for 
Provident to check all of Mrs Rs financial  circumstances  in detail at that point.  So, I'm not 
minded to uphold her complaint about Loan 2.
But at the point Mrs R returned for Loan 3 a few weeks later, I think that a propionate  check 
shouldve involved Provident  checking Mrs Rs credit situation. This is because  - as Ive 
mentioned - Mrs Rs income was relatively  modest.  And here she was, just a few weeks after 
taking Loan 2  which was still outstanding and still had over ten months to run  asking for 
another loan.  This loan was for less than Loan  2 but as she had two loans to repay the 
monthly total repayments were now going  to be over £75 per month. This is quite a significant 
proportion of her modest income. And Provident further added  to Mrs Rs indebtedness  when 
it provided Loan 4 to her. This additional loan meant that she had three live loans and the 
monthly total repayments were now around £110.
Ref: DRN87891773From Mrs Rs bank  statements and other sources of information I can see that Mrs R had 
been borrowing from other payday lenders for some time before she took Loan 2. And by the 
point Mrs R took Loan  3, she wasnt repaying  a loan in line with the agreement shed taken 
back in December 2010 with Lender A. That appears to have  been written off in 2013. Shed 
also taken loans with Lender B in 2010  one of those was also still outstanding  at the point 
she took Loan  3.
According to Mrs Rs bank statements she was repaying Lender C  another  high-cost short-
term lender - for an instalment loan.  This was being repaid  fortnightly  a monthly repayment 
of around £21. She also had a loan with Lender D which she was repaying  at around £60 per 
month. 
Additionally, Mrs Rs bank statements from this period  show  that direct debits were being 
returned and that she was charged unplanned overdraft usage fees.  
Had Provident  done  what I think  are proportionate checks at the time it provided Loans  3 and 
4, it wouldve realised  that Mrs R was not likely to be able to meet her loan repayments from 
sustainable means and that she was in a cycle of borrowing to repay  earlier credit  an 
unstainable position.  And as it turned  out  she wasnt  able to repay Loans 2, 3 or 4  which 
were sold on to a debt collection agency. 
I think  that by providing these last two loans  to Mrs R, Provident  treated her unfairly. Not only 
was it unlikely shed be able to repay these loans sustainably, but it was prolonging her 
indebtedness. In these circumstances Provident ought to have realised  it was more  likely  than 
not that Mrs R was having  to borrow further to cover  the hole in her finances which was left 
from repaying earlier credit.  This wasnt sustainable  and potentially was harmful in that it was 
likely to restrict her ability  to access mainstream  (and cheaper) credit.
putting things right
I am upholding  Mrs Rs complaint about Loans  3 and 4. I'm aware that - as there  was an 
outstanding balance  Provident sold these debts to a third party.  So, Ive outlined below 
how I require Provident to put things  right.  
As Provident has sold the outstanding debts  it should  buy these back if it is able to do 
so and then take the following steps.  
If Provident isnt able to buy the debts back,  then it should liaise  with the new debt 
owner to achieve  the results outlined below.
a)Provident should remove all interest, fees and charges from any outstanding 
balances on Loans 3 and 4 and treat any repayments made by Mrs R as though they 
had been repayments  of the principal on those two loans. Or if those two loans have 
been settled any repayments made by Mrs R should be treated as though  theyd 
been repayments of the principal.  
If this results  in Mrs R having made overpayments then Provident should refund  
those overpayments  with 8% simple interest*  calculated  on the overpayments, from 
the date the overpayments would  have arisen,  to the date the complaint is settled. 
b)If there  is still an outstanding balance after repayments have  been  applied towards 
the principal, then Provident should agree an affordable repayment plan with Mrs R. 
It shouldnt pursue outstanding balances made  up of principal  that have already been 
written-off. 
Ref: DRN87891774c)Provident should remove any adverse information recorded on Mrs Rs credit  file in 
relation to Loans 3 and 4. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Provident to deduct tax from this interest.  It should give Mrs R a certificate 
showing how much tax it has deducted, if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mrs Rs complaint in 
part and I require Provident Personal Credit  Limited to put things right in the way I've 
explained.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 March  2020.
EJ Forbes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8789177