K822xcomplaint
Mr M complains that he had difficulty logging into his bank accounts with TSB Bank plc 
(TSB) for around two and a half months.
background 
In April 2018 TSB experienced IT issues with its systems.
Mr M has two accounts with TSB. Towards the end of April, Mr M had difficulty logging into 
his accounts,  so he couldnt perform  general  banking tasks such as making payments or 
checking his balance. He says he spent  a long time trying to get through to TSB on the 
phone but was unable to speak to anyone and had to go into branch on a number of 
occasions. 
Mr M said he had to set up another bank account as he didnt have faith in TSB. 
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint. She thought TSB should pay £150 for the trouble
and upset caused to Mr M. TSB accepted this, but Mr M didnt agree. He said that he didnt 
feel this reflected the stress caused and said he had spent about £100 on phone calls to 
TSB and had lost out on overtime at work as a result. Mr M felt that £500
would be a fair amount instead.
The case  was then passed to a second  investigator. Having reviewed all of the information, 
the adjudicator  still felt £150 was a fair amount. So the case has been  passed to me to 
decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, Ive come to the 
same overall conclusion as both investigators and for broadly the same reasons.
I do agree  that Mr M is entitled to some  compensation  for the problems  hes had. But that 
compensation isnt calculated  based on the number  of accounts he has  or intended to act 
as a punishment  for the business. Instead my role is to look at Mr Ms individual complaint 
and weigh up the overall impact the issues had on him and then decide what I think  a fair 
amount of compensation should  be.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think  I need  to comment on it in order  to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr M has explained that he wasnt able to access his accounts.  And I can appreciate not 
being able to use his online banking for two and a half months would be frustrating and 
inconvenient. But he said he used other  accounts during that time, and it doesnt seem  that 
he was left without  money  or couldnt  make  any payments.
Mr M said that he spent about  £100  on phone calls to TSB but was unable  to talk to anyone.  
He said that he uses a pay as you go phone and paid for top up with cash so is unable to 
evidence these calls.  I accept what Mr M says in this respect,  but in the absence  of any 
Ref: DRN82023072documentary evidence  in support of Mr M on this point, I cant  reasonably conclude that TSB 
should pay this amount.  However, I accept that it would have been  inconvenient for 
Mr M to have  to take time out to try to speak with TSB however. I have taken  this into 
account when  deciding what constitutes  a fair amount for what  TSB should have to pay. 
Mr M also said that he lost out on overtime as a result of having  to go into branch to discuss  
the matter. He provided payslips that showed  he didnt do any overtime  in May but he did in 
April, June and July. He explained  he would normally  have done about 6-7 overtime  shifts in 
the month.  While I accept that the payslips do show that Mr M didnt do any overtime in the 
month of May, I am not persuaded that TSB has prevented him from doing  any overtime  for 
a whole month. 
So having  taken everything available into consideration, I think £150  is a fair and reasonable
amount for TSB to pay in the particular circumstances of this case for the trouble and upset
caused to Mr M. 
my final decision
My final decision is that TSB Bank plc Must pay Mr M £150 for the trouble and upset  it has 
caused him if it hasnt  done so already. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 June  2019.
Sarah Green
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8202307