K820x#14complaint
Mrs S complains that Saga Services Limited  (Saga) failed to cancel her health insurance 
policy when requested.
background
Mrs S held a health insurance policy with Saga which she took out in December 2013.  She 
says that she called to cancel  the policy in either November 2016 or 2017,  but that Saga 
failed to action  this request and continued  to collect her premiums.  Mrs S says she only 
realised this after receiving a letter about the insurance in November 2018.
Saga said they could  find no trace  of Mrs S having made any call to them in 2016 or 2017  to 
cancel the policy,  and also say that a claim was made against the policy in June 2017. They 
also say that renewal invitations were  sent on 28 November 2016 and 2017, which wouldve 
been followed by documents confirming the renewal  on 13 December 2016 and 2017. So 
they refused to refund any of Mrs Ss premiums as shed  benefited  from being  covered by 
the policy.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint as she didnt think  there was enough evidence 
to suggest that Mrs S had made the cancellation  call to Saga. She also thought it was likely 
that the renewal  letters  wouldve been sent and received, such  that Mrs S ought to have  
been aware that her policy was still running. Mrs S disagreed, so the complaint has been  
passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it.
Saga say they only have a landline number (ending  6028) recorded for Mrs S on her 
account, and theyve provided  a copy of the searches theyve carried  out for any calls made 
from this number. It shows that the last inbound  call made before the complaint call in 
November 2018  was in December 2015. There is no record of any other calls being  made  to 
Saga in either 2016 or 2017. Mrs S has also not been able to provide any evidence to show  
that she did call Saga in November  2016  or 2017 either. So on balance, I havent seen 
enough to persuade me that any such call was placed.
Mrs S says she also didnt receive any correspondence in relation to the policy until the letter 
she received in November 2018. But Saga  have  provided a copy of the renewal letters  they 
say were sent to Mrs S each year from 2015 to 2018. I can see that the address used by 
Saga on their letters is the same address that Mrs S is living at now. Furthermore,  Saga 
have provided  evidence to demonstrate that these  various pieces of correspondence 
are showing  on their internal systems as having been issued and then sent by post. And I 
have to take into account that the vast majority of correctly addressed mail is safely 
delivered. So in the absence of any reason  why these  correctly addressed  letters were more  
likely to have gone astray  on balance I find it more likely  than not that they were delivered, 
so I think Mrs S ought reasonably to have been aware that her policy  had not been 
cancelled. 
Ref: DRN83170902Mrs S argues that she wouldnt have used the NHS  for treatment in 2018  if she had known 
that her policy had not been cancelled. I appreciate this point, but in light of all the other  
evidence provided,  I do not find it persuasive  enough in itself to suggest  that Mrs S did in 
fact make a call to cancel her policy, which Saga failed to action.
I understand this will come as a disappointment  to Mrs S but, on the balance  of probabilities, 
I do not consider  there to be enough  persuasive evidence to substantiate  her claims and I do 
not uphold this complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 August 2019
Jack Ferris 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8317090