K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains  about how National Savings and Investments (NS&I) dealt with his request 
to withdraw money  for the purchase of a property.
background
Mr S tried to withdraw £175,000 from his NS&I account to buy a property in Bradford by a 
certain date otherwise he would incur a penalty of £500.
He says his SIPP provider, a company I will call D sent a completed withdrawal  to NS&I  in 
March 2018  which was rejected by it due to the fact that his signature didnt match the one it 
had on file. NS&I  asked  that Mr Ss signature be independently witnessed on the relevant 
form they provided, which Mr S completed  on 3 April 2018 and was then forwarded to D on 
the same  day. This was sent onto NS&I on the 4 April 2018 with a covering letter.
Mr S says he tried to speak to NS&I on the 12 April 2018 for an update but as he wasnt  
registered with a password it could not provide him with an update.  He also says D tried to 
speak to NS&I  on 10 April 2018  for an update  but was told it couldnt speak to it either. Mr S 
says he was promised  a call back on 15 April 2018  that he didnt receive and was concerned  
about the property sale as he was shortly due to go on holiday without internet access. The 
payment did go through  on 17 April 2018 and Mr S was told by NS&I  that post wasnt  
scanned when received but placed  in order and scanned when dealt with. He also says he 
was told there was a backlog and later received a NS&I  document  which suggested they 
were about  a week behind dealing with mail.  
NS&I offered  Mr S £350 compensation but later withdrew that offer and said it received the 
documents on 16 April 2018 and processed  them that day. It says its not responsible for the 
mail and says its disappointing that its staff member gave Mr S the wrong  information. It 
paid Mr S £75 compensation for the error. It also says it scans documents on the day it 
receives them and has provided  documents which it says provides evidence  that it didnt 
have any delays at the time. Its offered to increase its compensation offer to £100.
Mr S brought  his complaint to us and initially our adjudicator didnt uphold it. In summary he 
thought NS&I wasnt responsible for the mail and didnt think  there  was any evidence  D had 
sent the documents as soon as it received them.
Mr S provided evidence  that D had sent the information when it received it from him and 
questions why D would have asked NS&I on 10 April 2018  about the forms if it hadnt  sent 
them. He also provided evidence about postal  delivery times and says there  is a 99% 
chance NS&I  received  the forms on 5 April 2018.
The adjudicator looked  at the complaint again and upheld it. He thought NS&I  had told Mr S 
that documents were not scanned as soon as they received them  and that hed been told 
about a back log. He also thought NS&Is own internal document  referred to notes that 
suggested there was a backlog and being  a week behind. The adjudicator  thought NS&I 
should pay the £500  penalty for late completion, £302.05 for loss of interest and £100  
compensation.
NS&I dont accept that view and asks that it be reviewed. It says it may have given the 
impression there were delays with it processing  mail but that wasnt the case. It says there 
Ref: DRN88097652were no delays scanning  documents  and Mr Ss documents were  received on 16 April 2018.  
NS&I says its not seen  evidence  about the £500 penalty.
I asked Mr S for further information about the £500 penalty and he says he doesnt have a 
receipt for it. Mr S says his mother lives opposite the house  he bought and paid it. He says 
his brother lives at the property and he pays the rent to his mother  and she was reimbursed 
with it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done  so Ive come to the view that 
NS&I hasnt dealt fairly with this complaint and should pay Mr S further compensation. But I 
dont think it should  pay the £500 for the penalty  fee for the reasons I will explain.
Ive looked  at Mr Ss records  and the information he has provided  from D. And I have no 
doubt that Mr Ss intention was to make sure both D and then NS&I  received the necessary  
forms so that he could  withdraw his money and buy the property. I can see that Ds letter 
enclosing the forms to NS&I is dated  4 April 2018  and it scanned the documents  on the 
same day. So I think it likely D sent NS&I the documents on the same  date. And I can see 
that D called  NS&I some  five days later to find out what was happening which  I dont think it 
wouldve done unless  it had sent out those documents some time before.
I think  it wouldve  helped  matters if NS&I  had given Mr S further information when he called  it 
on 12 April 2018. I dont  doubt what Mr S says that he was told he would be called back on 
15 April 2018  but NS&I didnt do so. I appreciate that NS&I says it couldnt discuss  matters  
with Mr S on 12 April but I cant see what changed to allow  full conversations some days 
later.
There can be no doubt that Mr S was told by NS&I that post wasnt scanned immediately  
and that there  was a backlog, with a suggestion it was a week behind in dealing  with mail. 
Im satisfied  that the NS&I advisor must have  seen  that information on its systems-whether 
he made a mistake or not and must have felt the fault was NS&Is as he offered £350  
compensation. Im also satisfied that NS&Is internal  documents  also refer to a backlog.  I 
appreciate that NS&I  has now provided other documents which  it says shows it didnt  have a 
backlog and it received  the documents on 16 April.
In those circumstances  I agree with Mr S that its almost impossible to know  where the truth 
lies. But I think that Mr S shouldve been able to rely on the word of NS&Is advisor. I think  it 
unlikely that it took over 10 days for the documents to reach  NS&I  but of course its possible. 
Overall Im satisfied that Mr S hasnt been  treated fairly and has been given conflicting  
information. I also find that he didnt receive a call back when promised and that NS&I 
couldve provided information to D as it appears  its named on the account.  I also dont think  
it fair that NS&I offered Mr S £350  compensation then withdrew that offer and replaced it 
with a far lower offer. I accept that Mr S was caused a significant  level of distress and 
inconvenience in trying to buy a property  just prior to his holiday.  
Ive considered that the fairest approach would be for NS&I to pay Mr S the compensation it 
initially offered  him of £350.  But I dont think it should pay the late completion fee of £500 as 
I dont  think  Mr S has provided appropriate evidence of the payment. If the fee was part of 
the sale of the property then I wouldve expected it to have been  contained within the 
contract and Mr S couldve provided  NS&I a copy of it. I can see that Mr S says his mother  
Ref: DRN88097653paid the fee but its not clear to me to whom she paid it or if she was given a receipt or if 
there was a separate contract  between the buyer  and seller.  I appreciate  Mr S will no doubt  
say that he should receive further compensation to take account  of the fact he was without 
the money and was caused inconvenience  and distress. But for the reasons Ive explained  I 
dont think  it fair to separate the payment into lost interest  and compensation as I dont think 
there was a loss of interest as such,  as its clear  the money was for the property purchase 
that did go through.
my final decision
My final decision  is that I uphold this complaint  in part. I order  National Savings and 
Investments to pay additional  compensation to Mr S of £275 making a total of £350.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8809765