K820x#14Complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in May 2003  
alongside a store card.
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Mrs S says FICL mis-sold her the PPI. Our adjudicator didnt uphold this complaint. Mrs S 
disagreed so the complaint has been  passed to me for a decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ss case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Ive seen a copy  of the store  card application form Mrs S saw and signed which included 
a section for PPI. In this section Mrs S signed  to agree to the cover. This signature is 
separate and additional to her signature to agree to the credit.  And there is nothing here 
to indicate that she had to sign in this section  so I think  Mrs S wouldve known she 
couldve left this section  blank  if she didnt want the PPI.
So based  on this evidence I think FICL  made it clear that Mrs S didnt have to take out 
the PPI and that she chose to take it out  although I can understand if she cant 
remember this.
FICL  didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs S so it didnt have to check if the policy was right 
for her. But it did have  to make sure Mrs S got the information she needed to decide if 
the PPI was right for her.
Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type 
of cover.  Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like 
she was affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover - so it would have  
been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So 
I dont think better  information  about  the PPI would  have put her off taking out the cover.
Mrs S says the PPI was of no use to her because she had sufficient  employee  sick pay 
and also had some  savings at the time.  She has provided some  evidence of her savings 
from 2003. However, for no more than £1.00 per £100 of the outstanding monthly 
balance the PPI wouldve paid out up to 15% of Mrs Ss outstanding monthly balance, 
until she returned to work or the outstanding balance had been paid off. This wouldve 
paid out in addition to the PPI and for longer than Mrs Ss full sick pay wouldve lasted 
her. It also wouldve paid out in addition to her savings  so these funds couldve been 
used for other expenses in the event  she was suddenly unable  to work.
Ref: DRN86111362Mrs S also says she wouldve been  able to take money out of her mortgage to cover  her 
repayments if needed. However, if Mrs S had been  off work for a long period of time I 
think she wouldve benefitted from having peace  of mind that her PPI payments  were 
being covered  by the policy - and not having  to rely on taking out money from her 
mortgage facility.  
So overall I still think the PPI wouldve been useful for Mrs S and I dont think  better 
information about the cost and benefit of the policy wouldve  changed her decision to 
take out the cover. 
My final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above I dont think the PPI was mis-sold.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs S to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 September 2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8611136