K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains that Specialist Motor Finance Limited (SMF)  refused to let him reject a faulty 
car.
background
In August  2017  Mr T acquired  second  hand car with finance provided by SMF. It was four 
years old and had done  70,000 miles. Mr T identified  a number of faults and these were 
repaired under  the warranty  which expired in August 2018.  
The faults included  a failed key fob, brakes, a faulty glow control unit, oil light remaining on, 
uneven tyre wear, tailgate and door lock not working  properly, along  with issues  with the 
wheel bearing,  parking  sensor and pollen filter. In addition there was problem with the four 
wheel drive and the clutch  had to be replaced.
Mr T contacted SMF in July 2018. It rejected his complaint  and said that it was his 
responsibility to demonstrate the faults  had been present at the point of sale.  It noted that all 
the repairs had been carried out under  warranty and that he had been  able to make 
extensive use of the car. It said that he had covered  some 20,000 miles in less than a year.
Mr T brought  his complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our adjudicators 
who didnt recommend it be upheld. He thought it possible that the gearbox issue  which  had 
resulted in the clutch being replaced may have been  present at the point of sale. However, 
this had been replaced by the dealer and he considered this to be a reasonable response.
He didnt think that it had been  established  that the other issues  were faults present at the 
time of sale.  He thought that they may be wear and tear matters given the high mileage. He 
said that if Mr T obtained an independent  report which showed there were inherent faults he 
would reach  a different conclusion. 
Mr T didnt  agree and explained that he had sold the car at a huge  loss. He said the dealer 
had told him gearbox  fault had been  caused by a cog having sheared  off. He said the work 
which had been  done was carried out under the warranty which  didnt cover  wear and tear 
and this indicated  the car was faulty  at the point  of purchase. He said SMF hadnt acted in 
his best interest.  He said the car had been repaired some 20 times in the course of a year at 
great inconvenience to him.
The adjudicator said that his opinion  remained  unchanged and he couldnt say why the 
dealer had covered various repairs under warranty.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
The finance  agreement, that is the hire purchase  agreement, in this case is a regulated  
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
Ref: DRN88459532SMF is also the supplier of the goods  under this type of agreement,  and responsible for a 
complaint about  their quality.
The relevant  law says that under a contract to supply goods,  there  is an implied  term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory .
The relevant  law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person  would consider satisfactory taking into account  any description of 
the goods, price  and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case  
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might  
include things like the age and the mileage  at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods  includes their general state and condition and 
other things  like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects  of the quality of the goods.
I have to consider  the state of Mr Ts car at the time of sale. It had done a relatively high 
mileage and his subsequent use of it added a further 20,000  miles. Therefore  it is to be 
expected that certain parts of the car will suffer wear and tear. However I fear the reference 
to wear and tear has been somewhat confusing. The key to any decision of this type is to 
explore if there was an inherent fault at the time of sale.
Problems may have  surfaced after that date and one can see that they were  present at the 
time of sale,  but hadnt yet manifested themselves. I have reviewed the various repairs  
detailed by the dealer and I cannot  say with any certainty that these were  faults  that were 
present when Mr T bought the car. The only issue which could have been present was the 
gearbox/four wheel drive issue which was repaired by the dealer. 
No independent report has been  carried out and I dont have the evidence that would allow 
me to uphold Mr Ts complaint. I appreciate that he has had a number of issues  go wrong, 
but most  of these  were covered under the warranty. I can see that Mr T made a loss on 
selling the car, but he chose to use an online company  which buys cars at low prices.  I have  
noted he says his conscience wouldnt let him sell it privately. That was his choice and while 
I can understand his frustration I dont believe I am able to uphold his complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or reject  my decision before 
28 November 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8845953