K821x#15complaint
Mr P has complained that Royal  & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc (RSA) cancelled his car 
insurance policy without  his permission and provided a poor service to him. 
background
Mr P renewed his car insurance policy with RSA. In April 2018 he noticed  a refund on his 
card statement from RSA and so he called it. RSA said it had cancelled  his car insurance 
policy. It couldnt explain why. Mr P hadnt  requested this. 
RSA apologised  to Mr P and confirmed the cancellation was their error.  It set up a 
replacement policy and backdated it to provide continual cover  - but it quoted the wrong  
registration details  on replacement policy documents. It told Mr P that if an incident had 
happened during the cancellation period, RSA would have provided full indemnity. To 
compensate Mr P for the distress and inconvenience caused, it paid him £150 
compensation. 
Mr P asked us to look at his complaint.  He wanted  RSA to waive a full years  insurance 
premium and pay more  compensation. Mr P said he drives for a living  and was very upset 
about the possible outcomes that could  have happened while  he was unknowingly driving 
uninsured. 
Our investigator thought RSA should  increase  the level of compensation it paid Mr P by a 
further £75. 
RSA accepted the investigators recommendation. Mr P didnt agree. In summary he says:
RSA hasnt provided an explanation as to why it cancelled his policy in error. He 
believes it should be able to do this. 
RSA told him it couldnt  provide a replacement  policy  but later the same day it 
did. 
Just because none of the outcomes happened  as a result  of driving uninsured,  
Mr P doesnt agree  this means it should  be swept under  the carpet.
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I intend  to uphold it. I 
agree with the investigators recommendations to put things  right. Ill explain why. 
I dont intend to be dismissive of Mr Ps concerns as to the possible outcomes had he had an 
accident  or been stopped by police  while driving  uninsured. There are potentially very 
serious consequences in these circumstances.  
Our role is to look at what went wrong,  what the business did to put things right,  and whether 
it has awarded fair compensation depending  on what the impact of the error  was. 
Ref: DRN87967952Mr P called RSA on a Saturday after noticing a refund  from it on his card statement. I 
appreciate that Mr P spent a considerable amount of time that day in calls to RSA. By the 
end of the day RSA had put insurance  cover in place for him under a new policy.  
RSA apologised  for its errors. Its not for us to insist  that RSA provide an explanation  as to 
why it cancelled Mr Ps policy. It admits it shouldnt have. And it confirmed in writing that 
Mr P was fully indemnified  during  the cancellation period  if an incident had happened or 
hed been stopped by the police for driving  without insurance. 
I can understand why Mr P was shocked  and concerned when he found out hed been 
driving uninsured.  Fortunately there  were  no consequences as a result of RSAs error. And 
the matter was resolved on the day he found out about RSAs error   but I accept that this 
was due to Mr Ps contact  with it. 
So I agree that RSA acted unreasonably.  But as the investigator explained,  we consider 
what happened  not what might have  happened  when considering a fair amount of 
compensation. So in this case, I think its reasonable for RSA to increase the level of 
compensation from the £150 its already paid Mr P by a further £75 to £225.  I think this is a 
fair amount to reflect  the distress  and inconvenience  it caused  Mr P by its errors. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint. I require 
Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance  Plc to pay Mr P a further £75 compensation in addition to 
the £150 its already paid him for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance  Plc must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date 
on which we tell it Mr P accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a 
simple rate of 8% a year. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 March 2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8796795