K821x#15complaint
Mrs J says Morses  Club PLC lent to her irresponsibly. She says the information  it held about  
her wasnt  correct. Because  of this it lent to her when she couldnt afford the repayments. 
background
Mrs Js complaint is about, in total, 81 home  credit  loans.  Loans  1 to 76 are the responsibility 
of another business and they are being  looked  at as part of a different complaint. So, I wont  
look at them here.  Im only considering loans 77 to 81, the loans Morses  provided from 
January 2012  to August  2012 as part of this decision. 
loan 
numberdate startedamount 
borrowedterm 
(weeks)date ended
77 30/01/2012 £400.00 78 23/12/2014
78 26/03/2012 £400.00 78 19/05/2015
79 15/05/2012 £1,000.00 50 04/01/2018
80 11/06/2012 £500.00 78 17/05/2016
81 14/08/2012 £800.00 50 outstanding
Morses didnt agree that this Service had jurisdiction  to consider loans 77 to 80 due to the 
time that had passed since they were  approved.  This issue  has been  previously looked at 
and a decision has been issued. So I will not be revisiting the jurisdiction of these loans 
again. 
Our adjudicator partially upheld the complaint. Morses has agreed that it shouldnt have 
approved loan 81. But it didnt agree  with the adjudicators  opinion  about loans 77 to 80. So 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  irresponsible lending  - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and 
good industry practice - on our website.  
Morses needed  to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs J 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  
These checks could take into account  a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early  stages  of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might  be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Morses  should fairly and reasonably have  
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
Ref: DRN89286932the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
And the loan payments being  affordable  on a strict pounds and pence  calculation might be 
an indication  a consumer  could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow this is the case.  The industry regulator defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties  and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having  to borrow  
to meet  the repayments. And it follows that a lender  should realise,  or it ought  fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower  wont be able to make their repayments  sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments  without  borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Js complaint.  Ive decided to uphold Mrs Js 
complaint about  the loans above and I have explained why below.
Morses accepted our adjudicators opinion about  loan 81. Because of this I dont think there 
is any ongoing disagreement about  this loan. So, I wont be making a decision about  it. I 
have included it in my putting things right section below for completeness.  
Given the length of time that these  loans were set up to run for, and what Morses knew   
about Mrs Js circumstances, I think that it wouldve been proportionate to fully review  
Mrs Js financial  situation before approving loans 77 to 80. And I think that Morses needed to 
verify the information  it found out where possible. This is to make sure Mrs J was in position 
to make the repayments  sustainably. 
Morses hasnt been able to supply  any information  about what it did before approving  these 
loans. But from what I know about  its sales process Im not persuaded that it wouldve made 
a full review of Mrs Js circumstances before approving these loans.  
Mrs J also hasnt been able to provide much information about her circumstances at the time 
of sale. But what is clear  is that she had taken a significant amount of home credit loans 
before she took these  loans with Morses. Given that I think Morses shouldve fully reviewed 
Mrs Js finances before approving these loans I think its reasonable to say, if Morses didnt 
know already, that it wouldve found  out about  Mrs Js previous home credit borrowing. 
So Ive looked  at Mrs Js home credit  lending history with a view to seeing that if, at loan 77, 
Morses should  reasonably have  thought  that further lending  was unsustainable, or otherwise 
harmful. And so Morses should have realised that it shouldnt have approved loans 77 to 80. 
Given the particular  circumstances of Mrs Js case, I think that this was the case. I say this 
because:
Ref: DRN89286933At this point Morses  ought to have realised  Mrs J was not managing to repay her 
loans sustainably. Mrs J had taken  out 76 loans before this. And I understand she 
had been borrowing  for a significant amount of time.  
Mrs J wasnt  making  any real inroads  to the amount she owed to home  credit  
arrangements. And the fact that his was her 77th loan suggests to me that Mrs J had 
become reliant  on this type of credit. 
So Morses ought to have realised it was more likely than not Mrs J was having to 
borrow further to cover the hole repaying her previous loans was leaving in her 
finances and that Mrs Js indebtedness was unsustainable.
I think that Mrs J lost out because Morses  continued  to provide borrowing from loan 77 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mrs Js indebtedness by allowing  her 
to continue to take expensive  credit  over an extended period of time.
the number  of loans Mrs J borrowed was likely to have had negative  implications on 
Mrs Js ability to access mainstream  credit and so kept her in the market  for these 
high-cost loans.
So Im upholding  the complaint about  loans 77 to 80 and Morses should put things right.
putting things right  what Morses  needs  to do
Morses shouldnt have  given Mrs J loans 77 to 81.
If Morses has sold the outstanding  debt it should  buy it back  if Morses  is able to do so and 
then take the following steps. If Morses are not able to buy the debts back  then Morses  
should liaise  with the new debt owner to achieve  the results  outlined below.
A) Morses should  add together the total of the repayments made by Mrs J towards interest, 
fees and charges on all upheld  loans  without an outstanding balance,  not including  anything 
Morses have already  refunded.
B) Morses should  calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual  payments made by Mrs J 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mrs J originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Morses should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance  on any upheld 
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments  made  by Mrs J as though they had been 
repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results  in Mrs J having made 
overpayments then Morses should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* 
calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the 
date the complaint is settled. Morses should then refund the amounts calculated in A and 
B and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated  in A and B should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results  in a surplus 
then the surplus  should be paid to Mrs J. However  if there  is still an outstanding balance 
then Morses should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mrs J. Morses shouldnt  
pursue outstanding balances made  up of principal Morses has already written-off.
Ref: DRN89286934E) The overall pattern  of Mrs Js borrowing for loans 77 to 81 means any information 
recorded about them is adverse, so Morses should remove these loans  entirely from Mrs Js 
credit file. Morses do not have to remove loan 81 from Mrs Js credit file until these have 
been repaid, but Morses should  still remove  any adverse information recorded about  these 
loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Morses  to deduct tax from this interest.  Morses  should 
give Mrs J a certificate showing  how much  tax it has deducted, if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mrs Js complaint about loans 77 to 81.
Morses Club PLC should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs J to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 September 2020.
Andy Burlinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8928693