K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a hire-
purchase agreement  in 2009.  Mr H says First Response Finance Ltd mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Hs case.
Having done so, Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
When selling  the PPI, First Response had to make  it clear to Mr H that it was optional. But 
Mr H says he was led to believe that the PPI was compulsory.
First Response says the PPI was sold over the phone, and has sent us a copy  of the call 
script it says was in use at the time and its record of Mr Hs answers to the questions  in the 
script.
The script shows that the advisor wouldve been instructed to highlight  that the PPI was 
optional, that it wouldnt affect the offer of finance and to explain how much it would cost. 
First Responses record shows Mr H answered that he thought it was important to protect 
himself against accident, sickness  and unemployment and that he said he was happy to 
proceed with the policy.
First Response has also sent us a copy of Mr Hs hire-purchase agreement.  This included  a 
box to be ticked if Mr H wanted to take out optional PPI, and the box has been ticked.
Based on this, I think First Response did make it clear to Mr H that he had a choice about 
the PPI. And that he chose to take it, knowing he didnt have to.
First Response recommended the PPI to Mr H, so it had to check  that it was right for him. 
And, based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think  that it was. For 
example, he doesnt  appear to have been  affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on 
the PPI cover. And the policy couldve paid out for significantly  longer than hes told us he 
wouldve been entitled to sick pay.
Its possible the information First Response gave Mr H about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But, for the same reasons I think it was right for him, it seems like the PPI 
would have been useful for Mr H if something went wrong. It also looks  like it was affordable.  
So I dont  think better information about the PPI would have put Mr H off taking it out.
Ive also thought about the commission Mr H paid on his PPI  and whether First Response 
treated him unfairly.
First Response has told us that the commission for Mr Hs PPI was less than half of what  he 
paid for each premium.  Weve looked at how First Response has been  working  this out and 
based on what weve seen it looks like its right  Mr Hs commission was less than half the 
cost of the PPI. As thats the case, I dont think it needed to tell him about  the commission  
Ref: DRN81502702so I dont think First Response  treated him unfairly. This means it doesnt need to pay Mr H 
back any of the commission he paid for the PPI.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8150270