K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains about IGO4 Limited automatically renewing his van insurance. 
background
Mr C took out van insurance in 2017.  His policy was arranged and administered by 
IGO4 Limited. And, just under a year later, they emailed Mr C a renewal invitation explaining 
that his policy would  be auto renewed unless he instructed them  otherwise. Mr C didnt 
respond to that email,  and so his policy auto renewed. 
Mr C contacted IGO4 Limited  a short while  after the renewal, and said that he didnt want the 
policy. So IGO4 Limited cancelled it, but explained that Mr C would be liable for both the 
costs of the time hed been on cover  and the associated cancellation  fees.
Unhappy with what had happed, Mr C complained. He said IGO4 Limited hadnt done  
enough to tell him about the upcoming renewal and were wrong to apply the above costs 
because hed cancelled  the policy within 14 days. 
But IGO4  Limited said theyd told Mr C that they operated on an auto renewal basis and hed 
agreed to the relevant terms and conditions  when taking out the policy. IGO4  Limited also 
said theyd sent Mr Cs renewal invitation in line with their communication process. And that 
although theyd  calculated the charges correctly, they would waive  the cancellation fee as a 
gesture of good  will. 
Because Mr C remained  unhappy, he approached this service and reiterated his concerns 
about the renewal. He also said the renewed  policy had been too expensive and that hed 
previously told IGO4  Limited on the phone that he didnt consent to automatic renewals. 
One of our case handlers looked at what had happened,  but she said:
She wasnt able to consider the cost aspects of Mr Cs complaint against 
IGO4 Limited, because they were responsible for administering the policy not setting 
its price.
She had listened  to the calls Mr C had with IGO4 Limited and there was no reference 
of him not consenting to automatic renewal.
IGO4 Limited had told Mr C theyd attempt to communicate  via email, and theyd told 
him they operated on an auto renewal basis too.
IGO4 Limited had sent Mr Cs renewal  invitation  within a reasonable amount of time 
before the renewal  had taken effect. 
But Mr C remained  unhappy with our case handlers  finding  and so, as no agreement was 
reached, the complaint  was passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C has set out that hes unhappy  with the price  of the renewed policy. As our case handler 
explained though, the price of that policy wasnt set by IGO4  Limited.  It was set by Mr Cs 
insurer at the time, and IGO4 Limited were responsible for relaying that price  to him. 
Ref: DRN80724202Within their terms and conditions, IGO4 Limited had explained that, In good time before 
your renewal date we will provide you with an invitation which details  the premium  and the 
terms and conditions for renewal of your policy. We will review  the premium  with your current  
insurer and we will also work  with our panel  of insurers to see if we are able to find a 
cheaper alternative to your current renewal quote.
And within their renewal invitation  theyd said, We have searched our panel  of approved 
insurers to find the most  competitive premium  we can offer and a breakdown of the total cost 
for your insurance can be found below.
So although  I fully appreciate that Mr C is unhappy  about the price  of the renewed policy, it 
would be inappropriate  of me to consider this aspect of his complaint against  IGO4 Limited.
In administering  his policy,  IGO4 Limited had a responsibility to relay information about 
Mr Cs renewal on paper or on any other durable medium.  Within their terms and conditions,  
IGO4 Limited had already set out that it would attempt to communicate with you in all 
instances electronically using the email address you provide. And three  weeks  before his 
policy was due to auto renew,  they sent their renewal invitation.  
Mr C received that invitation  via email, and Im satisfied that IGO4 Limiteds method of 
communication constituted an available and accessible durable medium.  
I know that Mr C has said the email went into his spam folder  and he only saw it when he got 
back from holiday. But that isnt something  I can hold IGO4 Limited responsible for. I also 
know that Mr C has said hes experienced other companies using a variety of 
communication means when it comes to advising  him of renewals. But while  that may be the 
case, the matters  Im deciding here relate to IGO4  Limiteds responsibilities. And for the 
reasons given above Im satisfied that they took reasonable steps to explain what  was going 
to happen with Mr Cs policy  and gave him enough  time to make an informed decision about 
what he wanted to do.
Unfortunately, aside from Mr Cs testimony, the available evidence in this case  doesnt 
corroborate with Mr C telling IGO4 Limited that he didnt consent  to automatic renewal. 
IGO4 Limited furnished this service with recordings of all the calls they could  locate with 
Mr C (and with his partner too). But within there  wasnt any mention of Mr C not wanting 
IGO4 Limited to auto renew his policy within those calls.
I appreciate that Mr C is frustrated by that. But when evidence  is inconclusive I have to make  
a finding on the balance  of probabilities.  That is what  I find is most likely to have  happened  in 
view of the available evidence and wider circumstances. And here, there  isnt enough  to 
persuade me that Mr C told IGO4 Limited  he didnt consent to auto renewal. Thats  not to 
say that he didnt  just that theres  not enough to persuade me he did.
Because Mr C had been on cover for a period of time at the point he cancelled his policy, it 
was right that he be asked to pay a proportionate premium to reflect that. And the policy had 
set out that a minimum amount  of the premium  would  be retained if it was cancelled during 
the 14 day cooling off period.  So Im satisfied that IGO4  Limited  applied  those charges 
correctly.  
IGO4 Limited have already waived their cancellation charge, and in the circumstances I 
consider that to have been  a fair thing for them to do. But, for the avoidance of doubt, I do 
Ref: DRN80724203think IGO4 Limited were entitled to apply that charge. And I say that because their terms had 
set out that if your insurance is cancelled for any reason  you will be charged £75.00 in 
addition to the charge made  by your insurer for the cover you have received. 
I appreciate that Mr C is extremely unhappy with whats happened in this case. And Im 
aware that hell likely be further disappointed  by my findings. But for the reasons above Im 
satisfied that IGO4 Limited  acted in accordance with their responsibilities when auto 
renewing his insurance policy,  and I wont  be asking  them to do anything.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 January 2020.
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman 
Ref: DRN8072420