K820x#14complaint
Mrs H say Santander UK Plc mis-sold  her a regular monthly premium payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy when she took out a mortgage.
background
In January 1999 Mrs H purchased a PPI policy when she took out a mortgage.  The PPI 
included cover for accident and sickness and unemployment. The policy  cost £26.91  each 
month and wouldve provided a monthly benefit of £450 for up to 12 months following a 
successful claim.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mrs Hs complaint  but Mrs H disagreed with this. So, the 
complaint comes to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account  when deciding Mrs Hs 
case.
Im not upholding Mrs Hs complaint. Ill explain  why.
The mortgage and the PPI were  taken out more than 20 years ago and the mortgage  was 
redeemed a few years later  so its unsurprising neither party has been able to provide 
much detailed information about  the sale. And in these situations,  I have to look at what  I 
think is more likely  to have happened.
I dont doubt that Mrs H has given her honest  recollections of the sale but I have to accept 
that after all this time memories can and do fade. And I just dont have any evidence  
whatsoever to suggest that the policy wasnt optional  that Mrs H didnt have a choice in 
taking it out. So with the very limited information I do have  and from what I know  about  
Santander PPI sales around this time,  I cant fairly say that Mrs H didnt have a choice about 
taking it.
Santander recommended  the PPI, so it had to take adequate steps to make sure it was 
suitable for Mrs H. I dont know what the adviser  said to Mrs H about PPI or whether 
Santander did take adequate steps. But I dont need  to make a decision about this. Because  
even if Santander  didnt take adequate steps, I think the PPI was suitable for her for the 
following reasons:  
Mrs H met the PPIs requirements  she was eligible  for it. And Ive set out the PPIs 
costs and main benefits above.
Mrs H was working at the time but she says she had no occupational benefits from 
her employer  if she were off work sick. And the PPI was intended to remove  the 
additional pressure  of maintaining mortgage repayments, at what  would likely be a 
difficult time.
The mortgage was over a number of years and the PPI wouldve  paid the monthly 
mortgage costs  for up to 12 months for each successful claim  and on top of any 
Ref: DRN83813992other cover she may have had. So I dont think any existing cover or savings that 
Mrs H may have  had wouldve made  the PPI unsuitable.
Nothing Mrs H told us suggested she needed to keep her costs  down. And there 
wasnt anything in the PPI that would make it difficult for Mrs H to claim. For example, 
she said she was in work and in good health  when the PPI was sold. So she wouldnt 
have been affected  by things  in it about  unusual  work or known health issues. 
I cant see that the cost of the policy was clearly  communicated to Mrs H before she 
agreed to purchase  it. I dont know whether  she was told it would cost £26.91 each  
month until after the mortgage had started. For this reason Ive considered whether 
clearer information about the cost wouldve affected  her decision to purchase the 
policy. But she had chosen  to take out the policy, knowing she would have to pay 
something for it. The policy was competitively priced  and apparently  affordable. So 
I think it unlikely she wouldve made a different decision if better information about 
the cost had been provided.
So taking everything into account, I think the PPI was suitable  for Mrs H.
Santander needed to properly explain the PPIs costs, benefits,  exclusions and limitations.  It 
hasnt told us anything  that shows what was actually  said to Mrs H about this. So I cant say 
its likely  Santander did give Mrs H everything she needed to know  before deciding  to take 
PPI.
But did Mrs H lose out as a result - would  she have taken the PPI if Santander had properly 
told her about it?
Ive explained  why I think the PPI was suitable. Given her circumstances at the time I think 
Mrs H wouldve thought  the PPI gave important  cover  to protect the repayments  on her 
home. And that its costs and benefits  were competitive and gave peace of mind.  So I dont 
think Mrs H lost out. Because  I think she wouldve  taken  the PPI if shed been given enough 
proper information  about it. And as this was a regular monthly premium  policy, if Mrs H 
decided that the cost was unaffordable, or that she no longer wanted the policy, she couldve 
cancelled it without penalty.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above I dont uphold Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 April 2019.
Andrew Macnamara
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8381399