K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs A say Nationwide Building  Society (Nationwide) mis-sold them a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy to be used with their mortgage.
background
Mr and Mrs A took out a PPI policy in 1995.  They paid a monthly amount for the policy and it 
would have covered Mr A if he couldnt  work through accident, sickness or if he lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs A disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs As case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs As complaint. I explain why below.
Its not straightforward to decide a case when there are no documents  available from the 
time of the sale, as is the case here. The sale happened over 24 years  ago, and the policy 
was cancelled when  the mortgage  was redeemed over 21 years  ago. So Im not surprised 
that neither Nationwide nor Mr and Mrs A have been able to provide any of the specific  sale 
documents from so long ago. 
Ive not seen anything that clearly shows Nationwide didnt make  Mr and Mrs A aware they 
were taking the PPI or that it was optional. So having considered  all the submissions I have 
received in this case, I think its more likely that Nationwide wouldve made Mr and Mrs A 
aware that the PPI was optional and that they chose to take it.
 
Nationwide says that they didnt  recommend  the policy to Mr and Mrs A. Mr and Mrs A are 
adamant the representative did recommend the policy to them. Because  it makes  no 
difference to the outcome of the complaint,  I will assess the sale as if advice had been  given. 
So, Nationwide needed to make sure the policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs A. And it seems 
to have been right for them based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time. I say 
this because Mr A was eligible for the policy and he wouldnt have been affected by any of 
the main things the policy didnt cover. 
And I think Mr and Mrs A would have found  the policy useful. Mr A told us he had good sick 
pay for a year and some savings. Ive considered that the PPI policy would have paid out for 
up to 24 months in the event of a successful  claim if Mr A was too ill to work. And it would 
have paid out for up to 24 months if Mr A lost his job, in which circumstance his good sick 
pay would  not have been a help to him. So, Ive considered that the benefits of the PPI 
would have paid out in addition to their other means  and it would have protected  their 
savings and reduced Mr As reliance  on whatever  support  Mrs A may have been in a 
position to provide. So thinking about all of that and the potentially serious consequences of 
defaulting on a loan secured on your home, I think the policy would have been useful to Mr 
Ref: DRN81427172and Mrs A if something went wrong. So, I think Mr and Mrs A would have found  the policy 
useful.  
Its possible that the information Nationwide  gave Mr and Mrs A about  the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it should have  been. But for the same reasons that I think the policy  was suitable, I 
dont think better information  wouldve stopped them from buying it.
I realise Mr and Mrs A will be disappointed  by the outcome, as they have put energy into 
their complaint. But on balance, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think the policy was 
unsuitable for them and I also dont think that theyve lost out because of anything 
Nationwide may have done wrong.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs As complaint about Nationwide 
Building Society.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 October  2019.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8142717