K820x#14complaint
Miss C complains that MBNA Limited  registered  adverse information with the credit 
reference agencies  after she made  a payment a day late. 
background
Miss Cs MBNA credit card payment was due on 11 March 2019.  Miss Cs explained that 
around that time she was in the process of switching her bank account  so she made a 
manual payment to her credit card. The payment was made  on 13 March  2019. 
MBNA says before  the payment due date it sent Miss C two emails and a text message. 
MBNA registered a missed payment with the credit  reference agencies as the payment  was 
made two days late. Miss C complained  but MBNA didnt  agree it had made  a mistake and 
wouldnt change the information it reported.  
Miss C referred her complaint to our service and an investigator looked at what  had 
happened. The investigator  didnt  agree  MBNA had made an error by reporting the missed 
payment to the credit reference agencies.  Miss C asked to appeal  so her complaint has 
been passed to me to make a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As all parties broadly  agree about  what happened  Ive been reasonably brief in setting out 
the background above. But I want to assure all parties that Ive read and considered  
everything thats been provided. I understand Miss C feels  MBNAs decision is unfair 
because she didnt  receive the text message it claims to have sent and its emails went into 
her junk folder. Miss C says her payment was only made a day late and it was a genuine 
oversight. 
I have sympathy for Miss C and I dont doubt  that the payment was late due to a genuine  
mistake. But, the terms of the MBNA credit card say it can report information about  how the 
account is managed  to the credit reference  agencies. It also says the card holder agrees to 
make payments on time and in line with the due date. 
In this case, Miss C says she didnt realise MBNA had emailed her and the text message 
wasnt received. But the credit  card terms dont say MBNA will only register a missed  
payment if it first sends  emails and a text message  to the card holder. The terms say the 
card holder  agrees to pay by a certain date each month. 
I understand my decision may feel harsh to Miss C but MBNAs February 2019 statement is 
clear in giving  the due date of 11 March 2019.  Miss C paid two days later on 13 March 2019 
so I have to agree with MBNA that her payment was late. MBNA  has taken the decision to 
report that late payment  to the credit reference  agencies and I havent found anything  to 
show thats a mistake or that its acted outside the terms of the credit card. 
Ref: DRN80934372As Miss C didnt make her March 2019 payment  on time Im satisfied MBNA can report  that 
to the credit  reference  agencies. Im sorry to disappoint Miss C but I think MBNA has dealt 
with her complaint  fairly so Im not telling it to take any further action. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 October  2019.
Marco Manente
ombudsmanp
Ref: DRN8093437