K820x#14complaint
Mr K is unhappy that AXA PPP Healthcare  Limited  wont give assurances  that it will continue  
to cover the full costs  of him being treated at a particular hospital.
background
In September  2016 Mr Ks medical  insurance policy was transferred to a different insurance 
provider, and that policy (underwritten  by AXA PPP Healthcare Limited) had different terms 
to the policy  Mr K previously had. Mr K was told that AXA would honour any treatment that 
his previous provider had approved for 12 months, or until treatment completed (whatever 
happened first).
Prior to the policy changing, Mr K had undergone treatment for oral cancer.  Hed been 
treated by a particular  consultant, at a particular hospital. He says the consultant  and the 
hospital were on his previous insurers approved list  so both the consultants fees and 
hospital costs  had been met in full. 
Whilst not recognised  as someone whose fees the insurance provider  would pay in full, AXA 
has agreed that it will cover the full costs of Mr Ks preferred consultant, should Mr K require 
any further treatment  for oral cancer  going  forwards (subject to the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy).  That issue was the subject of a previous complaint. And just so 
everyones clear Im not looking into that complaint. 
But Mr Ks unhappy  because AXA has said it will consider whether it will meet  the full costs 
of the hospital which  Mr K has previously been  treated  at by that consultant  on a case by 
case basis. Mr K says he could be in the position  where his consultants fees are covered in 
full but the costs of the treating hospital  would only be partially  met  meaning Mr K would 
have to contribute towards those. 
Mr K says that it wasnt his choice  to transfer his medical insurance from one provider to 
another. So its unfair that he might have  to contribute to the hospital costs  so that he can be 
treated by his existing  consultant  who AXA accepts is a specialist in his field. 
Our investigator said our service couldnt ask AXA to change  its policy  terms or provide 
assurances about the decisions  it will take should Mr K claim on his policy  in the future in 
relation to any treatment  for oral cancer. So she didnt uphold Mr Ks complaint. 
In reply, Mr K says that he doesnt  object to the terms  relating to the use of AXAs approved 
list of hospitals  for full cover.  But he doesnt think its fair for AXA to apply those conditions - 
which could result in him contributing to the costs of any ongoing treatment for oral cancer  
which were covered in full under  his previous policy.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
Everyone agrees  that under the policy, if the treatment is covered, hospital fees are covered  
- in full - so long as a specialist  is overseeing the treatment, and the policyholder uses  a 
hospital (or in-patient unit) listed under the policy terms. 
 
Ref: DRN85061252The hospital  Mr K has previously been  treated at  and would like to be treated at going  
forwards  isnt a hospital listed under his current policy. But its a hospital recognised by 
AXA for other policies.  In such circumstances, under Mr Ks policy, AXA will pay 60% of the 
fees it would  ordinarily  pay.
Because AXA is willing to meet the full costs of Mr Ks treating consultant, it has said that it 
might also cover the full costs of the hospital Mr K has previously been treated  at  so long 
as its medically necessary for the treatment/procedure to be undertaken at that specific 
hospital.
AXAs said its unable to confirm in advance that it will cover the entire  costs  of treatment 
being provided at Mr Ks preferred hospital. Particularly as it would usually only make  a 
contribution to those  costs. I can see why it says that. I also accept what  AXA says about  not 
being able to  know what treatment Mr K might need going forwards  or which hospital 
would have availability  at the time Mr K needs such treatment.  So I dont think AXA has 
acted unreasonably by not providing  a blanket assurance to Mr K that it will pay the full costs 
of his preferred  hospital in advance of any future  treatment he might need for oral cancer.
I know Mr K will be disappointed by my decision.  But AXA hasnt said it wouldnt meet  the full 
costs of that particular  hospital going forwards; just that it will consider covering the full costs 
(as opposed to a proportion of the costs)  on a case by case basis, as and when Mr K needs 
to claim. Should Mr K claim on the policy in future, and if AXA decides not to cover  the full 
costs of his nominated hospital at that stage, Mr K could  complain  about  that particular 
decision then. 
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 February  2019.
David Curtis-Johnson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8506125