K820x#14complaint
Mr Ds complaint is about the handling  of his legal expenses  insurance claim by Amtrust 
Europe Limited and its subsequent decision to withdrawn cover.
background
Mr D made  a claim on his legal expenses insurance policy for cover to bring a personal 
injury claim arising out of a car accident he was involved in.
Amtrust instructed a panel  firm to consider the claim and act for Mr D. After 2 years  and 9 
months the panel  firm said they werent  prepared  to continue to act for him any further. 
Amtrust then withdrew cover on the basis that Mr D hadnt co-operated with the panel  firm 
because hed failed  to provide them with instructions. In addition, they said his claim didnt 
enjoy reasonable prospects of success, as required by the policy. 
Mr D wasnt happy with this. He felt Amtrusts actions prejudiced his claim. He feels  he 
wouldve been successful  in claiming  for considerable  losses  had the panel firm agreed to 
continue acting for him and taken his wishes into account. Hes now time barred from 
bringing his claim so he wants Amtrust to compensate him for this. 
Our investigator considered Mr Ds claim and concluded that it shouldnt be upheld. Mr D 
doesnt agree so the matter has been  passed to me to decide.
When deciding this complaint, I can assure  Mr D that Ive taken into account his 
considerable representations, but I havent itemised them  or referred  to them  in any detail 
within this decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I wont be upholding it. 
Ill explain  why.
The starting point  is the policy terms. The general conditions  require  Mr D to co-operate  with 
the solicitor instructed, including  giving such instructions as required.  Amtrust say that Mr D 
didnt co-operate with the panel  firm on several  occasions because he failed to give 
instructions when requested and in a timely  manner. The latest event  theyve referred to is 
when the panel firm gave Mr D the option to abandon his claim, instruct  alternative solicitors 
or make an offer to the other side. They asked for a response to this within  14 days. Mr D  
didnt come back, so the panel  firm closed their file of papers over a month  later.
Ive looked at the sequence of events between  Mr D and the panel  firm during their 
instruction. Our investigator wrote to both parties setting  out a detailed timeline of their 
interactions. I dont  intend to repeat that here save to say that I think theyre reflective  of the 
factual sequence  of events.
What is clear from those events is that Mr D didnt  agree that the offer being advanced by 
the third party  was sufficient to compensate  him for the losses  he felt hed suffered as a 
result of his injury. Hed provided some evidence to help support those losses  but the advice 
from the panel firm was that they didnt establish  the claim he wanted to bring. I think this 
accounts for his continued efforts to support his claim- albeit spread out over a long period of 
Ref: DRN84022752time. But it also means that the panel  firm werent able to effectively advance  his claim for 
him based on the figure they thought  hed achieve at trial. It also meant that Mr D rejected 
the highest offer the third party were prepared to make (£4,500) and ran the risk of achieving 
less at trial as the other side then required full access to his medical records,  which couldve 
reduced the value  of his claim even further. In the end, the panel firm gave him several 
options he didnt  respond to, so they told Amtrust they werent  prepared  to act for him any 
further.
I know that Mr D is unhappy with the actions  of the panel firm and that he didnt agree with 
the advice being given.  But that doesnt  mean that Amtrust were obliged  to do anything 
further. Where an insurer hasnt agreed to provide funding in such  a case, it isnt for us to 
carry out our own review of the merits of the underlying claim. My role is to look at whether 
the insurer has acted  fairly. So long as it has got advice from suitably qualified lawyers, we 
wont generally question  its reliance on that advice,  unless we think  it was obviously wrong 
or based on mistakes  of fact. If Mr D remains unhappy with the actions of the panel firm hes 
entitled to pursue a complaint against  them by referring it first with them, and then the Legal  
Ombudsman if necessary.
In this case, Im satisfied  there were  several instances of Mr D failing to give the specific  
instructions hed been asked for within a reasonable time frame.  Ive taken into account  that 
Mr D had some personal difficulties during some of those  periods, but they dont in their 
entirety, account for the continued delays in providing instructions. And I think  Mr Ds 
conduct eventually  prejudiced the panel  firms ability to achieve a reasonable result  for him 
based on their advice- which arose out of the medical evidence obtained. In the absence of 
anything to contradict  that advice-  such as a differing legal opinion or even medical evidence 
that suggested Mr Ds claim would amount to more than the panel  firm thought likely- I dont 
think Amtrusts  decision to withdraw funding  was unreasonable. Mr D didnt provide anything 
from another solicitor,  barrister or even  a medical  professional to support that the advice 
given was wrong. Nor did he provide  anything  conclusive  to substantiate the losses  he was 
claiming as a result of his injury. 
After the panel  firm closed their file, Mr D asked Amtrust to instruct another  firm on his 
behalf.  Amtrust  declined.  They also obtained  a barristers opinion  on the merits of his claim. 
That opinion set out that Mr Ds claim involved serious risks based on the current evidence 
and had only a 20% chance of success.  The policy required Mr Ds claim to have 51% 
prospects of success or above. We dont think thats  unreasonable. Court action can be 
expensive. Generally a  privately paying customer wouldnt  want to bear the cost if advised 
theyre unlikely to succeed or that theyll incur more in costs than theyre likely to get back  in 
damages. We take the view that an insurer cant be expected  to either. Theres  nothing in 
the barristers advice that makes me think it was obviously wrong or based on factual 
mistakes so I think Amtrust was entitled to rely on it. Amtrust did give Mr D the opportunity  to 
obtain his own legal  opinion. They explained that if it was supportive of his claim, they would 
reconsider funding it. Mr D didnt do this. So I dont think Amtrust needs to do anything 
further.
Ref: DRN84022753my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint against Amtrust  Europe 
Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 December  2019.
Lle Hussein-Venn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8402275