K822xcomplaint
Mr A has complained that he had trouble using his bank account  with TSB Bank plc. 
background 
From April 2018, TSB experienced problems with its Information Technology (IT)  system. 
Mr A has explained that TSBs system issues meant  he couldnt make  a payment using his 
online banking in April 2018.  So he defaulted on a payment arrangement hed made  with 
another bank  (the third party bank), and this has affected his credit  file. 
Mr A has explained that he was getting his finances  back on track and his health was 
improving before TSBs system issues caused him to miss a scheduled payment to the third 
party bank. And this matter has had a detrimental effect on his finances and his health.
Mr As said he couldnt transfer at least one other  payment.  And, in the end, he withdrew  all 
the money from his TSB account and put it in an account with another bank.
Our investigators thought that TSB should pay Mr A £300 for the trouble and upset it caused 
him, and write to the third party  bank to explain that Mr As payment was missed because of 
its system issues.  But Mr A didnt think £300  was enough; hed like TSB to pay him £3,000. 
So the complaint has been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not disputed  that TSBs system issues meant  Mr A had trouble making an online 
payment to the third party bank as hes said. So I need to decide  what TSB should  do to put 
things right for him.
TSB has agreed to write to the third party bank and explain that Mr A missed his scheduled 
payment because of its system issues, and Mr A has said hes happy with this. So Ill 
consider how much  its fair and reasonable for TSB to pay Mr A for his trouble and upset.
From what  Mr As said, it seems hes been through a very difficult  time. I dont think it would 
be fair to say that TSB has caused all of the trouble and upset Mr As experienced, but hes 
explained that the problems he had because of TSBs system issues  have set the progress 
hes made with his finances and health  back. I think TSB should pay a fair amount of 
compensation for the part its played.
Taking everything into account,  I do think that £300  is a fair and reasonable level of 
compensation. So I wont be awarding £3,000.
Ref: DRN89550402my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. If it hasnt done so already,  TSB Bank  plc 
should:
Pay Mr A £300 for his trouble and upset
Write  to the third party bank  to explain that its system issues meant Mr A couldnt 
transfer the payment he was due to make in April 2018
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 February  2019.
Kyley Hanson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8955040