K820x#14complaint
Mr H and Ms L complain that Topaz Finance Limited (trading as Rosinca Mortgages) unfairly 
declined their request  to transfer the ownership of properties on which it has morgages.
background
Mr H and Ms L have six buy to let mortgages with Rosinca. As part of their divorce  
settlement they agreed to divide the properties  between them.  They want Rosinca to agree 
to the transfer  of ownership of the properties and related mortgage accounts from their joint 
names to sole names.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  He said Rosinca 
didnt have to agree to anything that reduces  the value of its security.  Transferring a 
mortgage into one name means Rosinca would have to rely on only one party to repay the 
debt. 
Our adjudicator said Rosincas policy  is that customers should try to re-mortgage  elsewhere 
first. It declined  Mr H and Ms Ls request on the basis  they are able to re-mortgage 
elsewhere. While Mr H says hes had an application declined,  he didnt provide evidence of 
this to Rosinca.
Mr H and Ms L didnt agree. Mr H said Rosinca  was acting unfairly. He said they will incur 
significant costs  in re-mortgaging elsewhere   even if theyre able to find providers willing to 
lend. Mr H said hed like evidence hed been  sent Rosincas terms and conditions  and 
considered them unfairly weighted  in Rosincas favour. 
Mr H said the court order for their divorce says they are each  solely responsible for the 
mortgages on their respective properties.  So, in his view, Rosinca wouldnt be able to ask 
the other one to pay the debt. 
Mr H said the lender that declined his mortgage application wont  confirm this in writing.  He 
said Ms L would  ask her mortgage broker to confirm that she wont be able to re-mortgage.  
He said hed send  this evidence to Rosinca  but didnt expect it to respond fairly.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
Mr H and Ms L have six mortgages with Rosinca in joint names. The properties  used  as 
security are jointly owned. Mr H and Ms L have separated. In their divorce settlement they 
agreed to divide the properties between them. And they also agreed  that they will be 
responsible for the mortgage payments for their own properties. 
Mr H and Ms L need Rosincas consent to transfer the title to the properties  and mortgage 
accounts from joint names into sole names. The terms and conditions of Mr H and Ms Ls 
mortgages dont  give them  the right to require this. But Id expect Rosinca to consider their 
request fairly and in accordance with its own policies.
Ref: DRN83630342Rosinca hasnt said it wont consider Mr H and Ms Ls request. It told them it will consider  a 
transfer of equity request where it has evidence  a customer  has tried, and failed,  to re-
mortgage elsewhere. 
Mr H says one lender declined his mortgage application but he cant provide evidence of this 
to Rosinca. It seems from what Mr H has said that Ms L hasnt yet applied elsewhere.  
Rosinca hasnt received evidence that Mr H or Ms L have tried,  and failed, to re-mortgage 
elsewhere. So I dont  think its acted unfairly in not considering  their request for a transfer of 
equity. 
Mr H contacted Rosinca  about making a transfer of equity request  in February 2018. 
Rosinca explained  what information it would need  to consider the request. When Mr H 
contacted Rosinca again in August 2018  its policy had changed. I appreciate  this is 
frustrating. But I think, on each occasion, Rosinca  responded  promptly and gave clear 
information to Mr H about how it deals with requests for transfers  of equity.
Mr H says theres no risk associated with the transfer of equity. And he says another lender 
has agreed to a transfer of equity for one of his other properties. But Rosinca is entitled to 
make its own assessment of the risks involved and the risks its prepared  to accept. 
Mr H says he wont be able to secure  as low an interest rate elsewhere. And fees and other 
costs will be incurred in re-mortgaging the properties. I understand hed prefer  to avoid these 
costs. But this isnt the same  as not being able to refinance elsewhere.
If Mr H and/or Ms L provide evidence to Rosinca that theyve tried to re-mortgage and been 
declined, Id expect  Rosinca to consider their request  for a transfer of equity, as its said it 
would, fairly  and in accordance with its policies.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H and Ms L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 August 2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8363034