K821x#15Complaint
Mr P has complained that Curtis Banks Limited  applied for the wrong  bond  to be held in his 
self-invested personal pension (SIPP) meaning  hes missed out on a higher interest rate.
Background
Mr P opened  a SIPP with Curtis Banks  in 2017  and instructed  it to purchase a bond  with a 
business Ill refer to as N. Mr P specified  that he wanted the guaranteed growth bond. 
However, due to a mistake on Curtis  Banks part, it applied for a guaranteed income bond 
instead. The bond started in February 2018 and had a term of one year, after which  period 
Mr P could choose to roll the bond  over for a further year or invest  his funds elsewhere.
Mr P complained as he would receive 0.05% less in interest due to the difference in rates 
between the bonds. Curtis  Banks  accepted the complaint and instead of switching his funds  
to the correct bond, paid Mr P the extra interest  he would be losing out on over the year.  It 
said Mr P could instead switch his funds over to the growth bond  on maturity and it would do 
this for him.
Mr P accepted this resolution to his complaint. But it became  apparent when Curtis Banks 
went to move Mr Ps funds to the growth  bond in February 2019 that N wasnt accepting new 
applications for the growth bond  above £10,000.  As Mr P had invested over £600,000 in the 
income bond, he couldnt switch his funds to the growth bond to benefit from the higher 
interest rate.
Mr P complained again, saying that Curtis Banks had decided  against  switching his funds 
from the income bond to the growth  bond when  the mistake was first discovered to avoid 
having to pay a 90 day interest penalty  of £2,424.86. He said this wasnt  fair and he wouldnt 
have accepted Curtis Banks resolution  if hed known Ns criteria  would change. Mr P 
thought Curtis Banks should pay him the difference in interest until he decided to invest  his 
funds elsewhere. 
Curtis Banks said it couldnt  have known N would change its criteria when it made the offer 
to Mr P. It didnt agree it should  have to pay Mr P any extra interest.
Mr P referred his complaint to our service. After discussing  things with our investigator, 
Curtis Banks made  a further  offer to Mr P. It said it had considered  carrying  out a review 
each year that Mr P remained invested in N and paying him the difference  in interest 
between the two bonds. But it thought this would  be difficult to manage indefinitely. So, it 
said it was prepared to pay him £1,546.89. This sum had been arrived  at by deducting the 
amounts it had already paid to him in compensation from the interest  penalty  it would  have 
had to pay if it had switched his funds to the growth  bond immediately. Mr P didnt  accept 
this  he thought Curtis Banks  should have to pay the difference in interest to him for at least  
10 years  as he had no intention of moving  or accessing his funds.
The investigator thought that a fair resolution to the complaint would be for Curtis Banks to 
pay Mr P the sum it had offered, plus an additional £200 for the trouble and upset caused. 
He recognised that the compensation offered by Curtis Banks was equivalent to around  five 
years of the difference in interest between the bonds. And he didnt  think it was fair to 
assume that Mr P would leave his funds untouched for longer than this. He thought Mr P 
would most  likely want to take advantage of higher interest rate products through other 
Ref: DRN89250902providers if the opportunity  arose.  And he couldnt  rule out that Mr P might need  to access  
part of the funds due to unforeseen circumstances in the future.
Mr P didnt agree  he maintained that he intended  to leave his funds invested with N 
indefinitely and he already had other funds to draw on if he needed to. Curtis Banks 
accepted the investigators findings.
As no agreement could be reached  the matter has been passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
investigators recommendation to resolve  this complaint. Ill explain why.
I should make it clear that both parties accept that Curtis Banks error has disadvantaged 
Mr P because he is unable to benefit from the higher level of interest the growth bond 
offered. So, the only issue  for me to determine  is what Curtis Banks should do to put things 
right.
Curtis Banks offer represents  around five years  of 0.05% additional interest on the funds he 
holds in the income bond. Mr P said he would  accept  a sum equivalent to 10 years of 
additional interest. This is because he says he doesnt intend to move  or withdraw any of his 
funds for the foreseeable future. Alternatively, Mr P said he would accept the equivalent 
reduction in the fees he pays for the SIPP. Mr P added that he isnt happy  with the increased 
fees hes having to pay, but as the investigator  explained, this would have to be referred  to 
Curtis Banks as a new complaint.
Overall, I think Curtis Banks  offer of £1,546.89,  plus £200  compensation for the trouble  and 
upset caused,  is a fair resolution to Mr Ps complaint. I say this because the offer represents 
approximately five years  of additional  interest on his funds and I dont think  it is possible to 
say with any certainty that Mr P is likely to keep his funds invested with N for longer than 
this.
I note Mr P says he has no intention of moving his funds whatsoever, but this contradicts 
what he told us when  the investigator first discussed the complaint with him. In that call, Mr P 
told our investigator that he was keeping the funds  for a rainy  day or to help his children get 
on the property  market. Furthermore, it isnt possible to say that Mr P wont  need  to draw on 
these funds due to unforeseen circumstances. So, it is quite possible that Mr P will make 
withdrawals from the funds in the near future,  which would  impact any additional interest he 
would be due. Mr P could also decide to take a different approach with his investment 
strategy. I think its fair to say he would  likely  explore other opportunities with different 
companies if he could  achieve a higher rate of interest in line with his attitude to risk.
In addition, Im aware that currently there is a 0.05% difference in the interest rate between  
the growth and income bonds.  However, N has advised that the bond  rates  change all of the 
time according to market  movements and that an increase or decrease  in interest rate may 
apply to one, but not the other. So, it isnt possible to say whether there will always be a 
0.05% difference between the two bonds.
Mr P has said that the difference in interest between  the growth and income  bond  is in reality 
more than 0.05%.  However, I havent  been  provided with any evidence to persuade me that 
Ref: DRN89250903this is the case.  And in light of all of the factors Ive mentioned above, I think  Curtis  Banks 
offer represents fair compensation overall  for the initial mistake. So, Im not going to ask it to 
pay Mr P anything  above this to resolve  his complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint.
Curtis Banks Limited  should pay Mr P:
£1,546.89  to compensate him for the difference in interest payable; and
£200 for the trouble  and upset caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 December 2020.
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8925090