K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Amtrust Europe Limited  (Amtrust) have refused to give him the original 
value of his mobile  phone in settlement of a claim he made under an accidental damage 
insurance policy he had.
References to Amtrust  include its agents.
background
Mr S bought a mobile phone in 2016  and also bought an accidental  damage insurance 
policy at the same time.
In July 2018, Mr S made a claim under his insurance when  he cracked his screen. Mr S was 
asked to take his phone to a shop, S, for inspection. Amtrust has told us that the repairers at 
S told it that the screen  couldnt be repaired due to dents in the enclosure.
Amtrust authorised S to give Mr S a replacement phone. However, the replacement  phone 
was faulty. So he received a second replacement phone. Unfortunately this one was also 
faulty. S offered him a third replacement phone  but Mr S says hed lost confidence by this 
point so he didnt  accept the third replacement phone.
In January 2019, Mr S complained to Amtrust as he was unhappy with the service hed been 
given in Ss store and that hed had two faulty  phones. 
Amtrust said it hadnt been aware of the issues Mr S experienced with S and the two faulty 
phones. However,  it explained that the value of the phone had depreciated since  the policy 
had been taken out. And so it thought Ss offer of a cash settlement of £320 rather than a 
third replacement phone was reasonable as it was the current cost to buy the same  phone 
again. Also,  Amtrust offered to refund to Mr S the cost of the policy  to compensate  him for 
the inconvenience hed suffered in this matter,  which is just under £90.
Mr S wasnt  happy with this  he wanted  a cash settlement  of around £938 which he says is 
the original purchase  price of the phone  when he bought it in 2016.
Our investigator didnt  uphold his complaint. He explained that he thought  the policy  terms 
allowed Amtrust  to decide whether to repair or replace the phone based  on the advice given 
to it and that it didnt  need  to discuss that decision  with Mr S first. And it isnt a new for old 
policy. So, taking everything into account, he thought the offer made was fair and didnt  think 
Amtrust needed to do any more  than it had already agreed to do to put things right.
Mr S disagreed with our investigator  although he revised his claim to £550. This matter  was 
then passed to me for a decision. I issued a provisional decision in June and an extract  of 
my provisional findings is set out below.
I dont currently intend to uphold Mr S complaint.  However, my reasoning  for this 
differs to the investigator. So Id like to explain this.
Amtrusts obligations under the policy are to carry out a repair or replacement, or to 
provide an alternative  settlement. The relevant part of the policy is set out below. 
Ref: DRN81898762We will pay repair costs  if the Property suffers Accidental Damage whilst at 
the Location. If We are unable to arrange repair of the Property , or where 
the cost of repair would exceed to cost of replacement,  We will replace  the 
Property.
This Policy  is not a replacement as new policy, If We cannot replace the 
Property with an identical item of similar age and consideration We will 
provide a replacement to the nearest comparable specification or value, 
taking into account  the age and condition of the Property.
Having been advised by S that the phone had damage to it, Amtrust agreed  to 
replace the phone. I know that Mr S queries the condition of his phone  at the time he 
took it to S for a repair and feels it shouldve been  repaired  rather than replaced. 
However, in deciding whether it is able to arrange a repair or give a replacement, I 
think Amtrust  is entitled to rely on the opinion of S, as a repairer of mobile  phones. 
Having assessed  that the mobile phone had damage to it, S sent photographs to 
Amtrust. Amtrust says that, where there  are any dents  or scrapes  to the casing,  a 
replacement phone will be given rather than attempting a repair.  It explains this is 
standard practice in mobile  phone claims made  under  this policy. I also note the 
policy terms make it clear  that Mr S may receive  a remanufactured phone rather  than 
have it repaired or receive a brand  new replacement  when making a claim under his 
policy. 
Having received a replacement  handset, Amtrust had fulfilled its obligations under 
the insurance policy Mr S had with it. As the problems with the two replacement 
phones were because  they were  faulty, S is the party  responsible for this under the 
terms of the warranty he was given by S for each replacement phone. It also means  
S is the party responsible for the cash settlement offered to Mr S instead of a third 
replacement phone and the service given  to him after his mobile was first replaced by 
it. And this isnt something our service can take into account in this matter as it is Mr 
S complaint against Amtrust.
In view of the above, Amtrusts offer to Mr S to refund the cost of the insurance  policy  
he bought in 2016 for the inconvenience hes suffered is more than I wouldve asked 
it to do in these  particular circumstances. So, it follows that I dont uphold Mr S 
complaint in this matter.
Mr S responded to the provisional decision as he doesnt agree with it. He wanted to point 
out that some of the details about his case hadnt been included  in the provisional decision.  
He also wanted  to make a number of points. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also given careful  consideration to all 
of the submissions made before  arriving  at my decision, including  those in response  to the 
provisional decision.
Having done so, Ive reached the same  conclusions as set out in my provisional  decision 
and for the same  reasons.
Ref: DRN81898763However, I note the correspondence Mr S has sent us in response  to this. And I think  its 
important to mention  that, whilst Ive added in some  of the additional information that Mr S 
felt was missing in the background, what appears above in the background section is a 
summary of the background  to the complaint. As we operate an informal  dispute  resolution 
service, we often abbreviate the background and concentrate  on what  we consider to be the 
crux of the complaint.
Ill now address some  of the specific points Mr S has raised  in response to the provisional 
decision.
Mr S questions the statement The repairers  at S told Amtrust  that the screen couldnt be 
repaired due to dents  in the enclosure . He says my finding that his phone  was beyond  repair  
due to dents in the enclosure isnt correct.  And any photos of a phone  with dents are bogus  
and shouldnt be relied on in this decision. I havent  made any findings on the condition of Mr 
S phone when he handed it to S. The statement Mr S refers to is in the background of my 
provisional decision and sets out what Amtrust says it was advised by S.
I appreciate that Mr S queries the condition of his phone  at the time he took it to S for a 
repair and feels it shouldve been  repaired rather than replaced. However, as Ive explained, 
in deciding whether it is able to arrange  a repair or give a replacement,  I think  Amtrust is 
entitled to rely on the opinion of S, as a repairer  of mobile phones.  And I think its more  likely 
that this is what it did in this matter.
Mr S says the terms referred  to in the provisional  decision  arent correct and has sent us 
extracts of the terms he was given which he says are slightly  different. The extracts sent to 
us explain theyre  a summary  of the key points of the policy and say Please read your policy 
documents for full terms and conditions. So I think its clear  they arent the full terms. 
Mr S says that new for old wasnt excluded under the terms of the policy. But, as I explained 
in the provisional  decision, I think the policy is clear.  It says, for example, This  Policy is not a 
replacement as new policy. I note that Mr S says he didnt get a copy  of the full terms from 
Amtrust but also that he didnt ask for them either.  But I dont think this would mean  that its 
fair or reasonable  for me to say they dont apply in this particular matter. Even so, I also think  
its clear from the extracts sent to us by Mr S that this wasnt  a new for old policy as it makes  
reference to returning the property to a condition equal to its condition  prior to the damage 
occurring.
Mr S has explained that hes had a number of issues with S and doesnt accept the amount 
offered as a cash settlement. But, as explained above, S is the party responsible  for the 
cash settlement offered  to Mr S instead of a third replacement  phone and the service given 
to him after his mobile was first replaced  by it. And this isnt something  our service can take 
into account in this matter as it is Mr S complaint against Amtrust.
In summary,  Amtrusts  offer to Mr S to refund the cost of the insurance policy he bought in 
2016 for the inconvenience hes suffered is more than I wouldve asked it to do in these  
particular circumstances.  So, it follows that I dont uphold Mr S complaint in this matter.
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr S but this decision brings  to an end what we  in trying to resolve  
this complaint informally  can do for him.
Ref: DRN81898764my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 August 2019.
Rebecca Ellis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8189876