K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that charges for damage  that Volkswagen Financial Services  (UK) Limited 
(VWFS) applied at the end of his hire contract were  unfair. He would like the charges 
waived.
background
Mr G says he took out a hire contract  with VWFS in September 2015.  He says when the 
contract ended  the car was inspected. And says the inspector told him damage noted was 
so minor he wouldnt be charged for it. Mr G says he would have looked  at getting repairs 
done elsewhere if he had thought he would be charged.
Mr G says he accepts there was some damage.  But he feels the charges VWFS  applied  
were excessive. 
VWFS said that the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association  (BVRLA) had already 
looked at a complaint about  its charges.  And added its inspection  agents shouldnt  comment  
on any possible charging
Our investigator  issued  a view saying  that Mr Gs complaint was out of our jurisdiction .He 
explained that our service  was unable to consider if the charges had exceeded fair wear and 
tear or not as this had already been  considered by an alternative dispute resolution  service  
the BVRLA.
Mr G accepted this but said the charges in themselves were excessive. And he had been  
told there would  be no charges.
As these  issues hadnt been covered by the BVRLA investigation our investigator confirmed 
he could consider these. However he didnt uphold Mr Gs complaint. He said the he couldnt 
comment on the actual  level of the charges as that was a matter  for VWFS.
In terms of assurances Mr G said he had been  given our investigator said he had no 
evidence that Mr G had been told he wouldnt be charged for damage.  And that according to 
the contract  Mr G signed he was liable for any damage so Mr G should have ensured the car 
was returned in good condition.
VWFS accepted this view but Mr G didnt.  
Mr G said he accepted  the majority of our investigators view .But didnt accept there  was no 
evidence of what the inspector told him on collection. He said his own testimony evidenced 
that he had been told he wouldnt be charged for damage. He said he accepted there was 
some damage. But he didnt feel he should be charged the amount  he had been charged.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator has already explained that we cannot consider the areas of damage 
identified as chargeable as this has already been  adjudicated on by the BVRLA  an 
alternative dispute resolution  service. So I dont intend to go into that matter in this view.
Ref: DRN85908552There are two other outstanding issues to Mr Gs complaint  the level of the charges and 
the assurance he says he was given that he wouldnt be charged  for damage.
In terms of the amount that VWFS charged  for damage it may well have been the case  that 
Mr G could have had any repair work carried out at a garage of his choice and at a lower 
cost. He hasnt given me any quotes  for work  that would enable  me to make  any 
comparison. But ultimately it is for the business  to set the level of its charges.
Mr G would have been aware from his contract  that he needed  to return the car in good 
repair. And that he would  be liable for any damage  or deterioration. So he could have 
chosen to have the car looked  at, and had any repair work carried out prior to collection if he 
was concerned about possible  charges. I dont  feel it was unreasonable for VWFS to charge 
its own rates  if the car was returned  with chargeable work to do.
I appreciate Mr Gs second issue links to the level of the charges. He has told us that the 
inspector assured him that the damage was so minor he wouldnt  be charged for it. He says 
his recollection is evidence that this reassurance was given.
I think its very hard for consumers to prove what was said when there is only a recollection  
of a conversation. So I do have  some  sympathy  for Mr G. I think  VWFS  took this seriously. It 
has told us its inspection  agents shouldnt comment on any damage charges. And it has 
raised this with the relevant company. I appreciate that doesnt help Mr G.
Our investigator did try to speak to the individual who carried  out the inspection on Mr Gs 
car. Unfortunately that individual no longer works for the company that does end of hire 
inspections for VWFS. So he wasnt able to find any more information.
I think its unfortunate that Mr G didnt  think to get the inspector to give him something in 
writing to confirm there would be no charges.  And if the inspector had not agreed to do that 
Mr G might have been a bit more  cautious  about  assuming there would  be no charges.
But I have to consider  what, if anything, VWFS has done wrong. And whilst I appreciate this 
isnt the response  that Mr G would like, I have nothing to support Mr Gs statement that he 
was told there wouldnt  be any damage charges. So on that basis I dont feel I can 
reasonably ask VWFS to waive  any or all of the charges it applied.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 June  2020.
Bridget Makins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8590855