K820x#14Complaint
Mr and Mrs R, who are represented by a claims management company, (CMC), complain 
that rejected their claim  under section 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974 in respect  of a 
timeshare that was mis-sold.
Background
In August  2007  Mr and Mrs R purchased membership of a holiday club I will call C costing  
£6,238 funded by a fixed term loan. In February  2018 the CMC made a claim under section 
75 to GE. It said that C had made  many  misleading  statements  and the product Mr and Mrs 
R acquired failed  to deliver as they had been  promised. GE rejected the claim as it said the 
money had been  paid to a company, I will call F and so the required debtor-creditor-supplier  
link had been broken. It also said the claim had been brought  out of time. It queried whether 
it had funded the purchase as it had no records  of the loan and the copy supplied by the 
CMC was unsigned. 
A complaint was brought  to this service  where it was considered by one of our investigators 
who didnt recommend it be upheld. She noted  GEs claim that the debtor creditor-supplier 
chain was broken  but given the passage of time there was insufficient evidence to determine 
if this was the case. 
However, she considered  that the claim was raised  outside the time limits  as set out in the 
Limitation Act and so she could not recommend  that the complaint be upheld. The CMC 
didnt agree and set out at some  length its original complaints about the mis-sale of the 
holiday club membership. It also argued  this service was able to consider the complaint as it 
fell within  the DISP rules  and the time limit only started once a person  was aware they had 
reason to complain. 
GE also responded to say that it objected to this service  considering  section 140 of the CCA 
which it considered  extended the scope of the complaint and fell outside the CMCs original 
complaint letter. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering  what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint, Im 
required to take into account: relevant law and regulations, relevant regulatory  rules, 
guidance and standards and codes of practice.
Under s.75, GE is jointly  and severally liable with the supplier of the goods or services  for 
any breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier. This means, they have a like 
claim against GE just as they would have  against the supplier. So, if Mr and Mrs Rs 
claim against the supplier  of the timeshare has likely expired  under the Limitation Act, 
then that is something GE could  take into account when it considers the claim against it.
I note GE has challenged the existence  of any loan, although Mr and Mrs R have supplied 
copy of the loan document, albeit an unsigned one. The sum borrowed ties in with the 
holiday club contract  and the witness statement signed by Mr and Mrs R supports the 
view that GE did lend the money. While I cannot  say with compete certainty GE did make  
Ref: DRN81881342the loan it seems likely  that it did.   
I have also noted  that GE disputes that the required debtor-creditor-supplier link is in 
place. This may be the case. However, I do not have sufficient evidence to reach  a 
conclusion on that assertion and I make no finding  on it. I consider there are other 
grounds for rejecting the complaint and so I do not believe it is necessary for me to 
explore the issue  of whether the link exists.  
GE has suggested I should  not consider the time limits set down in the Limitation Act. I 
disagree. The Financial  Ombudsman Service was set up by law to resolve  complaints 
quickly and with minimum formality.  As an informal alternative to the courts, our aim is to 
level the playing field between the consumer and the business.
Unlike the courts, we are not limited  to looking only at the issues  the consumer has 
focused on in their complaint. Our approach  is 'inquisitorial' as opposed to the 'adversarial' 
procedures of the courts.
We do not expect  consumers to present their cases to us as if they were making legal 
pleadings. We generally look beyond the particular way in which consumers or their 
representatives express their complaints, which may often  be quite general, to assess 
whether they have  suffered financial detriment  for which  the businesses  might be 
responsible. As such I consider it appropriate for me to consider the impact of the 
Limitation Act.
Before doing so I will consider the DISP rules regarding time limits. Our rules  say that we 
cant consider a complaint if a consumer refers  it to us more  than:
(a)six years  after the event complained of; or (if later)
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought
reasonably to have  become aware) that he had cause for complaint
unless:
the failure to comply  with the time limits was as a result of exceptional circumstances.
When assessing and declining a claim under the Consumer Credit  Act, a business is 
exercising its rights  and duties under a regulated credit agreement. A consumer may then 
complain if they feel that a business  has failed to fulfil its obligations  under this credit 
agreement, because they havent received satisfactory compensation for their claim.
So in this case, it follows that the event  complained  of is GEs decision in April 2018  to 
decline the claim they made regarding the timeshare, rather than the sale itself. They then 
complained in April 2018, which is well within the six year time limit specified in the rules.
Because of this, I think we can look at this complaint, as it has been brought  within the 
time limits set under  DISP  2.8.2(2).  So, I will now go on to consider the complaint, which  
is that GE would not look into the claim under the Limitation Act. 
The Limitation Act sets out the time limits which apply to different types of claims. Mr and 
Mrs R have said the timeshare they bought was misrepresented to them.
Ref: DRN81881343Under the Limitation Act, they had six years  from the date upon  which  they suffered a loss as 
a result of the misrepresentation to bring their claim.  
As GE steps into the shoes of the supplier  for the purposes of the s.75 claim, to work  out 
when the clock starts running under the Limitation  Act, we need to work out when it would 
start if the claim had been brought directly against  the supplier.
Misrepresentation claims can be made once the person  bringing  the claim has experienced 
damage and or loss as a result  of the misrepresentation.  In this case, given the nature of the 
complaint, I think damage occurred when  they suffered a financial loss as a result of 
purchasing the timeshare. Ill explain why below.
 
They say that as a result of the suppliers misrepresentation, they paid to enter an 
agreement which has caused  them  to suffer a loss. They  say that but for the 
misrepresentation, they wouldnt have  entered into the contract at all and wouldnt have 
paid any money to the supplier.
So, I think the point of loss was the point at which the transaction was entered into, which 
was in August  2007. Thats the moment when they accepted any potential  benefit under 
the contract, and it was also the moment they accepted the cost under the contract.
The time limit applicable to misrepresentation is six years from the date of loss. So, they 
needed to raise their claim no later than August 2013. As I understand it, they raised  their 
claim in April 2018, which is nearly 11 years after the loss occurred.
They may say that they werent  aware they could raise concerns about the 
misrepresentation until much later. But the time limits set out for misrepresentation claims 
such as this, start to run from the date of loss, which may fall earlier  than the date they 
became aware  that something might have gone wrong.  
Ive also considered section 140A (s.140A) of the Consumer Credit Act when looking into 
this complaint. Under s.140A,  the courts may make an order  under section 140B in 
connection with a credit agreement  if it determines  that the relationship between the creditor 
and debtor arising out of the agreement is unfair to the debtor due to a number of factors. 
Only a court has the power  to decide whether a relationship between the credit and debtor is 
unfair, but it is relevant law we need  to take into consideration. 
Ultimately, it is for the courts to decide  whether or not any claim they may have against 
the supplier or the creditor has expired under the Limitation Act.
However, given the above, it seems to me that the misrepresentation claim against the 
supplier and the like claim  against GE more than likely exceeded the relevant time limits 
set out in the Limitation  Act. So, it would not be unreasonable for GE to take this into 
account when  considering  the s.75 claim against  it. 
So, given that the claim now is more  than likely time barred under the Limitation Act, I think  
GEs decision not to look into the claim was fair. 
Ref: DRN81881344My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to accept or reject my decision 
before 2 August 2021.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8188134