K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains that Vanquis Bank  Limited  agreed to accept payments of £30 a month 
towards a credit card debt but failed  to set the arrangement up. As a result,  hes had to pay 
interest and charges and his credit files been  affected. 
background
The background to this complaint, and my initial conclusions, were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 13 November 2018  a copy of which is attached and forms part of this final 
decision. 
In my provisional decision I explained  why I thought this complaint shouldnt be upheld. I 
invited both parties to send any additional evidence or comments they wished to make. 
Mr T responded to confirm he disagreed  but didnt provide any further comments or 
information for me to consider. Vanquis  hasnt  responded. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  While Mr T has confirmed he disagrees,  
neither party  to the complaint has provided  any new information or comments for me to 
consider. As a result,  I see no reason  to change the conclusions I came  to in my provisional 
decision. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  and in my provisional decision, my decision is that I dont 
uphold this complaint.  Under the rules  of the Financial  Ombudsman Service,  Im required to 
ask Mr T to accept or reject my decision before 11 February 2019.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Copy  provision decision of 13 November  2018
Complaint
Mr T complains that Vanquis Bank Limited  agreed to accept payments of £30 a month
towards a credit card debt but failed to set the arrangement up. As a result, hes had to pay
interest and charges and his credit files been affected.
Background
Mr T has a credit card with Vanquis which  was in arrears. Hed previously agreed payment
arrangements and says that in July 2017 he talked to Vanquis about the credit card.  As a
result, Mr T says a payment  arrangement for £30 a month was agreed to start on
23 August 2017.
Ref: DRN85618462But before that date Vanquis contacted Mr T about  his account. It didnt have a record of a
payment arrangement being agreed  so wanted to discuss options with Mr T. He responded
but said that as hed already agreed an arrangement he wasnt willing to continue  discussing
the debt. Mr T went  on to start payments of £30 a month  but Vanquis continued  to contact
him about his debt so he complained.
Vanquis responded and said it had no record of a £30 payment arrangement so it didnt
agree there had been an error. Mr T referred his complaint  to this service and it was passed
to an adjudicator to look at. The adjudicator accepted there isnt any evidence  to show Mr T
agreed a £30 payment with Vanquis. But they felt that, on balance, its likely he had spoken
with someone and agreed that arrangement.
The adjudicator recommended Vanquis refund interest and charges and amend Mr Ts credit
file to reflect  the arrangement and pay £150 for the trouble and upset caused.  But Vanquis
didnt agree.  So the complaints been passed to me to make  a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When the adjudicator  looked at the complaint  they accepted that theres nothing to directly
show Mr T agreed a payment arrangement. But they felt, from what  hed said and the
information Vanquis was able to supply,  it was more likely than not that an arrangement had
been reached.  But Im not persuaded thats the case here.
Ive carefully looked at the timeline  of this complaint and reviewed all of Vanquis  records of
contact with Mr T (including phone notes, call recordings, text messages and emails). There
was clearly a lot of contact between Mr T and Vanquis around the relevant times here. But
Ive not found anything that shows  a £30 payment arrangement was agreed in the run up to
August 2017s  payment.
Vanquis told this service that it would normally set up a payment arrangement by looking at
a customers income  and outgoings to assess whats affordable.  But its also said an
arrangement for a reasonable payment can be agreed without this process. However, in
either case, Id expect  to see something that important reflected in the records Vanquis
keeps.
So in this case, I need to decide if Vanquis simply  failed to update its records or whether  no
arrangement existed. Where  information about  a complaint is incomplete we base our
findings on the balance  of probabilities. That is, what  I consider more likely than not to have
happened, taking into account the available information and what everyones said.
And, on balance, Im not persuaded a payment arrangement was made in this case. I note
what Mr T says happened. But Vanquis  records are detailed and show where previous
arrangements were  made, along with showing the contact  between it and Mr T. So I think  its
more likely  than not that such an arrangement wouldve been noted by Vanquis,  in the same
way previous arrangements were recorded. Having  considered all the available  information,
Im not persuaded  an arrangement was agreed.
On 21 July 2017,  Mr T sent an email  to Vanquis asking  it to set up a direct  debit for £30 a
month. Vanquis responded to this the next day, telling Mr T what  hed need  to do to get this
set up. I cant  see that Vanquis agreed to this as a payment  arrangement and theres  no
record of Mr T following this up either.
After this, the records show that Vanquis then contacted Mr T about  making  a payment. At
Ref: DRN85618463this point, Im satisfied it was clear to Mr T that there was no agreement with Vanquis to pay
£30, regardless of whatd  happened before.
And while I can see from his messages Mr T was unhappy when contacted about  the arrears
on his account, Vanquis has been consistent in asking him to discuss options for dealing
with the debt.  Ive not seen anything to indicate  Vanquis wouldnt have been willing to look at
options, as it had previously done, if Mr T had agreed to discuss the situation further.
As there  was no arrangement  in place Vanquis continued to apply interest and charges  in
line with the terms and conditions of the account. So as Ive not found  any evidence of a
payment arrangement, Im satisfied theyve been applied  correctly.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  given  above, my provisional  decision  is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Mr T and Vanquis Bank Limited  have  until 13 December  2018 to send me anything  further
theyd like me to consider before I make a final decision.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8561846