K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that Nationwide Building  Society did not take their missed  mortgage 
payment by direct debit  resulting in arrears and an adverse impact on their credit record.
background
The direct debit payment  due to the mortgage on 1 May 2018 was returned unpaid. 
Nationwide wrote to Mr and Mrs D to tell them this. Mr and Mrs D say that they believed that 
Nationwide would take any missed payments by direct debit. It did not do so and Mr D made 
the payment by card in October  2018. By then a missed  payment had been reported to 
credit reference agencies for five months.
The adjudicator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. She said that:
-A letter from Nationwide dated  2 May 2018 did not say that the missed  payment 
would be taken  by direct debit. It set out the ways that Mr and Mrs D could make the 
payment.
-On 18 July 2018 it wrote to them  to say that because  theyd missed  a payment an 
arrears balance remained outstanding. It was clear  that the payment had not been 
taken by direct debit.
-A letter on 16 August  2018 again  set out there was a missing payment and explained 
how this could be paid.
-Nationwide had stated  that its policy is not to attempt to take a missed payment again  
because this might result in additional  bank charges.
-She thought  that the missed payment ought  reasonably to have been  apparent  from 
their bank  account.
-Mr D had mentioned hed been  out of the country and couldnt respond to the letters.  
But there was nothing to show Nationwide knew this and it continued to send letters 
in the normal way addressed to both Mr and Mrs D.
-Nationwide is required to report accurate information about the payment history on 
the mortgage to credit  reference agencies
Mr and Mrs D did not agree. They said that Nationwide did not make clear  that it had a policy  
not to take a direct debit more than once. They said that this was only disclosed in a phone  
call. Mr D travelled for work and Nationwide had multiple methods to contact him. Mr and 
Mrs D are unhappy that Nationwide just continued to take normal payments and did not 
attempt to collect the arrears. And they could  not understand why a missed payment marker 
was recorded  for five months. They did not think that their complaint points had been 
addressed directly.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr and Mrs Ds frustration here. The direct  debit  from their bank account was 
not paid. They indicate that they would quickly have  been  in a position  to cover this payment. 
And they thought that Nationwide would try and take it again. When they realised it hadnt 
they made the payment  by card. Missing the payment was not deliberate and they say has 
had a very damaging effect on their previously good  credit record.
Ref: DRN82445312I need to decide whether Nationwide has made a mistake and if it has acted fairly. It was 
clearly not responsible for the payment being missed in the first place. Its policy is not to 
attempt to take the payment again. And it if had  and Mr and Mrs D had not realised what 
had happened  or seen  the letters as they say  then its not certain that would have been  
successful either.
However I do think Nationwide reasonably  brought  the missed payment to their attention in 
its letter dated the next day. And that returned  direct debit should also have been visible  on 
their bank statement.
Nationwide did not state in any of the letters that it would  take the payment again by direct 
debit. I dont think it had to say that it wouldnt be doing so. And I think its description of the 
ways that Mr and Mrs D could make this missed  payment ruled out a direct debit as an 
option. Nationwides further letters about this  described above by the adjudicator   
reinforced its approach.  Those letters encouraged Mr and Mrs D to contact it with any 
questions or concerns. And the ones in July and August 2018 specifically mentioned  the 
potential impact of not making payments. Im not clear how long Mr D was abroad.  But 
Nationwide had no reason to think that Mr and Mrs D had not received its letters. It had 
decided not at that point  to refer their account  to its collections department.  Nationwide 
expected Mr and Mrs D to make arrangements to clear the one month of arrears  or to 
contact it if they were in financial  difficulties.
Im afraid I dont find Nationwide made a mistake  here. I think  its acted fairly. One months  
payment was outstanding for five months and thats  what is shown on the copy  of Mr Ds 
credit record  hes provided. I dont have a reasonable basis  to require  Nationwide  to take 
any further action.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 March  2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8244531