K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that Lloyds Bank  PLC (when  it was trading as C&G Cheltenham & 
Gloucester) mis-sold them a mortgage payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Lloyds Bank  is responsible for dealing with this complaint. So from now on Ill just refer to 
Lloyds.
background
In 1999 Mr and Mrs R took out a mortgage with PPI to protect their monthly mortgage 
repayments. 
Mr and Mrs R took out some additional  borrowing  on this account later on. But it doesnt look 
as if they bought any more PPI. So in my decision  Im just concentrating on what happened 
when they were sold PPI with their mortgage in 1999.
Our adjudicator looked at this complaint and didnt  think it should be upheld. Mr and Mrs R 
disagree and theyd like an ombudsman to review whats happened.  
Mr and Mrs Rs main complaint is that they felt pressured and led to believe that getting 
approval for the mortgage they were applying for depended on them  taking out PPI. They 
also said that it wasnt made clear that the mortgage and the PPI were separate  products. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Rs complaint. 
Theres a section on their mortgage application  that asks if they want  to have PPI. There 
were Yes  and No options on the form  so I think Mr and Mrs R wouldve seen that it was 
up to them  to say if they wanted to have PPI  it wasnt something that they had to take out 
with the mortgage. Theres a tick in the Yes  box to include  the cover. If PPI wasnt 
something they wanted Mr and Mrs R couldve ticked the option next to this to say they didnt 
wish to apply for PPI - this is left blank on the form that Mr and Mrs R signed.  
As this happened so long ago, its easy to understand how Mr and Mrs R couldve  forgotten  
some of these details now. And I cant be sure what was discussed between  them  and 
Lloyds when they took out the PPI. But, looking at the paperwork they completed, I think 
Lloyds made  Mr and Mrs R aware  that the PPI was optional and they chose to have it.
Mr and Mrs R told us they had joint cover under the policy. They  took out this borrowing in 
joint names when  they were both in work and contributing towards paying the mortgage. So 
although Lloyds  couldnt confirm whose  name  the policy was in, I think  its reasonable to 
assume its likely  that Mr and Mrs R shared  the policy benefits between  them  as well. 
And, with no paperwork  to show who had the PPI, I think the fairest way to assess  their 
complaint is to look at it on the basis that Lloyds  recommended PPI for them  both.  
Ref: DRN87094372If a business makes a recommendation  about  PPI, it doesnt just have  to give important 
policy information in a clear way. It also has to take reasonable  steps to make  sure the cover 
it recommends is suitable. So looking at the complaint this way gives Mr and Mrs Rs 
complaint the best chance of success.
Lloyds told us that it doesnt any longer have a policy document from the date Mr and Mrs R 
took out PPI. But it has provided a policy document which was in use shortly  afterwards   so 
I think its likely that in all main respects the policy that they took out wouldve had similar 
terms and conditions.
I think Mr and Mrs R were both eligible for the policy given their circumstances  and the likely 
PPI terms and conditions  that applied.
Ive taken into account what Mr and Mrs R told us about their sick pay arrangements  at work. 
But PPI wouldve covered their mortgage  repayments plus some  extra  for household  bills 
and other  expenses and paid out on top of any sick pay benefits for up to 12 months per 
claim if Mr R or Mrs R was too sick to work. Also the policy wouldve paid out if either of 
them became unexpectedly unemployed. Repeat claims were possible giving Mr and Mrs R 
long term cover for their mortgage.
Relying on family support  in the event  of money problems  isnt as dependable as taking out 
PPI as everyones circumstances can change unexpectedly. 
Looking at the information Ive got, I dont think its likely  that either Mr R or Mrs R couldve 
easily managed  the mortgage repayments  on their own for long if the other  wasnt working.  
So, I think PPI provided a useful benefit in what wouldve been difficult  circumstances for 
Mr and Mrs R if theyd needed to make a claim and it was suitable for them .
Mr and Mrs R werent  affected by any of the conditions limiting  the policys main benefits.  
So, as they couldve  benefitted from the full extent of the cover,  I think  it unlikely  that better 
information about the policys exclusions and limitations wouldve  put them off taking it out.
Their mortgage  was a major financial commitment, and their home wouldve been at risk if 
their mortgage payments  werent kept up to date. So, I can see why they mightve  felt PPI 
was useful to have at the time  even if theyve forgotten this now.  
Its possible some of the information  Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs R about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve  been.  But I think they chose to take out the policy,  when they couldve 
said they didnt  want to, and so it appears  to me they did want to have this type of cover.  Ive 
seen nothing that suggests  this policy was unaffordable for Mr and Mrs R when they signed 
up to it. 
Ive also thought about whether Lloyds needs to give back  to Mr and Mrs R some of the 
commission they paid.  The Supreme  Court  ruling and new rules  and guidance dont apply to 
certain types of mortgage agreement  including a regulated mortgage.  As Mr and Mrs Rs 
mortgage became  a regulated mortgage  before 6 April 2008 they dont apply. So Lloyds 
doesnt need to refund any of the commission Mr and Mrs R paid for the PPI they had with 
this mortgage.
Ref: DRN87094373my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 February  2019.
Susan Webb
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8709437