K820x#14complaint
Mrs O complains that Bank of Scotland  plc (BOS) mis-sold payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) to her alongside a credit card. 
I know that when  PPI was sold to Mrs O, BOS  was trading as Halifax.  To keep things simple, 
Ill refer to BOS for the rest of this decision. 
It also appears that Mrs O may have had two credit  card accounts with BOS over the years. 
To be clear, the complaint  thats  been brought to us is about account  ending 9419. And so 
the matters I have considered relate  to that account  only. Our adjudicator has not issued a 
view and my decision  does not apply to account ending 1231.  
background
Our adjudicator didnt  think this complaint should be upheld. Mrs O disagreed with that view 
and asked for an ombudsman to make a decision about her complaint. 
I issued a provisional decision Id made some assumptions about Mrs Os personal 
circumstances. It was right for me to give the parties  the opportunity to comment  on those 
assumptions.  Neither party  has responded to my provisional decision. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account  in deciding 
this case.  
My provisional decision is attached and it forms part of my final decision. As neither party 
has given me any further evidence  or information  to consider, I see no reason to depart from 
my provisional findings. 
For the reasons  set out in my provisional  decision,  I havent upheld this complaint. I dont 
require BOS to take any further action. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint about Bank of Scotland plc. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 May 2019. 
Nicola Bowes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN80665682COPY OF MY PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mrs O complains that Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI)  to 
her alongside a credit card. 
I know that when PPI was sold to Mrs O, BOS was trading  as Halifax. To keep things simple, Ill refer 
to BOS for the rest of this decision. 
It also appears that Mrs O may have had two credit card accounts with BOS  over the years. To be 
clear, the complaint thats been brought to us is about account ending 9419. And so the matters I 
have considered relate to that account  only. Our adjudicator has not issued a view and my decision  
does not cover account ending  1231. 
background
Our adjudicator didnt think this complaint  should be upheld. Through her representatives, Mrs O 
disagreed with that view.  So the matter  has been passed to me to make a final decision. 
Ref: DRN80665683my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account in deciding this case .  
Having thought carefully about the evidence  before  me, I dont intend to uphold this complaint. Ill 
explain why below. 
First of all I need consider  when and where this PPI policy was sold. In her PPI questionnaire, Mrs O 
told us that shed been  sold cover over the phone  in 2008. But BOS was able to provide us with some 
of its paperwork. And Im satisfied that the cover  was sold in 2002 during a meeting between  the 
parties. 
The information provided in Mrs Os PPI questionnaire  was about her circumstances in 2008. Our 
adjudicator made  several attempts  to find out about her circumstances in 2002,  but did not receive a 
reply. That information wasnt provided  either when Mrs O and her representatives  requested a final 
decision. 
I have carefully considered  whether I have sufficient information to make a decision in this matter  in 
the absence of such  evidence. Im provisionally satisfied that I do. Notably, I have  had the benefit  of 
seeing the BOS computer records from 2002, along with the credit application.  Those documents tell 
me about Mrs Os employment history  and personal circumstances at that time. Taking  all of that into 
account, if Mrs O doesnt provide us with further information, it will be fair for me to issue a final 
decision based on the evidence currently before  me.  
Ive looked at whether Mrs O would  have  known  the PPI was optional and she didnt have to buy it if 
she didnt want it. From the credit card agreement, I can see that in order for PPI to be added  to this 
account, a box selecting  the cover had to be ticked.  In this case, it had been selected.  I can see that 
the box has been completed electronically.  But I think there was probably  a discussion about whether 
Mrs O wanted  this cover.  I say that because  I can see she had refused other financial products that 
were available at the time. And there are personal details on that document  that could have only been 
completed with Mrs Os help. 
BOS told us it advised  Mrs O to buy PPI. Ive proceeded on that basis because  its a harder  test for 
BOS to satisfy. Thats  because  in those  circumstances  it had to make sure that policy was suitable  for 
Mrs Os needs. To help me decide whether it was suitable, Ive looked  at the terms and conditions of 
the PPI policy. And Ive also considered what Ive been able to determine  about  her personal  
circumstances at that time. 
I can see that if shed had to make a claim  on the PPI policy,  10% of Mrs Os credit  card balance  
would have been repaid  for every month she was unwell or if she lost her job. I can see from the 
computer records that in 2002, Mrs O was employed  in the social care industry. She still worked in 
that sector  in 2008 and told us that she would  have received  more than six months sick pay. Given 
the similar nature of her work, Ive assumed  that her sick pay arrangements in 2002 would have been 
comparable. It seems unlikely  that Mrs O would  have  received 12 months sick pay. On balance,  its 
likely that the PPI would have paid out for longer than her sick pay would  have lasted.  
Ive also thought  about  whether Mrs O would  have had other means  with which she could have made 
repayments towards her credit  card if she was out of work. I can see that 
Mrs Os credit card limit was relatively modest and it seems she did run into some difficulty  keeping up 
with those  repayments. I think if she had savings  that were available to her at that time, its unlikely 
she would have wanted  to incur charges  by making  late payments. 
Mrs O didnt have any medical conditions in 2008. I can see that she was managing to work in 2002 
and the evidence Ive seen doesnt suggest she was unwell  at that time. I havent seen anything  
unusual about Mrs Os circumstances  that would have stopped her from making a successful claim if 
Ref: DRN80665684she needed  to. With all of this in mind, I think its likely  that the PPI offered benefits to Mrs O over and 
above the means she had in place  at the time.  I think the cover was suitable for her. 
BOS still had to give Mrs O enough information  about the PPI so she could decide for herself whether 
it was a good  fit for her needs. I accept it is possible that BOS didnt tell Mrs O everything it should 
have done about the cover.  But Ive set out above how I think the PPI could have been helpful if Mrs 
O was out of work. And I think she probably  chose  to buy PPI at that time  so it looks like she wanted 
this type of cover.  It follows  that I dont think shed  have  acted  differently if shed been given  more or 
better information about the cover.  
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs O, but as things  stand, I dont think this policy was mis-sold. So Im not 
intending to tell BOS to take any action to put things  right.  
my provisional  decision
I dont intend to uphold this complaint about Bank of Scotland  plc. But I reiterate my encouragement 
to Mrs O and her representatives to respond to our adjudicators emails  seeking information about her 
circumstances in October 2002. 
I now invite  all parties to submit any further evidence or comments  they wish me to consider by 18 
April 2019 after which I will issue a final decision.
Nicola Bowes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8066568