K821x#15complaint
Mrs B and Miss Bs complaint is in relation to a claim for subsidence damage made under 
their CIS General Insurance Limited buildings insurance policy. They  consider  the claim has 
been going on too long and CIS is avoiding completing repairs.
Mrs B and Miss B are represented by Mr S.
background
Mrs B and the late Mr B bought their home  in 1978 and insured it with CIS. In 1997 they 
made a claim for subsidence damage to the front right corner of the house. The claim was 
accepted and after a period of monitoring it was determined the property could be repaired 
without stabilisation works being done. Repairs consisting of stitching the brickwork together 
in the area (and adjoining  areas) of the cracking,  plastering and decorating  were  done. 
The engineer consulting for CIS said at the time the foundations to the property were 
extremely poor and suspect and that further  movement in the future could not be ruled out 
given the nature of the peaty fill encountered within the trial holes. It was detailed that the 
repair would need  to be sufficiently robust to minimise further  cracking in the event of further 
minor movement. It was also confirmed that  this is a far from ideal solution,  but would 
seem to be the most  appropriate and that no further movement has taken place and that 
partial underpinning would in reality worsen  the situation, as this would make  one part of the 
property stiffer than the rest and may induce differential movement in the future.
CIS current loss adjuster  confirmed in an early report from the current claim that the 
masonry reinforcement was installed from the centre of the front wall around  to the rear 
right-hand corner. Some floor levelling was also undertaken  to reduce the slope of the floors,  
although it didnt  make them completely level. 
In 2002 another claim for subsidence damage was made for cracking in the same  area as 
previously. In addition,  the subsidence  also affected the kitchen floor at the rear of the 
property, which was dug out and replaced.  The plaster that had been  repaired as part of the 
1997 claim was repaired  again, with additional reinforcement added. Some  external  
drainage was replaced at that time too. Mr S confirmed during the course  of the current  
claim that this included installing new soakaways.
The certificate of structural adequacy issued by the loss adjusters in 2003 stated the cause 
of damage was consolidation of peat substrata. It confirmed the property had been 
monitored between  the spring of 1998 and summer of 1999 and it had been found  to be 
stable. The repairs were  detailed as stitching and reinforcement of masonry cracks and 
redecoration.
In 2009 a further claim was made  for cracking  to walls and movement to the floor of an 
outbuilding which was thought to have  been caused  by an escape of water from a damaged 
drain. The claim was again accepted and the property was written-off.  Mr S has confirmed 
that the building was demolished and a new one built on a piled raft foundation.
In March 2014 another claim for subsidence  damage to the main house was made.  The 
damage was again  mainly  in the area of the front right of the house which had been affected 
in 1997 and 2002, although there  was some cracking elsewhere in the property. CIS 
instructed a firm of loss adjusters to investigate the claim.
Ref: DRN81176202The loss adjusters initial engineering report was produced in March 2014 and detailed  that 
the subsidence damage had returned to the same previously repaired areas. It stated the 
movement had been ongoing for a number of years but had been very gradual, however it 
appeared to have progressed more rapidly  recently  and so another  claim had been made.  It 
was documented  there was damage  in the snug,  main living room (both at the right of the 
property), the right hand bedroom,  middle bedroom  and left hand bedroom. All four external 
elevations were reported as having  stepped  cracks. The boiler store  was detailed as having  
rotated downwards.  
The engineer confirmed there  had been recent subsidence. However, he was of the opinion  
the cracks  above  the window openings  were due to the absence of lintels  or lintel 
deflections, which wasnt covered by the policy. It was confirmed some external repairs  were 
needed, but the property  wouldnt be repainted  after those repairs as the current finish  was 
in poor condition. The cause of the subsidence was unclear and so site investigations and a 
drainage survey were  to be arranged. Monitoring was to be undertaken to determine if the 
property was still moving. It was anticipated the claim would be settled by the end of 2015.
CIS wrote to Mr B (who was dealing with the claim at the time) and confirmed the claim had 
been accepted. It said a £1,000 excess would be payable when repairs started. Mr B 
responded questioning  the matter  of the excess  he pointed out the damage was in the 
same place as the previous repairs and he felt it was a continuation  of the previous claims. 
He thought this was because the property hadnt been properly repaired i.e. it hadnt been 
stabilised, just tied together.
CIS acknowledged Mr Bs concern about  the excess and said that once the cause of the 
subsidence was established it would be confirmed whether  a further  excess was due to be 
paid. 
A drainage survey was completed. It determined there was nothing  wrong with the main 
drainage, but the soakaways  for the rainwater  drainage were too close to the house  under 
current building regulations. Mr S told us the soakaways in question were installed by CIS as 
part of the 2002 claim.  The loss adjusters recommended the soakaways  be moved and this 
was done at Mr and Mrs Bs expense.
The ground investigations showed that the house  had foundations  of around 600mm  and 
was built on ground  that was predominantly  silty sand. 
In April 2014 the level and crack monitoring points were installed.  The report from the 
monitoring company  stated there was no suitable place to install the datum (the fixed point 
taken as the static  point  from which  the movement of the monitoring  points  would be 
established) for the level monitoring.  As such, the monitoring company had used monitoring 
point 1 on the house itself as the datum. It recommended instead that a deep datum be 
installed. 
Monitoring continued every two months thereafter.  Copies of the monitoring  reports were 
sent to Mr B (and later to Mr S) and updates provided by the loss adjusters engineer. The 
recommendation to install  a deep  datum was repeated each time.
In January 2015 CIS was made aware  of further cracking  around  the property and a site visit 
was arranged. The subsequent report said:
Ref: DRN81176203This visit was in response to readings obtained  during a monitoring period, showing 
movement to the front right hand corner, despite there being no notable  drainage  or 
vegetation issues at this location.
The ongoing  level monitoring has shown a general trend of minor fluctuations, such  as those 
that could be expected  from normal temperature  and moisture  variations, reading error  and 
seasonal fluctuations. However, there was a marked downward movement of the front right 
hand corner in the order of 2.0 to 2.5mm,  with an uplift  of the read elevation  in the order  of 
1.0 to 1.5mm. 
It was decided the monitoring period would be extended to at least  June 2015. In June  2015  
the loss adjuster wrote to Mr B saying that despite  the movement in the early  part of 2014 it 
appeared the property has now found some  form of stability with minor  fluctuations  being  
typical of the articulation seen in a property that has cracked and is subject to normal 
temperature and moisture variations in the building fabric and ground.
Mr S didnt accept CIS position. He said that the cracking was getting  worse and the 
damage to the boiler store meant  water  was getting  in and affecting the electrics.  There  was 
now an intermittent problem with the central  heating.  A few days  later he told the loss 
adjusters the central heating wasnt working at all. Emergency repairs were authorised  about  
a month  later and due to the handling of the boilers store  issue, a complaint was made  to 
CIS. CIS offered £150 for its poor handling  of the problems with the boiler store in 
September 2015.
Whilst the emergency matter of the boiler store was being looked  into, a schedule of works 
was also being  drawn up for repairing the main  house. Monitoring continued and showed the 
right front corner of the building was still moving downward. In November 2015 the loss 
adjuster told Mr S the monitoring showed  normal fluctuations and they were of no concern. 
It was looking at options for dealing with the boiler  store problems and would contact Mr S in 
due course. 
By January 2016 the monitoring  showed  there  was continued movement particularly to the 
front right hand  corner with no signs of ceasing.  It was decided to bring in a higher level 
expert opinion  on a repair solution. The loss adjusters referred the matter  to its technical 
claim unit (TCU). 
A site visit was arranged  with the TCU engineer and a new report  was compiled  in 
April 2016. It was documented  that most of the level monitoring  points showed cyclical  
movement, probably to do with moisture content. However, the front right-hand  corner  had 
dropped by 4.5mm.  It was decided that monitoring should continue, but that this should be 
done using a different datum  because  the one then being used might  not be stable. It was 
also suggested that a distortion survey be done.  Mr S was told what the next steps would be.
Consideration of what to do about the boiler  store continued  whether to rebuild  the store or 
fit an internal boiler. However, it doesnt  appear  that Mr and Mrs Bs opinion was sought  
during this process, as it turned out that they didnt  want the boiler moved  into the house. 
Several weeks later the loss adjuster wrote to Mr S and confirmed that a new monitoring 
point was to be installed on his home  (which  was thought to have been  built on a deep piled 
foundation). However, it was not until early  July 2016 that the TCU told the claim 
administrator to arrange for the new monitoring datum to be installed on Mr S house once 
Ref: DRN81176204the new claim reserve had been approved by CIS. The reserve was approved the same day 
and it would appear the instruction for the new datum was issued.
By August 2016 the engineer had decided to continue monitoring using the existing datum 
point. However, a new monitoring point was to be installed  on Mr S home. The new 
monitoring point would  show  if the datum  point  was moving. The claim administrator was told 
to change the instructions to the monitoring company. 
A distortion survey was also commissioned in August 2016. It was done less than a month 
later. It showed that the right-hand front corner  of the property was almost 10cm  lower than 
the opposite corner.  
In the meantime, the TCU arranged for a desktop review of all the existing evidence  to be 
made by an external expert (which  I will refer to as G). the report  produced  detailed  that:
The general trend of settlement appeared to be downward toward the right-hand  front 
corner.
Water  levels were higher at monitoring point 3 (right hand front corner) than on the 
opposite side of the property where  there  was a reduced rate of settlement.
Settlement appeared to be seasonal, with increased rates of settlement during winter  
months.
A deep datum needed to be installed for accurate monitoring to be done.
The conclusions regarding cause of damage were  detailed  as follows:
a)Long-term general settlement at low rates, but the settlement at point 3 was increased as 
a resulted of changes  in loading or localised  changes in groundwater levels.
b)As above, but settlement  at point 3 had been affected by vibrations caused by heavy 
goods vehicles  passing on the nearby  farm road.
It was documented  I think in summary  this is one (or another) to be careful  with. While peat 
extraction would seem to be the smoking  gun, Im not so sure and in any event  will be very 
difficult to prove. We really dont suggest that you simply  throw  in the towel and underpin to 
infinity and beyond. Im certain there  is a better  way.
I think there are gaps in what  we know at the moment that have  to be filled. Let me know  if 
you want to discuss further. 
In October  2016 the monitoring company asked the loss adjusters where the new datum was 
to be installed.  It would appear  it was told to install a new datum on Mr S house rather  than 
follow the changed instructions from August 2016  regarding the datum  remaining in place 
and a new monitoring point being installed.   
Monitoring continued thereafter using the new datum point. No further investigations were 
done, nor does it appear any conclusions were reached about the cause of the movement. 
Mr B sadly  passed away in 2017 and Miss B was added as a policyholder.
G was again commissioned  to provide its technical  expertise  in early 2018 and it produced a 
report in April 2018. The report  detailed that G had been asked to assess  the evidence  to 
determine the cause of damage to the property and whether  dewatering at the nearby peat 
workings may have  contributed to the damage. When doing  so G took account of all of the 
Ref: DRN81176205investigations the loss adjusters had undertaken and the reports/documents Mr S had 
provided about the peat workings and local hydrology situation.
Having considered the trial pit data and British Geological Survey  information, it was 
concluded the geology under and around the property was likely to be sand and gravel with 
pockets of peat at higher strata levels within it. This meant the flow of ground water in the 
vicinity was likely to be complex  and variable.  Approximately 300m to the north of the 
property the ground  conditions  changed to being  predominantly peat with low permeability. 
The flow of water across the site was toward the peat workings.
 
In relation to the monitoring results, G commented  that the first set of results  showed an 
ongoing drop of the north east (front right) corner of the property. However, the second set of 
results showed a small settlement/heave  oscillation around the south east corner  of the 
property. However, the cracking locations  and patterns indicated  that there was a downward 
movement of the northwest corner of the property, with the damage being displaced  
because of the reinforcement  installed  in 1999.  The movement was thought to be slowing 
and may have stopped.
G concluded there were  two possibilities for the movement of the property  the first being 
that the ground beneath the house  was weak. The second was a lowering of the water table 
caused by the nearby peat extraction. There was then consideration of the various pieces of 
evidence. Based on damage to the front right corner of the property having occurred before 
the peat workings  increased production in the 1990s, it indicated that the quality of the soil 
beneath the foundations  was the issue, not dewatering. 
G also explained the investigations that had been  done, including  the measurement of the 
depth of the water table and associated information from government  agencies, indicated the 
water table was quite high in the area of the house.  It was considered the peat surrounding 
the site the house was built on, because it had low permeability, was effectively  retaining  
water in the site. As such, it was thought the lowering of the water  table by the peat workings  
was unlikely to be the cause of the damage. However, sustained lower  rainfall in general 
might have had some  effect on the water  levels  on the site.
It was recommended by G that further monitoring (to take it to a total of 12 months) be done 
using the existing datum on Mr S property to check for developing distortion.  If further 
distortion in the property was identified, then some further ground investigations would be 
appropriate, but it didnt say what these  investigations should be.
Mr S raised a complaint on Mrs B and Miss Bs behalf. They were unhappy with the time the 
claim was taking and the poor service they had received. 
26 June 2018  CIS responded to the complaint about  the progress of the claim and the 
behaviour of its appointed  representatives. CIS said that the technical aspects of the claim 
was complex and it didnt  accept  its representatives  had delayed  the claim. However,  it 
acknowledged it hadnt responded to correspondence and there had been some delays. CIS 
offered £100 compensation  in this regard. 
Mrs B and Miss B didnt accept CIS position and referred their complaint to this service. 
In July 2018 CIS informed Mrs B and Miss B that it would be installing a deep  datum  for 
more accurate monitoring to be done.
Ref: DRN81176206One of our investigators  looked at the complaint. He noted  CIS had issued a final response 
relating to the problems with the boiler house in September 2015 and, although given 
referral rights to this service,  the complaint hadnt been referred to us. As such,  he 
concluded the issues with the boiler store before September 2015 fell outside of our 
jurisdiction. Mr S didnt object to that position on Mrs B and Miss Bs behalf.
In relation to the merits of the remainder of the complaint, including  the ongoing situation 
with the boiler  store  post-2015, our investigator  explained that claims involving ground 
conditions such as those  involved in this case can been very complicated  and take a long 
time to resolve. He thought  that given the specialists  opinion, there were grounds for a 
period of further monitoring at that point.  However, he thought rather than changing the 
datum to the neighbouring property  in 2016, CIS should have installed a deep datum at that 
time. As such, it had caused significant  delays and the investigator recommended  CIS pay 
£500 compensation (including the £100  it had already  offered). 
In relation to Mr S request for an independent engineer to be involved because Mrs B and 
Miss B had lost faith in the loss adjusters ability to deal with the claim,  he said it was 
something that could  be considered when the further monitoring had concluded.
Mr S responded. He confirmed the date the deep  datum had been  installed and made 
proposals for what should be required  of CIS going  forward. This being  the six months of 
monitoring and then he considered it should be required  to produce a repair  proposal within 
two months of the monitoring. He also said that he would like this service to remain involved 
until the property  had been  repaired.  
As agreement hadnt been reached  the complaint was passed to me for consideration. I 
requested some furthekar  information.
Mr S confirmed that they had been  unable  to find any paperwork relating to the installation  of 
the new soak away drains. He said they decided to install the new soakaways because  CIS 
had told them the existing ones didnt comply  with current standards,  even though they had 
been installed as part of the 2003  insured repairs. CIS wasnt able to confirm  what works 
had been done in relation to the drainage in 2003.
CIS confirmed that the house had been monitored for a full 12 months  after the deep datum 
had been installed.  The monitoring results were  referred to G and it concluded  the property 
was stable and could be repaired. A copy of the monitoring  and Gs comments were 
provided to us.
In relation to the excess Mr S had questioned,  CIS said it was payable. This was because G 
had said in its 2018 report the cause  of the 1990s  episode of subsidence was most  likely 
related to the start of the more aggressive peat workings. Whereas  the most recent claim 
was a different  cause  of damage   the poor load-bearing capacity of the ground beneath the 
foundations. 
I issued a provisional decision on 21 December 2020. In that document I set out my 
conclusions and the reasons for reaching  them. Below is an excerpt.
Before I move on to explain my conclusions in this case, I would like to confirm  that I agree 
with our investigator about the matter of our jurisdiction in relation to the concerns about  the 
handling of the boiler  store issue. I cant consider  the matters covered by the final response 
letter, up to the date of its issue in September  2015. 
Ref: DRN81176207It would be usual where subsidence has been  identified as damaging a property that two 
things would be established; firstly if the subsidence  was ongoing and, if it was, what the 
cause of the subsidence was. The latter  needs  to be established to determine what  can be 
done to stop the ongoing  movement  be that by removing an external factor that is causing 
the subsidence, such as removing a tree where it is drying clay soils, or determining it to be 
a problem with the underlying soil needing an engineered solution to be installed. 
This claim  was accepted  at an early stage,  but I think it is clear  the handling  of the claim was 
significantly below the standard initially Mr and Mrs B and later Miss B could reasonably 
have expected. It was clear from the previous claims, the results of the site investigations 
and the input from the consumers, this was a complex subsidence situation. It is also clear  
that the loss adjusters concluded  quite early on that there wasnt an obvious cause for the 
movement. However, it was almost two years before the claim was transferred to the loss 
adjusters specialist technical  claim  team.  I would  have  expected  this referral to have been 
done in the latter part of 2014.
During those two years the property was being  monitored for movement, but using a datum 
that was unusual to say the least.  The purpose  of a datum point is to act as a reference  point  
or control  against  which other points which may not be stable can be measured. The initial  
datum point selected  in this case was on the building that was subsiding  and as such, its 
stability was known to be in doubt.  CIS own monitoring company recommended  that a deep 
datum was installed  for the monitoring,  but that recommendation doesnt appear to have  
been considered,  or at least there is no evidence of any such consideration in the file we 
have been provided. 
Around two years later CISs loss adjusters had realised this was not an adequate situation 
and looked to change the monitoring  arrangements.  The external engineers at this time also 
recommended a deep datum be installed.  Again  there is no evidence of the recommendation 
being given serious consideration in the file of papers. I consider this is a serious  failing 
given the loss adjusters had been being  given this recommendation on a regular basis  over 
the previous two years and it was then reinforced by the experts it brought in to help. It 
seems rather  counterintuitive for an expert opinion to be asked and paid for, just to ignore it. 
However, whilst  CIS may have ignored  the advice it received about the right way of 
monitoring the movement  to Mr and Mrs Bs home, a new monitoring point that was thought 
to be more stable  was to be included in the monitoring, so that it could be assessed whether 
the datum point was moving. Unfortunately, the instruction given to the monitoring company 
was wrong, and even  when  the monitoring company questioned it, it doesnt appear to have  
been corrected.  This meant that the original years  of monitoring and the subsequent ones 
couldnt be linked,  effectively, rendering the original period a waste. 
The property was then monitored until 2018, when again the external engineers  were  
brought in. Whilst  the engineers didnt repeat the recommendation to install a deep datum 
within the report produced, the decision to do so, coincided with their further  involvement. 
This started  the monitoring of the property  from scratch again. So effectively the first four 
years of monitoring was of no use because a deep  datum was needed  to monitor  the 
property effectively, as CIS monitoring company had recommended  at the outset. 
For a notable portion  of those four years the property  continued  to move and the damage 
became worse. Mr and Mrs B, and latterly Mrs B on her own,  remained living in the house, 
watching it deteriorate  around them. In addition,  whilst the immediate danger from the 
Ref: DRN81176208movement to the boiler store had been  alleviated by the temporary propping  and filling the 
gaps between it and the house, it would have remained a concern. 
I also note there was a notable lack of communication about  this issue. CIS costed 
repair/replacement of the boiler store and that for moving the boiler  into the house. It 
determined the more cost- effective option was to move the boiler  to the bathroom.  However,  
the consumers  dont appear to have been  involved until the proposal to move the boiler was 
presented as a fait accompli.  I think its clear  that if they had been approached about this at 
an early stage, the time and effort CIS spent on this concept wouldnt have been needed.
I also note that it was only when the claim entered its second year that it was referred  to the 
technical claim unit. In the situation  where there  is ongoing  movement,  which it is clear there 
was during the first years of the claim. as I have explained above, if a property is found to be 
suffering from progressive movement, its usual for an insurer to actively  pursue establishing 
the cause of that movement, so it can stop it and repair the property. CIS did some initial 
investigations into ground conditions, but there  is nothing on the file we have been provided 
with that indicates any even potential  causes of the movement were drawn until 2016 when 
the TCU and external engineers became involved.   It appears  that when the cause was not 
immediately obvious  CIS allowed the claim to drift and I dont  consider  that was acceptable.  
I consider there were years of delays  in this case and that would  have caused  Mrs B, and 
Mr B until his death, a lot of inconvenience  and upset. Mr S has suggested CIS purposely  
delayed the claim  in order to avoid having  to do expensive stabilisation repairs.  I havent 
seen evidence that CIS made a conscious  decision to let this claim drift on until the property 
naturally stabilised,  but the handling  of the claim was clearly seriously lacking. I consider CIS 
should pay Mrs B a sum of £4,000 (including  the £100 CIS has already offered) 
compensation in this respect.
The monitoring since  the installation  of the deep  datum (and even those from earlier  in 2018) 
show that the property is stable.  In this situation all CIS is required to do is repair the 
damage to the structure  it isnt required to do any works to stop the property moving again 
in the future. 
I note that Mr S has suggested  the house  be declared a write-off and the claim settled that 
way. I can understand  why he has made  that suggestion, but it isnt something I can ask CIS 
to do as its current position of offering to repair or cash settle for the repairs, is all it is 
required to do under the insurance policy terms and conditions. However, CIS could 
consider this request if it wishes to, as, based on the history  of the property and the expert 
opinion, further  bouts of subsidence are likely.
I have also considered the matter of whether a further excess is due to be paid for the 2014 
claim. 
G commented that the 1990s claim coincided with the increased  peat extraction, and so 
seems to be linked to it. However, CIS has confirmed it doesnt have the full claim file, so it 
isnt now possible to know what the actual cause of the movement in 1997 was concluded to 
be at that time. I am not persuaded  G had sufficient evidence in 2018 to reach a definitive 
conclusion about  the 1997  cause of movement, which  would explained why G said it 
seemed to be. 
However, the evidence  there is shows that similar  damage occurred in the same place on 
the house four times. One incident  happened before the increased peat workings, one 
Ref: DRN81176209shortly after,  one shortly after the peat workings decreased and the final incident many years  
later. 
G determined  that the 2014 movement was due to the poor load-bearing capacity of the 
ground, which was influenced by its water content. It also warned Mrs B and Miss B that this 
issue could cause further bouts of movement  in the property. The 2002 claim was recorded  
as having occurred because of consolidation of peat layers.  It isnt clear  from the evidence  
we have whether  that was the cause of both areas of damage  in 2002, although it was 
clearly the cause of damage to the kitchen floor, where the majority of the damage was.  
Given the lack of information  from 1997  and 2002,  the similarity of damage and Gs 
comments, I think it is more likely  than not that all the bouts of movement to the front corner 
of the house had the same underlying cause  the poor loadbearing capacity of the ground 
made worse by a change  in the water  levels. 
However, in order for me to say an excess shouldnt be paid, I would  have to be persuaded 
the 2014 movement was a continuation  of the 1997/2002  movement and effectively the 
same claim. Given it was over a decade between the 2003 repairs and new damage being 
reported, Im not persuaded I can conclude  that it was one claim. As such, I dont consider 
CIS was wrong to charge  an excess on the 2014 claim.
It has been raised that Mr and Mrs B paid for soakaways installed in 2003  to be moved 
during the current  claim because they were advised they didnt comply with current 
regulations. Mr S has said the non-compliant soakaways were  installed by CIS in 2003, but 
neither he nor CIS have been  able to provide any evidence  of this. In order to require CIS to 
pay for the replacement soakaways, I would need  evidence they were  installed by CIS and 
that they would have  been considered inadequate  in 2003. I dont have that evidence and so 
I cant make  an award in relation to this issue. 
CIS accepted my provisional decision.
Mr S responded on behalf of Mrs B and Miss B. He said they accepted most of my 
conclusions as being fair and reasonable, but they would like to question one point. He 
questioned whether the property was stable as they had taken a reading  using the deep  
datum and they believe  there could have been up to 3mm of movement since the last 
reading. Whilst this is not a lot of movement, it would add up over time. Mr S requested that 
I appoint an independent firm of surveyors to take a reading and if it is found that the 
property is still moving,  that I reconsider whether CIS needs to take action to stop the 
property from moving.  
If the property is found to be stable, they asked  that robust crack repairs  are done, involving 
helical ties being inserted  into the mortar joints. At present CIS has only offered to repoint  
the cracks, which they consider is nothing  but cosmetic.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments from the outset to decide  whats 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note that Mr S has said they have taken a reading  from the datum and believe there is a 
difference from the last one taken by the monitoring company. I would  explain that taking 
monitoring readings involves a level of skill, which is why insurers,  surveyors and engineers 
will hire in specialist companies  to complete this work. So whilst I can understand Mr S 
Ref: DRN811762010conclusion based  on the reading they took,  it isnt sufficient for me to conclude the 
engineers assessment of the readings from 2018  and 2019, which concluded the property 
was stable, was wrong  or that further monitoring should be undertaken. 
I can understand Mrs B and Miss B wanting  stabilisation works done to the property as, 
based on experience and the engineers conclusions about the cause of movement, it does 
seem possible  there  could be further incidents  of movement in the future. However,  I cant  
require CIS to complete such works where the evidence says the property has stabilised. 
As to the nature of the superstructural  repairs that should be completed to the property, that 
isnt something that we can become  involved in at this stage. Even if it were something  we 
could consider, we would be guided  by the expert evidence before coming to any 
conclusions about  what repairs  were needed. 
Although I know this will disappoint Mrs B and Miss B, their further submissions have not 
changed my conclusions, which were detailed in my provisional decision.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement of the complaint I 
order CIS General  Insurance Limited to pay Mrs B and Miss B a total of £4,000 
compensation for the poor handling  of the claim. Under the rules of the Financial  
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs B and Miss B to accept or reject my decision 
before 26 February  2021.
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8117620