K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  about U K Insurance Limiteds (UKI) settlement of their travel  
insurance claim.
My references to UKI include its agents.
background
Mr and Mrs B and their four children (then aged between about  10 and 17) were  on a skiing  
holiday abroad. Unfortunately one of the children (who Ill refer to as C) was injured  in an 
accident. All the family were  insured  on the travel insurance policy  through  Mr Bs bank 
account. The insurer is UKI. 
C was transferred to a hospital about  two hours  from where  the family were  staying due to 
his injuries, which were of a serious  nature. Mrs B remained with her son. Mr B went  to the 
hospital generally on a daily basis from the hotel where he and the other children  stayed. 
Mr B and three children  returned home as planned.  He then flew back to the hospital to stay 
with C and Mrs B returning  a couple of days before C and Mrs B returned home.
Mr and Mrs B claimed for various costs for them and their children, totalling  about £5,000.
UKI accepted the claim but once it applied the policy terms and limits it offered only a partial 
settlement, of about £860.
Mr and Mrs B complained to us. They made  detailed points. Very briefly, they said;  UKI 
hadnt taken into account the circumstances of the claim; C was badly injured; it was 
reasonable for both parents to be at the hospital  which meant their other children  couldnt  
have the holiday  they had planned; all were insured under the same  policy.
Ultimately our investigator thought UKIs proposed  settlement  wasnt  fair but it didnt need to 
pay all the costs Mr and Mrs B claimed. She said in addition to the settlement UKI should:
pay the curtailment  claim for C and Mrs B
pay hospital benefit for Mrs B as well as C
pay the recuperative  holiday  benefit to C and Mrs B if the holiday is booked within a 
reasonable period of time following the settlement  of this complaint
assess the flight delay  claim once it receives the required information from Mr and 
Mrs B.
Neither party agreed. UKI agreed to pay the curtailment  claim for C and Mrs B but said it 
should pay the hospital benefit and recuperative holiday  benefit  for C only. Mr and Mrs B 
sent us further  information about  Cs injuries to emphasise their points about why they 
thought all the costs claimed were reasonable.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN81325322The relevant  rules and industry guidelines say that UKI has a responsibility to handle  claims 
promptly and fairly.  It shouldnt reject or limit a claim unreasonably. I dont think  UKIs 
original settlement or latest offer for Mr and Mrs Bs claim is reasonable. 
However, I also dont think UKI has to pay all the costs Mr and Mrs B claimed.  Ive taken into 
account the detailed points theyve  made.  They were extremely  worried  about C. 
I understand why they both wanted to be in the hospital with C as much  as possible and they 
didnt want their other children skiing unsupervised. But even in difficult circumstances UKI 
can reasonably  apply policy terms and limits.  
The policy terms detail the basis of the insurance  cover UKI has agreed to provide. The 
relevant terms in this case are standard to most, if not all travel insurance policies, and all 
policies have limits  for their benefits.  Ive looked at whether  UKIs  settlement and new offer is 
fair and reasonable given all the evidence which includes the policy  terms.
Although all the family is insured under the policy that doesnt mean all have their costs  
covered if an insurable event happens  to one of the family, and the policy  is clear  on that. C 
was injured so he can claim  and as Ive detailed below  it may be reasonable for one of his 
parents costs to be covered.
flight delay
Mr and Mrs B say the familys flight from the UK was delayed  and on route disruption caused 
further delay.  UKI says it asked Mr and Mrs B for further information  about the claim and got 
no response. Our investigators first opinion letter detailed  the information  UKI requested,  
which is reasonable. 
UK must assess the flight  delay claim in line with the policy terms once  its got the 
information it requires  from Mr and Mrs B.
curtailment of holiday 
Mr and Mrs B have  claimed for curtailment for both of them and C but think  it applies to the 
whole family  as the other children werent  able to ski and do all the holiday things theyd 
planned.
The policy covers curtailment due to an early return from holiday if immediate family is 
seriously ill or injured. The cover includes unused travel and accommodation  expenses  to a 
policy limit. Curtailment is defined in the policy as cutting  short  your trip after its 
commencement to return to your home address or business address.
All the familys holiday was affected  by the accident but none of the family returned home 
early. So under the policy terms UKI doesnt  need to pay any claim for curtailment. 
However, we generally say that where an insured person had been admitted to hospital  and 
remained there that persons trip had been effectively curtailed/cut  short at that point. In 
some cases,  we might think  a travelling companions holiday was also cut short if it was 
medically necessary  for the companion  to stay with the injured person. 
UKI now agrees  to pay curtailment claim for Mrs B and C. Ive taken into account all Mr B 
said about why he was also at the hospital for a lot of the time. I understand why he wanted 
Ref: DRN81325323to be there.  But I think its reasonable for UKI to say it will pay for effective curtailment for 
one parent only, particularly as theres  no cover under  the strict policy  terms.
UKIs new offer that it pays the curtailment claim for Mrs B and C is fair.
travel expenses
Mr and Mrs B have  claimed for Mr Bs taxi costs  to the hospital, car hire and fuel costs and 
his return flight to be with C and Mrs B. I understand UKI paid for the first five days  taxi 
expenses for Mr B (to the policy limit) and Mr Bs return flight one way.
Under the emergency medical expenses section  of the policy   C is covered for taxi expenses 
up to £20 per day which  are medically necessary  for a relative to visit him in hospital.  Hes 
also covered up to £2,000 towards the cost of a relative to be brought  to or remain with him 
to escort  him back to the UK on the advice of UKIs medical adviser.
I think UKIs settlement of this part of the claim was fair. Mrs B was with C continuously at 
the hospital so although it paid for the taxi for Mr B to go to the hospital  UKI could have fairly 
said it wasnt medically necessary for him to attend. Theres no cover for Mr Bs flight  and 
car costs when he returned to be with C as Mrs B had remained with C and escorted him 
home. UKIs  told us it paid for Mr Bs flight in error but isnt seeking repayment, which is fair.
repatriation costs
Mr and Mrs B claimed for the taxi, hotel  bus and food and drink  for Mrs B and C when  they 
returned to the UK. UKI has paid for the taxi and hotel bus but not the food and drink. I think 
UKIs settlement of this part of the claim was fair as the policy doesnt cover food costs.
ski pack
The family had winter sports cover. The policy says UKI will pay up to £35 days  per insured 
persons where  you are unable to use your ski-pack  on advice from our medical adviser. 
Mr and Mrs B have  claimed for the loss of use of the ski pack for all six family members.  
They say none  of them could ski due to Cs accident  as Mr B was too busy  going  to and from 
the hospital and the other  children couldnt  ski unsupervised. 
UKI paid for C and Mrs Bs loss of use and I think its settlement of this part of the claim was 
fair. In the circumstances none of the family skied, which is understandable, and I can 
appreciate why this affected their enjoyment of the holiday.  But theres no policy cover for 
the loss of use of the ski pack for the other family  members as none had been  advised 
against skiing by UKIs  medical adviser. 
hospital benefit
The policy says if UKI provides cover under the medical and emergency  costs section it will 
pay the injured/ill  person  £25 for every  complete 24 hours they spend in hospital,  to a policy 
limit. The policy explains the benefit is to provide cash to cover  phone calls and other 
incidental expenses. 
Ref: DRN81325324Mr and Mrs B claimed for hospital benefit  for both of them and C. UKI paid the benefit  for C 
only. Our investigator recommended it also pay the benefit for Mrs B. UKI says Mrs B wasnt  
an impatient so wasnt entitled to the benefit.
Under the policy terms only C is entitled to the benefit. But in the overall  circumstances 
I think its fair and reasonable for UKI to pay the equivalent of the hospital  benefit to Mrs B 
for the costs she incurred  to be at the hospital with C. 
UKI offered to pay to accommodate Mrs B in a hotel near the hospital (which was 
reasonable). Mrs B declined as she wanted to sleep in the same room as C who was 
frightened and in pain.  Mrs Bs decision meant  UKI had no accommodation cost for her and 
she spent the days and nights in the hospital. I think its probable that Mrs B paid for some  
items that she would  have  got for free at a hotel (for example  bottled  water.  newspapers, 
snacks). So its reasonable for UKI to pay her the equivalent of the benefit  which  is probably 
much less than the daily amount it would have  paid on her accommodation.
In this particular  case UKI must pay the equivalent  of the hospital benefit for Mrs B.
UKI doesnt need to pay the benefit  for Mr B. As Ive said its understandable  that he wanted 
to be at the hospital but theres  no medical evidence that it was medically necessary for both 
parents to be with C. UKI wouldnt have offered accommodation costs  for both Mr and 
Mrs B.
recuperative holiday
The policy says that as C has made  a claim for emergency medical  expenses  abroad where 
UKI:
subsequently pay(s) for you to curtail that journey  following your hospitalisation 
abroad of at least 5 full days, we will pay for you to take a recuperative holiday within  
3  months of the original incident,  whether in the UK or abroad, subject to a maximum 
of £500 per event  in total for accommodation and travel expenses  only.
Mr and Mrs B claimed for the benefit for both of them and C. They said they hasnt taken the 
recuperative holiday within three months  due to the effect of Cs injuries and not being able 
to afford to as UKIs settlement didnt cover all their additional  costs. 
UKI didnt  make any offer but now says it would consider the benefit for C and would need a 
copy of the booking invoice for the new trip showing his costs and that the trip has been  
paid. It would then then look to reimburse the cost up to £500.
Our investigator recommended UKI pay the benefit  for Mrs B too. UKI objected saying the 
under the policy  the benefit  was only payable to the person injured.
The policy cover for the benefit is for C only. But I think  its fair for UKI to also pay the benefit 
for Mrs B. The policy wording requires curtailment  and she also had her holiday effectively 
curtailed due to Cs hospital stay, as UKI accepts. Also C is still a child so its more likely  
than not that the holiday  would be with a parent, and from what  Mr and Mrs B have said it 
would be at least a parent and child holiday even if not the whole  family.  I dont think  it would 
be reasonable for UKI to pay the benefit  to Mrs B if she went  on a separate holiday to C.
Ref: DRN81325325UKI should pay the recuperative holiday benefit  to C and Mrs B if the holiday is booked  
within a reasonable period of time following the settlement  of this complaint and they holiday 
together.
UKI doesnt need to pay the benefit  for Mr B. Ive explained above why I dont think  his 
holiday was curtailed or effectively curtailed.
I havent added interest  to the benefit  as the recuperative holiday cost isnt a cost thats  been  
incurred.
my final decision
I partly  uphold  this complaint.
I require U K Insurance Limited to:
(a)assess the flight delay  claim in line with the policy terms once its got the information 
it requires from Mr and Mrs B, and
(b)pay the curtailment  claim for Mrs B and C (as it now agrees), and
(c)pay Mrs B the equivalent of the hospital benefit  subject to the hospital  benefit policy 
limits, and
(d)pay the recuperative  holiday  benefit to C and Mrs B if the holiday is booked within a 
reasonable period of time following the settlement  of this complaint and they holiday 
together, in line with the policy limits.
Interest* is payable at 8% a year from the date of claim to the date of settlement for 
payments (b) and (c) above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 September 2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
*If U K Insurance  Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off 
income tax from that interest it should tell Mr and Mrs B how much its taken off. It should  
also give Mr and Mrs B a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN8132532