K820x#14complaint
Mrs H says Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold her a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
In 2009, Halifax  sold Mrs H a monthly  premium  PPI policy to protect her mortgage 
repayments if she was unable to work because of disability. It was sold as part of a package  
called a Total  Mortgage Protection Plan (TMPP).
This complaints about the sale of the PPI and not the other elements, such  as life and 
critical illness cover, which could be included in the TMPP package.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Mrs H disagreed,  so the 
complaint was passed to me to review afresh.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve  set out our general approach  to complaints 
about the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Hs case.
Having done so, Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why. 
Halifax doesnt still have  all the paperwork that was completed at the time of this sale. But 
its provided screenshots from its computer systems that show that Mrs H answered  a 
number of questions  about her personal  circumstances which related to the sale of PPI 
cover. And the paperwork she was sent  albeit just after the sale  refers  to her as having 
chosen to take optional  PPI to cover disability  and not unemployment. 
So it seems  as if PPI was discussed with Mrs H at the time.  And, from what  I know of 
Halifaxs sales processes  then, I dont think its likely that it would have added this cover 
without first explaining that it was optional and getting her agreement  to take it.
I think that Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mrs H. That meant Halifax  needed to take steps 
to ensure its advice was right for her. Regardless of what steps it took,  I think  the PPI it 
recommended was right for her in any case.  
For example, from what Mrs H has told us about her circumstances, she was eligible for the 
cover and wasnt affected by any of the main things  the policy  excluded  or limited cover  for 
either. And I cant see that shed have found the monthly premium unaffordable. 
It seems  as though Mr M was entitled  to enhanced  sick pay from her employer for a time. 
But the PPI potentially paid out for up to 12 months for each successful claim and also would 
have allowed Mrs H to either retain  any money  shed set aside or use it to cover her other 
living costs  if she wasnt working.  Considering  Mrs H had entered into a long-term financial 
commitment that was secured against her home,  I think shed have valued the extra security 
the PPI provided.  
Mrs H mentioned she was covered by a life and critical illness policy  and also had death in 
service benefits. But, whereas those policies would have paid a lump sum for a specific 
Ref: DRN85773222event, the PPI paid a regular monthly benefit if she suffered disability. So Im satisfied the 
PPI covered a different  risk. 
Halifax also needed to give Mrs H enough information about  the PPI to allow her to decide  
for herself  if it was right for her. I think its possible that the information  it gave  her could have 
been better than it was. But, for much  the same reasons  that I dont think the PPI was 
unsuitable for her, I dont think that better  information would have changed her decision  to 
take it. I think shed still have thought it gave her a useful benefit at an affordable cost.
Taking everything into account,  I dont believe Mrs H has lost out because of how Halifax  
sold her the PPI.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 April 2019.
Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8577322