K820x#14complaint
Mr W and Mrs W complain that Starling Bank Limited allowed a fraudster to open and 
operate an account. They want  them to refund  them funds they sent to that account  as a 
result of a scam.
Although the funds  were sent from a joint account,  for ease  of reading, Ill mostly just refer to 
Mr W. 
background
In early 2019 Mr W had a maturing investment and was looking to reinvest his funds. He did 
research online and found a company called S. Mr W says that S had a professional 
looking website and he confirmed that S were regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) and that they were  part of the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS). 
Reassured, Mr W decided to make an investment and on 12 February 2019 sent a faster 
payment of £20,000  from his bank to the account details S had provided within their 
documentation. Mr W later found out that hed been the victim  of a scam. A genuine firm had 
been cloned and hed sent his money to a scammer. The scammers account was with 
Starling Bank. 
Mr W immediately  raised  this with his bank, who in turn got in touch with Starling Bank  on 
18 March 2019.  Starling Bank advised that none of Mr Ws funds  remained.  They  say they 
restricted their customers account  and took the appropriate action.
Mr W complained,  he feels that Starling Bank are responsible as they allowed an account to 
be opened and used for fraud. He says that funds entering and quickly leaving an account  
along with his payment being  marked transfer to an investment   should have alerted 
Starling Bank. He also pointed out that Starling Bank have signed up to the 
Contingent Reimbursement Model  (CRM). And whilst he acknowledges  this wasnt in force  
at the time of his transaction, he still feels on principle Starling Bank  ought  to refund him. 
Before 31 January 2019, generally a sender could only complain to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service about their own bank in push payment fraud cases. But Mr Ws right to 
refer his complaint  to our service about the receiving/beneficiary bank comes about  following 
changes made by the FCA to our jurisdiction rules  - which  now allow,  in limited 
circumstances, eligible complainants to refer complaints  about  receiving banks.
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  and didnt think  it should be upheld.  In 
summary she was satisfied that Starling Bank  had acted appropriately and that theyd not 
caused Mr Ws loss. Mr W would still like to pursue the matter  and has asked for an 
ombudsman to review  his complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules,  guidance  and standards;  
Ref: DRN82414152codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  what I consider to have been good  industry  
practice at the time. 
Among other  things, regulated firms receiving payments like Starling Bank  are required to 
conduct their business  with due skill, care and diligence (FCA  Principle for Businesses  2) 
and to comply with legal  and regulatory anti-money  laundering  and countering the financing 
of terrorism requirements.
Those requirements include maintaining proportionate and risk-sensitive  policies and 
procedures to identify,  assess and manage  money laundering risk  for example through  
customer due diligence  measures and the ongoing monitoring of the business  relationship  
(including through the scrutiny of transactions undertaken  throughout the course of the 
relationship).       
And, more  generally,  given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, as 
a matter of good  industry practice at the time, I think firms  should reasonably have had 
measures in place  to detect suspicious transactions or activities  that might  indicate fraud or 
financial abuse (something also recognised by the Banking Standards Institutes October  
2017 Protecting Customers from Financial harm as a result of fraud  or financial abuse  
Code of Practice) 
And Im satisfied that this good practice  requirement  meant  not just looking  out for situations  
where a customer might  be the victim of fraud, but also situations  where  the customer might 
be the perpetrator of fraud or a money mule.
Starling Bank have provided  our service with the details they took when opening their 
customers account. This includes information  in relation to the account holder. Im not able 
to share  this information  with Mr W and I can understand why that is frustrating. But having 
looked at all Starling  Bank have sent in, Im satisfied they did their due diligence  when 
opening their customers  account. There was nothing at that time that reasonably could have 
given Starling Bank reason to have concerns that the account  would later be used for fraud. 
Starling Bank have also said that the contact from Mr Ws bank was the first notification of 
fraud theyd  received in relation to that account.  So this isnt a case  where  there had been a 
prior notification that hadnt been appropriately  responded to.
As Ive covered  above,  Starling Bank have obligations to monitor their business  relationships  
and this would include giving consideration to unusual and out of character transactions. Ive 
looked at the transactions on the account  for the months prior to Mr Ws payment. And Im 
satisfied that Starling Bank took the appropriate  steps in relation to that account and its 
activity. I dont think they could have identified  that the account might  later be used  for fraud.  
Mr W has also pointed  out that the reference he put in relation to his payment was transfer  
to an investment. He questions whether  this ought  to have alerted Starling Bank  if the 
account wasnt held by an investment firm. Ive considered this, but the relevant rules at the 
time meant that Starling Bank would only use the account number and sort code provided. 
There was no requirement  to check the further information (if any) he provided such as the 
reference for the payment.  So I dont  think Starling Bank could have prevented  Mr Ws loss 
in this way. 
Mr W has asked  that he be refunded under the CRM  which  is designed to compensate 
victims of Authorised Push  Payment  (APP)  fraud. This came  into force on 28 May 2019 and 
Ref: DRN82414153Starling Bank have signed up to it. But the CRM  sets out that it doesnt apply to any 
payments completed  before the code came in to force. And as Mr Ws payment was made 
before that date,  I cant expect Starling Bank to reimburse him under the CRM. I accept  
Mr Ws point that Starling  Bank having  signed up to the CRM  and therefore  accepted  its 
principles. But I dont  agree this obliges  them to treat the CRM as retrospective. 
I appreciate Mr W has a number of further  questions which he says havent been answered 
to his satisfaction. These include, but arent  limited  to, when the account was opened, what 
its average credit balance was and how much money was paid into the account.  It isnt my 
role to investigate the fraudster or to provide details of that nature. Were  a dispute resolution 
service and it is for the police to investigate criminality. So, whilst I understand Mr Ws 
strength of feeling  and his desire  for answers   there isnt a basis  upon which I can tell 
Starling Bank to share that information  with him. Starling Bank have said they will co-operate 
with any police investigation, I think this is fair. 
Im of course  very sorry to hear that Mr and Mrs W have been  the victims of such  a cruel 
scam. And I hope  the authorities are able to successfully  prosecute those responsible. I 
dont doubt this episode has had a significant impact on both Mr and Mrs W, especially given 
the significant sum involved. But overall,  Im satisfied that Starling Bank acted appropriately  
in the circumstances. I dont think they are responsible for any acts or omissions that could 
have prevented the loss. 
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, my final decision is that I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 March  2021.
Richard Annandale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8241415