K820x#14complaint
Mrs V complains that Canada Square Operations Limited trading as Egg mis-sold  her a 
payment protection insurance policy (PPI) in 2001 when she applied  for a credit  card on line.
background
Mrs V applied for her credit card over the internet. At the same  time she bought PPI.
The PPI would have  cost her around  £0.59 per every  £100 of the outstanding balance on 
her credit card and on a successful claim would have paid 10% of that balance  if she 
couldnt work though accident  or sickness or if she lost her job for up to 12 months  at a time.
Mrs V says she is unhappy that the PPI was added without her knowledge and that her 
parents and her partner  could have helped her if things  went  wrong - so she had no need for 
the insurance. She has also told us that there was no explanation given about the PPI.
Our adjudicator didnt  think this complaint should be upheld. Mrs V disagreed  with this view 
and asked for her complaint to be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.  So the 
case has been passed to me.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Vs case.
Whilst I appreciate Mrs V will be disappointed with my decision, I would like to explain why 
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.
Mrs V says the PPI was added without her knowledge. As Egg should have given her a fair 
choice Ive first of all looked at this aspect of her complaint.
Egg has provided a copy of the screenshot Mrs V would  have  likely  seen when  she applied 
online. The screen asks Mrs V to select an option  - yes to protect  her repayments or no to 
decline the PPI. And although I appreciate Mrs V doesnt remember doing so now,  as it was 
such a long time ago, I think  she likely would have had to select the yes option  to take out 
the PPI. I think she could have selected no if she didnt want it. And I think she would have 
received a welcome letter and the terms and conditions  after the sale. I also think its likely  
that the PPI would have appeared on Mrs Vs credit  card statements so if she had wanted  to 
question it or didnt know she had it then she could  have  done so at any time. I havent  seen 
evidence that she has done so.
As the PPI was taken out online, I dont think it was recommended to Mrs V. So Egg didnt 
need to make sure it was right for her. But it still needed to give her enough information so 
she could make an informed choice about  whether or not she wanted the PPI.
Its possible the information Egg gave Mrs V about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve  
been. But thats not enough for me to uphold  this complaint. I next need  to consider whether 
if Egg had given Mrs V clearer or better information about the PPI it would have changed her 
mind about  buying  the PPI. I appreciate Mrs Vs concern  that we couldnt know the decision 
Ref: DRN81158902Mrs V would have made. But I have  thought  about  what is most likely she would have done 
taking into account  her circumstances. Overall,  I dont think  she would have been put off 
taking out the policy.
I say that because Mrs V was eligible for the PPI and based on what Ive seen  of her 
circumstances at the time - she had no unusual employment circumstances  and she was in 
good health so it doesnt look like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on 
the PPI cover - so I dont think better information would have put her off buying the PPI.
And I think the PPI could  have been  useful  for her if something went  wrong. It also looks like 
the PPI was affordable for her.
Mrs V has told us she had statutory sick pay from her employer and she had items that could 
be sold, as well as family  who couldve helped her if she lost her job or couldnt  work. But 
this policy  would have  paid out the monthly benefit for up to 12 months  per claim. So it would 
have paid out in addition  to and for longer  than Mrs Vs sick pay lasted. And while  I 
appreciate family would have wanted to help this type of help cant always  be guaranteed as 
and when Mrs V needed  it as circumstances can change. The PPI would have  also meant 
she didnt have to sell her possessions to repay her credit card if things  went wrong.
Mrs V was solely responsible for her credit  card and so I still think  the PPI would have been 
useful if she lost her job or couldnt work  through  accident or sickness.
So in summary,  even if Egg had given her clearer or better  information, I dont think Mrs V 
would have changed her mind  about  buying the policy. I still think she would have taken it 
out. 
Overall I dont think Mrs V lost out as a result  of anything Egg did wrong.  I hope  the reasons 
Ive given explain why Im not upholding this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 April 2019.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8115890