K820x#14complaint
Mr P says that Chubb European Group SE incorrectly  declined a claim he made on his 
employers insurance  policy.  Mr P is represented  by the broker  who negotiated  the cover. 
 
background
Mr Ps employer  had a Forefront  Management  Liability Policy  with Chubb. This not only 
provided the company with insurance  for its operations,  it also gave some employees certain 
cover. 
Last year Mr P was suspended from his role. There were concerns from the board and 
shareholders of the company he was leading about  its financial performance.  To protect his 
position Mr P took legal advice. He then made a claim on his employers insurance policy  for 
the costs hed incurred. 
Chubb rejected  Mr Ps claim. It said the policy didnt respond to his particular circumstances. 
The investigator didnt  uphold this case. Mr P disagreed so his complaint has been passed 
to me for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this case.  Having done  so, Im not upholding  Mr Ps 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
My starting point is the letter  Mr P was sent by his employer notifying  him of suspension. It 
set out the terms  of the internal investigation into his management  of the company. He was 
to remain on full pay and benefits while this was completed. The letter  confirmed the 
investigation wasnt a disciplinary sanction nor was it an assumption of any guilt. If an 
interview or a disciplinary  hearing was required he would be notified.
The position  Mr P found  himself  in was clearly serious. While the letter  from his employer 
provided some information about the status  of the investigation, it also included allegations 
about his conduct. So I can understand why he sought legal advice. 
However, the question  for me to address is whether the policy Mr Ps employer had in place 
was available  to him to make a claim for his legal costs in this situation. There  are a number 
of important terms in the policy to consider.
Theres no dispute that Mr P was a beneficiary (an insured person) of the Forefront 
Management Liability  Policy. Of particular relevance were the provisions of the section on 
Directors and Officers  Liability. 
I can see that the insurance  was mainly to protect  employees like Mr P from liabilities  
claimed by third parties that he could be exposed  to while performing his duties.  And in 
some circumstances the policy provided  cover for insured persons for certain  legal 
expenses. 
The policy defines  the insured peril as:
Ref: DRN84282052The insurer shall pay, on behalf of each  insured  person,  loss to the extent they have not 
been indemnified for that loss
It goes on to define loss as:
the amount  which  an insured person is legally and personally obligated to pay on account 
of a claim [against the insured person]  
While I can understand why Mr P chose  to instruct legal  counsel  to protect his own interests,  
Ive not seen anything that makes me think he was legally and personally obliged  to incur 
these costs.   
The policy document goes on to define  a claim against an insured person as:
(a) a written demand; b) a civil, statutory, or arbitral proceeding, including any appeal and 
counterclaim;(c) a criminal proceeding;(d) a formal  administrative or formal  regulatory 
proceeding;(e) a mediation proceeding; or (f) a monetary,  non-monetary  injunctive or 
equitable relief  or other legal remedy; against  an insured person, for a wrongful act. 
Mr Ps representative says his legal  expenses arose  as a result of defending himself against  
a potential claim by his employer. There is provision in the policy  for loss incurred where this 
might prevent or mitigate a potential claim against  an insured person:
 Mitigation  loss means settlement, costs and expenses incurred as a result  of action taken 
by the insured personsolely to prevent or mitigate a potential  claim against an insured 
person which  if it were to become a claim would give rise to a covered loss
Unfortunately for Mr P, theres  an exclusion here which states:
This extension shall not apply to any potential claim against an insured person by [his 
employer].
Ive considered other arguments advanced  in support of Mr Ps complaint, for example that 
his legal costs  fell under the emergency provisions which meant they could be incurred 
without Chubbs prior consent.  I dont  find these compelling. Fundamentally Mr P hasnt 
been able to demonstrate  that he has a valid claim against the insured peril.   
I understand that Mr P and his former  employer have now come  to an agreement  and have 
parted company. But I appreciate it will still be a disappointment to him that Im unable  to 
uphold his complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out, Im not upholding this complaint. So Chubb European Group SE 
doesnt need to do anything further.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 August 2019. 
Ref: DRN84282053Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8428205