K821x#15complaint
Mrs B is unhappy with the way in which Admiral Insurance Company Limited has dealt with 
her home insurance claim following  an escape of water.
background
Mrs B had a leak from a pipe under her bath. Admiral accepted the claim and commenced 
strip out works to repair the damage. A claims handler and contractor were  appointed. The 
drying company  issued  a certificate confirming  that the damage from the leak had been  dried.
Admirals contractors started work. They were concerned that there were some  raised  damp 
readings at the base  of the walls. The drying  contractor  came back  in. It said that the 
damage caused by the leak was dry, as were the walls, although there was evidence  of a 
historic damp problem with the floor. It said there  was nothing  further  for it to do as the area 
damaged in the leak was dry.
Admiral had concerns  that the ground floor didnt  have an appropriate  damp proof course. It 
was concerned that it wouldnt be able to guarantee a lasting repair  if it was to fix the insured 
damage. So, it offered to cash settle  Mrs Bs claim.
Mrs B didnt want to accept a cash settlement. She complained to Admiral but was unhappy  
with its response.  So, she bought her complaint to this service. Our investigator 
recommended that Mrs Bs complaint be upheld, and that Admiral complete the repair  rather  
than cash settle.
There then followed further settlement discussions  where, amongst other things, Admiral 
offered to pay an amount toward Mrs B fixing the alleged underlying  damp problem, 
following which it would then complete the insured  damage  repair. Mrs B said that there 
wasnt a damp problem to fix and that she wouldnt be appointing her own contractors.  
Admiral then reverted to offering a cash settlement.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the matter was passed to me for decision.  In advance of 
this final decision,  I issued a provisional  decision to the parties in which  I said I intended to 
uphold Mrs Bs complaint.  Neither Mrs B nor Admiral responded.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive set out my provisional findings below.  Given that neither party sent any further evidence 
to me, I see no reason  to change my findings.  I therefore confirm my provisional findings are 
now final and form part of this decision.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered the evidence provided to us, the only evidence of there  being  any damp 
in the home  is the drying companys report. That states:
Ref: DRN80477662Attended site as builders  discovered elevated moisture readings at base of wall and 
skirting  boards.  I have taken further moisture readings  which showed areas  to be at 
acceptable levels to wall, however, in depth WME readings to floor are at saturation point. 
I removed skirting from boxwork to pipes  and cut access  hole to for inspection, no leaks 
were evident. Salts test was then carried out to floor, which  indicated  high presence of 
nitrates,  suggesting property suffers from hereditary damp  issues.  Thick  adhesive  has 
been used on top of concret e base,  which I believe  has been used to act as a moisture 
barrier. This, in my opinion, is why builders were  getting  high moisture readings to bottom 
of skirting boards.  Salts test was also carried out to base of wall which indicated slight 
presence of nitrates. In conclusion,   high moisture  readings are down  to hereditar y damp 
issues within  property and are not incident related. No further works  required by ..
The nitrates were identified after the property  was initially certified as dry. And only when  the 
contractors appointed to do the work  found the skirting boards and bottom of the wall to be 
showing a higher than normal damp reading. The damage done by the bath leak is 
principally to the downstairs ceiling and the upper sections  of the walls. A drying certificate  
has been issued  for those  areas  which are effectively ready to be repaired. And the report 
from the drying company indicates the walls are dry.
The alleged damp on the floor appears  to have  held everything up for what  is now over a 
year. Mrs B has said that she wont hold Admiral responsible if any damp  from the floor is to 
cause any damage  to the repairs  once completed. She doesnt  want to have to pay to fix 
something that theres no evidence is a significant problem. Shes been in the property for 
over two years now and has not had a problem with any damp  from the floor. And she says 
that shes since had someone out to consider replacing the floor and they didnt think  there 
was anything that needed doing.
Having considered everything, I dont think Mrs Bs position is unreasonable.  Some  trace 
nitrates do not, in the absence of professional evidence to the contrary, persuade  me that this 
is a problem that needs fixing before Admiral  are able to complete the repairs  required under 
Mrs Bs insurance policy. The damage  done  by the leak is principally to the top of the walls 
and the ceiling. And its those areas  that remain stripped back to the bricks since  the drying 
company were in. Thats not an appropriate  way for Admiral to have left Mrs Bs home.
I appreciate that Admiral  dont think its fair for me to require them  to carry out work where  
their contractors wont be able to guarantee a lasting  repair. And theyre also concerned that 
anything they do may lead to an ongoing  problem. But I dont think  this is a fair and 
reasonable approach for it to take. The drying company were  initially  able to confirm  that the 
damage from the leak was dry. And Ive seen no evidence that Mrs B has damp carpets  or 
any evidence of an ongoing damp  problem  to the walls   like black mould or the like. 
I understand that the way the floor of the property has been  designed  may have  lacked the 
appropriate damp shielding. But this doesnt appear  to have caused Mrs B any other 
problems that are evident from the pictures  and testimony that shes provided  to us.
All in all, I feel that a pragmatic approach should  have been taken to this repair way before 
now. Mrs B has been left with an unrepaired home  for far too long. Its my conclusion that 
Admiral should now appoint new contractors to complete  the repairs  at the earliest  
opportunity. And if she is to accept this decision,  Mrs B will be taken to confirm that she 
agrees not to take any action against  Admiral for any future  problems caused by damp from 
the floor, if any.
Admiral has also said that it doesnt think it elected  to repair Mrs Bs property. So, it still 
wants to make a cash settlement. I disagree.  The walls were stripped back  to the brick to aid 
Ref: DRN80477663drying, a drying  certificate was issued, and the contractors turned up to start work  only for it 
to be put on hold for the alleged floor damp.  In my view the work  had started,  and Admiral  is 
now obliged  to finish it.
Mrs Bs claims handling experience before  this matter came to this service wasnt good. 
Admiral accepted this and has offered  her £100  compensation.  Given the way that Mrs B 
has effectively had to drive this claim forward and for the trouble and upset  shes  clearly 
experienced, I dont  think that sum is enough. I think a further £200 compensation should be 
paid, making a total of £300.
I understand that Mrs B has banked Admirals cheque for the cash  settlement. Before 
Admiral have to carry out the repairs that Im requiring of it in this decision,  Mrs B will first 
have to return that payment in full to Admiral.
my final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold this complaint against Admiral  Insurance  Company 
Limited. I require that Admiral do the following:
Upon return of the cash settlement by Mrs B to Admiral, I require that it appoint new 
contractors to complete  the repairs to Mrs Bs home caused by the insured incident and the 
strip out and testing  works. It should also pay her £300 compensation for the trouble and 
upset caused.
For the avoidance of doubt, the compensation should be paid within  four weeks of Mrs B 
accepting this final decision, even if the works  do not proceed because Mrs B doesnt pay 
back the cash settlement.  If compensation is not paid in time, interest must be paid on that 
sum at 8%* simple a year until its paid.
*Her Majestys Revenue & Customs requires Admiral to take tax off any interest that it pays  
Mrs B. If she requests  it, Admiral should provide her with a certificate showing how much  tax 
its taken off so that she can reclaim it if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 January 2020.
James Kennard
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8047766