K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) policy  taken out in 
1996. Mr and Mrs G say Bradford & Bingley Plc mis-sold  them the MPPI.
The mortgage was in joint names, but the policy only covered Mrs G. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Mr and Mrs G case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. I know this will be disappointing for Mr and Mrs G, so 
Ill explain  my reasons why.
Mr and Mrs G say that they werent  informed of the MPPI  and that they didnt  realise they 
had it. They  also say that they dont  think Bradford  & Bingley  made  it clear  to them  what  the 
MPPI was for.
I wasnt there at the time, so I cant know what was said to Mr and Mrs G at the time they 
applied for their mortgage  but Bradford & Bingley has provided a copy  of Mr and Mrs Gs 
mortgage application from the time.
I can see on this, that the policy is presented as optional  and there  have been some  
choices made about who would be covered by the policy, and what level of cover was 
required. Mr and Mrs G have signed  the mortgage  application.
Bradford & Bingley  have  also sent a copy of Mr and Mrs Gs mortgage offer  this confirms  
the choices made for the MPPI cover, and shows that the policy  will be free for the first six 
months, and the cost after this time.
So taking everything in to account,  I think Bradford & Bingley made it clear  that Mr and 
Mrs G didnt have to take out the MPPI and that they chose to take it out  although  I can 
understand why they cant remember this as it was so long ago.
Bradford & Bingley  didnt  recommend the MPPI to Mr and Mrs G so it didnt have to check if 
it was right for them.  But it did have to make sure Mr and Mrs G got the information they 
needed to decide if it was right for them. 
Its possible the information Bradford & Bingley gave Mr and Mrs G about  the MPPI  wasnt  
as clear as it shouldve been. But they chose to take out the MPPI  - so it looks  like they 
wanted this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time it 
doesnt look like Mrs G was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the MPPI cover - 
so it would have  been useful for her if something went  wrong.  It also looks  like the MPPI was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the MPPI  would have  put them off taking 
out the cover. 
This means  Bradford & Bingley  doesnt  have to pay back  all of the cost of the MPPI  to Mr 
and Mrs G.
Ref: DRN85449502But Bradford  & Bingley will pay back some of the cost of the MPPI to Mr and Mrs G because: 
Bradford & Bingley  got a high level of commission  and profit  share (more than 50% of 
the MPPI  premium) - so it should  have told Mr and Mrs G about that. Because  Bradford  
& Bingley didnt  tell Mr and Mrs G, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Bradford & Bingley has basically offered to pay back  the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the MPPI premium - and I think  that 
offer is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs G have said - but these  points dont change  my 
decision, and for the reasons set out above,  I dont think the MPPI was mis-sold.
I can also see that Mr and Mrs G have raised some issues about an endowment  policy they 
were sold with their mortgage  but this decision is about the sale of MPPI, so I cant  
comment on this. Mr and Mrs G may be able to speak to Bradford & Bingley about their 
concerns if they havent done  so already.  
what the business needs  to do
Bradford & Bingley  has to pay back to Mr and Mrs G any commission  and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the MPPI  premium.  Bradford & Bingley should also pay back to 
Mr and Mrs G any extra interest they paid because of that.
Bradford & Bingley  should pay back to Mr and Mrs G the extra  they paid each month 
because the commission  and profit share  it got was more than 50% of the cost of MPPI. 
Bradford & Bingley  should also pay Mr and Mrs G 8%* simple  interest  on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs G can claim back  the tax if they dont pay 
tax.
my final decision
The MPPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bradford & Bingley Plc does not have to pay back  all 
of the cost of the MPPI to Mr and Mrs G.
But Bradford  & Bingley Plc does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs G any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the MPPI premium.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 April 2019 
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8544950