K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs D say Santander  UK Plc mis-sold  them a mortgage payment protection 
insurance (MPPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about an MPPI policy taken out in 1991 when Mr and Mrs D applied for a 
further advance  on their mortgage. They  paid a monthly amount for the policy. The policy  
was sold to them during a meeting. The mortgage and the policy  were  in joint names.  The 
policy was designed  to pay a monthly  benefit if either Mr or Mrs D could not work due to an 
accident, sickness or unemployment.  
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint be upheld.  Santander disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of MPPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Santander has told us that its representative  wouldve recommended  the policy to              
Mr and Mrs D. So that means Santander needed  to take steps to ensure it was right for 
them. I dont think it was and Ill explain why.
The policy sold to cover Mr and Mrs D excluded sickness claims for medical  conditions  that 
had already been diagnosed.
I think this would have  mattered to Mrs D because shes  told us that she had been  
diagnosed with a medical condition in 1989.  Mrs D has told us the condition  caused her pain, 
affected her mobility and ultimately led her to have a major operation towards  the end of 
1992. Mrs D has also given us details of the medication she was prescribed.
Santander has said that information on the exclusion for pre-existing medical conditions 
would have been given to Mr and Mrs D. And that any medical conditions  that were  
disclosed would have  been discussed  as part of a suitability check.
But Santander recommended the MPPI  to Mr and Mrs D so they were  entitled to rely on its 
professional advice to take out the policy. And I dont think they would have bought the 
policy if it had been pointed out that it wasnt right for them.
Santander advised Mr and Mrs D to buy this policy. As such  it needed  to make sure it was 
right for them. It cannot rely on documents provided  to consumers to rectify mistakes  or 
errors made which led to it recommending an unsuitable policy, which  is what  I think  
happened here.
I also see that in its reply to our adjudicators  findings, Santander has noted  that Mrs D said 
she had no medical  conditions at the time of the sale. But Ive looked at the questionnaire 
they completed and Mrs D has in fact mentioned  her condition, it was Mr D who said he had 
no medical conditions.
Ref: DRN88835612The policy was mis-sold and Mr and Mrs D have lost out because of the errors Santander 
made and it needs  to put things right.
putting things right
Santander says it has no details of the monthly premiums before January 2000.  From  
January 2000  it says the premium was £5.62.
In that case when carrying out the following calculations it Santander should assume Mr and 
Mrs D paid £5.62 per month  from the policy start date in 1991.
Santander should put Mr and Mrs D in the position  theyd be in now if they hadnt  taken  out 
MPPI. The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and 
Santander should:
Pay Mr and Mrs D the amount they paid each month for the MPPI (in this case £5.62 
per month).
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The 
rate of interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on.
If Mr or Mrs D made  a successful claim under the MPPI policy,  Santander can take 
off what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.   
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander  
must give Mr and Mrs D a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Santander UK Plc to pay Mr and 
Mrs D compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 October  2019.
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8883561