K820x#14complaint
Mr A says Cumberland Building Society  mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy.
background
Mr A took out the policy in 2008 in a branch at the same time as he applied  for a mortgage.  It 
gave him protection against accident, sickness and unemployment. Mr A paid a monthly 
amount for it after the first 3 months  which were free.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr A disagreed so the complaint  was passed to 
me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Our general  approach to complaints about  the sale of PPI is on our website  and Ive followed 
it here. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr As complaint for the following reasons:
Cumberland  had to make it clear  to Mr A the PPI was optional  and he had to agree  to 
take it. The Statement of Demands  and Needs produced  after the meeting shows  he 
indicated he wanted  PPI. He was given  a quote  with the cost set out separately.  Mr A 
also signed  a separate  PPI application  form. The Key Facts document  listed  PPI under 
the heading Optional Insurance  and made  clear  he wasnt obliged  to take any insurance 
from Cumberland,  and only Buildings  insurance was a condition of the mortgage.
Mr A says he was pressured  to agree  and didnt have an option. Cumberland disputes 
this. Ive thought  carefully about  Mr As comments but without more  evidence to support 
his recollection I cant fairly  uphold  the complaint on this basis.  I say this as I think  the 
balance of evidence  shows  Cumberland made  it clear the PPI was optional and Mr A 
chose to take it.
Cumberland  recommended  the PPI to Mr A, and it seems to have been right for him 
based on what  Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time.  Mr A was entitled to 4 weeks 
full and 2 months half sick pay from his employer. But the PPI wouldve paid out in 
addition to this  and in some cases for longer (up to 12 months). It would also have 
paid out for each  successful claim giving long term protection  which  was important given  
the term of Mr As mortgage.  Overall, I think it wouldve  been useful for Mr A if he was 
sick or lost his job.
As part of the sales process Mr A were  given an insurance quote which made  clear  the 
cost and benefit of the PPI. And it was competitively priced and apparently  affordable.
Mr A was eligible  for the policy and wasnt affected by any of the main  things the policy 
didnt cover. So I dont think better information  on the exclusions or limitations wouldve 
changed his decision.  
It follows I dont think Mr A have lost out because of any problems with the sale.
Ref: DRN85009472my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr As complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 August 2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8500947