K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Nationwide Building  Society wrongly recommended a critical 
illness and a decreasing term assurance  policy where the terms did not match  their 
borrowings - in 2003. They dont understand why the critical illness policy  did not run for a 
longer period given their family history.
background
Nationwide rejected their complaint, saying that the advisors report outlined their various 
commitments and their plans to change  existing borrowing amounts and terms, and offered 
a series of reasonable recommendations to meet these complex commitments.
Mr and Mrs H did not accept that the report  was an accurate reflection of their situation at 
the time or of their main  objectives. They said:
Under no circumstances would they have  agreed to take out decreasing  term life 
cover on the terms outlined
The letter doesn't make sense as the cover  continues  for two years beyond  their 
mortgage term 
Nor does it make  sense to take out critical illness cover only till Mrs H was 46 but 
with life cover running till she was 65 (this refers to a different policy)
Joint critical illness cost £51.52 per month not £39.81  as stated
They do not and did not have an 'interest-only mortgage' as Nationwide  states
They were never  going to cancel/surrender their endowment policy to take out other 
policies
Once they moved to a full repayment  mortgage policy  they explained to the advisor 
that they would continue  with their endowment policy as a savings plan
They would like compensation for the term policy as it wasn't needed and is due to  
continue beyond their mortgage term
They would like the critical  Illness cover  extended to the age of 65 in line with their 
life policies
An adjudicator at this service  noted  that Nationwide made many  recommendations to deal 
with Mr and Mrs Hs circumstances at the time, including a critical illness policy to run for 
38 years,  but Mr and Mrs H chose the 20 year option. He also noted that thered been a 
number of suggested life assurance  policies.
So while he accepted that the terms of their policies didnt precisely match  their 
requirements now, he felt they had the option to check the paperwork to decide  if they 
wanted to go ahead  with these specific policies   and, if not, they had the option to change  
their mind.
He was satisfied  that Nationwides representative  gave Mr and Mrs H the choice to confirm
what solution they thought  was best for them at the time and that they chose these  two 
policies. As such,  they would have been  aware  that the terms did not precisely match  their 
borrowing commitment.
Mr and Mrs H did not agree, and said:
They would not have chosen  to take out life cover until the age of 65 without taking 
critical illness for the same period  given  the history of cancer in the family
Ref: DRN88627612Back in 2003  they wouldnt have known if their mortgage term might  change 
(increase) so wouldn't have left themselves open to the critical Illness cover ending 
when Mrs H was just 46
They still cant understand why the decreasing  term policy  runs for two years beyond  
their mortgage term. This means  Nationwide will be taking extra money  for a policy  
only ever designed to cover the mortgage  period
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case I agree with the adjudicator and for broadly the same reasons.
Firstly, I think its important to explain that my role, when considering a complaint, is to 
decide whether  a business clearly did something wrong or made a mistake,  not whether it 
might have done things differently (such as made  a different recommendation).
In this context I do not think  there is sufficient evidence to safely  conclude  that the advisor 
did offer poor or unsuitable advice. 
It is clear that the advisor made a range of recommendations to try and meet Mr and Mrs Hs 
various protection needs. This encompassed the fact that  according to his report - they 
had an existing interest-only mortgage which they were planning to convert  to a repayment 
one; increase their borrowing as well as take out an additional part interest-only, part-
repayment mortgage to buy several holiday homes, one of which they intended to sell in the 
short/medium term. 
So the various proposed policies were designed  to offer different options, at different costs,  
to meet  these complex borrowing commitments. As Nationwide explained in its Final 
Response Letter, the 20 year term suggestion  reflected the fact that the additional holiday 
home mortgage was not due to end for 19 years  two months.  As it could only sell policies 
running for complete years, a 20 year policy  was the minimum available to fully protect this 
part of their borrowing.
Crucially, Mr and Mrs H had several meetings with the advisor and did not accept all her 
recommendations (and ended up taking out one policy not recommended). So I think they 
were in a reasonable position  to decide whether to go ahead with the two disputed policies - 
and over a 20 year period - or tell the advisor  that they wanted either longer terms or shorter  
ones.
Mr and Mrs H can still choose to cancel  these policies when their main  mortgage runs out 
without any cancellation  charge so they can stop Nationwide taking extra money  during this 
extra two years.
The critical illness recommendations were clearly  designed  for mortgage protection  only; 
hence they only ran till the end of that commitment.
If the advisor  had strongly recommended critical illness cover to run till Mr and Mrs H were  at 
least 65 she and Nationwide would have  made  more  money  out of the sales.  This service 
regularly sees complaints arguing that businesses recommended longer  terms that 
necessary, purely  driven by this profit  motive. So I think  that if Mr and Mrs H had suggested 
Ref: DRN88627613they wanted critical illness cover beyond  the expiry of their mortgages the advisor would 
have been only happy to strongly recommend longer terms.
Overall, I am satisfied that the advisor  provided them  with a sufficient range of 
recommendations and quotes to offer them reasonable  options for their complex borrowing 
commitments, and I feel they were therefore  in a sufficiently informed position to decide  
which options to choose.
I acknowledge that Mr and Mrs H say that a number  of the advisors notes were incorrect  
for example, that they did not have an interest-only  policy  but I think  they ought reasonably  
to have checked basic details like these, and if they felt the report  was inaccurate they 
shouldve said so at the time. Also, whether they intended to surrender the endowment 
policy or keep it as a savings rather than for mortgage protection  policy  does not affect  the 
validity of the advice to take out bespoke policies  to cover their new (and total)  borrowing.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 April 2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8862761