K821x#15complaint
Mr K complains that Western Circle Ltd (trading as Cash Float)  was irresponsible when it 
lent to him. He asks that it refunds interest  on the loans and removes  them  from his credit 
file.
background
Mr K took out 11 loans  with Cash Float between October 2016 and April 2018. He says he 
had a gambling problem and if Cash Float had made checks it would have known lending  to 
him was irresponsible. Mr K says he had loans with at least  10 other short  term lenders  as 
well as other loans  and credit card debts. He says his borrowing pattern should have alerted 
Cash Float  to a problem.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should be upheld, saying:
there was nothing to suggest that Cash Float shouldnt have offered loans 1 to 3 to Mr K.
by loan 4, Mr Ks pattern of borrowing suggested  he was reliant  on short  term loans. 
Cash Float shouldnt have offered loans 4 to 7.
there was a break between loans 7 and loan 8. There was nothing to suggest that Cash 
Float shouldnt have  offered loans 8 to 10 to Mr K. 
loan 11 was Mr Ks fourth  loan in one month and the amount increased. Cash Float  
should have made detailed  enquiries,  such as asking for bank statements, to understand 
Mr Ks circumstances. Proportionate  checks would have shown Mr K was struggling with 
debts and had a gambling problem.  It was unlikely this borrowing was sustainable.
The adjudicator said Cash Float  shouldnt  have offered loans 4 to 7 and loan 11 to Mr K and 
recommended redress  for those  loans. Cash Float didnt respond and so this complaint has 
been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Cash Float  needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr K 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
Mr Ks income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
loans 1 to 3:
Mr K took out three loans  between  October 2016 and March 2017  of £300, £500  and £400. 
The largest amount  payable  in one month was about £350.  Mr K told Cash Float his monthly 
income was about  £3,000 and his monthly outgoings were between £1,550 and £1,800. 
Ref: DRN82576872Cash Float  says it did credit checks and the information it received didnt suggest any 
problems.
I think, given the amount of the loans and Mr Ks stated income, the checks  made by Cash 
Float were  proportionate. I dont think it had any reason to think the loans  werent affordable 
or that further  checks were needed.
loans 4 to 7:
I think when Mr K asked for loan 4 Cash Float should have realised further  lending  was 
unsustainable. By this time, Mr K had been borrowing from Cash Float  for more  than six 
months without a significant break.  He repaid loan 3 on 27 April 2017 and asked for loan 4 
on 30 April 2017. While  the loan amounts  varied, they were generally increasing  (loan  1 was 
for £300 and loan 7 was for £650). Cash Float  ought  to have realised Mr K was having to 
borrow to cover the gap in his finances left by repaying his previous loan and that his 
indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
The loans offered by Cash Float were intended for short term use. But Mr K wasnt making 
any real inroads into the amount he owed  Cash Float. He took out loan 7 in August 2017   
10 months after his first loan. And it was for a larger amount than his first loan. In effect, 
Mr K paid large amounts of interest  to service  a debt to Cash Float over an extended period. 
I dont think this borrowing  was sustainable.
loans 8 to 10: 
Mr K repaid  loan 7 in September 2017. He took out loan 8 in March 2018. A break  in lending 
can suggest any problems a customer had with their finances have been resolved. I havent 
seen anything to suggest that Cash Float should have known this wasnt the case  here. So I 
think less thorough checks were reasonable and proportionate.
Mr K took out three loans  during March and April 2018 of £500, £500  and £200.  The largest 
amount payable in one month was about £350.  Mr K told Cash Float his monthly income 
was about £3,000 to £3,400  and his monthly outgoings were between  £1,800  and £1,900. 
Cash Float  says it did credit checks and the information it received didnt suggest any 
problems.
I think, given the amount of the loans and Mr Ks stated income, the checks  made by Cash 
Float were  proportionate. I dont think it had any reason to think the loans  werent affordable 
or that further  checks were needed.
loan 11:
I think when Mr K asked for loan 11 Cash Float should have realised Mr K was having 
problems managing his money.  This was Mr Ks fourth loan in less than four weeks  and hed 
repaid the previous loan only three days earlier. The amount he borrowed increased to £750. 
I think Cash Float should have carried  out more checks to understand why Mr K needed a 
fourth loan in a short  period. Such checks could include asking for bank statements or other 
information to understand  Mr Ks circumstances. Mr Ks bank statements show  online 
gambling transactions and loans from a number  of short term lenders. I think  if Cash Float  
had made  proportionate  checks  it would  have known it was unlikely this borrowing was 
sustainable. 
Ref: DRN82576873what should happen now?
I dont think that Cash  Float  should  have offered loans 4 to 7 and loan 11 to Mr K. So it 
should:
 refund all interest and charges  Mr K paid on loans 4 to 7 and loan 11;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove all entries about  loans 4 to 7 and loan 11 from Mr Ks credit file.
HM Revenue & Customs  requires Cash Float to take off tax from this interest. It must give 
Mr K a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Ks complaint. Western  Circle Ltd 
should take the steps and pay the compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 July 2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8257687