K820x#14complaint
Mr N is unhappy with Creation Financial  Services  Limiteds response to his complaint. 
This followed its rejection  of his claim under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
(the Act) for the mis-sale  of a solar  thermal hot water system.
background
Mr N has told us he was mis-sold his solar thermal hot water system.  When he agreed to 
buy this from the supplier,  E, he now thinks he didnt need it and would have been much 
better off with a cheaper alternative. So, he thinks he was conned into buying it and that 
Creation should  take responsibility  for this under Section 75 of the Act.
Mr N cant remember  all the details of the sale, although he recalls  being visited by a 
salesperson for a couple of hours. He hasnt said that any representations were made to him 
about the performance of the system that have turned out to be untrue. The system  installed 
does heat his water and appears to be functioning correctly.  But Mr N already had solar 
electricity panels. And he now thinks that the excess electricity from these would have been 
more than enough to heat his hot water  with an alternative, much cheaper, set-up.
I understand that Mr N is happy with his solar  electricity system. He had this installed almost 
10 years  ago and it brings in about £1,000 a year from Feed in Tariff (FIT)  payments and the 
electricity generated.  So, Mr N is benefitting from this. Mr N hasnt told us he was expecting 
any financial  return from the hot water system, merely that it would heat his water using 
renewable energy.
Creation have rejected Mr Ns claim and his subsequent complaint as it doesnt think that 
there was any breach  of contract  or misrepresentation for which it may be jointly liable with E 
under the Act. E has now gone out of business.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ns complaint but didnt  recommend that it be upheld. He 
didnt think that E had done something  wrong  for which Creation would be responsible  under 
the Act. Mr N didnt agree. He thinks he was conned  into buying something  that he didnt 
need, as he could have received the same benefits  by buying a much  cheaper system. So, 
the matter has come  to me for a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr N but I dont  think his complaint should be upheld and for 
substantially the same reasons as our investigator.  Ill explain why.
Section 75 of the Act doesnt cover every eventuality.  When someone isnt happy with what  
theyve been sold, a finance  company is only liable to a consumer  under  that section where 
there was a breach of contract  or a misrepresentation about the item sold.  
I accept that Mr N now doesnt think he needed this hot water system. He became unhappy 
about it when  he was told by another renewable energy company that he could have 
achieved the same result for a lot less money. But that doesnt mean that Creation are 
responsible for this.
Ref: DRN82505252I have a lot of sympathy for Mr N as he was happy with his solar electricity system  and 
thought that this new hot water system would be equally as advantageous. Whilst it is 
working as described,  and so is heating his hot water, I dont doubt that the same  effect  
could have been achieved for a lower cost.  And as Mr N says,  he feels  hes been  conned.
Weve been told that Mr N asked E if he could heat his water  with the electricity generated 
by his solar panels.  He was told that he didnt have the necessary hot water  cylinder  or 
equipment to do this. E said that its system  was the best option.  Although  Mr N now doesnt  
believe that to have been true. But the system  that Mr N bought  was the one that E had for 
sale. It wasnt offering the alternative set-up and so I cant say, from what  Ive been told, that 
the benefits of the system  E sold Mr N were misrepresented to him.
The law provides  that Creation must  take equal responsibility with E for specific  things only. 
And Im afraid that doesnt include  all sales where  a customer later finds  out that what 
theyve bought may not have been  the best value product. Es salesperson didnt make 
representations to Mr N about the performance  of the system  or its financial benefits that 
turned out not to be true. And what was fitted  was what Mr N contractually agreed to 
purchase.
So, whilst I empathise with Mr N that hes paid for something that, although it works, could 
have been done in a different  way for less money, its not something that I can hold Creation 
liable for. 
 
my final decision
Its my final decision not to uphold this complaint  and I dont require that Creation Financial 
Services Limited needs to do anything more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 August 2020.
James Kennard
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8250525