K821x#15complaint
Miss F has complained about the loans CashEuroNet UK LLC (trading as QuickQuid) gave 
to her. She complains that the loans werent  responsibly lent.
background
QuickQuid lent Miss F a total of 12 loans between September 2013 and May 2016. These 
loans were for £100 each. From the information  QuickQuid has provided the loans were as 
follows:
loan number date taken amount date repaid
1 01/09/13 £100 25/09/13
2 23/10/13 £100 25/11/13
3 01/12/13 £100 24/12/13
4 06/01/14 £100 24/01/14
5 17/02/14 £100 25/02/14
6 16/03/14 £100 25/03/14
7 13/04/14 £100 25/04/14
8 04/05/14 £100 23/05/14
9 09/06/14 £100 25/06/14
10 11/08/14 £100 26/09/14
11 07/10/14 £100 18/10/14
12 24/12/14 £100balance 
outstanding
Miss F hasnt fully repaid the last loan and QuickQuid has said it has sold the debt to a third 
party debt collection agency.
In February 2018,  Miss F complained to QuickQuid about the loans. QuickQuid didnt  uphold  
her complaint about any of the loans.  It said, it carried out proportionate checks  for each loan 
and it didnt think that Miss F was dependent on these loans. QuickQuid also said that when 
Miss F informed it she was in financial difficulty in February 2015,  it didnt lend her any 
further loans.
Miss F remained  dissatisfied with QuickQuids  response to her complaint and so she 
referred it to this service  where it was looked at by one of our adjudicators. Our adjudicator 
recommended that part of Miss Fs complaint should be upheld. Our adjudicator thought that 
QuickQuids checks for loans 1 and 2 went far enough but it needed to do more from loans 3 
onwards. However,  they thought that sufficient checks  wouldve likely shown QuickQuid that 
Miss F could afford loans 3, 4 and 5. But from loans 6 onwards, our adjudicator thought that 
Miss F had grown dependent on these  loans and wasnt using them for their intended 
purposes meaning QuickQuid was wrong  to lend Miss F loans 6 onwards.
QuickQuid didnt fully agree  with the adjudicators recommendations. It said it agreed  Miss F 
was dependent on these  loans from loans 6  9 but as there were breaks between borrowing 
loans 9 and 10 and loans 11 and 12, it didnt think she was dependent  when she took out 
those loans. QuickQuid  offered  to refund the fees and interest  on loans 6  9.
Miss F didnt accept the offer and as the complaint  remains unresolved, it has come  to me - 
an ombudsman for a decision.
Ref: DRN84652362my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time.
At the time of Miss Fs first six loans, short term loans and lenders such as QuickQuid were 
regulated by the Office of Fair Trading (OFT). The Office of Fair Trading (OFT) Irresponsible  
Lending Guidance  states Assessing  affordability is a borrower-focussed test which  involves 
a creditor assessing  a borrowers  ability to undertake a specific credit commitment,  or 
specific additional credit  commitment, in a sustainable manner, without the borrower 
incurring (further) financial difficulties. 
And Section 4.3 of the guidance  says:
The OFT regards in a sustainable manner in this context as meaning  credit that can be 
repaid by the borrower:
without undue difficulty  in particular without incurring or increasing  problem 
indebtedness 
over the life of the credit agreement or, in the case of open-end agreements, within a 
reasonable period of time
out of income  and/or  available savings,  without having to realise  security  or assets.
And Section 4.4 defines undue difficulty as the borrower being able to make repayments:
while also meeting  other debt repayments and other normal/reasonable outgoings
and;
without having  to borrow further to meet these repayments.
From loans 7 onwards,  the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) took over from the OFT as the 
regulator of these types of loans. The FCAs Principles for Business (PRIN)  set out the high 
level standards which all authorised firms are required to comply with. PRIN  2.1.1  R (6) says 
A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers  and treat them fairly.
The FCAs Consumer Credit sourcebook (CONC) is the specialist sourcebook  for credit-
related regulated activities. It sets out the rules and guidance specific  to consumer credit 
providers, such as QuickQuid. At the time, these required  lenders to take reasonable steps  
to assess the customers  ability  to meet repayments under a regulated credit agreement  in a 
sustainable manner  without the customer incurring  financial difficulties or experiencing 
significant adverse  consequences.- CONC 5.3.1G (2).
CONC 5.3.1G (6) defined  sustainable as being  able to make repayments  without  undue  
difficulty. It went on to explain that this means the customer should be able to make 
repayments on time, while meeting other  reasonable commitments; and without having to 
borrow to meet the repayments.
Ref: DRN84652363what should have  happened when Miss F  applied for credit and did QuickQuid get this 
right?
Bearing the above in mind, I would expect an assessment  of creditworthiness  to vary 
depending on the individual circumstances of each  customer. In general, Id expect a lender 
to require more  assurance, the greater  the potential risk to the consumer of not being able to 
repay the credit in a sustainable  way. So, for example,  Id expect a lender to seek  more 
assurance by carrying  out more  detailed checks;
-the higher  the loan amount,
-the lower the consumers income;  or
-the longer  the lending relationship.
loans 1  5
QuickQuid has told us what checks it carried out before lending these loans, it says it 
checked Miss Fs employment status, searched her credit file and checked her income.  
Miss F was recorded as being employed and her declared monthly  income was £1,250. 
I note that Miss Fs income was recorded  as this amount  throughout the nearly 16 months 
she was borrowing from QuickQuid.
QuickQuid has provided a summary of its search  into Miss Fs credit  file and Miss F has also 
provided a copy of her credit file. Having reviewed these, I cant  see that Miss F had any 
defaults or county  court  judgements (CCJs) entered on her file at the time these loans were 
approved.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that Miss Fs complaint about these loans should  be 
upheld and I note that neither Miss F nor QuickQuid have disagreed  with this finding. While 
I havent gone into the details of each of these  loans in this decision, Ive looked  at the 
circumstances around the lending and I agree with our adjudicator.
These loans were for relatively low amounts compared to Miss Fs declared  income  and as it 
was early stages of the lending relationship, the checks for loans 1 and 2 went  far enough. 
Loans 3 to 5 were also relatively small compared to Miss Fs declared income but she now 
had a longer borrowing history  with QuickQuid and so the checks it carried  out should have 
gone further. But even though, in my opinion the checks for loans 3  5 didnt go far enough,  
I dont think further  checks are likely to have shown QuickQuid that Miss F couldnt  afford  the 
loan repayments.
And so I dont think QuickQuid lent these  loans irresponsibly.
loans 6 - 12
I havent looked at the individual lending decisions or circumstances of any of these loans as 
I dont think its necessary in order for me to say that these loans shouldnt have been  given  
and Ive explained why below.
I accept that these loans were for £100 each  a relatively  small amount  compared to 
Miss Fs declared  income. But by the time Miss F was lent loan 6, it was now her seventh  
month of regular borrowing from QuickQuid. For each month  before  this loan, she was either  
borrowing or repaying QuickQuid. I think this is significant to note because it suggests that 
Ref: DRN84652364there was a dependence on these loans and that Miss F may have had some problems with 
her finances  that she needed to fill with these  loans.
QuickQuid agrees that Miss F was dependent on the loans from loans 6  9 and I think it is 
correct to agree with the adjudicators findings here. And I think  its fair that QuickQuid 
refund the interest and charged  Miss F paid towards this loan plus interest  as it already 
offered.
However, in response  to our adjudication, QuickQuid has argued that Miss Fs dependency 
on these loans didnt  continue for loans  10 to 12 because of the breaks  between  some of 
these loans.
I can see that after Miss F repaid loan 9 in June 2014, she didnt take out loan 10 until 
August 2014  there was a gap of about  a month and a half between  both loans. Also,  after 
Miss F repaid loan 11, there was a gap of over two months before she took loan 12. 
However, she was lent loan 11 within a few days of repaying loan 10.
While I acknowledge that there were gaps  between some of these loans, Im not satisfied 
that the gaps Ive talked about above were sufficient to break  the lending  chain.  I say so 
because the gaps were relatively short and in my opinion, these werent long enough  to lead 
QuickQuid to believe that whatever challenges Miss F had in her personal finances  that led 
to her need for these loans in the first place  had been resolved. 
I think its unlikely that Miss F would  have been able to turn around her financial situation so 
significantly within that time. Its important to note that loan 11 was taken within eleven days 
of repaying loan 10, this suggests that Miss F was still in need financially during this relevant 
period. It seems to me that Miss F continued to be dependent on these loans at the time and 
hadnt been able to rehabilitate her finances. 
So given the overall pattern of lending from loans 6 onwards, QuickQuid should have 
realised it shouldnt have  provided Miss F any further lending  as it was unsustainable.
Miss F has lost out because the loans unfairly prolonged her indebtedness  by allowing her to 
take expensive  credit over an extended period of time. Miss F borrowed £100  on average 
and to access these  funds, she was due to repay  nearly £400, almost  four times the average 
amount she was borrowing.
Also, the number  and frequency of the loans was likely to have had negative  implications  on 
Miss Fs ability to access mainstream  credit and kept her in the market  for these high-cost 
loans.
In summary,  I think Miss F was dependent on high-cost credit continually  from loans 6 to 12, 
Im not satisfied that the breaks  between some of these  loans  halted  her dependency and 
QuickQuid shouldve realised this and shouldnt have lent her those  loans.
Ref: DRN84652365fair compensation
Miss F lost the use of the funds she used to pay the interest and charges, I now think  that 
QuickQuid needs  to refund those to her. As Miss F lost the use of these funds, I think that 
she should be compensated  for this.
We normally ask a business to pay 8% simple interest where  a consumer hasnt had the use 
of funds because  its actions resulted in something having gone  wrong.  Bearing  in mind my 
conclusions, I see no reason to depart from our usual approach here and I think  awarding 
8% per year simple  interest, on the interest and charges that were paid, is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this case.
And as Im upholding  Miss Fs complaint about loans 6 to 12 because I think  the overall  
pattern of lending increased Miss Fs indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable  or 
harmful in some other way. I explained that the adverse consequences of QuickQuids 
continued lending  to Miss F. Firstly  it caused her to pay an excessive amount of interest and 
charges. And Ive already  explained how Miss F should be compensated for this.
I also explained that the number and frequency of loans involved is likely to have had 
implications for Miss Fs ability  to access mainstream credit.  The greater the presence of 
short-term loans on Miss Fs credit  file the less likely  Miss F was able to rehabilitate  her 
finances and regain  access to mainstream credit. And I think  my direction in relation to 
Miss Fs credit file needs to reflect this.
So QuickQuid needs to put things  right.
putting things right  what QuickQuid  needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Miss F paid on loans 6 to12;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*;
buy back the debt before  deducting  any outstanding balance  from the redress  and if 
QuickQuid  is unable  to buy back the debt, it shouldnt make any deductions  from the 
redress amount;
ensure that Miss F doesnt  pay more than the capital amount (£100) borrowed on 
loan 12, either to it or the third party debt collection agency,
the number  of these loans  means  any information recorded  about them  is adverse. 
So all entries about these loans should  be removed from Miss Fs credit file.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires QuickQuid  to take off tax from this interest. QuickQuid  
must give Miss F a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
I uphold Miss Fs complaint in part and require CashEuroNet UK LLC to put things right as 
set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 April 2019.
Oyetola Oduola
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8465236