K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that Nationwide  Building Society  wouldnt  share  evidence  of their 
communication in relation to trying to recover money hed sent to another  bank  as a result  of 
a scam. He says this meant he needed  to issue court proceedings to see the relevant 
information. He would  like Nationwide to reimburse him his court  costs.  
background
The detailed background to this complaint  is well known to both parties, so Ill only provide 
an overview of some  key events here.  In January  2018 Mr G was unfortunately the victim of 
an investment scam. He made a number of payments from his Nationwide  account  as a 
result of this scam. 
Of particular relevance to this complaint is a payment  he instructed for £5,000 on 
29 January 2018  which  went to an account held with another  bank Ill refer to as S. In 
March 2018 Mr G realised hed been  the victim of a scam and reported this to Nationwide. 
Nationwide said they contacted S to see if any of the £5,000 remained and whether it could 
be recovered.
Around this time Mr G was also in contact with S and the police. He received conflicting 
information. He was told by the police that the reason S hadnt  returned his money was 
because Nationwide  hadnt requested it. This contradicted  what  Nationwide  were  saying. 
Mr G specifically asked Nationwide to share  the documentary evidence of when theyd 
notified S of the scam and communication between them and Ss fraud departments.  
Nationwide confirmed theyd informed S but declined to share the relevant document  itself, 
they said they considered it to be commercially sensitive.
As a result of this, Mr G issued court proceedings. As part of the legal process Mr G was 
provided with the document he wanted,  and he withdrew his legal case. Mr G believes he 
shouldnt have had to go to court to obtain  that document. He would like Nationwide  to 
reimburse him the costs he incurred in taking  legal action. I understand that the £5,000 Mr G 
sent to S was eventually returned  to him. 
Ultimately, one of our investigators didnt think the complaint  should  be upheld.  In summary 
she said it was Mr Gs choice to use the courts. She understood he was having difficulty  in 
gaining clarity due to the conflicting information he was receiving but didnt think this meant 
Nationwide ought  to reimburse the court costs. 
Mr G disagrees,  he says our service is slow and inefficient and that the court process  
produced a prompt result. He maintains that Nationwide should pay his legal costs.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going  to tell Nationwide to reimburse Mr G his legal  costs.  I know  
this will be disappointing, so Ill explain why. 
Ref: DRN88973872Ultimately, Mr G chose  to use the courts to try to obtain the information he wanted.  And 
whilst I understand Mr G withdrew his legal  claim once  he had the information he wanted,  
there were other options available to him. 
Our service regularly considers complaints where  sensitive information is involved.  We are 
able to test evidence and independently  provide reassurance to complainants that what their 
bank has told them is correct. And notwithstanding Mr Gs comments  about the time this 
might take,  our service  is free for customers to use. Mr G also could have made a Subject 
Access Request which might have provided the information he required without the need for 
court proceedings. It also would have potentially  enabled him to have  taken his concerns to 
the Information Commissioners  Office. 
Nationwide said they wouldnt  share  the document in question as they deemed it to be 
commercially sensitive.  I dont think that decision was unreasonable. The fact that this was 
later shared  due to the legal proceedings doesnt  change my opinion on this.
Im pleased to hear that the £5,000 Mr G sent to S has since been  recovered and returned to 
him. But Im not going to tell Nationwide  they need  to pay Mr G his court  costs. I think  these 
are costs Mr G chose  to incur and, in the circumstances here,  I dont think Nationwide need  
to reimburse him. 
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, my final decision is that I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 April 2021. 
Richard Annandale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8897387