K821x#15complaint
Mr A is unhappy that AWP  P&C SA wont replace a car part which  he believes is covered 
under his extended warranty.
background
When Mr A purchased his convertible  car, he took out an extended warranty  which  is a 
type of insurance  underwritten  by AWP. He says that when  putting  the car roof up, he 
noticed that the rubber  seal roof trim was coming  out. So he contacted his dealership about 
getting the part replaced. It refused,  saying  the part wasnt covered under his warranty. He 
complained to AWP  but it didnt respond. He then referred the matter to our service.
AWP told our investigator that the damaged part was a metal  trim  which  isnt a covered 
part. Our investigator pointed out that Mr A wasnt claiming for the metal trim itself, but for 
the rubber part around its edge.  Although  AWP said it only covers  seals  that meet  the 
windscreen and windows around  the roof assembly,  our investigator couldnt find 
confirmation of this in the terms. He considered the part to act as a seal when the roof was 
up. So he thought it should  be covered  under the policy.   
AWP disagrees with our investigators view. It maintains that the part is a rubber cosmetic 
finisher rather than a seal, and that its role isnt to keep  out water  ingress.  So the case has 
been escalated  to me for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided to uphold  it.
The warranty terms and conditions say the following is covered:
Convertible roof (seals)
Seals only relating  to the folding  roof operation  are covered.
Whats in dispute is whether the damaged part meets this term. Mr A thinks  it does. He says 
the part is a seal which is being pulled up by the folding roof. Whereas AWP has disputed 
both whether the part is a seal  and whether it relates to the roof operation.  
Looking at the parts diagram AWP has provided,  its labelled the area the part is on as the 
folding top case  cover.  Its also provided  a video  of the roof mechanism which shows  that 
when the roof is up, its edge sits on top of the rubber trim/seal.  I consider this sufficient to 
show that the part in question relates to the folding  roof operation. So to determine  whether 
its covered, I need to decide whether or not its a seal. 
The term seal isnt a defined in the policy. So I consider it reasonable to use its ordinary 
meaning  i.e. something which  joins two things together tightly  in order to keep out liquids 
or other elements such as dust and dirt. Although AWP describes the part as a rubber 
cosmetic finisher,  I struggle to see how it doesnt  constitute a seal. It is a rubber band which 
runs around a metal trim. And when the roof is up, it joins together the back of the car and 
the base of the roof, almost certainly  in order to maintain a protective barrier against  the 
ingress of water, wind,  dirt etc.; and probably to prevent draughts or the escape of heat. 
Ref: DRN81278372Even if the part serves  to protect the paintwork, as AWP  asserts,  Im still satisfied that it acts 
as a seal  in line with the ordinary, everyday meaning of that word.  And Ive seen  no 
independent expert  opinion to the contrary.  Ive taken account of what AWP and its agents 
say, but they cant act as experts in their own cause. As Im satisfied that the part can 
reasonably be described as a seal, it therefore follows that its covered under the policy.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. AWP P&C SA should deal with Mr As claim 
in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.  If settling in cash, it should add 
interest at the simple  rate of 8% a year from the date of notification of the damage to the 
date of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 November 2019.
Rachel Loughlin
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN8127837