K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that Legal  and General  Assurance  Society Limited (L&G) mis-sold him a 
mortgage payment  insurance policy.
References to L&G include its agents.
background
In 2002, Mr M met with a broker and took out a mortgage payment  policy. The policy,  after a 
waiting period of eight  weeks, would  pay the benefit of £450 if Mr M was too ill to work due to 
an accident or illness. It wouldve paid out for a successful  claim until the earlier  of the 
following: Mr M returned to work,  the mortgage  ended or policy  expired, or the death  of Mr 
M.
At the time the policy was sold to him, the application confirmed Mr Ms employer, role as a 
manager, salary and that he hadnt yet worked there  for more than 3 years.  
Mr M has told us that in 2002 he didnt have any savings. But he was entitled  to the following 
sick pay from his employer:
-three months full sick pay;
-three months half sick pay; and
-three months 25% sick pay.
In 2016, Mr M complained  about the sale of this policy  along  with two other policies that 
were sold to him at the same time. This matter only considers the sale of the mortgage 
payment policy.
When it looked into things, L&G said the policy hadnt been mis-sold because  it felt the 
recommendation was suitable for Mr M. Mr M was unhappy with L&Gs response and 
referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into this matter. She explained that the benefit is payable  after a 
waiting period of 8 weeks. But it is reduced by any other income  the policyholder is 
continuing to receive.  This means that Mr M wouldnt have been able to receive any benefit 
under the policy  until his sick pay reduced to 25% of his salary in the 7th month he was off 
sick. And he wouldnt have received the full benefit  under the policy until his employers sick 
pay stopped in the 10th month he was off sick.
So she felt that the advice  for Mr M to take out this policy wasnt suitable for him due to the 
length of time hed have to wait to receive  any benefit under the policy and she upheld his 
complaint. To put things right, she asked L&G to return the premiums to Mr M along with 
simple interest at a rate of 8% from the date each premium was paid until the date of 
settlement. 
L&G disagreed. It made the following points: 
-No evidence of the sick pay Mr M was entitled  to in 2002 has been obtained.
-Its not reasonable for someone with less than 3 years service  to have sick pay of 9 
months. And this is more than some public  sector workers.
Ref: DRN85429072-Even if Mr M had the sick pay he says,  the policy was still suitable but it wouldve 
only been the deferred period that was unsuitable. Therefore, a refund to Mr M would 
need to take account  of the amount  Mr M would have paid had he taken out a 
mortgage payment  policy with a longer deferred period.
This didnt  change our investigators view  she felt that the sick pay Mr M had suggested 
wasnt unreasonable taking into account  his role within the industry.  So she didnt accept the 
policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr M. Further, she didnt feel it was unreasonable  
that Mr M doesnt have  evidence of his sick pay given that the sale was 17 years ago.
This matter has now been passed to me for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where theres a dispute about  what 
happened, Ive based my decision on what I thinks more likely to have happened  in light of 
the evidence.
Although a number  of issues  have been raised,  this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
Having done so, I have to tell L&G that I think the investigator has reached  the right outcome 
here. So I uphold  the complaint in this matter. Ill explain why.
L&G recommended  the policy to Mr M. So it had to take adequate steps to make sure the 
policy was suitable  for him. But I dont think the policy was a suitable  recommendation.
I can understand why, after such a long period of time, L&G would no longer have all the 
paperwork in relation to this sale.  However,  in the evidence sent to our service  by L&G, I 
havent seen any evidence that the adviser  asked  Mr M about his employers sickness 
benefits. Theres no fact find and the application  forms for cover which L&G has sent to us 
dont go into this level of detail. 
Having said this, I also understand  why Mr M wouldnt have evidence of the sick pay he was 
entitled to from the time of the sale  over 17 years  ago. The sick pay Mr M has told us he 
had amounts to just over 5 months worth of his full pay spread out over a period of 9 
months. And I dont  think this is unreasonable taking into account his role as a manager and 
who he was employed  by. I say this acknowledging that the application  form from 2002  
confirms he hadnt  been employed  for more  than 3 years at the time of the sale but doesnt  
confirm how long he had been employed.  
While recognising that the policy  would  have paid a full benefit to Mr M in the 10th month of 
any sickness, it was completely unnecessary for any sickness  which lasted for up to six 
months because his sick pay wouldve meant  that he wouldnt be paid a benefit until the 7th 
month of sickness. The only need it met was therefore for periods of time of more than six 
months where Mr M was too sick to work. This was the only period for which  it would have 
been compensating Mr M for a loss of income.  And the first three months  of this wouldve 
still been reduced by his sick pay benefits from his employer. 
Ref: DRN85429073I think the adviser should have found  out about  Mr Ms sickness benefit  from his employer 
before deciding what policy to recommend. If hed done so, I dont think  its likely that he 
would still have chosen to recommend this policy. If he had then he could at least  have 
made Mr M aware  of the limited circumstances  in which he wouldve found it useful. If this 
had been done, I dont  think I can reasonably or fairly say that its more  likely Mr M wouldve 
decided to take out mortgage payment policy. 
It follows that I think this policy was mis-sold to Mr M. If L&G had properly advised  Mr M, he 
wouldve known that he was buying a policy that wouldnt actually  be very useful for him. So 
I dont think he wouldve bought the policy because I dont think hed want  to spend  money  
on something that wasnt really needed. 
If I thought it was more  likely that Mr M wouldve obtained useful cover  through the policy  if it 
had a longer deferred period and he wouldve bought this, then I would have taken account 
of this in calculating the refund due to Mr M. In this particular  case,  however, Im not 
persuaded this was more likely  to be the case.  This is because he still wouldnt have 
received the full benefit under this type of policy until the 10th month  of any sickness as it 
was reduced by his sick pay. So he wouldve needed to make  a decision to pay a monthly 
sum for a policy which covers sickness which lasts more than at least 6 months in length to 
have some benefit and more than 9 months  in length to have the full benefit. And I dont 
think I can safely say this is a risk that Mr M wouldve wanted to cover.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint against 
Legal and General Assurance Society Limited. 
To put things right, I require Legal  and General Assurance Society  Limited to:
1.Pay Mr M the amount  he paid each month  for the mortgage payment policy.
2.Add simple interest to each payment from when he paid it until he gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
3.If Mr M made a successful claim under the policy, Legal and General Assurance 
Society Limited can take off what he got for the claim  from the amount it owes him.  
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Legal  and General Assurance  Society  Limited to take off 
tax from this interest. Legal  and General Assurance Society Limited  must  give Mr M a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 31 August 2019.
Rebecca Ellis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8542907