K820x#14complaint and background
Mr B complains that he was mis-sold an HSBC Advance packaged bank  account  (PBA) in 
May 2011. He says that he called HSBC  to ask for help with some financial difficulties he 
was having at the time, but the banks only suggestion was that he could upgrade to the 
PBA. He feels that HSBC should have  done more to help, and that adding  the expense  of 
the PBA was bad advice. He also raises  concerns  that the PBA wasnt  suitable  as he had a 
medical condition,  for which he believes he wouldnt have been covered.
Ive attached my provisional decision from December 2018, which forms part of this 
final decision. In my provisional decision I set out the reasons  why I wasnt planning 
to uphold this complaint.  In short, that was because I didnt think  HSBCs  
recommendation of this PBA to Mr B was unreasonable,  nor could I find enough 
evidence to suggest that it had ignored any request for help with financial difficulties. 
I asked both Mr B and HSBC to let me have any more  information they wanted me to 
consider. HSBC has accepted my provisional findings, and Mr B has responded with 
some further  comments, which I will comment on.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I am not upholding this 
case.
Mr B responded to my provisional decision,  setting out his disappointment,  but also 
confirming that he had no fresh evidence to add. He emphasised that he didnt contact 
HSBC to ask about this PBA  which I accept and agree. I said I thought it likely that he 
called to query some recent large  overdraft charges, not about  a PBA. But that as a result of 
that conversation, the HSBC advisor introduced  the possibility of the Advance  PBA and 
ultimately sold it to him. 
He also said that banks dont always follow their procedures  and scripts, which is 
something I entirely accept. But there is insufficient  evidence in this case  to make  me think  
its likely  that HSBC  did anything wrong or that the advisor didnt follow the script.  I know that 
Mr B will be disappointed and frustrated  by this, but I have to make my decision based on all 
the information available, which I set out in some detail  in my provisional decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint and HSBC doesnt need  to do 
anything.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 February  2019.
Siobhan McBride
ombudsman
Ref: DRN80341142copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr B complains that he was mis-sold an HSBC Advance packaged bank account (PBA)  in May 2011.  
He says that he called HSBC to ask for help with some  financial difficulties he was having  at the time,  
but the banks only suggestion was that he could upgrade to the PBA. He feels  that HSBC  should 
have done more  to help, and that adding  the expense of the PBA was bad advice. He also raises  
concerns that the PBA wasnt suitable as he had a medical condition,  for which he believes he 
wouldnt have been covered.
background
At the time of the sale, the key benefits  of the Advance PBA were  worldwide family travel insurance; 
breakdown cover, £3,000 life cover, and preferential overdraft and savings rates. Having looked  at the 
evidence, our adjudicators  didnt think that the PBA had been mis-sold. Mr B disagreed and asked an 
ombudsman to look at his case.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to provisionally decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our approach to complaints about 
packaged bank accounts on our website, which everyone can read, and which Ive used  to help me 
decide the outcome in this case. 
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint and Ill explain why.
HSBC initially said that it only gave  Mr B information about  the PBA, and no advice. However,  having  
looked at all the available  information, the adjudicator thought  that this was an advised sale. HSBC 
didnt contradict that, and I agree that the evidence shows that it did offer advice to Mr B in this 
instance. That means  that it needed to check that the benefits  of the account  were a reasonable fit for 
Mr B and his circumstances, which I think they were.
could Mr B have relied on the travel cover provided, and were the benefits  of the PBA a reasonable fit 
for him?
Mr B says that he was initially told that the travel insurance would cover his medical condition,  but 
later told that it wouldnt. He also thinks that the terms and conditions confirm that he wouldnt.  HSBC  
has given us a screenshot that shows  Mr B contacted its medical helpline before travelling in 2013, 
and doesnt appeared to have had concerns  as a result of that. But that isnt significant in the question  
of whether the account was mis-sold in 2011. What I need to consider is whether  HSBC  was right to 
recommend the PBA to Mr B at that time.
Unsurprisingly, HSBC no longer has any records  of the sale, but Mr B has been clear that it happened 
over the phone. So Ive thought about the sale in those  terms, and looked carefully at the sales scripts 
available to show what is likely to have been discussed  during the conversation.
The scripts Ive seen  include  instructions  to the HSBC  advisor to deal with medical conditions  and the 
potential impact on the travel  insurance benefit of the PBA. Specifically, staff are instructed as follows:
You must follow this link to establish if the cust(s) have  pre-existing  medical conditions (link 
includes the live referral  process to [3rd party insurer]) before continuing the application
HSBC has confirmed that the live referral process described would have involved a conversation 
with the insurer about the customer on the line, essentially to check  whether cover could still be 
provided, despite the medical condition in question. So I think its highly likely that procedure was 
followed during the sale, and that it was likely established that cover could  be provided. Indeed,  Mr B 
Ref: DRN80341143says he was initially told that, but that at some point later he was told differently.  But I am satisfied 
that at the point of sale HSBC did what it needed  to in order  to check that this cover  was OK for Mr B. 
I also cannot  find anything in the relevant terms and conditions to say that pre-existing medical  
conditions would automatically  be excluded  generally a further assessment of the condition  is 
necessary via a medical screening phone line. I think that is likely to have happened  at the point of 
sale, as Ive already discussed, and also there is evidence to show that Mr B did speak to the medical 
screening line two years after the sale in 2013 before  travelling.  So he was clearly aware  of the need 
to call. There  is nothing on file to show that he was charged an extra  premium,  or indeed told that he 
wouldnt be covered.
Mr B says that he didnt have a car at the time of this sale, but I note that the breakdown cover could 
also be used when he was a passenger  in someone elses car. So it could  have proved valuable to 
him in that way. It also seems that he could  have  used the more minor benefits of the PBA, and 
overall the package seems  to me a reasonable fit, meaning HSBCs  recommendation was not 
unsuitable.
did HSBC do enough  to help Mr B with his financial difficulties?
Mr B has explained his circumstances at the time and that he was struggling financially. Objectively, a 
straightforward look at his bank statements doesnt suggest any significant  problems: although he 
uses a modest overdraft,  he is also in credit each month, and there arent any flags  that I would 
expect a bank to notice and act upon. But I can see that in the two months prior to upgrading, Mr B 
did face hefty charges. HSBC has confirmed  that Mr B has had the same agreed overdraft limit from 
2008 to the present  and that those charges are very likely in relation to him exceeding that limit. 
This makes sense and fits with the balances  on the account that I can see on the statements.
Given the level of the charges, and his wider circumstances, I can imagine that Mr B may well have 
called HSBC  to ask about  them, and ultimately  upgraded to the PBA during that conversation. And so 
I can understand how those two things are linked in his mind.  But querying some overdraft  charges 
isnt the same as him explicitly telling  HSBC that he was experiencing ongoing financial difficulties. 
Banks are required to treat customers positively and sympathetically when in financial difficulties, 
which could involve a range  of different actions by a bank. But HSBC has confirmed that it would 
have, as a minimum, sent a standard letter containing information about its financial  help team  and 
dedicated phone line if told by a customer that he or she is having difficulties. In addition,  they are 
likely to have added a marker to the file to show that no further borrowing  should be given. There  is 
nothing on file showing any of these actions.  I think the most likely explanation  for that is that Mr B 
queried the recent overdraft  charges, rather than asking for help with financial difficulties.
Mr B says that HSBC  presented the PBA as being his only option to improve his financial situation. 
But, given that the only difference the PBA made was a removal of the interest rate on part of his 
overdraft, I struggle to see how this upgrade could have been portrayed as being of significant  
relevance to Mr Bs overdraft  position. It could only have ever saved him pence per month,  and I dont 
think its likely that the HSBC  advisor would have focused on that benefit as a sales tactic in these  
circumstances.
So I dont think its likely that in 2011 Mr B explicitly told HSBC that he was having difficulties and 
needed help  I think he more likely queried  the recent overdraft charges  and the conversation turned  
into a PBA sale from that. And I dont think there was anything about the way he was running his 
account that ought to have alerted HSBC to take unsolicited action,  so all in all, I cant  see that it did 
anything wrong, or should  have done more to help.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im not planning to uphold this complaint or to direct HSBC  to do 
anything.
Ref: DRN80341144Both Mr B and HSBC have until 20 December 2018 to let me have  anything further theyd like me to 
consider.
Siobhan McBride
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8034114