K820x#14complaint
Mrs Z has complained that Lloyds  Bank  PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold  her a Select  packaged  
bank account  in 2007. She pays a monthly fee for the account which  provides  several  
benefits in return.
background
Mrs Zs account  was opened as a fee-free account  with Lloyds in May 2006. It was upgraded 
to a Select  packaged  account in March  2007  and the most recent information Ive seen 
suggests it remains as such  to date.
One of our adjudicators didnt think that Lloyds mis-sold the Select account to Mrs Z and 
didnt recommend that Lloyds should pay her any compensation. Mrs Z didnt agree so she 
asked for an ombudsman to look at the complaint and make a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve explained  how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website.  
Ive used this approach  to help me decide what to do about  Mrs Zs complaint. 
Where evidence is incomplete and matters  are in dispute, as they are here,  I make  my 
decision based on what I think is most likely to have happened  keeping  in mind everything 
Ive seen and been told.
After giving Mrs Zs complaint a lot of thought, I dont think  the packaged  bank account  was 
mis-sold to her. Ill explain  why.
Ive started by thinking about whether Mrs Z was given a fair choice when she took her 
packaged bank  account.
I note that Mrs Zs main  complaint point when  she raised her complaint was that she w 
choice about whether  to take a packaged  bank account. She explained that she wasnt  told 
about a fee-free option, and shes also said that she doesnt remember  agreeing to the 
account upgrade.
Mrs Z held a fee-free account with Lloyds for almost  a year before upgrading to a paid-for 
account, during  a meeting  which she says was to review her accounts. I dont know  what 
was discussed  at that meeting, but as Mrs Z had already held a fee-free  account  at that 
point, I dont think its fair to conclude  that she wasnt told about  the option  of having fee-free 
accounts. 
Im also mindful that Mrs Z says she doesnt  remember upgrading her account. I fully accept 
that shes given  her honest  recollection here, but I also have to bear in mind  that this 
upgrade happened over 12 years ago. I think thered have  been  at least  some sort of a 
conversation about the paperwork Mrs Z says that she was asked to sign  even if Mrs Z 
doesnt now remember what that conversation was. She also says that she didnt speak 
English well at the time. But I dont think shed have  agreed to sign any paperwork  
regardless what it was for  without first understanding what she was signing for.
Ref: DRN89280642Overall, I think its more  likely than not that Mrs Z was aware  she had a choice about 
upgrading her account, and chose to because something about  the Select account appealed 
to her.
Lloyds had to make a fair recommendation when it sold the Select account to Mrs Z, and it 
also had to give Mrs Z enough clear information about it for her to decide if she wanted it. 
Like our adjudicator, I think that Mrs Z was interested in some  of the benefits of the 
packaged account and chose it because  of these benefits. 
Ive seen a document which was completed at the time Mrs Z upgraded her account. The 
document suggests she wanted to benefit from the Select accounts mobile phone insurance 
and Lloyds recommended  the account  for that reason.  I note the Select account was Lloyds 
cheapest account to offer mobile phone insurance, and I cant see any reason Mrs Z couldnt 
have made  use of that insurance if shed wanted  to. The account  did have other features 
that Mrs Z didnt claim against  or actively use, but that doesnt mean Lloyds 
recommendation was unfair. I say this because  I havent seen anything  to make me think  
she couldnt have  used them if shed wanted  or needed to. 
Although Mrs Z may not have gone on to use or want all the benefits of the Select account, I 
do think shed at least have known she was paying  a monthly fee. So shed have expected 
to get something  in return for that fee. And Ive also seen that Lloyds sent Mrs Z an Annual 
Eligibility Statement  each  year from 2014,  which wouldve outlined the Select accounts 
main features and benefits. As Mrs Z continued to hold the Select account after receiving 
these documents  for a number  of years, I think there  must have been something that 
remained appealing to her, and that she wanted  to continue to benefit  from. 
Its possible that Lloyds  didnt tell Mrs Z everything  it should have about the packaged 
account. And with hindsight I understand that she might not think  it has been good  value  for 
money to her. But I havent seen enough to make me think  that Mrs Z wouldnt still have 
taken the Select account, even if Lloyds had told her more about  it.
I want to reassure Mrs Z that Ive looked  at all the information I have about her complaint. 
And Ive thought about everything shes said. But having done so I dont think  Lloyds mis-
sold the Select account to her. So I dont think it owes  her any money.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Mrs Zs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs Z to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 October  2019.
Sam Wade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8928064