K820x#14complaint
Mr W and Mrs H complain that Svenska Handelsbanken AB (Publ)  (Svenska) closed  their 
account. They also complain that they were unable to use their account within  days of them 
receiving a closure notice.  They say this caused  them distress and inconvenience. And they 
want Svenska to pay them compensation.
background
Mr W and Mrs H had a joint account with Svenska. 
In January 2018, following  a review of the account, Svenska decided to close  Mr W and 
Mrs Hs account. On 8 January 2018, Svenska wrote to Mr W and Mrs H to let them know  it 
would be closing their account on 9 April 2018 and that they should make alternative 
banking arrangements.
Mr W and Mrs H received  Svenskas closure  notice. But say within three days  of getting the 
letter, Svenksa  blocked  their account.  So they werent  able to use their account normally. 
They say this caused them a great deal of distress and inconvenience. So they complained 
to Svenska.
Svenska said it had complied with the terms and conditions of the account when it closed the 
account. And said it hadnt  blocked Mr W and Mrs Hs joint account.  Unhappy with this 
response, Mr W and Mrs H brought their complaint to this service.
Our investigator was satisfied Svenska had acted fairly and in line with the terms and 
conditions of the account. She also said Svenska hadnt blocked the account. So she didnt 
uphold the complaint.
Mr W and Mrs H disagreed. They say Svenska blocked and closed  their account without 
explanation. Theyve  said this caused them both a great deal of upset and inconvenience. 
Theyve pointed out that they havent  done anything wrong and have been good customers  
of Svenska for a number of years.  They want Svenska to provide a full explanation and pay 
them compensation for the trouble Svenska caused by blocking and closing their account.  
As no agreement could be reached  the complaint has come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mr W and Mrs H are upset. Im sorry this experience has been 
stressful for them both.  But for me to uphold his complaint I have to think Svenska has done 
something wrong. And in this case, I dont think it has. Ill explain why.
account review and block
I appreciate Mr W and Mrs H feel strongly  about their complaint. But Svenska was entitled to 
review their account under the account terms and conditions. Having looked at the evidence, 
Im satisfied that Svenska acted in line with its legal and regulatory  obligations when  it 
reviewed their account. I can understand that they are frustrated that theyve not been given 
Ref: DRN81405182a proper explanation. But Svenska doesnt  have  to provide this information. So I cant  say 
Svenska has done anything  wrong.
Mr W and Mrs H say that within days of receiving the closure notice,  Svenska  blocked their 
account. So they couldnt use it properly.  I dont agree. I say this because Svenska has 
provided me with copies  of Mr W and Mrs Hs account statement and I can see that the 
account was operating  normally. Mr W and Mrs H were using the account  regularly making  
payments for everyday  living expenses until 29 January  2018  when the remaining balance  
was transferred out. So Im satisfied that the account wasnt  blocked.
Having looked  at whats happened  in this particular case, I can see no basis on which 
I might  make  an award  against Svenska given that I dont think  it failed to properly follow its 
own procedures when  it reviewed Mr W and Mrs Hs account.  So Im not going to ask 
Svenska to compensate them for any distress  and inconvenience this may have caused.
account closure
A bank  is entitled  to close an account with a customer just as a customer may close  an 
account with a bank. But before a bank closes an account, it must do so in a way, which 
complies with the terms and conditions of the account.
The terms and conditions  of the account, which Svenska, Mr W and Mrs H had to comply 
with, say that it could  close the account by giving them at least two months notice. Svenksa 
has done this. So its entitled to close the account as it seems  its already done. 
Mr W and Mrs H have  argued that Svenska cherry  pick their customers. And suspect 
Svenska have discriminated against  them on the grounds of their nationality. I dont 
underestimate their strength of feeling about this matter, but I find nothing to indicate that 
this was the reason why their account  was closed.
The bank can make commercial decisions about who it offers banking services  to. They 
cannot unfairly discriminate against a customer.  But they can say they no longer wish to do 
business with individuals.  Thats because theyve got the commercial  freedom to decide who 
they want to contract  with. And Im satisfied that Svenska has exercised its commercial  
decision legitimately when  it decided  to close Mr W and Mrs Hs account. So I cannot fairly 
and reasonably say its done anything wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 April 2019.
Sharon Kerrison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8140518