K820x#14Complaint
Mrs C has complained that NewDay Ltd wont refund  a payment she made after being 
scammed.
Background
Mrs C responded to a text message,  which appeared  to come from Google. It said that as 
shed been a longstanding customer,  she was eligible to enter into a prize  draw for a phone.  
All she had to do was click on the link provided  and pay one euro for the post and 
packaging.
Mrs C clicked  the link. She was then asked to enter her personal  details and her card details, 
which she did. She said NewDay  sent her a text immediately asking her to confirm a 
payment for £47.99. She realised it was a scam  and called NewDay. She asked it to cancel 
the payment.  However, it couldnt because  the payment was pending.
Mrs C decided to close her account  with NewDay and asked it to refund the £47.99. She 
hadnt received  a phone and had paid £47.99 when it was supposed  to be one euro.
NewDay made enquiries. The payment was made to a dating website. It appeared that Mrs 
C had taken out a subscription, albeit unknowingly. NewDay cancelled  the subscription  so 
no further payments  could  be taken. However,  it decided not to refund her because  shed 
authorised the payment.  
Mrs C didnt think this was fair so she asked  this service to investigate.
An investigator looked into the case but decided not to uphold it. She said this scam is 
known as a pull payment.  However, as Mrs C had authorised  the payment, by providing her 
card details, NewDay wasnt  obliged  to refund it. And as the merchant was providing a 
service, there were  no grounds for a chargeback.
Mrs C disagreed with the investigators view. Shes asked  for an ombudsmans final 
decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering  whats fair and reasonable, Im required  to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance  and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The investigator wrote a detailed view that sets out in full the facts,  the transactions,  the 
relevant regulations and the evidence.  Both Mrs C and NewDay have read the investigators 
view, so I wont repeat every detail here, only those  which form the basis  of my decision. 
However, I can assure Mrs C that Ive read the file, including her comments  and evidence.
Having done so, Im afraid my review  of the evidence has led me to the same overall 
conclusions as those  reached by the investigator and for broadly the same reasons.  Ill 
explain why.
Ref: DRN89214992In short,  NewDay is required to refund the amount of an unauthorised transaction.  The 
relevant regulations, to this effect, are the Payment Services  Regulations  2017  (the PSRs  
2017). In this case, Mrs C says she didnt authorise a payment for £47.99  but she admits 
she entered her card details and consented to a payment of one euro for post and 
packaging for a potential  prize  a phone. 
However, under the PSRs 2017, a payment transaction is regarded as having been 
authorised by the payer if the payer  has given consent  to the execution of the payment 
transaction, which Mrs C did, but for one euro. Im afraid she is still treated as giving 
consent, even  if she were misled or made a mistake about the value, the product, service or 
the merchant. Where this happens, then her dispute  is with the merchant not NewDay.  And, 
the terms and conditions say that NewDay is not obliged to refund a payment where  a 
customer has given consent (paragraph  17.2).
So, Im afraid that under the relevant regulations  and the terms and conditions, NewDay isnt 
obliged to refund the money.
Another way to recover the payment  was for NewDay to raise a chargeback claim. However, 
this process isnt normally available for fraud  or scam payments, which  is why NewDay  didnt 
pursue it. But even if it had, the grounds  for raising a chargeback  are limited and a merchant 
can defend it if it can show its providing  goods  or services. In this case, the website told 
NewDay it was offering a service to Mrs C but she didnt want  it. 
Unfortunately, Mrs C didnt keep the text message so theres  been  no opportunity to see 
what it said. I believe it offered her the opportunity  to enter a prize  draw but I dont  know  if 
there was any reference, to the dating website, no matter how small,  or if there was a 
promotional advertisement alongside  it. Without  proof of a misrepresentation, NewDay  
couldnt do much more. In these  circumstances, I think it was reasonable for NewDay not to 
pursue the chargeback.
Lastly, I agree with the investigator that there was nothing unusual  or suspicious about the 
transaction, which shouldve alerted NewDay. It was a relatively  small amount, a one off 
payment and not obviously out of character  for the account. Also,  according  to NewDays 
records, the account was opened  on 2 January but Mrs C called to query the payment on 3 
January by which time it was pending  or had gone  through.
Im very sorry Mrs C was duped into signing up for a service she knew  nothing  about and 
didnt want. However,  after having considered  the relevant regulations,  I dont think  its unfair  
or unreasonable for NewDay  to refuse a refund
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 July 2020.
Razia Karim
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8921499