K822xcomplaint
This complaint is about a mortgage Mr R used  to hold with Santander UK Plc. The mortgage 
term expired in 2015, and in 2017, having  not received any contact from Mr R about  
repaying it, Santander obtained possession  of the property in court  and sold it. Mr R, who is 
represented here by Mrs R, complains that he was treated unfairly, and that his possessions 
were disposed of without attempt to realise any value from them.
background 
In what follows, I have  summarised events in rather  less detail than has been  presented,  
using my own words and rounding some of the figures involved. No discourtesys intended 
by that; its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I dont mention something, it 
wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think  it was material to the outcome 
of the complaint. 
This approach is consistent with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows  me to 
focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by 
matters which in my view will have little or no impact on the broader outcome. 
Mr R took the mortgage out in 1990;  it was an interest-only mortgage with a 25-year term, 
and the intended repayment  vehicle was an endowment policy with a maturity  date to 
coincide with the scheduled end date of the mortgage, which was in March  2015. 
As is standard industry practice, Santander wrote  to Mr R in the months before the mortgage 
was due to end, effectively to remind  him that he was due to repay it. In April 2015, Mr R 
called to make a payment and was given  the contact details for the relevant department  for 
mortgages that had passed their end date.  He called again in June 2015, apparently telling 
the business he was aware  he had an endowment policy (albeit  he couldnt recall right away  
who it was with) and that hed be in touch again  in a weeks time. That was to be the last 
direct communication between Mr R and Santander  for several  years.
Santander made many attempts to re-establish  contact with Mr R, by phone and letter.  By 
late 2016, when  it still hadnt heard from Mr R, Santander took the decision to begin  legal  
proceeding for recovery of the money  it was owed,  which was around £90,000. The case  
went to court  in the spring of 2017, where  a straight  possession order was granted. A 
warrant to enforce the order was issued in April 2017, and executed on 4 May 2017 by 
court-appointed bailiffs. 
Santander appointed an asset management company (Ill call it M) to handle the property 
in possession. M disposed of the house  contents  and put the property up for sale.  When the 
property was sold in December 2017,  the mortgage  balance, which  by now included  the 
litigation fees and all the other  costs  associated with selling the property in possession)  were 
repaid in full. The surplus  proceeds  of sale, which I understand were in excess of a quarter 
of a million pounds, remained with Santanders solicitors pending contact from Mr R with 
instructions on where to send them. 
Matters rested there until late 2018 when they were resurrected by Mrs R, Mr Rs estranged  
wife. Quite by chance, she had found  Mr R living in his car, in a lay-by,  in a rather 
dishevelled state. Mrs R contacted Santander  to explain that Mr R had serious medical 
conditions (I dont reveal the detail here out of respect for his privacy)  that had overwhelmed  
Ref: DRN87061532him in the period when  Santander had been trying to contact him about the outstanding and 
overdue mortgage.
Mrs R said that on the eviction day, Mr R had come  home from a normal day at work to find 
the locks changed so he couldnt get in. She says he left a note with his phone  number and 
drove off, and from then on was living in his car for around 18 months until Mrs R found him. 
Mrs R succeeded in locating the surplus  sale money  as well as the maturity  proceeds of 
Mr Rs endowment policy.
Mrs R complained to Santander  on Mr Rs behalf; in essence the complaint falls into two 
broad areas:
she considers that Santander didnt do enough  before  resorting to possession 
proceedings to find out about Mr Rs health problems  and resulting vulnerability; and
after taking possession, it failed  to place a notice  on the door explaining what had 
happened, then went on to dispose of Mr Rs possession - some  of which were  hers on 
loan to him - rather than retain them for him or indeed sell them to realise their value.
Santander rejected  the complaint, explaining that it had never been informed of Mr Rs 
health problems,  and had done all it reasonably could to get in touch with him. When  Mrs R 
referred it to us, our investigator, for the most  part, didnt think Santander had done anything  
wrong. She noted  that a member of Santanders staff had provided  contradictory information 
about the posting of notices on the doors of re-possessed properties,  and Santander agreed 
with her recommendation that it pay £150 compensation for this.
Mrs R has asked that the complaint be reviewed by an ombudsman.
 
my findings
Ill start with some  general  observations. Were  not the regulator  of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal  processes  or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct  Authority. We deal with individual  disputes between businesses  and their 
customers. In doing  that, we dont replicate the work  of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either  sides instructions on how we investigate  a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations  and reach our conclusions  without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have  to work  within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules  give us
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As I said earlier, if I dont comment  on any 
specific point its not because Ive failed to consider  it but because I dont think I need to 
comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the wider  context.  My 
remit is to take an overview  and decide  whats fair in the round. 
If the available evidence is incomplete and/or contradictory, we reach our findings on what  
we consider is most likely  to have happened, on the balance of probabilities.  Thats broadly 
the same  test that the courts use in civil cases.
Ill begin with Santanders decision to take possession proceedings. As a starting  point, 
lenders have a duty, both general and regulatory,  to consider the individual circumstances of 
a consumer in financial difficulties, and if necessary provide forbearance.  Financial 
Ref: DRN87061533difficulties can take many and varied forms  as can the forbearance options for dealing  with 
them  and can be just as relevant to those whose mortgage term has ended as those 
whose problem is keeping  up with monthly instalments on a mortgage that is current.
Here, however, the situation wasnt one of financial difficulties; theres nothing to suggest 
that Mr R had financial problems that might prevent  him from repaying his mortgage when it 
fell due in March 2015. If anything, the complete opposite is true; Mr R evidently  had the 
means to repay it; he just needed to engage  with the lender and his endowment provider to 
ensure this happened Rather, Mr Rs difficulty (as Mrs R has set out but wasnt known at the 
time) is that his health  problems  had overwhelmed him to the point where  he couldnt deal 
with the situation.
This is an immensely sensitive matter, and Mrs R has spoken very eloquently on Mr Rs 
behalf about why she believes Santander failed him. Ive given this a great deal of thought, 
and I feel greatly for what must have been an immensely challenging experience for Mr R. 
But being  impartial  and independent means  I also have to consider Santanders point of view 
too. When I do that, I struggle to think of anything  else Santander  could have done,  or what  it 
might have done differently, that might  have resulted in a different outcome.
The evidence from Santander  shows  that it made every attempt that fair treatment or 
regulation would require of it to inform Mr R of what he needed  to do, and the implications for 
him if he didnt do it. That involved  not just the numerous letters  it sent to the property 
address (and its worth mentioning there  was no other address Santander could write to) but 
also the many attempts by Santander  to reach Mr R by phone.  Ive seen the call log, and it 
shows that the bank frequently  changed the time of day it called to maximise the chance of 
contact being  successful.
Mrs R says theres a contradiction between this apparent difficulty in getting hold of Mr R 
and the occasions where  contact clearly did happen. Theres actually no contradiction there  
at all; those occasions where  a dialogue took place were when Mr R called Santander, not 
when Santander  called  him. In other  words,  the capacity for dialogue between the parties 
was reliant solely  on Mr R making  contact. If he called the bank, a conversation  took place. If 
the bank called Mr R, no conversation took place.
Its also important to keep  in mind that Mr Rs condition, which I understand was first 
diagnosed in 2006, was not known to Santander until Mrs R informed it after finding Mr R in 
a distressed state in December 2018.  Mrs R says Santander could have contemplated the 
possibility that Mr R was ill before embarking  on the course of action it took, but realistically 
thats not something a business  can do. Even  if it could, its not at all clear  to me how a 
business might go about  finding out, given peoples  inherent right to privacy. I do understand 
that the condition itself might have made Mr R reluctant to tell anyone about it; but that 
doesnt then leave Santander at fault.
One of the fundamental  principles underpinning the mortgage contract is that a lender has 
the right to enforce its security to recover money  owed to it. It would be entirely inequitable 
and inappropriate  for me to remove that right from a lender in a final decision on a complaint, 
regardless of the individual  consumers wider situation. Here, that point is largely moot  in any 
event because the case has already gone  to court where a possession  order was granted.
I mentioned earlier that we dont replicate the work of the courts. If the court had any reason  
to consider the action unnecessary, inherently unfair or procedurally defective, it had the 
power to decline  to grant the order Santander was seeking. The court could have challenged 
Ref: DRN87061534Santander on the possibility that there  might  be a humanitarian reason that it hadnt thought 
of for Mr Rs apparent disinterest in meeting  his obligation to pay the mortgage off, and 
whether it had taken  every step possible  beyond  those  the court would normally  accept as 
being enough  to avoid  the need  for legal action.  The court didnt consider it necessary to 
do that, and its not the role of the financial ombudsman service  to second guess or 
otherwise interfere with a decision that a court has already made.
That leads me to what happened to Mr Rs property  and its contents after possession.  This 
too, has a starting  position, which is that a lender  in possession (or as here, a third party  
acting is its agent) has to frame its actions and decisions in terms of treating the consumer  
fairly. Inevitably, thats a subjective area; one persons  fair treatment will always be different 
from anothers. But it means  lenders  (or their agents) have to make  value judgements  on 
how to deal with a situation as presented  to them.
In the case of a property  taken into possession that still contains personal possessions,  the 
first step a lender would take is to give the borrower an opportunity to retrieve  things. 
Ordinarily, thats a relatively uncomplicated step, because the borrower and lender are in 
touch with each  other.  Here, that wasnt the case, and at the time Santander took 
possession in May 2017, 23 months  had passed  since it had least  heard substantively from 
Mr R.
Mrs R raised the point about Santander placing a notice on the door to let Mr R know what  
was going on. This has been  a bone of contention for her, not least because  of the 
contradictory information from Santander  about  whether this something it does or doesnt  do. 
Its always regrettable when a business  mis-informs someone, but mistakes do sometimes  
happen, and its now generally accepted Santander did mis-inform Mrs R by leading  her to 
think it usually place  notices on the doors of repossessed properties. Its offered 
compensation for that, and like the investigator, I think the amount proposed is fair.
In reality, Santander doesnt  generally place notices, for reasons of privacy  and security, and 
Ive no power to tell Santander that it should. Even  if it had made  an exception and done so 
in Mr Rs case, Im not sure how likely  it is that it would have made a difference. I dont mean 
this unkindly, but I have  to keep in mind  that Mr R, for reasons we now know  about, had 
ignored every notice Santander had sent him for the best part of two years. Its difficult  for 
me to conclude with any confidence that hed have  responded differently this time.
Mrs R says Mr R recalls leaving a notice of his own on the door with his phone  number. If 
I take that on face value as being true, the available evidence doesnt  indicate one way or 
another if Santander (or its agent)  tried calling Mr R. But again, if it had, there still remains 
the question of whether Mr R would have answered, given his condition  and demeanour at 
the time,  as described to us by Mrs R.
Getting back to the contents  themselves,  Mrs R has mentioned certain  items of her own that 
were in the property  at the time and on loan to Mr R. Im afraid  we cant  consider those here; 
this is Mr Rs complaint, not Mrs Rs; her role here is to represent him, and our rules only 
allow us to consider  the complaint as it potentially impacted on Mr R. 
When it comes  to deciding what to do with contents,  a judgement has to be on what theyre 
worth and how likely it is that selling them will produce a significant  material benefit  taking  
into account the costs  incurred  in selling them, and the time taken to do so. In the type of 
selling environment most likely to apply in house  clearances, the disposal value  of goods is 
unlikely to match the perceived market  value, and of course sentimental value to the 
Ref: DRN87061535individual cant be a factor  in that decision. Thats why lenders generally maintain the option 
of selling goods or simply getting rid of them. 
Santander has told us that M, its chosen agent in Mr Rs case, has a policy  of not attempting 
to sell contents but always getting  rid of them. I dont know if that is true or not  as Ive 
already recorded,  Santander has provided contradictory messages before now. If it is, then it 
does leave Santander exposed to the risk that, on occasion, goods  might be disposed  of 
when there  was a reasonable  chance  of selling them  for a return  that made the cost of doing  
so worthwhile. But in the case before me, bearing in mind that I can only consider Mr Rs 
possessions, the available  evidence doesnt  argue a strong  enough case  for me to find that 
disposing of the items rather than first attempting to sell them  amounted to unfair treatment 
warranting an award of compensation  for financial loss.
I said at the outset that I wouldnt be commenting on every single point, and I havent. I have, 
as I said I would, confined  myself  to those matters that I consider have a material effect  on 
the outcome.  I can see from her submissions how strongly Mrs R feels  about  this case. 
Thats understandable;  Mr R has experienced a horrible time. But, I have  to take a different 
approach. Im impartial and I have  to look at things objectively, sometimes  taking a step back 
and focussing  on the broader  picture.  Thats what Ive done, and having done so, I cant  find 
in Mr Rs favour however  much Mrs R believes  I should.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out, above, I dont uphold the main  thrust  of this complaint. For the 
contradictory information it provided when  Mrs R was trying to help him, I order 
Santander UK Plc, to pay Mr R £150. I make  no other order or award.
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R (on Mr Rs 
behalf) to accept  or reject my decision before  3 May 2020.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8706153