K820x#14complaint
Mr H has complained about Liverpool  Victoria  Insurance Company Limiteds decision to 
reject a theft claim he made under his specialist vehicle insurance policy.
background
Mr H bought a vehicle insurance policy with LV. In around April 2018 he made  an agreement 
with a motor trader  to sell his vehicle on his behalf.  Mr H said he left his vehicle on the 
traders forecourt. After  a period of 6-8 weeks Mr H said he could no longer  get in touch with 
the motor trader.  He visited  the premises and said he was then told that the trader  had left 
the premises and took numerous vehicles with them.
In June 2018 Mr H reported the incident  to LV. LV rejected his claim because  it said the 
circumstances of the theft meant  the claim wasnt covered.
Mr H complained to LV. But LV said its decision was correct.
Mr H brought his complaint to us. Our investigator  initially thought LV had been  
unreasonable to rely on the clause  it did. But when LV clarified  the reason why it rejected the 
claim, the investigator  on second review thought LV had acted reasonably. 
Mr H didnt agree. In summary he says that LV has been inconsistent in its reasoning  as to 
why it rejected his claim. So hed like an ombudsman  to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
it. Ill explain why.
Mr H is unhappy that LV initially said it declined his claim because of a theft  by deception 
clause. LV told us it didnt  reject Mr Hs claim for this reason. It said it was due to the fact 
that the loss had arisen from an agreement for selling the vehicle. 
LV wrote to Mr H on 13 June 2018. It said Mr Hs claim wasnt  covered in the following 
circumstances: 
Loss or damage from any agreement or proposed transaction for selling or hiring the 
insured vehicle or someone taking the insured vehicle by fraud, trickery or deception 
or attempting to purchase the insured vehicle by fraudulent means.
LV concluded:
Im afraid  this means we are unable to deal with your claim on this occasion  because your 
vehicle has been  stolen by means  of deception.
So I agree with Mr H that LV initially said it rejected his claim because  of deception.
However, in all of LVs subsequent communication with Mr H, it concluded that its applied 
the first part of the term to his theft claim  and not because his vehicle was stolen by 
deception. So, the part of the term LV says that applies to Mr Hs claim is:
Ref: DRN86054382Loss or damage from any agreement or proposed transaction for selling or hiring the 
insured vehicle
Mr H says that his original complaint was that LV had rejected his claim by relying on the 
deception clause.  Mr H is disappointed  because our investigator  initially  thought his 
complaint should  be upheld.  He says that we havent explained why we think its fair for LV to 
apply the first part of the term. 
I agree  with Mr H that LVs letter dated 13 June 2018 quoted  a different reason for rejecting 
his claim.  But in letters dated  28 June  2018, 19 December 2018  and 17 January 2019, LV 
refers to the first part of the term which it has relied  on  and which means the claim is 
excluded from cover: 
As Mr H had an agreement with a motor  trader to sell his vehicle on his behalf  and his 
vehicle was at the dealers  location  for two months  I think  LVs decision to apply the 
exclusion was reached in a reasonable way. 
Mr H is unhappy that this exclusion wasnt listed as significant or unusual.  However, I dont  
think its unreasonable for LV not to highlight this term in this way. Its not a requirement to 
list all exclusions  as significant or unusual. 
Mr Hs policy  for insurance is on the condition  that his vehicle is usually at the insured 
address. In Mr Hs policy booklet  in bold  it lists the changes that Mr H must  tell his 
advisor about as soon  as possible. The list includes a change of address or where Mr H 
keeps his vehicle.  The policy  goes on to say that Mr H should contact his insurance advisor 
if hes not sure whether  a change will affect his cover. And it also warns that if Mr H doesnt 
tell his insurance adviser of such a change, any claim he makes may be reduced or rejected. 
Mr H told LV there had been a development in October 2018 and that the police  had told him 
the motor trader wasnt  responsible for the theft of his vehicle. LV contacted  the police  but 
the police  told LV it wasnt able to confirm if the motor trader will still be a suspect and if any 
criminal proceedings  will be brought against him. And the police werent  able to confirm 
whether the matter will be a civil dispute or if any criminal proceedings will be brought at all. 
So LV said that it had no new information  to change its decision.  
Mr H says the loss didnt result from "any agreement  or proposed transaction  for selling or 
hiring." He says it wasnt the agreement with the trader  for the purpose of affecting a sale 
that caused the loss. It was the act of theft by one or more persons  as yet unascertained.
However, the key term is set out under what isnt covered in the section of the policy 
entitled Fire and Theft. So I think  LV has correctly  applied  the term to Mr Hs theft claim. 
And the police havent confirmed Mr Hs view. 
Mr H says that he understood the first part of the term to mean  that  for example - if he sold 
the vehicle to a seller  and was given a counterfeit cheque as payment,  LV wouldnt cover it. 
However, I think the part of the term attempting to purchase the insured vehicle by 
fraudulent means would apply in the example Mr H has given. 
Ref: DRN86054383I understand Mr H will be disappointed  with my decision. But I think LV set out the exclusion 
in the policy. And although it initially quoted  the incorrect  term, it subsequently and 
consistently quoted the correct term that it relied  on. 
This means  I dont  think LV needs to do any more.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 July 2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8605438