K820x#14complaint
Mr O complains that Callcredit Consumer Limited  (Noddle) recorded  incorrect information  on 
his credit file resulting  in him losing his employment.  He wants compensation.
background
Mr O complains that Noddle  recorded  incorrect information on his credit  file. He says he 
discovered this when his employer  at the time told him. And because  his employer required 
its staff not to be in financial  difficulty he was asked  to provide confirmation the debt was 
settled or didnt apply  to him. He says Noddle took too long to remove the information and as 
a result he was dismissed from his job.
In its final response letter  Noddle  accepted  that an error had been made and information 
relating to a third party had been mistakenly  applied to Mr Os credit file. It said it had 
amended its records. It later offered Mr O £250  in compensation  for the error.
The investigator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. He said there wasnt 
any dispute a mistake had been  made  by Noddle. But he couldnt say the errors  were the 
sole cause of Mr Os loss of employment.  He thought  the £250 compensation offered by 
Noddle was fair and reasonable.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 7 December 2018.  Whilst Id reached the 
same conclusion as the investigator,  Id done so for additional reasons. So it was fair for the 
parties to have the chance to comment upon these.
Mr O replied disagreeing with my provisional decision. He thinks Noddle should verify  
information before publishing it. And he doesnt  agree with the way Ive distinguished  
between the effect  on his business (which he wholly owns) and the effect on him as an 
individual. He also points  out he was the subject of credit checks  - not his company. And he 
was unaware of the £250 offer of redress. Callcredit didnt wish to comment  further on the 
provisional decision. I thank both parties for their responses but Im not minded to change  
my provisional view. Ill give my reasons in detail in my final decision which  is set out below.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  that Mr O has had the misfortune  to be the victim of errors on his credit file. And I 
can understand him being upset and concerned  at whats subsequently happened  to affect 
his companys employment  and financial situation.
As Noddle has admitted  the error I neednt go into detail as to how it occurred. But I do have 
to decide what  redress would be fair and reasonable. And its by no means  a straightforward 
issue.
The essence  of what Mr O has said is that his employment ceased as a result of adverse 
information on his credit file. And Im sure from his viewpoint that is precisely how he sees  
the situation. Mr O claims the error and the delay in correcting it led to his being dismissed. 
He thinks he should be compensated for loss of earnings.
Ref: DRN81584912Whilst I dont apply  the law directly I do take it into account. And in order  to say Noddle was 
responsible for him losing employment Id have to find both that he made a loss as a result 
of its mistake and it was a reasonably foreseeable consequence of its error. For reasons Ill 
explain in more detail  I dont think I can reach  this conclusion.
Evidence supplied  by Mr O shows he was the representative of a company Ill refer to as T. 
It seems  Mr O wholly owns T and uses it to provide his services to other  businesses.  Hes 
indicated he does this for legitimate tax planning  purposes. Im happy to accept that. But just 
as there  are no doubt benefits for Mr O there  may also be disadvantages in the 
arrangement. 
The significant point  being that it is T - and not Mr O - which is legally contracted by those  
businesses. A company  has a separate legal entity  of its own, even when its wholly owned 
by an individual.  I understand  why Mr O sees  himself and his business  as, in reality,  one and 
the same  - thats not the way the law sees it.
Through Mr O, T supplied services to a company Ill call S. In turn S was able to contract 
out those services to a company Ill refer to as D. It seems  D required that any staff it used 
should have no adverse  information on their credit  files.
Ive seen an email which  appeared  to indicate  Mr Os services were  going be terminated  by 
D around December  2017. But the email wasnt addressed directly to him - rather  it was sent 
to S. What this meant in practice was that S was no longer able to accept  Mr O as the 
representative of T. But as neither D nor S employed Mr O - it cant  be said he personally 
was dismissed as opposed  to the contract with his company being cancelled.
I understand why Mr O feels the effect is the same but for the reasons Ive already explained 
an individual and a company are two separate legal entities. And whilst T might have lost 
income as a result of the cancellation of the contract, the error  by Noddle didnt relate to T. It 
was on Mr Os personal credit file. And I cant order Noddle to compensate  T - which  isnt a 
party to this complaint.
Whilst it will probably be of little consolation to Mr O I did notice  the contract between T and 
S was subject to only one months notice without  cause.  So there was no guarantee it would 
actually extend  to June 2018.  Im aware Mr O doesnt agree with this - but the term was in 
the contract.
Im also aware there was another error  on Mr Os credit file. And whilst it doesnt  alter my 
decision I refer to it for completeness as it was referred to in the investigators  view as the 
reason he was unable to say the Noddle error was the sole cause of Mr Os loss of 
employment.
This inaccurate entry wasnt due to an error  by Noddle - but apparently as a result of fraud. 
Im not able to say whether this had an effect  - as the email referring to the services of Mr O 
being offboarded  was not sufficiently specific. Although Ive no reason to doubt  Mr O when 
he says hed been able to prove that adverse  entry was not related  to him - and that it didnt  
impact on Ds decision.  Its not realistic  for Noddle to be expected to separately  verify  every 
piece of information it receives. And its entitled to reasonably expect information reported  by 
its subscribers will be accurate.
Ref: DRN81584913Noddle offered £250  compensation to Mr O for its error - and as Ive no evidence of any 
other consequential loss - I think this is fair and reasonable. Im aware Mr O says he wasnt  
aware of this offer - but Ive seen evidence  it was made in April 2018.
Whilst there was some  delay between  Mr O informing Noddle of the credit  file issue  and the 
entry being  removed - at least part of this was due to Noddle making reasonable enquiries to 
confirm thered been a misidentification. So I dont think  it did anything  wrong  in making  
these checks.
If Mr O wishes to accept  Noddles offer of £250  he should contact them directly. The 
investigator has confirmed Noddle is still prepared to honour  this offer.
 But for the reasons Ive explained  Im not going  to ask Noddle to do anything  else.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2019
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8158491