K820x#14complaint
Mrs D says Financial  Insurance  Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Its been agreed in this case that FICL, as the insurer, should accept responsibility for the 
complaint. To keep  things  simple, Ill refer to FICL as the seller in my decision.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy Mrs D took out on a store card account in 
December 2003.  It was added to her account when she applied  for the card in store.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs D disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ds case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ds complaint  and Ill explain  why.
Mrs D says she took the policy in order to get a discount on the goods  she was buying. She 
has said she wasnt given any information about the costs of the policy or that she had a 
choice about taking it. She didn't  want or need it as she was in secure employment and her 
partner could have  helped financially if she fell upon  hard times.  B ut I think  FICL made  Mrs D 
aware of the policy, that she had a choice about buying the PPI, and that she chose to take it. 
I say this because FICL has given us a copy of the store card application form from the time of 
the sale. This shows there was a separate section  for PPI and that it is presented as optional. 
Mrs D has signed separately  to take the PPI and then signed the application  form so I think  
this reflected what she wanted.  Had Mrs D not wanted the PPI she could have completed the 
application without  signing  separately to take it.
On balance, I think Mrs D was aware  of the policy, that it was optional  and she agreed to 
take it out, knowing it was something  she could say no to.
Ive seen nothing  to suggest  FICL assessed  Mrs Ds individual  needs, such as her employee 
benefits and made a formal recommendation for PPI, so I think its unlikely that it did. This 
meant it didn't  have  to check if it was right for her. But it did have to make  sure Mrs D got the 
information she needed to decide if it was right for her. 
Its possible the information FICL  gave Mrs D about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should  have 
been. So I need to consider if Mrs D would  have acted differently and not bought  the policy, 
if better information had been provided.  And on balance I dont think better  information  would 
have led her to act differently.
Ref: DRN80154372Mrs D has told us she wouldnt receive  any employee benefits if she became too unwell to 
work. She only had savings of less than three months but has said her partner would have 
helped her financially  if needs be. But I think the PPI could have been useful to her in that 
her store card payments  would be met. It also would have provided additional cover  if Mrs D 
lost her job. I couldnt see any significant or limiting terms   such  as a pre-existing medical 
condition - that would  have  affected Mrs Ds decision  to take the policy out either.
And while Mrs Ds partner  may have wanted to help financially, their own particular 
circumstances may have changed so this offer could not be guaranteed.  
Im not sure FICL gave clear information  on the costs of the PPI policy, but I dont think  this 
would have affected Mrs Ds decision to take out the policy for the reasons I have already 
given. 
Ive taken into account all Mrs Ds comments,  but for the reasons mentioned above, these 
points dont change  my conclusion.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Ds complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 October  2019.
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8015437