complaint
Mr and Mrs D are unhappy  with their home insurer Aviva  Insurance Limited. They  feel it 
took too long to repair their home  following a water leak which  caused them immense  
upset. They  are also unhappy it stopped paying a disturbance allowance  once their kitchen  
was reinstated  but whilst other rooms remained in turmoil.
background
There was a leak from Mr and Mrs Ds washing machine in May 2018. Avivas drying 
contractor, visiting the property on 31 May 2018,  agreed to start drying the property on 
11 July 2018 after Mrs Ds birthday.
Drying works began as planned with all the contents  from the utility  room being packed  into 
the dining room  and hallway. On 8 August  a section of plaster board was removed  from a 
wall by the drying contractor but on 14 August the property was felt to be dry. Mrs D was 
trying to source replacement tiles and was unhappy about the cost allocated for these. On 
3 September Aviva  agreed an uplift to the price and Mrs D bought the new tiles.
On 25 September  2018 Mrs D was told reinstatement work was booked  to start on 
4 October and she was unhappy about the delay to this point. She was also concerned  that 
there had been  some  recent investigations  into the stud wall in the dining room as it was 
soaked. Whilst investigations into this continued,  Avivas contractor lifted  the kitchen 
flooring.
Avivas drying contractor produced a report on 17 October 2018. Aviva  reviewed this on
9 November and felt it was very informative  but not too conclusive.  However, Aviva  felt it 
would have to complete  the work the report recommended  stripping the plaster off the 
wall, drying and monitoring the area before  reinstating it. It was three days  before it notified 
its contractor.  It was then decided that a further  meeting  at the property  with the contractor  
was needed. This took place towards  the end of November  and on 28 November Aviva  told
Mrs D that work would start on 3 December 2018.
The wall dried by 11 December 2018  and the kitchen floor was reinstated on 21 December, 
to ensure the kitchen was ready for the Christmas period. Aviva  stopped  paying  the 
disturbance allowance at this point.  But the work wasnt  finished and items remained in the 
dining room and hallway,  with the dining room stud wall still exposed.  Work resumed after 
Christmas. Aviva says this was on 9 January,  Mrs D says 14 January 2019.  It was 
completed, bar some snagging, by the end of January.
Ref: DRN8539465Mrs D was unhappy. She felt the claim had gone  on for far too long  she felt it should  have 
completed well before Christmas. She said communication was poor throughout and staff 
were rude. She said it wasnt fair for Aviva to have  stopped the disturbance allowance  when 
their significant disruption had continued.  She said she wanted payment  for some spare 
tiles she had purchased but which the contractor had taken away and for a few small 
contents items she said were damaged during the repair works. Mrs D also felt 
compensation should be paid of £5,000, that being  a small percentage of what it would 
have cost Aviva to put the family in a hotel  which  is really what  she felt should  have 
happened.
Across two final responses Aviva said the disturbance allowance  had stopped because the 
kitchen was back in action. But it noted the home  was still disrupted causing inconvenience 
after this date, so it said it would pay £300  for that. Plus £200 for the upset caused by the 
delays it had caused (which it wasnt specific about). It said it had already paid £150 
because a 21st birthday party couldnt  be held at their home.  Aviva  also noted that some 
redecoration was outstanding and said it would pay Mr and Mrs D £350  to do that work, and
£122.82 to account for electricity used to dry the home. It said the payments now due (not 
including the £150 previously paid) would be rounded up so Mr and Mrs D would receive
£1,000 in total.
Mr and Mrs D remained upset and complained to us. Our investigator  noted that in total 
Aviva had paid Mr and Mrs D £4,500  throughout the claim and she felt that was more  than 
what we wouldve expected Aviva to pay. Especially, she said,  as Mr and Mrs D couldnt 
show theyd had extra costs due to the claim such that a disturbance  allowance might 
usually cover.
Mrs D said they wanted an ombudsman to consider the complaint as she was unsure how,  
if as we noted Aviva had handled things badly causing upset, we could say it didnt  need  to 
pay any more disturbance allowance. Whilst she said she accepted that Aviva  had paid a 
total of £4,500 during  the claim she argued  that the actual  allowance paid was only £10 per 
person per day and this didnt even cover the cost of one pizza each. She said £350  would  
only cover  the cost of paint (and that barely) for the redecoration, not labour. Mrs D said the 
conditions theyd lived in had been  horrendous and this had been  a miserable time. The 
complaint was passed to me to consider.
Having done so I wasnt inclined to make Aviva  pay any more  disturbance  allowance or 
compensation. But I did think it should consider its redecoration settlement further  and ask 
its contractor to check for and return any spare tiles. So I issued a provisional decision to 
which the parties have  now responded. My provisional findings  were:
damaged items
Mr and Mrs D say they want payment for an ornament Mrs D dropped during the work 
whilst cleaning it of dust, as well as doormats, a broom  and a dustpan  and brush damaged  
due to excessive  dust/wear  during  the works. Avivas  claim file, in respect of the ornament, 
shows it felt this wasnt a loss naturally flowing from the water  claim. So it said it wouldnt 
pay for this under  this claim and it was worth less than the excess a second claim would 
necessitate. Regarding the other items  it didnt think  theyd been damaged by its contractor 
in negligence  and wasnt minded to make a settlement for them.
Ref: DRN8539465I understand why Mrs D is unhappy.  It was unfortunate her ornament  was damaged, but Im 
not persuaded this was due to Avivas fault or something that occurred due to the water 
leak incident. It was just an unfortunate accident. Regarding the mats and other  items,  it is 
understandable that they suffered extra wear during the claim, but they werent  damaged by 
the water  leak or as a result of work  being  done poorly. Mrs D may think they wouldnt have 
suffered if the claim had been expedited   but Im not sure that is most  likely the case. Im 
not going to make Aviva make payments for any of these items.
tiles
Mrs D purchased tiles for the reinstatement work   but she was paid for the tiles by Aviva 
as part of the claim. So, technically, the tiles were Avivas property  it fitted some and took 
the spares away. But I can understand that Mrs D would want  to have spares in case  of any 
small damage occurring in the future  necessitating  a few matching  tiles. That isnt an 
unreasonable expectation.  And I cant see that Aviva really had any use for a few spare 
tiles, or that it would have been  able to return these to gain a refund on its outlay  we 
arent talking  about a whole pack. In any event the contractor took them away whilst it had 
been Mrs D who had bought them (so would arguably need to have returned  them  for a 
refund), so I dont  think  this was a case  of Aviva trying to recoup any outlay.
I think Aviva  should ask its contractor to return the tiles. But Im not going  to require Aviva to 
pay Mr and Mrs D for these tiles in the event the contractor doesnt have them.  I think that 
would be unfair  to Aviva because it wasnt liable to complete the re-tiling  at Mr and Mrs Ds 
home whilst providing spare  tiles for them to keep  in case of future damage occurring. 
Aviva was liable  to reinstate their flooring, and that is what  it did.
redecoration
Aviva offered £350 for redecorating. But it hasnt provided a scope to show what  work was 
needed or what that would likely  cost.  But, in any case, the amount it would  cost Aviva to do 
the work  isnt relevant in this case. It did work poorly  which needs re-doing and which it is 
leaving Mr and Mrs D to do. Aviva  must  pay their cost for this work.
Mr and Mrs D will have  to provide estimates to Aviva, or invoices if theyve had this work 
done already.  Aviva  will have to settle  based  on those costs. It can, of course,  deduct from 
those costs the £350 it has paid already for this work.
disturbance allowance
I understand this was a difficult time for Mr and Mrs D but the situation being difficult, 
including the home being  disrupted,  is taken into account under compensation. A 
disturbance allowance is paid to balance  out extra costs which are incurred because  of the 
disruption. I think that during this claim, and the payments Aviva has made,  this point has 
got lost  although it may well be that Aviva  never  explained the real reason for the 
allowance to Mr and Mrs D in the first place.
Further, an allowance like this is paid outside of any policy requirement and usually 
because, as I said, the home is disrupted in some way meaning that extra costs will likely 
be incurred by the family staying there.  In this case it was because the kitchen couldnt be 
used. Whilst I see on Avivas  file it has since felt the kitchen  probably could have been 
used, so in its view paying the allowance  was generous of it, I think that looking at the 
situation at the house  as a whole there was a period  when the family  would have  had little 
choice but to buy takeaways and/or food that was simple to prepare  and cook. Im not 
Ref: DRN8539465minded to accept  now that Aviva neednt have  paid the sums it did and therefore  view those 
monies as compensation  that isnt why they were paid and that isnt what was agreed 
during the claim.
An insurer  pays an allowance like this because it is accepted that, in certain situations, a 
familys living costs  will likely be more.  And a policyholder  shouldnt  have extra  costs  as a 
result of a claim. It is paid as a generic allowance to forego the need for any evidence  in 
respect of what costs actually were,  and because it is for costs above and beyond  those  a 
policyholder would normally have  so calculating an exact  amount is usually quite 
impossible. Insurers often  pay £10 per person per day but in extreme  circumstances  they 
will pay more  and sometimes, where costs  are expected to be lower, they will pay less.
I think Avivas  payment of £10 per person per day in this situation was fair and reasonable. 
Access to the kitchen was limited and the area was dusty. There was also limited space to 
eat properly, or all together as a family.  But there were no specific  dietary requirements, as 
far as Im aware, for example, that unreasonably increased the cost of buying ready 
prepared food, and the family still had full access to washing and sleeping  facilities,  and the 
gas and electricity were working as normal. I also think  it was fair for Aviva  to have stopped 
paying the allowance once the kitchen floor was reinstated  this should have mitigated 
most if not all of the extra costs the family had been paying for food as the kitchen  could 
now be used as normal (including there  being room to eat).
claim handling and compensation
For upset and inconvenience Aviva has paid £200 regarding  that caused  by its delays, 
£300 for that caused by access  to the dining room still being restricted after 
21 December 2018 and £150 for a birthday party being moved. Thats a total of £650 
compensation for distress and inconvenience  caused by its failings.
Whilst I see that Mr and Mrs D have compared  the amount  paid for upset to what Aviva 
would have had to spend for a hotel  if the family had moved  out of their home,  that is not 
the basis I use for making a compensation award.  Such a basis  is punitive  and, in any case, 
the property was habitable and so Aviva would have  been under  no obligation to pay for the 
familys costs  of alternative accommodation.  My awards are made  to reflect  the upset 
caused by Avivas errors. When  I consider what  fair and reasonable compensation is, I take 
into account this services approach to compensation  awards and consider what  amounts 
have been paid in other complaints in similar circumstances. But the situation and the upset 
caused to the individuals in the circumstance I am considering is key. That said, I dont 
parcel up each individual piece of upset  and give it a figure. Rather I look at all the failings 
and the upset they caused, applying an overall figure that I think  fairly and reasonably 
accounts for the distress and inconvenience  as a whole.
There is no doubt in my mind that Aviva handled  this claim poorly causing delays and 
frustration due to a lack of communication. This is evidenced throughout Avivas claim file 
but summed up, for me, by the loss adjuster commenting that this claim took a lot longer  
than it should  have done and the following quote from Avivas  complaint handler:
the service  and contact  has been  terribleThis is one that we should never have received 
in complaints as it could  have been dealt with at claims  stage if communication  had been 
better between [the loss adjuster] and claims.
Ref: DRN8539465K821x#15I determine from the file, and as is clear from my background set out above, that there 
were long periods  where the claim  could have been moved  on more quickly  but was just 
left in abeyance. There was a six-week  delay between mid-August  and work  starting  in 
early October. Mrs D could  have  been tasked with finding tiles earlier   and her looking 
for tiles shouldnt have  prevented work starting.  Once she found the tiles there was then 
a delay of another month. The report from October  wasnt acted upon quickly  enough,  
I cant see any good reason why work  shouldnt have started  in early November. There 
was then the delay after Christmas. In total Aviva  delayed  this claim by three months  it 
completed late January  2019, it should  have  been  done and dusted by the end of 
October 2018.
If it had, the 21st birthday, the seasonal period and a birthday that was affected by the 
disruption in January, would have been  experienced with the loss and reinstatement 
merely a diminishing memory.
Ive noted above that the family couldnt eat together  until the kitchen was reinstated  and 
that their dining room  became nothing more than a (narrow) walkway  to the kitchen. 
I accept that the necessary repairs changed  the way they had to live for a time  but 
Avivas delay caused that experience to carry on for around three  months longer than it 
should have done.
Im also aware that the house wasnt cleaned  afterwards  which  Mr and Mrs D had to deal 
with. Given the nature  of the work  an exposed concrete  floor for a few months,  as well 
as wall plaster being stripped, and reapplied, I think there would have been a lot of dust. 
And because the family were living in the house,  those areas couldnt be sheeted  off to 
protect the rest of the home. I think a deep  clean of the house should have been 
completed by Aviva.  I accept that because it wasnt Mr and Mrs D were caused 
additional distress  and inconvenience.
So Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs D suffered a fair amount of distress and inconvenience  
that should have been avoided. But Aviva has accepted this and has offered £650  
compensation for that. In the circumstances, I think that is fair and reasonable. In saying 
that I bear in mind  that whilst the family  lived through significant disruption, they were still 
able to live in their home with their belongings. They didnt feel able to have visitors  but 
they were still able to carry  out other  normal activities which  they may not have been 
able to had they been placed into alternative accommodation (although Aviva didnt fail 
them by not offering that because their home  wasnt uninhabitable). Im mindful  also that 
whilst the family lived through seven months  of disruption, July 2018  January 2019,  
they would  always,  even if Aviva had handled this properly, experienced 4 months  of 
upset. Usually when  I require an insurer to pay more than this sum it is because a family 
has suffered much more  significant delays, often whilst  not being able to live in their 
home. Whilst I am satisfied  that Aviva caused distress and inconvenience  to 
Mr and Mrs D, Im not minded to make it pay more than the £650 compensation it has 
already paid.
Aviva accepted my findings. Mrs D asked if she needs to obtain estimates for the 
redecoration work I mentioned as part of my award.  She also made  a number of points 
in reply and particularly asked that I reconsider my decision to not make Aviva  pay more  
disturbance allowance and compensation. Ive summarised Mrs Ds points here:
Ref: DRN85394656£350 doesnt cover the cost of paint or the ruined  items  which  need replacing.
Regarding those  items they were definitely ruined by the contractor.
The cost to purchase four tiles should  be paid for by Aviva as the contractor 
deliberately removed the spares.
She didnt cause an issue or delay regarding the tiles.
It had been  very difficult to access the kitchen at all since  the floor was taken up and 
the disruption allowance shouldnt have stopped when there were still major issues 
and amounts of dust at the property (even  after the floor was re-laid).
Temperatures were unbearable.
The delay October to December was unnecessarily long and if it hadnt happened  
the upset over Christmas and the effect  on the birthdays would have been avoided.
Communication was atrocious.
Aviva  did tell her it should have  put the family  into a hotel, so why have I concluded 
that wasnt necessary.
Christmas  was ruined so the disruption allowance should be extended to the 
22 January 2019.
They experienced seven months of hell and my compensation  award  should  be 
revised.
When I reconsider my findings  I should take account of the fact that Aviva didnt 
clean the property.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs D will need to obtain estimates  for the redecoration work that remains  
outstanding. These can be submitted direct to Aviva for it to consider.  Aviva wont be 
able to restrict any settlement it makes  to what the work might have cost it to complete 
but it will want to assure  itself that the work estimated for reflects  its liability.
My order  regarding re-considering the cost of decorating  takes into account the fact that 
Mrs D says £350 isnt enough and Aviva  hasnt persuaded me it is. 
I remain of my view, as set out provisionally, that Aviva isnt liable for the cost for 
replacing the damaged items  or the missing tiles (should  the contractor not be able to 
return the tiles taken away). Nothing Mrs D has said has changed my mind on these 
issues. And, for the avoidance of doubt,  I still think that Aviva is responsible for the delay 
which occurred during the period  Mrs D was tasked  with finding tiles  she did not, in my 
view, add to or cause  any delay at that time.
I explained in my provisional decision  that Aviva paid a disturbance  allowance  (not a 
disruption allowance) and the basis for this payment. I remain  of the view that reinstating 
the kitchen floor, even whilst a lot of the rest of the ground floor of the home was 
disrupted, removed the cause of the family having  to incur extra costs. So it was fair for 
the disturbance  allowance  which reflects extra  costs not disruption  to end. Whilst the 
living conditions within the home  remained very uncomfortable that fact (the disruption) 
was taken into account by me when I assessed  compensation  for distress and 
inconvenience.
Ref: DRN85394657Regarding the living  conditions at the home and the effect of the delays,  Mrs D has 
mostly reiterated points  reflected in my findings already made. I didnt specifically  
mention the temperatures  of the home but was aware of that when I made my findings,  
Im sorry  if that wasnt initially clear. 
I havent seen  that Aviva  generally accepted the home was uninhabitable. It may be that 
a staff member took this view at one stage  or it could be that was the impression Mrs D 
formed from the conversation. But overall Aviva chose to only offer a disturbance 
allowance rather than to re-house the family.  In the circumstances  I think that was a 
reasonable decision. As I explained provisionally,  the home had utility services,  washing  
facilities and some use of the kitchen  (although  admittedly restricted).
I know this whole experience has been very difficult for Mr and Mrs D. I understand that 
it must  have  been difficult seeing how all of this disruption affected their daughter who 
has difficulty coping with change. But I have  to separate the upset that would always  
have flowed naturally from the incident that led to the claim, from that which occurred 
because of Avivas failings. And it is only in respect  of the latter which  I can award 
compensation for. Having reconsidered everything, I remain  of the view that the £650 
Aviva has already paid is fair and reasonable compensation. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part. I require  Aviva Insurance Limited to:
Ask its contractor  to return any spare tiles it took from Mr and Mrs Ds home, if 
available.
Consider Mr and Mrs Ds estimates  and/or invoices for redecorating the three rooms 
it has already  paid £350  for and pay their reasonable  costs above that sum.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D 
to accept or reject my decision before 18 September 2020.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8539465