K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about regular premium payment protection insurance  (PPI) policies  taken 
out alongside personal loans between 2002  and 2008. Mrs R says Leeds  City Credit Union 
Limited (LCCU) mis-sold  her the PPI.
background
Mrs R took out a PPI policies with personal  loans  as per the following: -
Loan 1  taken out in July 2002
Loan 2  taken out in April 2003
Loan 3  taken out in July 2004
Loan 4  taken out in April 2005
Loan 5  taken out in February  2006
Loan 6  taken out in April 2007
Loan 7  taken out in April 2008
Loans 1 to 6 provided accident and sickness  cover  for 24 months per claim and 
unemployment cover  for 12 months.  Loan 7 provided accident  and sickness  cover only for 
24 months per claim. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs R disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Rs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Mrs R has said she thought the PPI was compulsory  as well as saying she didnt know PPI 
had been taken. LCCU have said it would have been clear PPI was optional. Where  theres 
a dispute about what happened, I have to base my decision on what I think is most  likely to 
have happened, taking  into account all the evidence that is available .
LCCU has provided all the application  forms and loan agreements  for the sales  of loans  1 to 
7. LCCU have said the application forms would have been  completed in Mrs Rs own time 
and sent back  by post. From looking at all the applications, I have no reason to think  
otherwise. 
All the application  forms are clear in presenting the PPI as optional. Mrs R would have an 
option to select  or decline  PPI and I can see Mrs R has selected PPI in all the applications.  
On sending the applications  back, Mrs R would have been  sent a loan agreement.  This 
would have reflected  everything from the application  form  including the selection of PPI. 
So whilst the yes box in the agreement for PPI has been selected, as a result from it being 
chosen on the application form,  there is still a box to select for no for PPI. So if Mrs R didnt 
want PPI, she could  have  declined to take it. And if Mrs R had any concerns on review of the 
Ref: DRN86766432agreements, I would have expected for her to have raised it before  signing in agreement with 
all the information  on the document. 
So having  taken everything in to consideration, I think LCCU made it clear that Mrs R didnt 
have to take out the PPI and she chose to take it out for all the sales   although I can 
understand why she cant  remember this.
LCCU didnt  recommend  the PPI to Mrs R so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. But 
it did have to make sure Mrs R got the information she needed to decide  if it was right for 
her. 
Its possible the information LCCU gave Mrs R about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But she chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted  this type of cover. 
Based on what Ive seen  of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put her off taking  out the cover.  
Mrs R has said she would  have received six months full followed by six months  half sick 
pay from her employer  if she was too ill to work.  But the PPI would  have paid out in addition  
to any sick pay she had and for longer than her sick pay would have  lasted at a full rate. And 
it wouldve  paid out on top of any redundancy payment she may have  got if she lost her job 
for loans  1 to 6. So I still think the PPI would  have been useful for her.
Ive thought about everything Mrs R has said but these points dont change my decision.
Ive also thought about the commission Mrs R paid on her policy  and whether LCCU 
treated her unfairly. 
LCCU has told us that the commission for Mrs Rs policy was less than half of what  she paid 
for each  premium. Weve  looked at how LCCU has been working this out and based on what 
weve seen it looks like its right  Mrs Rs commission was less than half the cost of the 
policy. As thats the case, I dont think it needed to tell her about the commission  so I dont 
think LCCU  treated her unfairly. This means  it doesnt need to pay Mrs R back any of the 
commission she paid for the PPI. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs R to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 February  2019.
Sonia Hussain
Ref: DRN86766433ombudsman
Ref: DRN8676643