K820x#14complaint
M, a limited company, complains about  the time taken  for a payment to be returned to its 
account with HSBC UK Bank Plc. M is represented  by its director, who Ill call Mr B.
background
In January 2019 Mr B made a payment from Ms account of about £3,400 using online 
banking. He intended to send the payment to Ms supplier. Unfortunately, he used incorrect 
account details.  He asked HSBC to retrieve the payment.  
Mr B says HSBC didnt do enough  to retrieve the payment.  He says the payment was only 
returned when  he contacted the recipient bank directly. He says M was unable  to pay its 
supplier and the matter  affected his health.  He says he had to chase HSBC a number of 
times. And hes unhappy about the way he was spoken to during a call in March 2019.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He said HSBC had 
made reasonable attempts to get the funds bank.  
M didnt agree. Mr B didnt accept that HSBC had done everything it could to get the money  
back. He says it made no real effort. 
Mr B says HSBC told him the best way to get his money back was to speak  to the recipient 
bank himself. He says the way HSBC spoke to him wasnt acceptable. Mr B says if he hadnt 
spoken to the recipient bank he still wouldnt have the money.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B made a payment to a supplier from Ms business account on 27 January 2019. The 
account details  were incorrect as they were for the suppliers old account. Mr B reported the 
error to HSBC. HSBC  made a recall  request  to the recipient bank on 31 January 2019.
The recall  process doesnt guarantee recovery of the payment.  HSBC has to contact the 
recipient bank. The recipient bank should provide a response so that HSBC can notify M of 
the outcome of the recall  request within 20 days. 
Here, HSBC received  a confirmation from the recipient bank on 1 February that it would 
process the request. It received a further  confirmation on 27 February 2019 that the payment 
couldnt be recovered as funds werent available. 
HSBC wrote to Mr B in March 2019 saying he could  submit  a written request to obtain the 
recipients name and address to pursue the funds independently.
I can understand how upsetting this was for Mr B. But Ive looked  at the recall process and 
the requests sent by HSBC and I dont think it made  an error. HSBC wasnt responsible  for 
Mr B using the wrong account details when  he sent the payment. As the payment had left 
HSBC, HSBCs responsibility was to contact the recipient bank and ask for the funds to be 
returned. When it didnt  hear back from the recipient bank within  20 days  it chased for a 
response. 
Ref: DRN89507042HSBC was told by the recipient bank that the payment couldnt be returned. I think  it was 
reasonable for HSBC to rely on the recipient banks response: it didnt have access to the 
account that the money was paid into and couldnt  have known if this wasnt  correct.
The payment was returned  in full in May 2019. I dont know  if the payment was returned  
because Mr B contacted  the recipient bank, this could be the case. But this doesnt mean 
HSBC didnt follow the correct process  when it tried to recall  the payment. 
Mr B says he called  HSBC numerous times  and had to chase  it for information. Not knowing 
what was happening with the payment must have been worrying.  But HSBC didnt have any 
new information to give to Mr B. After  it received  a response from the recipient bank it wrote 
to Mr B  although I appreciate it didnt give him the news hed hoped for.
Mr B found  some  of the calls with HSBC upsetting. But the recall  process  isnt guaranteed. 
Its reasonable for HSBC to tell customers that the process has limitations and they might 
have better  success by pursuing  the payment through other means   especially if they know  
the account holder that received the payment. 
I understand that this was a stressful time for Mr B and affected  his health. Mr B says M 
didnt have enough funds to re-send  the payment to its supplier, and this affected its 
business. But I dont  think HSBC made  an error that would  make it fair and reasonable for 
me to require HSBC  to pay compensation to M.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 March  2020.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8950704