K820x#14complaint
Ms G complains about the installation cost of a new boiler under her home emergency policy  
provided by Aviva Insurance Limited. 
Aviva has had contractors working  for them during this claim, so any reference to Aviva  also 
includes its contractors. 
background
In December 2017 Ms Gs tenant  reported that the boiler in her property had stopped  
working. Aviva attended a day later but said the boiler was beyond  economic repair. Under 
the terms of her policy it said she was entitled  to a free boiler replacement, but shed need to 
pay the installation  costs. 
Aviva was due to return to Ms Gs property but missed  an appointment. When  it did attend 
Ms G said she was given a quote  of £1,500 for the installation. Ms G asked for a breakdown 
of the cost. Aviva provided one. Ms G wasnt happy  with the service provided by Aviva so 
she hired her own contractor to install a boiler at a cost of £1,670. The invoice  provided  by 
Ms G for this said the installation was free. She complained to Aviva about the service shed 
received and the policy terms, she asked that the cost of her boiler be covered by Aviva.
Aviva said it would have  paid £402 for a new boiler,  so this is what it offered to reimburse   
Ms G. It also recognised it had missed  an appointment  which  had caused a delay in the 
claim. It offered Ms G £100  to recognise the impact of this.
Ms G didnt accept this and brought the complaint to our service. Our investigator  didnt  think  
the policy terms were unfair,  so Aviva was entitled  to only pay what it would  have paid to 
replace the boiler. She didnt think Aviva needed to do anything differently.
Ms G said the policy had been  useless, so asked for her premiums  to be refunded  back  to 
her. She said she didnt  think  Aviva had been clear when the policy terms had changed.  She 
said because of the lack of transparency  she couldnt make an informed choice about 
whether the policy  was suitable for her. 
As Ms G didnt  agree,  the matter has come to me to decide.
After the matter was referred for a final decision, the investigator asked Aviva whether it 
could show anything to demonstrate what the cost of the boiler  would have been to it. Aviva 
sent some  information  to show its fixed costs for different  types of boiler. But it said it had 
missed the VAT off, so it said Ms G was owed a further £82.40  for the boiler. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
The policy wording is clear that if a replacement boiler is necessary Ms G  will be required  
to pay the installation costs. The term also says the replacement  boiler will match the old 
one and provide  the same  heating and hot water. Ms G chose not to have Aviva  replace the 
boiler, but she says Aviva  should refund her the full cost of what she paid.
Ref: DRN84159882Ive looked at the information provided by Aviva for what it would cost it to source the boiler.  
Insurance companies are often able to get discounts, so Im satisfied that the total cost of 
£484.40, which is the total amount Aviva  will pay Ms G, is correct.  Aviva has already  paid  
Ms G the £402, so all thats left to pay is £82.40.
Aviva accept it provided poor service when the claim was initially made. Ive thought about 
whether Avivas service  was so poor that it was reasonable for Ms G to use her own 
contractor and for Aviva to pay the full cost of what Ms G incurred. But I dont think it should. 
Aviva missed an appointment at the start January, this delayed the claim by a few days. 
Ms G asked for a breakdown of the installation cost as she thought  it was too high. She 
thought Aviva was trying  to cover the cost of the boiler. Aviva  explained  what  the cost was 
for but couldnt  give a more detailed breakdown as it said its costs  were fixed. I think  it did 
this in a reasonable amount of time, and from the claims  notes Aviva  provided  the 
information before Ms G hired her own contractor. 
I appreciate Aviva didnt  tell her how much it would offer to pay as a contribution to the boiler 
at this stage. But having looked  at everything, I dont think it would be fair for Aviva to pay 
Ms G more  than it would have cost it to replace the boiler. Ms Gs quote shows the 
installation for her boiler was free. But overall she hasnt been  able to show  she was able to 
purchase the boiler and have it installed for cheaper than what  Aviva  quoted  her. So I 
havent seen enough to persuade me that Aviva  has inflated the cost of the installation  to 
cover the cost of the boiler as Ms G has said. So I dont think it needs  to contribute any more 
than it has. 
Ms G has said her tenant was without  heating for longer than she should have been during 
the winter period. Whilst I understand this would be frustrating for them,  theyre not 
customers of Aviva  so I cant make it compensate them for any distress  and inconvenience  
they experienced. But I think Avivas  offer of £100  for the distress  and inconvenience  caused 
to Ms G by the missed appointment and the small delay of around  three  days  is fair and 
reasonable.
Ms G has said the terms of the policy have changed and Aviva hasnt been transparent 
about that. Shes said as a result she hasnt  been able to make  an informed choice about 
whether the policy  is suitable for her. Avivas  policy used to offer a £200  contribution  towards 
a new boiler when the old one had been deemed beyond economical  repair.  It now offers  a 
free replacement boiler, but the costs of installation must  be paid by the policyholder. 
I dont know if Aviva made it clear to Ms G that the benefit of the policy  had changed, but it 
seems the policy  now offers a larger contribution to the boiler than it did before. So Im not 
persuaded that Ms G has lost out as a result  of the policy changing or that it needed to bring  
it to her attention. 
I appreciate Ms G would  like her insurance premiums to be refunded to her, but I dont think 
that would  be fair in the circumstances for the reasons given above. 
Ref: DRN84159883my final decision
My final decision is that Aviva Insurance Limited  needs to pay Ms G £82.40  to settle  the 
claim. It should add 8% on this figure from the date it paid the claim until the date of 
settlement.* 
It should also pay Ms G £100  compensation, if it hasnt done so already.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 April 2019.
Michelle Henderson
Ombudsman
*Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Aviva Insurance Limited  deducts  income  
tax from the interest  it should tell Ms G how much has been taken off. Aviva Insurance  
Limited should give Ms G a tax deduction certificate  if she asks for one, so she can reclaim 
the tax from HM Revenue  & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN8415988