K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains about Santander  UK Plc (Santander) for wrongly  placing a deceased  
marker against his account, and causing his cards and regular payments to be cancelled. 
Mr S wants  to be appropriately compensated for his inconvenience and distress. 
background
Mr S held various accounts  with Santander. On his main account he had more than 20 direct  
debits and standing  orders  in place to manage  his finances. 
In June 2018, Santander mistakenly placed  a deceased marker  against his account.  
This marker  caused  Mr Ss cards to be cancelled, and all his direct  debits and standing 
orders to be cancelled. 
Mr S and his family began receiving communications from businesses about  the cancellation 
of his direct  debits, and offers of condolence.  
Mr S contacted Santander, two days after the marker was placed on his account. 
When contacted,  Santander ordered a replacement card for Mr S.
Santander initially advised Mr S that it was unable to reinstate his direct debits and that Mr S 
would have to put these  in place himself. 
Mr S escalated his complaint and spoke to a manager, who agreed to look into what could 
be done. 
Santander contacted Mr S later that day and acknowledged that Santander  would be able to 
reinstate the payments. He went  through  each of Mr Ss previous direct  debits and manually 
reinstated them. During this call, the manager  advised Mr S that if he encountered any 
issues from missed  payments to inform  Santander  and they could re-open his complaint to 
consider his financial impact. 
Santander then offered  Mr S compensation of £400. Santander sent Mr S its final response 
letter repeating this information. 
Mr S rejected this offer and referred  his complaint to us. He advised that since  the initial 
marker was placed  he had experienced additional impact, including that his daughters 
missed out on a booked  class and were returned to a waiting list because of the cancelled  
direct debit. He also advised  that he had received a default notice from one of his payees 
and would have  a late payment showing on his credit file. He advised that he suffered from 
high blood pressure and had experienced headaches as a result of the stress caused,  and 
that his wife had suffered ill health  due to the issue which had caused him additional 
concern. 
One of our adjudicators has looked into this matter and set out his view to the parties.  This 
was that Santander should increase its offer to £700  to reflect  the impact on Mr S. 
Mr S accepted this view.  
Ref: DRN84600332Santander requested further information  to support  the adjudicators  view,  including  medical 
information and proof  of Mr S receiving the default notice. 
This was provided, but Santander  considered that these  issues  had been taken into account 
in its offer of £400. It therefore did not accept the adjudicators view and kept its offer at 
£400.  
Mr S was not happy to accept Santanders offer and so the complaint has been  passed for 
an ombudsman decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have, in particular,  listened to the available call recordings of Mr Ss conversations  with 
Santander. 
There is no dispute that Santander was wrong to place the marker on Mr Ss account  and Mr 
S did not do anything  to contribute to this mistake. The issue here is the appropriate level of 
compensation for his distress and inconvenience. 
It is clear from the calls that Mr S was very distressed  by the mistake  and that he and his 
family had received condolence letters. It is also clear that he was substantially  worried 
thinking that he would have to reinstate each of his direct debit payments individually. 
Santanders was not initially helpful  in respect of Mr Ss concerns and it was only upon 
escalation, and a tense call between the manager and Mr S that Santander  agreed  to go 
through Mr Ss direct debits and reinstate them  
Mr S had a large number  of regular payments and has detailed  that he relied upon his direct  
debits to ensure  he met all his financial commitments. I can understand this, and it is evident 
from the calls that Mr S was concerned about  the time it would  take to set these up again  so 
as not to suffer any impact upon his credit record. He also left work early to be available  for 
Santanders call to discuss his account  and complaint.  
During the call with the manager, Santander offered Mr S £400 compensation based on the 
distress he had suffered  up to that point. The manager advised him that should  he encounter 
any issues with missed  payments to let Santander  know and it would consider further  
effects. 
Mr S has subsequently provided  evidence that he received  a default notice from one 
company in August 2018 due to a missed  payment  in July. This company was one which 
was discussed  during  Mr Ss call with Santander but which  used a different reference.  
Neither Mr S nor the manager was able to identify the payment but Mr S requested  it be 
reinstated. It appears  that despite this request a payment was missed. 
Santander has said that Mr S agreed  to be responsible for reinstating this direct debit so it 
does not consider that it should  compensate  him for the missed  payment on this account. 
I understand Santanders view, and Mr S said during the call that he would  check  with all 
companies as he was worried not to miss anything. However the manager reassured  him 
Ref: DRN84600333that if he did suffer consequences then he should  let Santander  know and these would be 
looked at. 
I think it very unlikely that the payment was deliberately missed by Mr S, and he did incur a 
missed payment, which led to a default  notice being  sent to him. I think  that, given 
Santanders assurances that Mr S should advise  it of any other  issues that arose  after its 
offer, that it should have taken this into account  and increased its offer.  
Mr S has also provided adequate evidence of the impact upon his health due to the issues, 
in that he experienced increased headaches. 
Santander has set out that it considered Mr Ss anxiety and inconvenience  in its offer of 
£400. It therefore does not consider that it should increase its offer due to Mr Ss complaint 
of stress related ill health and receiving  a default  notice due to a missed payment. 
I am satisfied that Mr S has suffered greater distress and inconvenience  than recognised by 
Santander and I agree with the adjudicators assessment that Santander should pay 
additional compensation to Mr S to reflect the additional effects he suffered after their offer of 
£400. 
I think that the adjudicators recommendation of £700 in total (including  the £400  already 
paid) is in line with other awards that we would make in similar circumstances and I think this 
is a fair and reasonable amount. 
On that basis I uphold Mr Ss complaint and direct  Santander UK Plc to pay Mr S total 
compensation for this complaint of £700. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I uphold Mr Ss complaint  and direct  Santander  UK Plc to pay 
him total compensation of £700.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 May 2019.
Laura Garvin-Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8460033