K821x#15complaint
Mr S says Provident Personal  Credit Limited (trading as Satsuma) lent to him irresponsibly.
background
Mr S had one loan with Provident, for £1,000, repayable over 12 months at £166  per month.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should  be upheld. They thought the information  
Provident had about Mr S income and expenditure demonstrated that the loan wasnt  likely  
to be sustainably affordable, so Provident  shouldnt have approved  it. Provident  didnt 
respond to the adjudicator, so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Provident needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr S 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure.
Provident was required to establish  whether Mr S could sustainably  repay  his loans   not 
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.  Of 
course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis might be an indication a consumer 
could sustainably make  their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. 
This is because the relevant regulations define  sustainable as being  without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
I can see from Providents notes  it carried out what it refers to as an enhanced affordability 
assessment before  approving Mr S loan. Its notes say:
Income verification received. Enhanced Affordability Assessment completed,  application 
approved. Income  £1300.89, Expenditure £1140.01,  Disposable  Income  £160.88. Reason  
for Loan: home  improvements.
So Providents own notes  appear to show the loan was unaffordable.  Mr S monthly 
disposable income of £160.88, as calculated by Provident, is less than the monthly 
repayment for the loan.
I can see however that Provident has also sent us a spreadsheet with slightly  different  
figures  so Ive considered what this shows us. On the spreadsheet, Mr S monthly income  
is recorded as £1,300  and it seems to say Mr S declared £955  of total outgoings  when he 
applied for the loan.  Provident added another £171.78 to Mr S declared  outgoings  based  on 
Ref: DRN82320262information it received  from a credit reference  agency. This resulted in total outgoings of 
£1,126.78 per month and a disposable income figure of £173.22 per month. Using  these 
figures, Mr S would be left with £7.22 per month  after making the repayments to Provident.
Whichever set of expenditure figures Provident  considers  to be correct,  I think  it ought to 
have realised a monthly repayment of £166  wasnt sustainable. Its clearly unaffordable  if 
Mr S only had £160 from which he could potentially repay the loan. Alternatively, leaving 
Mr S with just £7.22 per month for any expenditure which was unexpected/unplanned  (or 
simply just not taken into account  during  the loan application process)  every month for an 
entire year is clearly no more sustainable.
I think Provident had enough information  to realise the loan it agreed  wasnt sustainably  
affordable for Mr S. Im therefore upholding his complaint.
putting things right
Provident should rework  the loan to remove all interest and charges and treat all payments 
as if they were paid towards the principal.  If, after it has done this, Mr S has repaid more 
than the principal amount borrowed, Provident should refund this, adding 8% interest  from 
when the overpayments were made, until the date of settlement. If on the other  hand this 
still leaves a balance  for Ms S to pay, then I encourage both parties  to maintain a suitable 
repayment arrangement.
Provident should also remove any adverse information it has recorded about the loan  but it 
doesnt have to do this until the loan has been  settled.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires Provident to take off tax from this interest. Provident  must give 
Mr S a certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
Please note: I understand Mr S is in an Individual Voluntary Arrangement  (IVA). Provident 
may therefore need to contact Mr S and/or  his insolvency practitioner  in order  to determine 
to whom any redress (if there is any) should be paid.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  against Provident  Personal  Credit Limited and it must put things right 
by taking the steps set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 May 2020.
Matthew Bradford
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8232026