K821x#15complaint
Mr C says that Western Circle  Ltd (trading as Cashfloat) lent money to him that he couldnt  
afford to repay.
background
This complaint is about five payday loans Cashfloat  provided to Mr C between June 2015 
and September  2016. Some of the information  Cashfloat has provided about  the loans is in 
the table below. 
loan 
numberdate startedamount 
borrowedInstalments date endedHighest  
repayment
1 05/06/2015 £400.00 3 29/08/2015 £189.99
2 11/09/2015 £400.00 3 27/11/2015 £182.44
3 29/11/2015 £750.00 4 24/03/2016 £296.92
4 27/03/2016 £600.00 3 28/06/2016 £304.65
5 29/09/2016 £500.00 2 28/11/2016 £339.62
Our adjudicator said Mr Cs complaint should  be partly upheld.  She said loans four and five 
should be upheld.  Cashfloat disagreed with her view.
The two parties  have still not reached  an agreement about  Mr Cs complaint. As the 
complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to 
decide. This is the last stage of our process. If Mr C accepts my decision it is legally binding 
on both parties.
my findings
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  We've  set out our general approach to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Cashfloat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure that  
Mr C could repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts and 
the consumer's  income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Cashfloat should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These  factors  
include:
the lower  a customer's income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Ref: DRN89390112the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Cashfloat was required to establish 
whether Mr C could sustainably repay his loans - not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC), defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  
repayments on time, while meeting other  reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Cs complaint.
I can see that checks were carried out in regard to Mr Cs income, expenses and 
creditworthiness, through  credit checks. Cashfloat has given a summary of what  it says it 
saw when it carried out these checks although  it has not been able to provide  our service 
with documentation  of the checks that it carried out for each of the loans it granted. So I cant 
be sure to what detail it would have seen Mr Cs finances at the time it granted him the 
loans.
That said,  I think these checks carried out by Cashfloat seem reasonable in regard  to the 
early loans. However, as our adjudicator explained by the time Mr C took out the fourth loan 
Cashfloat should have been  concerned  that he was having problems managing his money. I 
say this because  this was his fourth loan in around  9 months and the third and fourth loans 
were taken out shortly  after the previous loans were repaid. I think this should have raised 
enough concern  that Mr C was possibly dependent on short  term borrowing and prompted 
Cashfloat to carry  out further checks.
I have looked  through  the information provided in a credit file provided  by Mr C and can see 
that he was making  use of a number of other short term credit providers at the time of the 
fourth and fifth loans.  When  I consider this alongside  his pattern of borrowing, it suggests  to 
me that he needed  to take out new loans to repay existing debt. Given this I dont think  that 
loans four and five were sustainable and dont think these should have been provided  to    
Mr C.
I think that Mr C lost out because Cashfloat  continued to provide borrowing from loan four 
onwards because these loans had the effect  of unfairly prolonging Mr Cs indebtedness  by 
allowing him to take expensive  credit  intended for short-term use over an extended period of 
time.
Ref: DRN89390113So Im also upholding  this complaint  in regard to loans four and five.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in regard to loans  four and five. Western  
Circle Ltd (trading as Cashfloat) should:
refund  all interest and charges that Mr C paid on loans four and five;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on all refunds from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement*;
the number  of loans taken from loan four onwards means any information recorded 
about them  is adverse. So all entries  about  loans four and five should  be removed 
from Mr Cs credit  file.
*HMRC requires  you to take off tax from this interest. If Mr C asks you for a certificate 
showing how much  tax youve taken off, you should provide this. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 November  2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8939011