K820x#14complaint
Miss T complains about the decision by AWP P&C SA (AWP)  to withdraw  her travel 
insurance cover after she had a change in health.
My references to AWP include its agents.
background
I set out the background  to this complaint in my provisional decision, which forms part of this 
final decision. I said I wasnt likely to uphold  the complaint, and below is an extract  from that 
decision:
In 2017 Miss T took out an annual multi-trip travel insurance policy with AWP that covered 
herself and her partner.  AWP agreed to cover  her for two medical  conditions,  one of which  
was ulcerative colitis.  
In October  2017 Miss T was taken  into hospital. She had her colon removed, and was 
discharged the following January 2018.  In May 2018  she called AWP about the changes to 
her medical condition. AWP asked Miss T a few medical questions. It then said it couldnt  
continue to insure her because the medical  risk was now too high. AWP gave her a pro-rata  
refund of her policy premium. Miss T came to us.
Our adjudicator said AWP had been  entitled  to withdraw the cover.  AWP should reasonably 
have offered to pay the cancellation  cost of any pre-booked holiday.  But the adjudicator 
thought it was likely Miss T wouldnt have  cancelled her family  holiday. So she didnt think 
AWP should do anything  more to resolve  the complaint.  
Miss T didnt agree. She said that AWP hadnt properly considered  her individual 
circumstances. It had placed people like her, with a disability at a disadvantage. She no 
longer had the condition  ulcerative  colitis  as her colon had been removed. AWP hadnt 
allowed her to explain her own situation. AWP hadnt explained how it had calculated  the 
perceived additional risk, hiding behind a risk score without detail, methodology or how it had 
worked out the risk or score. It had asked only three  questions  and hadnt looked at her 
specific circumstances. It referred to underwriting guidelines but she couldnt check them  as 
it hadnt provided her with details. 
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so its likely  I wont  uphold 
this complaint. 
Under the policy terms AWP asked Miss T to call it about specific changes in her health. She 
properly did so, the month before  she was due to travel on a family holiday. 
AWP asked Miss T to tell it about  specific changes in her health after she took out her 
annual travel insurance policy. But we consider it fair for AWP to charge an additional 
premium or to withdraw  cover entirely  only if the change in health represented a significant 
change in risk. 
Ref: DRN81635882When Miss T properly called AWP it asked her a series of questions  about colitis. The 
questions and Miss Ts answers  are set out below. 
Have you had your entire colon removed? (Yes)
Have you had surgery in the last three months  for your bowel problem? (No)
How many medicines  do you take for colitis (1)
How many unplanned  hospital admissions have you had for your bowel problem in the last 2 
years? (Over 1)
Have you ever had any episodes of bowel obstruction (No)
Before her surgery Miss T had been  able to answer  no/none to the above  questions.  But 
when the answers  to these questions changed the score applied to the risk she presented  
to the insurer  doubled.  The new score was much higher than the one AWP would agree to 
cover. 
I think there was a significant change in risk following Miss Ts surgery and colon removal. 
So AWP was entitled to say that it wouldnt cover Miss T any further. 
Miss T has told us that shes  since been told the medication she was given was for the 
stoma rather  than for colitis. But I need  to base this decision on Miss Ts knowledge of her 
medical condition  at the time of the medical screening. 
As our adjudicator has explained,  we might  consider it fair for an insurer  to offer to cover the 
cost of cancelling any holiday  booked before the change in the consumers health.  But here 
Miss T decided to travel without travel insurance as she said shed  have been  able to use 
the European reciprocal health  care card (EHIC)  if necessary. Shed found  the cost of 
alternative was prohibitively expensive, which also indicates that other insurers had 
assessed her to be a higher risk.
Ive thought about the issue of Miss Ts disability. Ive set out the questions AWP asked her, 
but she makes the point  that this didnt  go into her own specific  circumstances  in sufficient 
detail and shed  been unable to check how AWP  assessed the increased risk. 
Its not my role to decide if a particular policy decision  is discriminatory, as thats for the 
courts to decide.  But I can decide  whether AWP treated Miss T fairly and reasonably taking 
into account, amongst  other things, relevant law and regulations.  
The relevant  law here is The Equality Act (The  Act),  which  sets out some  circumstances 
where insurance companies are legally allowed to treat consumers with a disability 
differently from someone without a disability. In effect, the Act says insurance companies 
can treat people with a disability differently if they can show a reasonable basis for this 
difference. The Act says the insurance  companys decisions  must be based  on information 
relevant to the assessment of the risk to be insured and from a reliable source.
AWP has told us it uses  an independent risk assessment tool to assess the risk of medical 
conditions that consumers declare. From my experience I know that the risk assessment tool 
gives risk scores for certain conditions. The tool will ask follow up questions  for certain 
conditions and the answers to those questions may also attract a risk score.  The risk 
assessment tool is independent  and used by many  insurance companies in assessing the 
risk of medical conditions.  Some insurers may choose to accept the increased risk of 
insuring a medical condition and generally  they are likely to price the policy according to the 
risk theyre prepared to take.
Ref: DRN81635883AWP has shown us that the responses  Miss T has given to the questions it has asked have 
generated a risk score which is much higher than the risk it is prepared to cover.  So I havent 
seen any evidence that AWP is in breach of the Act in the way it has assessed  the increased 
risk presented by Miss Ts change in her medical condition.  So I dont intend to uphold this 
complaint.
I asked Miss T and AWP  to let me have  any responses they wished to make to my 
provisional decision by a given date.
AWP didnt have any further comments to add. 
After making a data subject access request  Miss T said that her complaint remained the 
same. She was unaware how she was a higher risk score. Her insurer  appeared to rely on a 
risk assessment tool, but shed  not been  given  any information about what this tool is, who is 
responsible for making sure its accurate, how it takes into account her individual  
circumstances and how it is reliable.  
Miss T doesnt consider it fair for the insurer to refuse to cover her on the basis of a generic 
risk assessment when  shes  not been  given  information to show  on what basis the tool has 
been used and without information to consider whether it is correct. Just because  others use 
the tool doesnt mean its reliable. And without  evidence of reliability she questions how its 
reasonable for AWP to base a decision on it. The policy  doesnt  refer to the tool or how the 
risk is calculated, so shes completely in the dark. She doesnt even have a printout or 
screenshot of this information.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought carefully about Miss Ts comments.  Shes explained her concerns very clearly.  
But her comments dont  change my mind so I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons Ive 
already given and as set out below.  
I think AWP was entitled  to use an automated medical screening assessment tool as the 
basis of its decision whether or not to offer Miss T travel insurance. I dont consider it had to 
explain its underwriting process in the policy document.  The tool is used widely in the travel 
insurance industry and Ive not seen anything  to suggest its not accurate or reliable. Miss T 
herself unfortunately found the cost of insurance  with other travel insurers  was prohibitively 
expensive and I think this shows that her medical  conditions meant  that she was a higher 
risk. Ultimately each insurer can decide  which risks theyre prepared  to cover.
The assessment tool is an automated underwriting method. It uses algorithms to assess the 
increased risk  essentially the chance  of a claim  for each medical  condition,  and 
combination of medical conditions. I think AWP was entitled to rely on the risk score that it 
produced. The score produced for Miss Ts medical  insurers was higher  than it was prepared 
to accept, so it was entitled not to cover  her. 
I appreciate Miss Ts not been able to review or check  the information  herself.  But the score  
each medical condition produces  is commercially  sensitive  information for AWP. So Ive 
agreed to accept it in confidence. Shes  concerned AWP might not have taken into account  
Ref: DRN81635884her individual circumstances.  But I think its reasonable  for insurers  to use a generic tool to 
assess risk. The insurer  doesnt  have to have a process to analyse  a consumers individual 
medical history and circumstances in fine detail, as that would be prohibitively expensive.
Ive seen the information that was used to generate the risk score for Miss Ts medical 
conditions. Im satisfied that AWP correctly  used the questions it asked her and the 
information she gave  to it about  her medical  condition to produce the risk score.  So I dont 
uphold this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained in my provisional decision and in this final decision I dont uphold  
this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 August 2019.
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8163588