K820x#14Complaint
Mrs B is unhappy that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) are holding  her responsible for 
a loan which she says she didnt apply for. Mrs B has also disputed transactions linked to the 
loan payment. 
Background
Ms B says shes been  the victim  of identity theft.  In March 2018,  a loan was applied  for in 
Mrs Bs name. The loan was applied for using Ms Bs internet banking. Following the 
successful approval  of the loan, the amount of £5,000 was paid into Mrs Bs current account 
with RBS.
On the same  day the loan was paid into Mrs Bs account, a new payee  was set up on her 
online banking. One transaction  of £2,000 was made to the new payee.  The day after,  
another transfer of £3,000  was made  to the same  payee.
Mrs B has only disputed  the loan being paid into her account and the two transfers made 
from the account. Two direct debit repayments  for the loan were  made  from Ms Bs account  
in April 2018 and May 2018.
RBS records show the IP address which was used  when the loan was applied  for is situated 
in another country. Mrs B says she wasnt outside of the country at the time the loan was 
applied for.
Mrs B says she became  aware of the loan when it was paid into her account   and she says 
she reported it to RBS straight away. However,  RBS say Mrs B didnt report the loan until 
April 2018, when she mentioned it during a phone call about  another  issue.
RBS are holding  Mrs B responsible for the loan because:
The loan was applied  for using online banking and therefore successful log in details 
were used;
The debit  card and card reader had to be used to set up a new payee and make the 
initial transfer;
The transactions dont follow the typical pattern of a fraudster  only the money from 
the loan was used;
Mrs B has connections in the country where  the IP address is situated and visits a 
few times a year;
Mrs B didnt  report the disputes until after the repayments had already started.
RBS also made the decision  to close  Mrs Bs account because  she refused to set up a 
payment plan to pay back the loan.
Mrs B told us:
Nobody knows her online banking details or her PIN  she says theyre memorised 
and not written down  anywhere;
Her card and card reader didnt go missing;
She last visited the country associated with the IP address in September 2017;
She is aware that somebody in the country associated  with the IP address is being 
sought after by Police for similar reasons.
Ref: DRN82007512The investigator who considered Mrs Bs complaint  didnt think  the complaint should be 
upheld. In summary he thought:
Mrs B took out the loan and made the transactions  herself,  or gave  somebody  
authority;
Whoever applied  for the loan would have  needed  Mrs Bs online banking  details, her 
debit card and her card reader.  Mrs B says she hasnt shared her log in details  with 
anybody and her card and card reader never  went missing;
While  he recognised the IP address  was in a different  country to Mrs B, he doesnt 
think IP addresses are entirely accurate so couldnt uphold  the complaint on this 
point alone;
Mrs B said she reported the loan immediately, but the investigator is satisfied the first 
time she reported the fraud was in April 2018   around a month  after the loan and 
transactions. 
Mrs B disagreed with the investigator. She also told us that shed spoken to friends in the 
country associated with the IP address and became aware of somebody fraudulently  taking 
out loans in other peoples names and is sought after by the Police.
As an agreement couldnt  be reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
In November 2019, I issued a provisional decision.  In it I said;
I must make my decision based on what I think is more  likely than not to have happened. I 
dont think it would have  been possible for all this activity  to have taken place without  Mrs Bs 
involvement, at least to some degree.  And Ill explain why below. 
The loan application
Ive firstly  considered whether I think Mrs B more likely than not applied  for the loan  either 
by herself or by giving somebody authority.
Ive reviewed the loan application and Im satisfied the loan was applied  for online using Mrs 
Bs online banking.  Its widely known that online banking is secured by passwords, 
memorable words and PIN codes.  Mrs B has confirmed she hasnt shared her online 
banking details with anybody. Im aware Mrs B lives with her son, daughter and somebody 
she cares  for, but shes confirmed that her online  banking information is memorable to only 
her and its not written  down anywhere.  Because of this, I find it difficult  to consider how 
somebody else could  have accessed her online banking  details.
Ive also considered the details entered on the loan application.  Ive seen evidence to show  
the application was fully credit scored  with a clean accept. In summary, that means it was 
automatically approved  and didnt require RBS to do any further checks. I recognise Mrs Bs 
income information on the loan application stated she had a salary of around £12,000. 
However, Ive seen from her account  statement with RBS she was in receipt  of benefits. 
RBS have confirmed  benefits are acceptable  income, and as the application was 
automatically approved,  they werent  required to carry  out additional checks. And it could be 
that Mrs B had salary  payments being paid into another bank account  not RBS.  Therefore, 
this information  isnt enough to satisfy me that it wasnt Mrs B who applied  for the loan.
Ref: DRN82007513Overall, I think its more  likely than not Mrs B did apply for the loan herself.
The transfers
On the day the loan was paid into Mrs Bs account, a new payee was set up using Mrs Bs 
online banking. The login details for the online  banking were  entered  successfully to allow 
the log on. RBS have  also explained  and provided  evidence to show  that when a new payee  
is set up on online banking, the recipient will need  to use their debit card and card reader to 
verify it. Ive seen that the card reader and debit card were  used  to verify this new payee on 
Mrs Bs account.
Mrs B has confirmed  her card is always kept in her purse which  is with her most of the time, 
and her card reader is kept in a drawer next to her bed. Shes  also not aware  that her card or 
card reader went missing at any point. Ive thought  about whether Mrs Bs card and card 
reader could have  been used without  her knowledge  and I accept this is possible.  
However, Mrs Bs online banking was still accessed  with her passwords. So overall, I think  
its more likely than not Mrs B set up the new payee  herself and made the payments or 
authorised somebody  else to do it.
The second  transfer didnt require the card or card reader for approval as the payee  was 
already set up. However, the person would have still needed  to access Mrs Bs online 
banking and as shes told us she hasnt shared this information with anybody else, I cant  
find a reasonable  explanation as to how someone  else has been able to access  it.
The IP address
Ive seen records that the IP address used when applying for the loan is situated in another  
country. The investigator helpfully explained  that IP addresses arent always  entirely  
accurate so its not always  appropriate  to place a high bearing on this factor alone. This is 
certainly the case as Mrs B has confirmed she didnt ever lose her card and Ive seen that 
she used her card to make genuine  transactions in the UK around  the same  time as the 
disputed transactions.
That being  said,  even  if I did accept that the IP address used was in another country, Ive 
thought about whether I think Mrs B could  have been involved.  And I still think  she could 
have been. I say that because Mrs B has links with the other country in question  she has 
friends there  and visits a few times a year. So, its plausible that Mrs B could have  given 
somebody the information in that country while she remained in the UK.
When the dispute was reported
Mrs B says she became  aware of the loan around  the same  time it was paid into her account 
 and she says she told RBS straight away. RBS havent been  able to locate any calls or 
other contact  notes from Mrs B around  this time. And Mrs B hasnt  been  able to show  me 
any evidence of her raising  the dispute.
RBS have sent me a call recording from April 2018, where Mrs B is calling about another  
issue linked  to her rent payment.  Ive listened  to this call and during the conversation she 
brought up the loan payment and said she didnt recognise it. Taking  into account the 
conversation, Im satisfied  this was more likely than not the first time Mrs B raised  the 
dispute with RBS.
Ref: DRN82007514I think its reasonable to accept a loan amount of £5,000 being paid into your account, and 
then two transfers to an unknown  payee  would raise enough concern for somebody to 
highlight this to their bank straight away. Ive seen from Mrs Bs online banking records  that 
she accessed her online  banking almost every  day since the loan being paid in, and the 
disputes being reported. Ive also seen that she used her debit card to make transactions 
which she hasnt disputed.
Mrs B also had a repayment taken  from her account. She says it took her a while  to report 
this as shed had a death in the family, which Im sincerely sorry  to hear. However,  the loan 
repayment was outside of her usual spending  so again I think  its reasonable to suggest this 
would have caused concerns for Mrs B.
The allegations
Mrs B has told us that she is aware of somebody  from the other country being sought after 
by Police for similar identity fraud cases.  I appreciate why Mrs B has brought this to our 
attention  especially given the circumstances of her case. However, I havent seen any 
evidence to fulfil this speculation.  And Mrs B hasnt  given  any plausible explanation as to 
how an unauthorised  third party would be able to access her online banking, her debit card 
and her card reader. Therefore, while I appreciate the close  link, I dont consider this 
allegation to be relevant  to Mrs Bs complaint.
Overall
I cant say exactly whats happened here and its not the role of this service  to establish that. 
Its also not for Mrs B to able to show exactly what happened either.  Many  victims of fraud 
will have no idea how their details might  have been  compromised or their accounts 
accessed. 
But, considering the circumstances of this complaint, there  are too many  unexplained events 
and I cant find a reasonable  explanation  for how someone else would have been able to 
carry out all this activity  without Mrs Bs involvement. Because of that, I cant  fairly say RBS 
has acted unfairly in holding Mrs B liable for the loan.
RBS responded  to my provisional decision and didnt  have  any further comments.
Ms B responded and said that neither she or her children are responsible for the loan and 
shes upset that people think they may be. Ms B said she is confident  a unknown third party 
in the country  linked to the IP address is responsible for it but she has no evidence  to prove 
it.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments again to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate how Ms B is feeling  about  things and Im aware she says neither her or her 
children took out the loan. However,  as explained in my provisional decision,  I cant find a 
reasonable explanation  for how someone else would  have been  able to carry out the activity  
without Ms Bs involvement to some extent.  
Ref: DRN82007515Ive thought again what Ms B has said about the unknown third party   however  as Ms B 
herself has pointed  out there is no evidence or explanation as to how this unknown third 
party could have  taken  out the loan and accessed  Ms Bs online banking to transfer  the 
money. So I cant fairly uphold the complaint on this point.
Overall, while  I appreciate Ms Bs strong feeling  about this, I cant  fairly ask RBS to do 
anything differently. And therefore, I wont be changing my provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 January 2021.
Hayley West
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8200751