K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1997. Mr and Mrs H say National Westminster  Bank  Plc (NatWest) mis-sold them  the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Hs case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold because:
Mr and Mrs H initially said they didnt know they had PPI on their mortgage and said they 
only found out when they contacted  NatWest.  NatWest say it would have made  it clear  to 
Mr and Mrs H that they didnt have to buy a PPI policy and it would have got their 
consent before adding  the cover. Where theres a dispute  about what  happened, I have 
to base my decision on what I think is most  likely to have happened   taking into account  
all the evidence thats available.
Ive seen a copy  of the direct debit application  that was completed  for Mr and Mrs Hs 
PPI. This was a separate payment and the form clearly says it is for the Mortgage 
Repayment Protector Insurance. I can see that Mr H has signed  the application. I have 
also been given  a copy of the mortgage offer and I can also see that this confirms the Mr 
and Mrs H have selected PPI. So had Mr and Mrs H not agreed  to this I would have 
expected them to questions this at the time. 
Mr and Mrs H later said they were told the PPI was something they had to have. This is 
very different to their initial complaint and its understandable  that there may be 
inconsistencies as these events happened so long ago. But from the information Ive 
seen from the sale that Ive mentioned  above it makes me think  it was more  likely that 
NatWest made it clear to Mr and Mrs H they had a choice in buying PPI and they chose 
to take it  although I can understand  why they cant remember  this.
NatWest didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs H so it didnt have to check if it was 
right for them. But it did have to make  sure Mr and Mrs H got the information they 
needed to decide  if it was right for them. 
Its possible the information NatWest gave Mr and Mrs H about  the PPI wasnt  as clear 
as it shouldve been. But I think they chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like they 
wanted this type of cover.  Based  on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time it 
doesnt look like they were affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  
- so it would  have been useful for them if something went  wrong.  It also looks  like the 
PPI was affordable.  So I dont  think  better  information about the PPI would  have put 
them off taking out the cover.  
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs H have said but these points dont  change  my 
decision.
Ref: DRN89542812Ive also thought about the commission Mr and Mrs H paid on their PPI  and whether 
NatWest treated them unfairly.  
NatWest has told us that the commission  for Mr and Mrs Hs PPI was less than half of what 
they paid for each  premium. Weve looked  at how NatWest has been  working  this out and 
based on what weve seen it looks like its right  Mr and Mrs Hs commission  was less than 
half the cost of the PPI. As thats the case,  I dont think it needed to tell them about the 
commission  so I dont  think  NatWest treated them unfairly. This means  it doesnt need  to 
pay Mr and Mrs H back any of the commission they paid for the PPI. 
my final decision
For the reasons  mentioned above,  I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 March 2019.
Jag Dhuphar
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8954281