K820x#12complaint
This complaint is about monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) taken out with 
loans in February 2006, August 2006,  August 2007 and April 2008. Mr H says Grampian 
Credit Union Limited (GCU) mis-sold  him the PPI.
Mr H also took PPI with a loan in November 2008  but that has already been  settled by GCU.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Hs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
As the sales  process  for all the loans was the same,  and Mr Hs employment  circumstances  
didnt change, Ive looked at all the sales together. 
Mr H has said he didnt know the PPI was optional. GCU has said the optional  nature of the 
policy would have been clear. Where theres a dispute about what happened,  I have to base 
my decision  on what  I think  is most likely to have happened, taking into account all the 
evidence that is available .
GCU has said all the sales would have  taken place during a telephone  conversation  but 
would have been completed  when  documents would be sent to the customer  and signed  and 
returned. 
GCU has been able to provide some documentation from the time of sales. From  looking at 
all the documentation  provided, Im satisfied  that GCU made it clear that Mr H didnt have to 
take out the PPI and he chose to take it out. If Mr H didnt want PPI, he could  have declined  
to take it in all the sales. Mr H would have had an opportunity to review the documents  he 
had been sent and as he was taking out additional  credit, I would have expected  him to have 
read everything carefully before  signing  in agreement  with it. If he had any concerns about 
the PPI I would have  expected him to have raised  this before signing the documents. 
GCU didnt recommend the PPI to Mr H so it didnt have to check if it was right for him. But it 
did have to make sure Mr H got the information he needed to decide  if it was right for him. 
Its possible the information GCU gave Mr H about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve  
been. But he chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted  this type of cover. Based 
on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he was affected by any 
of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would  have  been  useful for him if 
something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think better  
information about the PPI would have put him off taking  out the cover. 
The PPI policy couldve covered Mr Hs repayments  for up to 24 months per claim if he 
became too ill to work, or for 12 months per claim  if he became unemployed. It wouldve paid 
out in addition to any sick pay or savings he had. It wouldve  paid out on top of any 
Ref: DRN89189712redundancy payment he may have got if he lost his job. And any savings he had could be 
used for other expenses. So I think the PPI policy couldve been helpful  to him.
Ive thought about everything Mr H has said but these points dont change my decision. Ive 
also thought about the commission  Mr H paid on his policies  and whether GCU treated him 
unfairly. 
GCU has told us that the commission  for Mr Hs policy was less than half of what  he paid for 
each premium. Weve looked at how GCU has been  working  this out and based  on what 
weve seen it looks like its right  Mr Hs commission was less than half the cost of the 
policy. As thats the case, I dont think it needed to tell him about the commission   so I dont 
think GCU treated him unfairly. This means  it doesnt need to pay Mr H back  any of the 
commission he paid for the PPI. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 February  2019.
Sonia Hussain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8918971