K822xcomplaint
Mr A complains that Halifax Share Dealing Limited  (HSDL) gave  him incorrect  information 
about his new share  issue,  repeatedly failed to respond to his queries and failed to act fairly 
or appropriately when he instructed it to transfer  a shareholding to his new broker.
background 
Mr A owned  shares  in Old Mutual. In 2018, as a result of a demerger, he inherited some  
shares in Nedbank which were tradeable only on the South African  stock  exchange.  HSDL  
said he would have  to transfer this holding  to a broker that could trade  on this exchange. 
In several web chats HSDL gave Mr A misleading  or (as it transpired) incorrect  information 
about when these shares would be or had been  transferred to him. It subsequently offered 
him £25 in lieu of this.
Mr A first tried to transfer the shares  in November 2018 but HSDL said it could  not process 
this as the proposed receiving account was in joint names. When Mr A issued a new 
instruction HSDL still did not process  things. It said it didnt receive  this revised  instruction  
until 31 December by which time it could not transfer  Ned shares as they were not held 
electronically. 
After Mr A complained about this, HSDL  said - in a Final Response  Letter  dated 10 January 
2019  that it had not done anything wrong  and did not offer to resolve the problem or 
explain what  Mr A would need to do to get the transfer sorted. It then failed  to respond to 
numerous requests  to clarify what the problem was and when the transfer would be 
completed.
In July 2019 an investigator  at this service felt Mr As complaint should be upheld, saying 
that he too had not been able to get answers  from HSDL. He was persuaded that Mr A had 
repeatedly tried to sell these shares, and that HSDL had not responded fairly or promptly.
He wasnt persuaded by HSDLs reason for rejecting the transfer  request of 31 December 
given it had failed  to provide any evidence to support  its contention that the shares  could not 
be transferred if they were  in certificate  form. On balance, he felt this was the date by which 
Mr A ought  to have  been able to start transferring the shares to his new broker  if it had acted 
correctly.
He thought it could have  taken up to six weeks to complete  a transfer of international shares 
i.e. this could  have been done by 11 February  2019. Therefore HSDL should  pay 
compensation on this basis,  comparing the price Mr A could have achieved on this date with 
the price he was able to sell at as soon as HSDL  made this possible. (This finally happened 
on 1 August, with Mr A estimating his loss at roughly £980).
He said it would also need to pay compensatory interest of 8% simple  interest  per annum on 
this loss figure (from 11 February to the date of settlement of this complaint) in recognition  
that Mr A had been unfairly deprived  of the use of these funds. It should  also pay £200 for 
the considerable trouble  and upset caused by its failure to offer a reasonable service.
HSDL did not agree,  and said:
Ref: DRN85131412As Mr As broker it was under no obligation  to chase  Nedbank and its efforts  to assist 
shareholders who were  left with these shares as a result of the corporate action were  
above and beyond any regulatory  requirement  or agreement that exists with Mr A.
So it cannot be held responsible for the time taken in selling the shares as this was 
driven by Nedbanks decisions
It was not in a position to expedite any process it had no influence  over
It was not aware of any outstanding  information requests from this service
The investigator replied,  listing the numerous  requests  for information which  had gone  
unanswered. He also reiterated that HSDL  should  have responded to Mr As requests 
promptly, and if it had done he was satisfied that the shares  could have been  sold far earlier.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In this case I agree with the investigator 
and for the same  reasons.  I will therefore not repeat the detailed points he outlined.
Firstly, in my view the evidence overwhelmingly demonstrates that HSDL repeatedly failed to 
respond appropriately or promptly  to Mr As queries, those of his new broker  or the 
investigator at this service  who was seeking  to assess this case.  This resulted in a very 
lengthy delay  in resolving this problem.  I therefore agree that HSDL should pay £200 in lieu 
of this.
I accept that HSDL could  not sell or facilitate the sale of these shares before Nedbank made 
this possible, although it did mislead  Mr A about  when  this would happen. The investigators 
proposed redress  acknowledges this and is not based on the notion that HSDL had any 
influence over Nedbanks  action. My view is also based on HSDLs  overall  responsibility  to 
treat its customers fairly, including  responding promptly and appropriately to their requests. 
In this context, I dont accept HSDLs  apparent  argument that it had no responsibility towards 
Mr A in relation to these matters.
I have considered the additional points raised  by both parties but do not feel these materially  
impact on the merits of this complaint. I have therefore not addressed these in this decision.  
HSDL did not respond to the investigators repeated requests for further information 
including the issue of whether the shares  could no longer be transferred by 31 December  
due to Mr A only having a certificate i.e. they were not held electronically. In my view,  it has 
not provided persuasive evidence to support this contention.
Overall, I am satisfied that the investigator fully explained why he felt HSDL  should have 
done more. The redress is based on when Mr A could, on balance, have most likely sold the 
shares if HSDL had acted  fairly. For the reasons  outlined by the investigator,  I am satisfied 
that 11 February is a fair date to base compensation on. 
HSDL must therefore calculate how much Mr A could  have  sold his shares for on that date 
and compare this with the sum he eventually received.  If this shows  a loss, it must pay this 
and add 8% simple interest from 11 February  2019  to the settlement date of this complaint.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and instruct  Halifax Share  Dealing Limited  to pay compensation as 
outlined above.
Ref: DRN85131413Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 January 2020.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8513141