K820x#14complaint
Mrs W says Barclays  Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold her a regular payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy to cover her credit  card repayments.
background
Mrs W applied  for a credit card by post in 2001.  At the same time she took out a PPI policy  
to cover her credit card repayments. The policy cost no more than £0.79 per £100 of the 
balance on Mrs Ws credit card. A successful claim on the policy wouldve paid 10% of the 
outstanding balance for up to 12 months per claim if Mrs W was unable to work due to 
accident or sickness or lost her job.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mrs Ws complaint should be upheld  because she thought  Mrs W 
wouldve understood she had a choice  in taking the policy and thought it wouldve provided a 
useful benefit.
Mrs W disagrees. She says it wasnt made  clear the PPI was optional and she didnt need  
the policy.
So the complaint has come  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ws complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ws complaint.
The PPI was applied  for by post when Mrs W completed a postal application  for a credit 
card. Barclays have given  us a copy of the application form Mrs W completed.  
I can see that theres a separate  section  on the application form that deals with PPI and card 
protection. It gives the option to select Yes,  please  can I apply for Barclaycard Payment 
Protection (see Principal Features on reverse of letter) by ticking  a box. I can see on Mrs 
Ws application form a tick has been  placed in the box to take PPI. If Mrs W didnt want PPI 
she could have left the box clear  like she did for the card protection  which was offered in the 
same section.
So I think because Mrs W selected to take PPI with a tick she understood she had a choice 
in taking the policy and wanted  the cover. 
Because the PPI was taken out through the post I dont think Barclays  advised  
Mrs W to take PPI. What this means is that Barclays didnt recommend PPI to Mrs W, it just 
gave her information about PPI. This information  needed to be given in a way that was clear,  
fair and not misleading so she could make  an informed  choice  about  buying PPI.
I dont know if Barclays did give all the proper  information that was needed. But even if 
Barclays did give all the information  Mrs W needed to make an informed choice on taking 
Ref: DRN85698772out the policy, I think she wouldve still taken the policy because  at the time of sale from what 
we know about  Barclays policies:
She was eligible for the PPI.
It doesnt look like she wouldve been caught  by any of the main  exclusions in the terms 
and conditions  of the policy which couldve made it difficult  to make a successful claim.
At the time of the sale Mrs W says she was entitled to a good level of sick pay but had 
no other  means of making her repayments if she couldnt  work  due to accident or 
sickness or if she lost her job. The policy wouldve paid out on top of any sick pay and 
helped her in these situations, so I cant see how knowing this information wouldve put 
her off buying  it.
Theres nothing to suggest the policy wasnt affordable to Mrs W and she could cancel 
the policy  if she no longer wanted it.
So I dont  think it wouldve made a difference in how the information was given to Mrs W on 
the PPI. I think she wouldve still taken out the PPI policy  as it was of value to her.
Which means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs W.
But Barclays  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs W because:  
When the policy was sold, Barclays expected to get a high level of commission and profit  
share (more than 50% of the PPI premium)  - so it should  have told Mrs W about that. 
Because Barclays didnt tell Mrs W, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does  not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs W.
But Barclays  Bank Plc does have  to pay back to Mrs W any commission and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs W to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 June  2019.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN85698773
Ref: DRN8569877