K820x#14complaint
Mr P says Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral)  hasnt offered to settle  his claim 
on his motor insurance policy fairly as it hasnt valued his van correctly after it was stolen.
Any reference to Admiral includes its agents. 
background
Mr P took out a motor insurance policy  in September 2017. In August 2018,  Mr Ps van was 
stolen while  he was out of the country. The van wasnt  recovered  so Admiral made an initial  
offer to settle his claim by paying him its market  value less his excess. And it offered him 
around £12,500. After  Mr P disputed this amount, Admiral offered him around £15,500 to 
settle the claim  as the market value  of the van.
To reach this valuation,  Admiral said it looked at industry trade guides  taking into account 
the age, mileage and condition  of the van. It said any improvements Mr P mightve  made on 
the van might not have  increased its value, particularly if it was just general maintenance. 
Admiral said the amount  itd offered was the highest  amount shown  under  the trade guides. 
Mr P disagreed that the amount offered reflected the value of his van. He thinks a more  
accurate valuation would be between £18,000 and £20,000. He said hed seen  similar vans  
being sold on vehicle  selling websites for between £15,000 and £20,000 and the amount 
offered by Admiral wouldnt enable  him to afford a like for like replacement.  He pointed  out 
that Admiral changed  its original offer after he declined it and has said hed like it to make a 
more realistic offer.
Admiral has said it doesnt rely on adverts as they only show  asking prices  of what  sellers 
would like  and not the actual selling prices. And its said the insurance is there to put Mr P 
back in the position he was in immediately before the incident by offering the market  value of 
the van.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. She thought the valuation Admiral  gave was fair 
and took account of the age, mileage  and condition of the van. Mr P disagreed  with the 
outcome. So the complaints been  passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive decided  not to uphold the complaint 
for broadly the same reasons as the adjudicator. I know  this will be disappointing  for Mr P. Ill 
explain why.
Mr Ps policy  terms say the most it will pay to replace  his van if its stolen, is the market 
value. Thats defined  as the cost of replacing the van based on market prices  at the time of 
the loss.
Firstly, I must explain, our service  isnt here to provide a valuation of Mr Ps van. My role is to 
assess whether Admiral has acted fairly and reasonably. In doing  so, Ive considered how 
Admiral reached the value  its given and whether it seems fair in the circumstances. 
Ref: DRN80509622Admirals valued  Mr Ps van at £15,587. And having looked at its value around the time of 
the incident using industry  trade  guides,  I think this offers reasonable. Its standard practice 
for the industry to use trade guides  to work out the estimated market value of a car. And its 
not unreasonable that it does so. The valuations  the guides give are based on the prices of 
similar vans of a similar age and mileage sold at the time of the loss. The valuations  
Admirals given of £15,587  and £12,675 are similar  to the ones weve got. And I can see its 
offered Mr P the highest valuation.  
Mr Ps referred to vans  being  sold on a vehicle selling website at similar and higher prices  
hes said they were all advertised at £15,000  to £20,000. But I dont think  advertised prices 
accurately reflect the market value of the vehicle. This is because sellers  can advertise 
vehicles for whatever price they like  but that doesnt mean thats the amount theyll  get for 
it, or what its worth. Its also important to note that these adverts are likely  to be inclusive  of 
VAT. But, given Mr P is VAT registered, he wont have to pay VAT to replace the van. So its 
fair that Admiral to take VAT off the advertised prices.
Mr Ps also unhappy Admiral initially made one offer to settle his claim  and then made  
another higher offer once hed declined the first one. So he thinks it can increase the amount 
its offering again.  But Ive looked  at Admirals  internal records  and I can see the reason  it 
increased its offer was because it looked at another trade guide  which  showed a higher 
market value than the one it initially used.  As Ive explained  above, the valuations Admirals 
given are similar to the ones weve seen when we checked the trade  guides.  So I think  both 
its offers were based  the market value of the van shown  on the trade guides  which is what 
Id expect Admiral to use.
I understand Mr Ps disappointed with the valuation of his van as hes said hes going to be 
unable to get a like for like replacement of his vehicle with the amount offered. But the 
purpose of motor insurance is usually to put customers  in the position they were in before 
the insured event took place  in this case, thats before Mr Ps van was stolen. And its not 
unusual or unreasonable for insurance  companies to do this by paying  the market  value of 
the vehicle. Based on everything Ive seen   including everything  Mr Ps said  I dont think 
Admirals offer to settle his claim is unfair. So I dont think it needs to offer anything  further.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 August 2019.
Nadya Neve
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8050962