K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs M bought the policy in 1998,  in a branch  of Halifax,  at the same  time as taking 
out a secured personal loan. Mr and Mrs M paid a monthly premium  for the policy. It would 
have paid their monthly loan repayments if Mr M was off sick, or if he lost his job. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs M disagreed  with the adjudicators  
opinion so the complaint was passed  to me.
my provisional findings
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr and 
Mrs M and to Halifax on 18 September 2019. I summarise my findings:
Mr and Mrs M dont  remember  anything about PPI from when they took out the loan. But 
Id seen a copy  of their signed loan agreement. It included equally prominent options  to 
take or decline PPI. The Yes box was marked with a cross to indicate that Mr and 
Mrs M wished to take the cover. It looked as if the cross was printed. But I thought it was 
likely it was typed in because Mr and Mrs M had told the adviser they wanted PPI. And 
they then signed  the agreement,  which was a short, one-page document, to confirm that 
it reflected what theyd agreed. So although  Id not seen any application that they may 
have filled in for the loan, I thought Halifax made  Mr and Mrs M aware the PPI was 
optional and that they chose to take it out.
Mr and Mrs M have told us that Halifax didnt recommend the PPI to them.  But Mr and 
Mrs M and Halifax agree that they took the loan out during a meeting. And Halifax  says it 
would have recommended the cover. For the purposes of my decision, Id assumed  that 
a personal recommendation  was made. This was to Mr and Mrs Ms advantage, as it 
meant that Halifax  had a responsibility  to check that the policy  was suitable for them.
Mr and Mrs M have told us that Mr M would have been entitled to some sick pay and 
redundancy pay from his employer at the time. But if hed made a successful  claim on 
the policy it would have  paid out for up to five years  for accident or sickness,  and for up 
to 12 months for unemployment.  That was significantly  longer  than Mr Ms told us hed 
have been entitled  to sick pay or redundancy pay from his employer for. Whats  more, 
the policy would have  paid out in addition to any sick pay or redundancy pay that Mr M 
received. So Mr and Mrs M could have used Mr Ms sick pay or redundancy pay to meet 
other day-to-day  expenses.  
Taking  everything  into account, I thought the policy could have been useful to Mr and 
Mrs M  especially as theyve  told us they didnt have  any savings they could have  fallen 
back on. Id also borne in mind that the loan was secured on their home.  So the 
consequences of not keeping up with their repayments could have been serious.
The monthly cost of the policy was shown clearly on the loan agreement. So I thought 
Mr and Mrs M would  have  understood how much theyd  need  to pay for the PPI. And Id 
seen nothing to suggest they couldnt afford it.
Ref: DRN81109052It was possible Halifax didnt clearly  point out the main things the policy didnt cover (for 
example, provisions about unusual employment arrangements,  or existing medical  
conditions). But I thought it was unlikely Mr M would have been affected by any of these. 
Id borne in mind  that Mr Ms told us he suffered  from a long-term condition. But hed had 
the condition since infancy, and hes told us it hadnt affected his ability  to work. So 
I didnt think it was likely that Mr M would have expected to need to take time off work for 
the condition,  or that it would have affected Mr and Mrs Ms decision to take out the 
policy. 
Id taken into account all Mr and Mrs Ms comments, including  what theyve said about the 
cancellation terms not having been explained to them. But Mr and Mrs M were  paying for the 
PPI monthly,  and could  have cancelled it at any time without further cost. If theyd wanted to 
cancel the cover, I thought it was likely  theyd  have contacted Halifax or the insurers. And Id 
seen nothing to suggest that they did so.
In reply to our adjudicators opinion, Mr and Mrs M said that Halifax should have provided  an 
interpreter to assist  them at the meeting. But they say it refused to do so unless they paid for 
it. 
After such a long time,  I couldnt know whether Mr and Mrs Ms recollection was right.  I was 
sympathetic to what theyve said about  their communication difficulties. But Id borne in mind 
that theyd have known that they were  planning to enter into a serious financial commitment. 
And if they felt theyd  need someone to help them at the meeting, I thought it was up to them 
to take someone  suitable with them. 
Mr and Mrs M have  also said they felt pressured to have the PPI and they struggled with 
communication at the meeting. But theyve not told us about  anything specific that Halifax 
did which I thought  could have amounted to putting  unfair pressure on them.  And as Id said, 
I thought the loan agreement they signed  made  it clear enough  that they were choosing  to 
have PPI, and what  it would cost.
So these points didnt  change my conclusion that, based on what Id seen so far, the PPI 
wasnt mis-sold.  This meant that Halifax didnt  have to pay back to Mr and Mrs M everything  
that they paid for the PPI.
But Halifax  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs M because:
Halifax got a high level of commission and profit  share (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs M about  that. Because  Halifax didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs M, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Halifax has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I thought that was fair in this case.
further submissions
Mr and Mrs Ms representatives  have told us that they have nothing else to add. Halifax  
hasnt provided  any comments on my provisional  decision, and the time for doing so has 
now expired.
Ref: DRN81109053my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I cant  see any reason to 
depart from the findings I set out in my provisional  decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold, so Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) doesnt have to 
pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs M.
But Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) does have to pay back  to Mr and Mrs M any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand 
it has already done this, so I dont award any further  compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 November  2019.
Juliet Collins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8110905