K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains, through a claims management  company  (CMC),  about two savings plans 
he was sold by Sanlam  Wealth Planning  UK Ltd. The CMC made the following points  on 
behalf of Mr C:
He didnt need savings plans with such a long term and no other options were 
discussed.
He didnt have  enough emergency savings.
He was young and single and his circumstances were likely to change in the medium  
term.
He thought the plans  had 10 year terms as evidenced  by him surrendering them.
The plans charging structures meant they were  unlikely to have any value unless 
maintained for the long term.
background
Mr C took out the first savings plan in 1988 paying  a premium of £15 each month. He took 
out a second plan in 1989 at the same premium.  He surrendered both plans  in 1999.
Sanlam didnt uphold  the complaint. It said there was no evidence  advice  had been  given  
about the 1988 plan.  It said Mr C acknowledged  receipt of the savings plan brochure and 
was sent a notice of his right to cancel  after the plan started. And that the documents  were  
designed to encourage  clients  to consider the contract they had entered into in the quiet of 
their own home. The literature was clear  and gave him all the information he needed to 
understand the contract he had agreed to.
With regard to the 1989 plan Sanlam said there  was no evidence  to suggest at the outset 
that Mr C didnt want to save over the long term. The literature he was given explained it was 
designed to give optimum returns after 20-25  years. So he was given clear  information about 
the long term nature  of the plan.  
Sanlam said that Mr Cs age and the fact he was single didnt make  the plan unsuitable. And 
that there  was no evidence he surrendered  the plan after 10 years because he 
misunderstood how long the plan should be held for. Sanlam pointed out the first plan was 
surrendered at the same time and had been  running  for over 11 years.   
One of our investigators  considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld.  He said 
he was satisfied that Mr C took out both plans after a meeting and discussion with an 
adviser. He thought it unlikely Mr C decided to take out either plan based just on the 
documents and without  advice.
The investigator said that on balance he didnt think the 25 year savings plan sold in 1988 
was a reasonable fit for a 22 year old who was likely to need some  flexibility  with his 
finances as his circumstances changed.  He said that if Mr C had been fully aware he had 
committed to a 25 year savings plan he wouldnt have been  disappointed with the return  
when he surrendered after around 10 years.
The investigator also didnt think the plan Mr C was sold in 1989  was suitable given what  
was known about his circumstances at the time, for the same reasons the 1988 plan wasnt  
the right fit for him.
Ref: DRN83220672Sanlam didnt agree  with the investigator. In short it made the following points: 
It isnt safe to conclude that a long term savings product was unsuitable because of 
Mr Cs age.
There is nothing to show that Mr C needing more flexibility  with his money  meant the 
plans were unaffordable.
The monthly premiums werent  large and he maintained the plans for 10 years  or so, 
indicating he had no difficulty maintaining the payments and there is no evidence  he 
surrendered due to affordability.
The investigator has referred to what the CMC said about Mr Cs disappointment with 
performance and that this suggested he didnt properly understand the plans. But he 
also said he wasnt surprised by the performance. This would indicate he didnt 
expect much of a return and so by implication understood the long term nature of the 
plans and had read and understood the brochures.
The illustrations showed  that at 10 years  at best he would receive only a small return  
and that to get a meaningful return he needed  to hold the plans for another 10 to 15 
years.
The investigators opinion gives little consideration to the literature Mr C was given at 
the time of sale which complied with the rules  that applied  at the time.
The literature is important because it provides  actual evidence of the information  Mr 
C was given about his plans at the time when there is no record of the meeting itself.
Mr C wouldve been 49-50 after 25 years and if he planned to have a family the plans 
wouldve given a welcome cash boost when things such  as the cost of higher 
education became  payable.
The minimum pension age when  the plans were  taken  out was 50 so they couldve 
helped fund early  retirement if that is what he wanted.
There is no record of his aims at the time but it would be wrong to suggest there was 
no reason for a 24 year old to save for the longer term.
The investigator hasnt referred  to any evidence that indicates  the plans were  
unsuitable.
The investigator responded to the points  raised  but wasnt persuaded to change his opinion 
so the matter has been referred to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note Sanlam has not continued to suggest  that either plan was sold to Mr C without advice.  
But for completeness I have considered  this point and I think it is more  likely than not that 
advice was given  for both plans. A client fact file update sheet was completed  for the 1989 
plan which  refers to this being a top-up to his existing plan which  I think indicates Sanlam 
advised him about the 1988  plan.
The first plan was sold before  the Financial Services Act 1986 came into force.  This means 
Sanlam had to advise him with reasonable skill and care, and the plan had to be appropriate 
 a reasonable fit for him. The second plan was sold after the Act came into force so it had 
to make sure the plan was suitable  for Mr Cs needs.
There is no documentary evidence to show whether  or not Mr C wanted  long term savings.  I 
note Sanlam argues  that just because Mr C was a young man without dependents when the 
Ref: DRN83220673plans were sold doesnt mean he didnt want long term savings.  It also points to the relatively 
small premium for each plan and says there is nothing  to suggest this wasnt affordable.
I accept that it is possible  that Mr C could have wanted long term savings. But there is 
nothing to show this is what he wanted and he has said,  through the CMC,  that he thought  
the plans were for 10 years.  Given his age and circumstances at the time  single with no 
dependents  there  was every possibility  his circumstances  would change  and he would 
need access to his money much sooner. So Im not satisfied  that two long term savings  
plans he needed  to keep for longer than 10 years to get any realistic chance  of a return were 
a reasonable fit or suitable for his circumstances.
Sanlam has put a lot of emphasis on the literature that Mr C wouldve seen such as the 
brochure. It says this is important because it provides  actual evidence  of the information he 
was given. I have  no reason  to question what Sanlam has said about the brochure 
complying with the requirements of the then regulator. But that doesnt mean it provided the 
information Mr C needed to understand the plans and I think the information was actually 
misleading.
The first page starts with a heading  Why save money. This includes the following:
To win lifes game of financial  snakes and ladders  you have to build a safety net of savings 
to help you cope  with those unexpected and unbudgeted expenses which afflict all of us 
from time to time.
The cost of coping with a sudden family  emergency. Repair bills for storm damage to your 
home or garden.  Loss of income due to accident  or serious ill-health to give just a few 
possible examples.
Looking at the bright side you will also want to build up your resources for more  pleasurable 
expenses. That new car you have always promised  yourself. An extension to your 
home..All of these are these things  are within your grasp provided that you are 
prepared to think big by starting small.
This suggests the plan will be of benefit whenever the customer needs  it, in contrast to how 
it actually worked which  meant he would  get nothing back in the first few years  and it was 
unlikely to be of any benefit in the first 10 years.
The second  page includes the following information under the heading Drawing on Your 
Savings:
Your Savings Programme is designed to grow  steadily  with the full benefit and worth being  
realised after 25 years. However individual circumstances change and you may need access 
to your savings at an earlier date.
Although the full benefit is stated to be after 25 years the reference to steady growth 
suggests there will be growth from the outset. And the indication that earlier access to the 
savings may be needed  suggests  that this isnt a problem - which ties in with what the 
brochure says on the first page when referring  to family emergencies  or purchasing  a car, 
and again contrasts  with the reality of how the plan worked.
The third page  makes reference  to long term savings although doesnt define what is meant  
by this. Under the heading How long will my programme  continue it states:
Ref: DRN83220674The Savings Programme is an open ended way of saving designed to accumulate savings 
for the whole  of your life. 
The longer  you keep contributing the better. You will have paid in more and, if investment 
values move ahead as expected, your accumulated savings will be worth more.
But telling the customer that if they save longer  they will get more tells them  nothing  about 
what happens if they cash in the plan earlier and provides no warning  that this means  they 
are likely to be worse  off than if they had not invested at all. 
Under a heading What  happens if my contributions stop early  there  is reference to the set 
up charge and that this is paid for by cancelling units. Firstly I think  the heading itself is 
significant as it is unlikely that a customer would consider that stopping paying  premiums 
after 10 years  would  be stopping them  early.  
Secondly the paragraph explains that for some period there will be no return after which the 
full selling value  of the units allocated  to the plan are the customers. It goes on to state  that 
you are saving for the long term and that it will be some time before the value of your units  
exceed the contributions you have made.  
But there is no indication  of what is meant  by either  long term, some period or some time  
so this doesnt provide the customer with the information they need  about how long the plan 
needs to be held for. I think  it is very unlikely that Mr C would think  that the charges applied  
to his plan were such that he was likely  to get no return after paying into the plan for 10 
years.
I acknowledge the brochure goes on to provide  charts  showing the charges for customers  
based on their age and the return based  on certain  assumptions as set by the then regulator. 
But these  are further on in the brochure  and have  to be considered in light of the misleading 
information earlier in the brochure. Im not persuaded Mr C wouldve necessarily taken much 
notice of these  or, if he did, have  understood that he would make  no return after 10 years.
 
I think it is more  likely than not the adviser would have described the benefits of the plan in 
similar terms to the brochure. So Im not persuaded that Mr C was made aware  the plans 
needed to be kept for well over 10 years for him to get any real value from them.
He surrendered the plans in 1999  when  the first plan was 11 years  old and the second 10 
years old. I dont think the fact he surrendered one of the plans after 11 years  is significant. 
This shows he was aware the plans could be kept for longer than 10 years but I dont think 
that means he was aware the plans  needed  to be kept for a much longer period of time to be 
of real value to him.
 
I think surrendering the plans  when he did suggests that Mr C wasnt aware of how they 
worked and that they needed to be kept for longer than this to provide a reasonable return. It 
was certainly not the best time to surrender them given the way the charges were  applied. If 
Mr C was aware of how the plans  worked I wouldve expected him to keep these going given 
the premiums werent large. The CMC said he was disappointed with the return and this is 
why he surrendered. This indicates he thought they shouldve done  better  which suggests he 
didnt understand  how the plans worked.  
The CMC also said Mr C wasnt surprised by the return. Sanlam has suggested  this means 
he understood the long term nature of the plans.  But I dont think its possible to say this 
Ref: DRN83220675based only on him not being surprised at the return. This could equally have been  because 
he had been keeping an eye on how his plan had been performing over the years so wasnt 
expecting much from it.
In summary  Im not persuaded that Mr C was made aware either by the adviser or through  
the documents that the plans needed  to be kept for well over 10 years to provide any 
meaningful return.  Im not satisfied that the 1988  plan was a reasonable fit for him or that the 
1989 plan was suitable given his circumstances at the time. Im also not satisfied he wanted 
plans that would only provide a return after 10 years. I think the fact he surrendered  the 
plans when he did more  likely than not shows he didnt understand that the plans needed to 
be kept longer  and werent suitable as investments in the medium  term.
What Sanlam  should  do to put things right 
Sanlam Life & Pensions UK Limited  has to pay Mr C compensation of D + E for each plan, 
where:
A = the premiums invested up to the date of surrender;
B = a return on each  premium at Bank of England base rate + 1% compounded 
yearly, from the date it was paid to the date of surrender;
C = the surrender value Mr C received;
D = (A + B) - C, representing  the investment loss at the date of surrender; and
E = simple interest  at 8% per year on D, from the date of surrender to the date 
compensation is paid.  
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  for the reasons I have  explained.  Sanlam  Life and Pensions UK 
Limited has to pay Mr C the redress it calculate is due as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 June 2019.
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8322067