K821x#15Complaint
Mr M complains about the way Valour Finance Limited trading as Savvy.co.uk (Savvy) dealt 
with him after he experienced financial difficulties. 
Background
Mr M took out a loan for £1,250 in February 2018.   Under the terms of the agreement it was 
due to be repaid  in 15 monthly instalments of £166.66 between March 2018  and May 2019. 
The first three monthly instalments were  paid on time.  
In June 2018, Mr M contacted Savvy to explain hed become the main  earner  in his 
household and therefore wasnt able to pay the contractual loan repayment. I understand he 
provided Savvy with details of his income  and expenditure, setting out how his change in 
circumstances had affected his disposable income. As a result, Savvy offered a reduced 
monthly payment  of £50.42 from 27 June  2018,  which Mr M agreed  to pay. 
At this time, Mr M had explained that he expected to be able to increase payments to £200  
from September 2018 because of an anticipated increase in his disposable  income.  Savvy 
acknowledged this and said that it would  contact him before this time to discuss  a new 
arrangement of £200 and whether this would be affordable.
Mr M also asked  Savvy  how the payment reduction (and possible subsequent increase to 
£200) would affect the interest applied to the loan. Savvy explained to Mr M that interest 
would continue to apply at a rate of 0.33%  per day, which was what  the credit  agreement 
said and it made clear the overall amount of interest would be capped  at £1,250.
In January 2019, Mr M realised that Savvy  hadnt  contacted him as it had agreed to discuss 
increasing payments  from September 2018. He complained to Savvy about the lack of 
contact and the impact  the reduced loan repayments on the loans balance  and his credit 
report. 
Savvy didnt  feel that it had acted unfairly. It said that it was Mr Ms responsibility to contact it 
to increase his repayments when his circumstances had changed. It also felt that it had 
explained to Mr M how the reduced payment would affect his loans interest and that, 
ultimately, his interest would be capped so he would pay no more  then what  was outlined in 
the loan agreement. 
Our adjudicator thought that Savvy hadnt acted reasonably  in response to Mr Ms 
financial difficulties. She thought that Savvy should deduct any interest  applied  to his loan 
from 15 June 2018 from his outstanding balance. Savvy disagreed with the adjudicator.  
Since Mr M referred  his complaint to this Service, he continued to make  payments of £50.42 
until July 2019,  before increasing the payment  to £58 from August 2019. I understand in 
December 2019  Savvy passed the outstanding  balance to a third party to collect. 
The complaint has now been referred  to me to consider. 
Ref: DRN89335592My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint,  taking into account all of the relevant 
rules, guidance  and good industry practice.  
Savvy needed to show forbearance towards  Mr Ms financial difficulties, but that doesnt 
mean that it would be unreasonable  for it to seek repayment of the money  that it had lent. 
The FCAs Consumer Credit Sourcebook  (CONC) states that: 
Examples of treating  a customer with forbearance  would include the firm doing one or more 
of the following,  as may be relevant  in the circumstances:
(1) considering suspending,  reducing, waiving or cancelling any further interest  or charges 
(for example, when a customer provides evidence of financial difficulties and is unable to 
meet repayments as they fall due or is only able to make token repayments , where  in either  
case the level of debt would continue to rise if interest and charges  continue to be applied);
[Note: paragraph 7.4 (box) of ILG]
(2) allowing deferment  of payment of arrears:
where immediate payment of arrears may increase the customer's repayments to an 
unsustainable level; or
provided that doing so does not make the term for the repayments unreasonably  
excessive;    
 
(3) accepting token  payments for a reasonable period of time in order  to allow  a customer  to 
recover from an unexpected income shock,  from a customer who demonstrates that meeting 
the customer's existing  debts would mean  not being able to meet the customer's priority 
debts or other essential living expenses (such as in relation to a mortgage, rent, council tax, 
food bills and utility  bills).
I think that setting up a repayment  plan, at a lower  monthly amount than had previously been 
agreed, was a reasonable way forward based  on what Mr M said he could afford  to pay. I 
dont think though this went far enough in showing  forbearance to Mr M. 
The FCAs guidance asked Savvy  to consider modifying in some way the interest rate 
applied to the loan because Mr M was only able to make token payments towards  its 
repayment. And the statement of account  provided  by Savvy seems to indicate that as a 
result of not suspending or freezing the interest  led to Mr M Ms overall balance  of the 
account increasing during a time  that Savvy  was aware of Mr Ms financial difficulties. For 
example, in August Mr M paid £50 but £96.32 of interest was added to his account balance. 
To me, allowing someones  balance to increase during the time Savvy  knew Mr M was 
having difficulty is not treating him fairly or with forbearance. 
I appreciate that Savvy didnt  contact  Mr M, as it agreed, in September 2018. But Im also 
mindful of the fact that Mr M didnt  make contact either. And, even if Savvy  had called Mr M 
given what happened  later on  that being Mr M wasnt in a position to significantly increase 
his repayments  to a level even approaching that of the contractual amount - I dont think  Mr 
M wouldve  been  in materially different situation.  So there is no evidence  to suggest he 
Ref: DRN89335593would have been able to increase his repayment amounts even if Savvy had proactively  
called him to ask about that, as hed expected. 
Considering these circumstances and taking  on board the FCAs guidance,  on balance, I 
think that Savvy failed  to treat Mr M in a reasonable manner when he was finding  it difficult  
to repay  his loan.  
Mr M emailed Savvy on 16 June 2018 about  his difficulties.  So, I think  27 June 2018, the 
date of his next contractual payment, would be a reasonable  point for Savvy  to have 
suspended the interest,  giving Savvy a reasonable period  to show forbearance towards 
Mr Ms financial difficulties.
I appreciate Mr M is disappointed that his credit file has adverse information showing for this 
loan. But even if Savvy had suspended interest,  his loan would still have been in arrears  
because he wasnt paying the loan agreements contractual.  And from what I have seen, he 
has continued to make lower payments than the agreement and indeed  some of these failed. 
So, I dont think,  it was unreasonable for the arrears to have been reported or for Savvy to 
take the action  that it did to pass the account  to a third party  in December 2019.
I think though  that Mr Ms credit report should  reasonably reflect the loans outstanding 
balance taking into account the removal of interest  from 27 June 2018. 
Putting things  right
Savvy should have  suspended interested on Mr Ms loan when he alerted it to his financial 
difficulties. Its not right,  therefore, that any current loan balance should  include interest  that 
was added after this time.
Savvy has also let us know that in December 2019 it past the account to a third-party  
collection agent. 
So, to put things right Savvy should,  try to buy back Mr Ms loan and take the following 
steps. If Savvy is not able to buy the debt back, then it should liaise with the new debt owner 
to achieve the results  outlined below:
Remove all interest from the loans  outstanding  balance that was added from 
27 June 2018.
If after removing the interest Mr M has now paid enough to clear  the outstanding  
balance then any overpayment paid by Mr M should be returned to him with 8%* 
simple interest per year from the date of the overpayment to the date of settlement.
If after removing the interest an outstanding balance remains, then Mr M and Savvy  
should try and come to a mutually  agreeable repayment plan in order to repay any 
outstanding balance. But Id remind Savvy responsibility to treat Mr M fairly
Update Mr Ms credit report, to reflect the new outstanding balance  following the 
removal of interest  from 27 June 2018. If Mr M has repaid the outstanding balance  
then the credit file should be updated to reflect  that the loan has been repaid from the 
date that loan wouldve closed had the interest been frozen from 27 June 2018.
 
Ref: DRN89335594*HM Revenue & Customs requires Savvy to deduct tax from this interest.  It should  give Mr M 
a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted,  if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I partly uphold  Mr Ms complaint. 
Valour Finance Limited should put things right for Mr M as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 April 2020.
Robert Walker 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8933559