K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complains that Simplyhealth Access unfairly  and unreasonably refused to refund 
more of her claim under a health insurance policy. She wants more money refunded.
background
Mrs M had a dental insurance policy, which was meant to refund the cost of dental treatment 
paid by policyholders.  Mrs M had an accident and needed treatment with a dentist, which 
cost about £2,000. The treatment involved replacing a bridge as a front tooth attached  to it 
was chipped. But Simplyhealth  only refunded £200; Mrs M said that it denied that her tooth 
was chipped due to an accident and applied the maximum available benefit  under the 
crowns and bridges benefit, rather applying the higher cap under  the dental accident 
section. Mrs M believed  that Simplyhealth had concluded from a review of her records  that 
her bridge  had broken two years  earlier, which Mrs M denied.
It was Mr M who first contacted Simplyhealth about  the claim and said that the damage had 
been caused by Mrs M eating nuts.  But when Mrs M complained to Simplyhealth,  she 
admitted that she hadnt told her husband the truth. Mrs M said that the tooth was actually 
broken due to an accidental  blow from a child. Simplyhealth said Mr M asked in the initial call 
in November 2017 about how damage  to a tooth  caused by nuts would  be viewed (and was 
told it wouldnt be seen as a dental accident, but an external blow to the face or mouth would 
be seen as such), and also asked about the amounts payable for a bridge. 
Simplyhealth said that the later claim was rejected as it needed  to review the dental records;  
the claim was deemed not to be a dental  accident as the records  didnt support such a claim. 
It said that the dentist  denied  being  told by Mrs M of any accident and had stated if hed 
been told so, it wouldve  been recorded  in the records. Simplyhealth  also noted  that the 
initial account said that the tooth  had been damaged due to eating nuts, rather than an 
accidental blow to the mouth,  and thought the difference was significant. It pointed out that 
the records did show that in 2016  the bridge had been fractured and Mrs M declined to 
replace it  the policy was taken out a few days later. As this was a pre-existing condition, 
Simplyhealth said it shouldnt have  paid anything for the bridge,  but wouldnt require Mrs M 
to return the money.
Mrs M complained to us. The investigators  view was that Simplyhealth wasnt at fault. She 
thought it was fair and reasonable for it to conclude that there  wasnt  sufficient evidence that 
an accident had taken place, particularly given  Mr Ms account of the matter and the content 
of the dental records.
Mrs M disagreed. Her husband told this service  that the dentist was refusing to change  the 
records to say that there was an accident but Mr M said eating an object could be an 
accident. The investigator didnt change her view. Mrs M commented  that while they joined 
the dental plan comparatively recently,  theyd had other plans with Simplyhealth  for many 
years and not made claims. Mrs M also said she wasnt  to blame  for the entries made by the 
dentist in his records.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN88745512The relevant  rules and industry guidelines say that Simplyhealth has a responsibility to 
handle claims promptly and fairly. And it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. But insurers  
are able to set out in the terms and conditions of the policy what  is and isnt covered,  and 
how different claims will be treated under various  sections  of the policy.
Pre-existing conditions are excluded under  the terms and conditions of the policy. It also 
excludes damage from eating foodstuffs (such as nuts) from falling under the dental accident 
section. The policy also says that Simplyhealth can require evidence  of the accident itself if a 
dental accident claim is made.
Simplyhealth can only make decisions based on the evidence available  to it. In Mrs Ms 
case, Simplyhealth  has done more than just look at the records; its staff has spoken to the 
dental practice involved more than once.  The dental records dont reflect any report  of a 
dental accident made by Mrs M; the dentists  surgery confirmed to Simplyhealth  that his 
usual practice is to record any dental  accident  reported in the records. Theres no record of 
an accident in the dental records.
In addition, the conversation between Mr M and Simplyhealth does raise reasonable 
concerns about  the accident  itself.  Mr M is told that the policy says dental injuries due to 
eating nuts arent covered  by the accident benefit  and that an external blow is covered by 
the accident benefit. Mrs M then reports that she suffered  an external blow, rather  than ate 
nuts, which caused the damage.  But the dentist doesnt record  an accident took place. What 
is recorded in the records is that Mrs M has a pre-existing fractured bridge. This remains  
untreated (her decision)  for a significant  period. Clearly, its likely that Mrs M is able to 
manage with the fractured  bridge  for some time, even though her dentist repeatedly  
recommends treatment.
Given the evidence  available to Simplyhealth, I cant say that it has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in declining the claim for a dental  accident. And its correct  to note that 
technically Mrs M has received more than she shouldve as the bridge was excluded as a 
pre-existing condition. But as payment was made due to Simplyhealths mistake, its fair and 
reasonable not to require repayment  by Mrs M.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or reject  my decision before 
9 September 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8874551