K822xcomplaint
Mr H complains that Allianz Global Assistance (Allianz) didnt refund any part of his 
premium when he cancelled his travel insurance policy.  He also complains  about  its delay in 
responding to his request  for a refund.
Mr Hs relative  has brought  the complaint to us on his behalf, but for ease Ill refer to her 
comments as being those of Mr H.   
background 
In January 2018 Mr H bought a single  trip travel insurance policy for an extended trip abroad 
between March 2018 and March 2019.  He paid just under £550  for the policy.  Allianz 
administers the policy for the underwriter.
After around six weeks Mr H returned home. He asked Allianz for a refund of the unused  
portion of the premium. Allianz responded to say that there  wasnt any refund available 
under the policy.  Mr H thought this was unfair and came to us. He also complained  about  
Allianz six-month delay  in responding to his refund  request.
Our investigator thought Allianz had given Mr H correct  information about the policy  
premium. But its delay  had caused Mr H distress and inconvenience so she said Allianz 
should pay Mr H £75 compensation.  Allianz agreed to this but Mr H didnt think this was fair 
compensation. Also, he thinks Allianz  should  give him a partial  refund of the policy premium 
as would happen with a car or household  insurance  policy. The complaints come to me for 
review.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The complaint is about the policy premium and so would often be made against the 
underwriter. But Allianz  is the administrator dealing with travel policies, and it has confirmed 
to us that it is the correct business for this complaint to be against.  In view of this, and the 
fact that the complaint is partly  about  Allianz delay I am deciding  this complaint against 
Allianz.
Ive thought carefully about Mr Hs comments but I dont uphold his complaint about the 
refund of the policy premium. I think Allianz  has now offered a fair amount of compensation 
for its delay  in responding. Ill explain my reasons. 
The policy terms explain  clearly on page two about the cancellation  rights. A full refund was 
available if Mr H hadnt travelled and he cancelled  the policy  within 14 days.  The policy  said 
that after 14 days his cancellation rights were  no longer valid.  Further  information was given 
on page nine of the policy.  It said that if Mr H cancelled  or cut short his journey for any 
reason other than in section 1 (cancellation and curtailment charges) then all cover provided 
by his single  trip policy would  be cancelled  without any refund of premium. 
Mr H returned to the UK after six weeks, but hes not suggested this was for one of the 
reasons that were  covered  under  his policy. For example, the policy allowed for a temporary 
Ref: DRN88076312return to the UK before resuming  the trip, called partial curtailment. So Allianz  was correct 
to say that he wasnt entitled to a refund under the policy terms.
Ive thought about whether a pro-rata  refund would be fair even though its not allowed for in 
the policys terms and conditions. Ive also considered Mr Hs comments about other types of 
insurance policy, where pro-rata refunds are available in certain circumstances. 
But I dont think travel insurance is the same as car or household insurance.  The policy 
types operate very differently. With the latter two theres a fairly consistent  spread of risk 
over a year. With a travel  insurance policy the insurer carries risk from the date the holiday is 
booked. This risk runs for the period before the holiday (risk of cancellation)  and then on 
holiday (the full risk of the policy up to the limits). Mr H had travelled on his long haul trip for 
around six weeks before he returned  to the UK and cancelled the policy. So the risk of both 
cancelling the trip and the risks of travelling on the trip had been  incurred. 
The policy is clear there  will be no refund after the first 14 days of the policy and overall  
I think Allianz explanation that a premium refund wasnt available  was fair. 
Allianz should have responded to Mr H earlier than it did. Its said sorry for the delay and 
offered to pay Mr H £75 compensation for distress and inconvenience. I think this is a fair 
amount. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I partly uphold  this complaint. I require Allianz Global 
Assistance to pay Mr H £75 compensation for distress and inconvenience, as it has offered 
to do. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 October  2019.
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8807631