K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain  that U K Insurance Limited (UKI)  unfairly  turned down their claim 
for the cancellation  of their holiday,  and say the claim  was handled poorly. 
background
Mr and Mrs A held a travel insurance policy with UKI. 
Mr and Mrs A own a villa abroad. When theyre not staying at the villa, they rent it out and 
earn an income for it. 
Mr and Mrs A said that in January 2018,  they made a booking  to stay at their villa for 
September of that year. And they said this meant the property wouldnt be rented out during 
the time they would  be staying there. 
In May 2018, Mr A saw his GP and was referred  to a specialist clinic. Subsequently  he was 
prescribed medication and was referred  for scans.
The following  month in June 2018, Mr and Mrs A booked  the flights  they needed  for the trip 
to stay at their villa. Later that month,  Mr A had the scans hed been referred  for. These  
resulted in him being referred  for a further investigative procedure.  
In August  2018  Mr A called UKI to provide an update on the changes  to his medical  
conditions and UKI recorded the information. 
Mr A ended up needing an operation, which took place around a week  before Mr and Mrs A 
were due to fly out to stay at their villa. Mr A was deemed medically unfit to fly for two weeks,  
so he contacted UKI to make a cancellation  claim. 
UKI initially said it thought  Mr A and Mrs A would be covered for the cost of their flights and 
villa accommodation, and asked them  to send various evidence  so it could assess  the claim. 
UKI later declined the claim  for loss of rental  income in relation to Mr and Mrs As villa, as it 
said there was no cover  for this under their policy. Mr and Mrs A said the policy doesnt 
specifically exclude  claims for loss of rental  income.  
UKI also declined  the claim for Mr and Mrs As flights. And said this was because, at the time 
of booking, Mr and Mrs A were aware that Mr A was undergoing medical investigations, and 
hadnt made UKI aware  of this. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs A have  made a very detailed submission to us about  their complaint. If I havent 
commented on a particular point, this doesnt  mean  I havent  considered  it. Im not required 
to comment on each  and every point, but instead  Im concentrating on the main  issues.  And 
this reflects the informal nature of our service. 
loss of rental income 
Ref: DRN86101042Mr and Mrs A made a booking to stay at their own villa in January 2018,  before Mr A visited 
his GP and was referred to a specialist clinic.  So based on the terms of their policy, UKI 
would have been required to cover the costs of any unused accommodation, if Mrs and 
Mrs A were  unable to obtain a refund. However,  as Mr and Mrs A own the villa they were 
due to stay in, they hadnt paid any accommodation costs,  so there was no loss for UKI to 
reimburse. 
Mr and Mrs A said theyd  made a loss in terms of the income  theyd have received if theyd 
instead rented out the villa. And they said their policy doesnt specifically exclude loss of 
rental income. However, under the general exclusions section of the policy, it states  We 
will not cover  any claim for any loss not specifically covered by this policy. And 
insurance policies  rarely  cover every possible scenario or event that might happen. Im 
satisfied Mr and Mrs As policy  doesnt provide cover for loss of rental income. So I think UKI 
was entitled to turn down this element of the claim. 
unused flights 
Mr and Mrs A said they consider the date they booked their trip to be January 2018, when 
they made a reservation to stay at their villa. However, the flights  they needed to reach the 
villa werent  booked until June 2018. At this point, Mr and Mrs A were aware that Mr A was 
under investigation  for a medical condition. 
I dont think it was unfair for UKI to consider  the specific booking date of the flights  when 
assessing this claim.  I say this because its necessary for insurers  to consider what 
information was known to a policyholder about any possible  cause for cancellation at the 
time of booking. And as the flights and accommodation were booked  on different dates in 
this case, I think its reasonable that UKI has assessed these separately and based  on what 
was known to Mr and Mrs A about Mr As medical  condition at the time of each booking. 
Prior to booking the flights in June 2018,  Mr A had been referred  to a specialist clinic, had 
been prescribed medication and was referred  to have some scans. 
Mr and Mrs As policy says that when booking a trip, policyholders  must  tell the insurer  about  
any medical conditions  under  investigation  or awaiting diagnosis. Based on the referral  
made by Mr As GP and the further  referral from the clinic in May, its clear  to me that Mr A 
was under investigation for a medical  condition at the time Mr and Mrs A booked their flights 
in June. So Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs A needed  to tell UKI about  the change  to Mr As 
health, and that this requirement was made clear in the policy documentation. 
Mr and Mrs A contacted UKI in August. By this time Mr A had received the results of the 
scans and had been referred  for further investigations. It would be common in this situation 
for an insurer to complete  a screening  to make a decision about  whether or not its still able 
to offer cover. Ive seen  no evidence that UKI did this. However I dont think it made  
a difference, as Mr and Mrs A still wouldnt have been covered for loss of rental  income, or 
for flights booked after they became aware Mr A was under investigation for a medical  
condition. 
incorrect information provided by UKI
Mr and Mrs A complained about being  provided  with incorrect  information about what would 
be covered as part of their claim.  UKI accepted it had initially advised Mr and Mrs A that they 
Ref: DRN86101043would be covered for certain elements of their claim and this later turned out to be wrong. 
But I think it would be unreasonable for me to say that UKI should pay the claim because  of 
this. Instead Ive considered what impact the incorrect  information had. 
When speaking to UKI about  making  their claim, Mr and Mrs A said if they were able to get a 
late booking for their villa, they wouldnt continue with that element of the claim. Mr and Mrs 
A were subsequently unable to rent out their villa for the relevant period. So on this basis,  
I dont think the information  UKI provided was detrimental to Mr and Mrs A, as they were  still 
actively looking to rent out their villa. Also,  as Mr and Mrs As flights  had already been  
booked and werent refundable, Im satisfied  the information UKI gave didnt make a 
difference. 
I accept that the incorrect information UKI provided  about what would be covered caused 
Mr and Mrs A inconvenience  if UKI had got things  right from the start then Mr and Mrs A 
wouldnt have had to spend time gathering and submitting evidence  to support their claim.  
I also accept it would  have been  upsetting for Mr and Mrs A to have been told the claim 
would be paid and then to later hear it was declined. So because of this, I think  UKI should 
pay Mr and Mrs A some  compensation. But UKI has already paid £350  to Mr and Mrs A to 
recognise its error. And I think thats  a fair amount in the circumstances, so I wont be asking 
UKI to do anything more.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. And 
I make  no award against U K Insurance Limited. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 April 2020.
Gemma Warner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8610104