K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that The Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc (RBS)  mis-sold  him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy in 1996.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think RBS made it clear that Mr M didnt have to take out he PPI and he chose to 
take it out  although  I can understand why he cant remember this. Mr M thought  he 
took out the credit card and PPI online,  but RBS have provided  a copy  of his postal 
application form which shows  the choice he had.
RBS didnt personally recommend the PPI to Mr M so it didnt have to check if it was 
right for him. But it did have  to make sure Mr M got the information he needed to 
decide if it was right for him.
Its possible the information RBS gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But he chose  to take out the PPI  so it looks  like he wanted  this 
type of cover. Based on what  Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time it doesnt 
look like he was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  so it 
would have been useful for him if something  went wrong. I also havent  seen  
anything to suggest the PPI was unaffordable for Mr M. So I dont think  better 
information about the PPI would have put him off taking  out the cover.
Which means RBS doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr M. 
But RBS has paid back some of the PPI to Mr M because:
RBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of PPI 
premium)  so it should have told Mr M about  that. Because  RBS didnt tell Mr M, 
that was unfair.
To put that right, RBS has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium   and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr M has said  including what he has said about knowing the 
PPI was optional  and that he didnt  need  it. But these points dont change my decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold, so RBS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to 
Mr M.
Ref: DRN83623532But RBS does have  to pay back to Mr M any commission and profit  share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, so I dont award 
any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 April 2019.
Sally Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8362353