K820x#14complaint
Mrs S complains that Health-on-line Company UK Limited (HoL) unfairly declined her claim 
and mis-sold her private  medical insurance.
background
Mrs S took out private medical  insurance with HoL in 2015. She made a claim for cataract 
surgery on her policy  in September  2016. And, at the time, told HoL that shed known  about  
her condition and the need for it to require surgery at some point for about  two years. Mrs S 
said she hadnt thought to tell HoL about  her condition before the claim though, because 
shed just been going to her opticians at the time.
However, because  Mrs S hadnt told HoL about  her condition at the point her policy  was 
sold, HoL said theyd be unable to cover it. Mrs S was unhappy with that though. She said 
HoL led her to believe her policy was a continuation of a policy shed previously had, and 
cancelled, with HoLs parent company (Company A). Mrs S said her claim should have 
been covered  because  it would have been under her previous policy. But HoL maintained  
their claims decision and said they hadnt mis-sold the policy  either. 
Mrs S approached this service, but did so outside  of the time limits that originally applied  to 
her. Having explained the reasons for her late referral, both our investigator and HoL agreed 
that our service could  look into the complaint Mrs S referring it to us late. And, in relation to 
her complaint, Mrs S provided a letter from her optician dated April 2019  which  said her 
condition hadnt  been present before and was only diagnosed in September 2016. 
Our investigator shared that letter  with HoL, who said theyd have  authorised cover if that 
letter had been made available to them  at the time of the claim. But HoL said they hadnt 
seen that letter until wed shared it with them. And, theyd declined Mrs Ss claim solely on 
the information shed provided at the time;  which was shed known about her condition two 
years prior to claiming for it. 
HoL said theyd offered to request further information from Mrs Ss optician  at the time of her 
claim. But shed  told HoL shed refer back to them herself if there was further information 
available to support  her claim, and hadnt  gone on to provide anything.  
Based on the information HoL had at the time of Mrs Ss claim,  our investigator didnt think  
HoL had declined it unfairly. And our investigator didnt think there was evidence  to suggest 
the policy had been mis-sold to Mrs S either.  But Mrs S said she hadnt provided HoL with 
that letter at the time because she hadnt known how long her wait on the NHS would 
eventually be. And she reiterated her concerns about HoL misleading her during the sale of 
the policy. So, as no agreement was reached  the complaint was passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Specific time limits apply to this services  ability to consider complaints. One of which  
requires complaints to be referred to us within six months of a business  issuing  their final 
response. That is unless exceptional  circumstances apply. 
Ref: DRN82101502When Mrs S referred her complaint to us outside  of that six month  window, she explained  
that a week after HoL issued their final response  her daughter began suffering from a period  
of significant ill health. Mrs S provided medical  evidence to support  that. And said shed 
missed the six month window because shed had to move  in with and support her daughter  
and grandchildren  at the time.
Having thought carefully about what Mrs S has both said and provided, like our investigator  
did, I too consider  the reason for the late referral to be exceptional. I know that HoL agree 
with that as well. And so Im satisfied I have the power to consider this complaint 
accordingly. 
Turning to Mrs S complaint, at the point of making her claim  shed told HoL that she had 
known about her condition and the potential for it to require surgery at some  point  for about 
two years.  She also told HoL that she hadnt  thought  to mention that when asked about  her 
medical history because shed just been going  to her opticians. Mrs Ss policy says:
Whichever form of underwriting you joined on, we may have asked you some  medical 
questions before agreeing your cover. [] If you did not answer  fully or accurately, even if 
this was by accident, we may not cover treatment for the condition. 
This means  we will not cover treatment for any conditions that you should  have told us about  
when we asked,  but that you either  did not tell us about at all, or that you did not tell us the 
full extent of.
So given what Mrs S had just told HoL, I dont think it was unreasonable of them  to have  
declined to cover her claim at the time. I know that Mrs S has since  provided evidence which 
says her condition wasnt  present  prior to her claim. And HoL have said theyd have 
authorised her claim if thatd been made available to them.  But, while  I appreciate Mrs Ss 
reasons for not providing HoL with it (she hadnt  anticipated  how long shed have to wait on 
the NHS), Im not persuaded  itd be fair of me to hold HoL responsible  for that. 
I say this because  HoL had offered to obtain further information from Mrs Ss optician. Mrs S 
had said shed refer back to HoL herself if there was further information to support her claim 
though. And she didnt  go on to do so. That meant HoL werent  provided  with anything 
further to demonstrate that Mrs Ss claim  was eligible for cover.  And so, despite  the benefit  
of hindsight, I dont  think itd be fair of me to ask HoL to do anything in relation to that now. 
Turning to the sale of Mrs Ss policy, HoL sold it through  a non-advised sale. That meant 
they needed to provide enough clear,  fair and not-misleading information for Mrs S to make 
an informed choice about whether the policy was right for her. 
Mrs S has said that HoL already alluded to their policy being mis-sold  by apologising for 
giving her misinformation. But looking in their apology in the context in which it written,  I can 
see that HoLs apology  wasnt  in relation to the information Mrs S was given during the sale 
of her policy. It was in relation to different information that HoL had given about the 
formatting of a call transcript  they were going  to send. 
In relation to the sale itself, I know that Mrs S thinks HoL led her to believe their policy was 
going to be a continuation  of her previously  policy  (which had been with Company A). But 
having listened to the sales call Im not of the opinion that HoL said that and note that, when 
setting out the purpose of their call, HoLs call handler said:
Ref: DRN82101503Were actually part of [Company A]. So we are the sister company but we have our own 
policies that they underwrite that are very very competitive throughout the industry  
[Company A] could  see that our policy would come in a lot lower in price  but maybe had 
slightly more value  [] So we just wanted  to be able to give you at least  an alternative for 
you to consider if anything.
HoLs call handler also made a number of references during the sales  call to Mrs Ss policy  
being a new policy. And, HoL wanting to give [Mrs S] a similar  level of cover  to what  [she]  
had.
HoL did carry over the medical exclusions from Mrs S previous policy   they did so using a 
switch method of underwriting. But that was still subject  to the medical  questions  HoL had 
asked Mrs S during  the sales. And HoL made  reference to that switch still resulting  in a new 
policy when their call handler said, just to confirm we are insuring yourself [Mrs S], youre  on 
a Health For You Policy  on a switch method of underwriting, your new policy will start today, 
so immediate cover.
I know that Mrs S has said that HoL also failed  to make reference  to her being  able to cancel 
the policy within 14 days. And that if theyd have  mentioned that, it would  have indicated  to 
Mrs S that her policy  was indeed a new one. But HoLs call handler did set that out and said,  
you have a 14 day cooling off period to make any changes, amendments, cancellation  or 
any updates 
Following the sales  call, Mrs S was provided with her membership  documents online. And 
having looked at considered what was said during the call and what was provided following 
that, Im satisfied that HoL provided enough  clear, fair and not-misleading information in 
order for Mrs S to make  an informed choice about whether the policy  was right for her. So 
Im not persuaded that this policy was mis-sold. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 February  2020.
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman 
Ref: DRN8210150