K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that a car that was supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with 
BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited,  trading as Alphera Financial Services,  wasnt of 
satisfactory quality.
background
A used  car was supplied to Mr S under  a hire purchase agreement  with Alphera that he 
signed in October  2017. He says that the cars clutch  and fly wheel were  replaced but he 
had to return the car to the dealer for repairs because of a rattle  and a fuel leak.  He says that 
the dealer then stopped  trading. He says that the engine failed in March  2018 and a 
manufacturers dealer  quoted £5,000 for replacing the engine so he decided to replace the 
engine himself. 
He paid £170 for the car to be recovered and he says that his costs for replacing the engine  
were £1,250 and that the work took him about  eight months in his spare time. He says that 
he then became aware that other drivers  had had similar problems with this model of car so 
he complained  to Alphera and said that he wanted  to reject the car. And he then complained 
to this service.
The investigator recommended  that this complaint should be upheld  in part. He didnt 
consider that Mr S could reject the car because  Alphera hadnt  been given an opportunity to 
repair it. But he recommended that it should cover the costs  Mr S incurred in purchasing  the 
replacement engine and parts and refund his recovery cost (subject to evidence of costs  
being provided  all with interest). He also recommended that it should  refund Mr Ss 
monthly payments  for the time that he didnt have use of the car (March to November 2018) 
with interest and pay him £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience that hes 
been caused.
Mr S has asked  for his complaint to be considered  by an ombudsman.  He says that he 
agrees with the investigators recommendations but thinks that the finance agreement  
should be ended at no extra cost as well as the car hasnt been the same since the engine  
failure. And he says that he bought a cheap replacement car to use whilst the other car was 
being repaired and that he should  be reimbursed for the cost of the car and insuring  it. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Alphera, as the supplier  of the car, was responsible for ensuring that it was of satisfactory 
quality. Whether or not it was will depend  on a number of factors, including  the age, and 
mileage of the car and the price  that was paid for it. The car that was supplied  to Mr S was 
about four years  old, had been driven  for approximately 65,000 miles and had a price of 
£10,551. Satisfactory  quality also covers durability which means  that the components within  
the car must  be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but exactly  how long that 
time is will depend on a number of factors. 
The car was supplied to Mr S in October 2017 and the engine failed in March  2018. Ive 
seen evidence about a fault with engines that were fitted in some models of the car that was 
supplied to Mr S. Those cars were fitted  with a nylon  coolant pipe between  the engine  and 
Ref: DRN86255982coolant tank that had the potential  to fail at high temperatures.  The evidence shows  that the 
fault had been identified  by the manufacturer in March  2015 and that it issued an action to 
replace the hose in affected  cars.
Ive seen no evidence  to show that the coolant pipe was replaced on Mr Ss car before it was 
supplied to him. And I consider  it to be more likely than not that the engine  failed because 
the coolant pipe hadnt been replaced  and that the car wasnt  of satisfactory quality when it 
was supplied to Mr S.
Mr S has replaced the cars engine and says that the cost of doing  so was £1,250. He hasnt 
been able to provide receipts  for all of the costs that he incurred but that cost is significantly 
less than the cost that he was quoted by a manufacturers dealer for that work. I consider 
that it would  be fair and reasonable for Alphera  to pay him £1,250  to reimburse  him for those 
costs and that it should pay interest  on that amount  from the date of the engine  failure in 
March 2018. 
He said in response to the investigators recommendations that the car hasnt been  the 
same since  the engine failure.  But in a timeline  of events that he submitted to this service in 
October 2019 he said that the car was MOT'd and insured - back  on the road without any 
further issues in November 2018.  And Im not persuaded that theres  enough evidence to 
show that there are ongoing issues with the car. Nor am I persuaded that it would be fair or 
reasonable for me to require Alphera to allow  Mr S to reject the car or to end the hire 
purchase agreement  in these circumstances.
Mr S has provided evidence to show that he paid £170 in April 2018 for the car to be 
recovered because  its engine had failed. I consider that it would be fair and reasonable for 
Alphera to also reimburse him for that cost  with interest. 
Mr S wasnt  able to use the car from when its engine failed in March 2018 until hed 
completed the engine replacement in November 2018. I consider that it would be fair and 
reasonable for Alphera to refund to him the eight monthly payments that he made under the 
agreement from April to November 2018  with interest. He says that he bought another car 
to use during that period.  But as Im ordering Alphera to refund the monthly payments that 
he made when he wasnt  able to use the car that was supplied to him under the agreement,  I 
dont consider that it would be fair or reasonable for me to also require it to reimburse him for 
the cost of the car that he bought  (or the cost of insuring  it).
These events will have  caused considerable distress and inconvenience to Mr S. So in 
addition to the payments referred  to above, I find that it would be fair and reasonable for 
Alphera to also pay him £300 to compensate him for that distress  and inconvenience.  
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I uphold Mr Ss complaint in part. And I order 
BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited,  trading as Alphera Financial Services,  to:
1.Pay £1,250  to Mr S to reimburse him for the costs that he incurred in replacing  the 
engine.
2.Pay interest on that amount at an annual rate of 8% simple from March  2018 to the 
date of settlement.
Ref: DRN862559833.Pay £170 to Mr S to reimburse him for the recovery  costs that he incurred.
4.Refund to Mr S the eight monthly payments that hes made under the agreement 
from April to November 2018  when he wasnt able to use the car.
5.Pay interest on the amounts at 3 and 4 above at an annual rate of 8% simple  from 
the date of each  payment to the date of settlement.
6.Pay £300 to Mr S to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience  that hes 
been caused.
HM Revenue & Customs  requires Alphera to deduct  tax from the interest  payments referred 
to at 2 and 5 above. Alphera must give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its 
deducted if he asks it for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 February  2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8625598