K820x#14complaint
Mr B, who is represented by a firm of solicitors  I will call F, complains that Cabot Credit  
Management Group Limited is pursuing  a debt that is unenforceable.  He also complains that 
the loan was unaffordable  and it was irresponsible to have lent him the money.
background
Cabot acquired  a debt from a third party I will call H and says it wrote to Mr B on a number 
occasions setting  out the amount owed and the date of the loan agreement. F contacted  
Cabot to challenge its right to collect  the debt and also to suggest the loan was unaffordable. 
It asked for copies of the relevant documentation.  
Cabot responded  to say that it didnt  have the relevant documents on file, but it would seek  
them from H. In the meantime it said the debt would be temporarily unenforceable  and it 
would not take legal  action to obtain payment. Furthermore it explained  that it wasnt 
responsible for granting the loan and so it couldnt address the affordability issue. 
F brought Mr Bs complaint to this service  where it was considered by one of our 
adjudicators. Cabot said that any issue  of enforceability of the loan would be a matter for the 
courts to deal with. The adjudicator agreed  and noted that Cabot hadnt  sought to enforce 
the loan and since F had complained it hadnt  contacted Mr B. She said Cabot wasnt 
responsible for the granting of the loan and any complaint on that issue would have to be 
addressed to H. She didnt think she could ask Cabot do anymore.
F said the complaint  wasnt  about the enforceability  of the loan, but about Cabot seeking to 
repayment of a debt it doesnt know is payable and has no evidence that it is due. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am reassured to note that F has now agreed  that the issue  of enforceability  is not one 
which needs to be considered by this service. However, it has suggested  that Cabot seems 
to be acting without  evidence that the debt is due. 
The logical conclusion of Fs recent  argument seems to be that Cabot has invented  the debt 
since it hasnt provided all that is required to prove enforceability in court.  Cabot has 
explained to F that it has sent Mr B details of the loan on several occasions and I have not 
seen anything from Mr B disputing he borrowed the money. On balance I think it reasonable 
to conclude that the actions of Cabot have been  fair. It is entitled to communicate  with Mr B 
regarding the debt and so far as I am aware  this is what  it has done.
If Mr B has any evidence  to show that he doesnt  owe the money or that he never borrowed 
from H then it would make sense for him to share  that with Cabot.
F has also argued that the loan was unaffordable  and that it was granted  irresponsibly. That 
argument seems to suggest that it accepts there was a loan in the first place. However, any 
complaint of that nature is not relevant to Cabot. It didnt grant the loan, it is merely  seeking 
repayment. 
Ref: DRN84312852my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 5 July 
2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8431285