K820x#14complaint
Miss L has complained  National  Westminster  Bank  Plc is asking her to pay a debt of over 
£8,000 following transactions on her account which  she didnt authorise.
background
Miss L brought  her complaint to the ombudsman service after NatWest  had closed her 
account and were asking her to repay  more  than £8,000. They  told her theyd closed her 
account as shed misused it and would now expect her to repay what  was owed. They  
believed shed either taken money  out of the account after fraudulent payments had been 
made into it or shed  allowed someone  else to use her account.
Miss L had got in touch with NatWest on 31 July 2017 after noticing the balance on her 
account which showed her massively  overdrawn. NatWest noted  that transactions  had been 
made at her branch and online using her card and PIN. Cash  payments had also been made 
into her account; her daily withdrawal limit had been increased along with other  savings 
accounts opened. Miss L denied shed given anyone else her online banking details or her 
card and PIN. NatWest  didnt believe her so closed her accounts. 
NatWest also issued  a notice to default  Miss L because of the debt on her account. They 
then sold her debt to a third party. At the time of the debt accruing, Miss L owed  NatWest  
£8,215.91.
Detailed evidence was provided by NatWest. 
Our adjudicator felt overall the evidence pointed to Miss L knowing about or having  
authorised herself  what happened.  This was because her card,  PIN and online banking  
details were used  to make the payments and withdrawals from her account, after large 
amounts had been paid in. She therefore  didnt think it was right to ask NatWest  to not 
pursue Miss L for this debt.
Miss L disagreed with this outcome and asked an ombudsman to review her complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as our adjudicator for roughly the same reasons. Ill explain why.
Firstly I can see the timeline of events and the different scenarios around who may have 
authorised the transactions prior to NatWest  closing her accounts in 2017 were 
comprehensively covered in our adjudicators view of 25 February 2019. I dont intend to 
repeat everything  that was said there. Except  to say Im satisfied Ive reviewed the complaint 
thoroughly.
The issues  I think are pertinent to this complaint include:
There was an increase to Miss Ls daily cash machine withdrawal limit on 
28 June 2017.  On the same day NatWest said the mobile phone number linked to 
Miss Ls account was changed. This is a few days before any further  disputed  activity 
took place.
Ref: DRN85213702Miss Ls history of account usage  shows that in five years  shed never  had more  than 
£250 in her account and often ran it down  to just a few pounds.
There was an incident in July 2017  when NatWest got a complaint from a customer 
of another bank  whod  sent Miss L £50 in exchange  for goods. Theyd then not 
received anything or been able to contact Miss L. At the time NatWest  was notified 
there were no funds remaining in Miss Ls account.
The increase  in the daily cash machine limit to £1,500  more money than Miss L 
had in her account at any one time  allowed someone to withdraw £750 twice on 
6 and 7 July. Miss L hasnt been  able to explain this.
It is more than possible  that Miss Ls card could have been  pinched and used 
fraudulently. Except in this case Miss Ls card,  PIN, card reader, sort code, account 
number and online banking  details were all used to make payments into and out of 
her account.
Miss L spoke to NatWest about a payment on 6 July. At that time she confirmed she 
had her card.
Miss L told her bank in a call on 21 July that a cash machine had retained her card. 
She also told us that she thought  her card may have been lost in her room so hadnt 
reported it. Her mum thought Miss Ls card had been stolen.
Miss L didnt tell NatWest her debit card was missing until 21 July. I appreciate she 
was young when this happened so may well not have  realised  the importance of 
reporting this loss as soon  as it happened.
Miss L had told us her mobile phone wasnt working and shed  been  using her 
sisters since May. Her online banking records do reflect this. An android phone  was 
used regularly until 2 May 2017. After this when a mobile shows, its an iPhone.  
NatWests records cannot show which mobile number this access is linked to. This 
could be why the mobile number linked to the account was changed on 28 June.
However I cant see this record on 28 June. Although the details were changed on 
5 July which is about the time all the disputed transactions start. Different IP 
addresses also appear on the online  banking  log for the first time.
Miss L regularly logged onto her NatWest account to see what was going on prior to 
the fraudulent  funds  being paid in. She then doesnt  log on again until 15 July (based 
on IP addresses where  she has login history). There is an attempt to login on 12 July 
but this is abandoned after the customers 10-digit number  is input.
We know that fraudsters encourage people whose genuine account theyre using to 
suspend checking  their account  whilst payments are being paid in and then rapidly 
withdrawn. That looks very similar  to what happened  here.
There were  online  PIN and password changes carried out on 14 July.
The transactions that happened in branch didnt require any additional ID apart  from 
Miss Ls card and PIN.
New savings accounts were  opened  online in Miss Ls name. One was opened on 
12 July and two further accounts were opened  on 17 July. When  Miss L first came to 
this service, she told us she had one savings account. Im not sure how shed know 
this if she hadnt been aware of what was going  on.
The debt occurred  when someone  tried to transfer two amounts of £8,200  from the 
savings account  (which had a balance  of that amount  at the time) using two different 
devices around  about  the same time. 
Ive also considered what the Payment Services Regulations say. This means I have to 
decide whether  I believe  Miss L made  or authorised the transactions  made from her account.
Ref: DRN85213703There are a number of different scenarios that could  have happened here. But overall,  and 
taking into account  Miss Ls normal account  monitoring  as well as other  evidence,  I think  
Miss L was aware someone else was using her account. 
As I started  to review her complaint, I asked Miss L what further  evidence  she may have 
had. But Ive received nothing further from her. 
I did ask NatWest about the payments  into Miss Ls account as these came from another  
NatWest account.  I received this so was able to take this into account. In the end this 
evidence wasnt really  relevant to my decision.
I think overall Miss L didnt carry out the transactions  herself but Ive concluded she 
authorised the use of her account.
We know young people  are targeted by fraudsters  so that their accounts can be used to 
transfer money fraudulently. Sometimes  young people are encouraged financially to 
participate in this type of fraud  but sometimes there are other things going on. Ive not seen 
anything here to show Miss L got any financial benefit out of what  happened. 
Shes now in debt to a considerable amount.  As Miss L is a student and not working, I cant 
see any immediate chance of NatWest being able to recoup  the lost money.  And taking into 
account her personal  circumstances,  I must  stress NatWest  and any third party they may 
have sold her debt to  are obliged to treat her positively and sympathetically.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Miss Ls complaint against  
National Westminster Bank Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 January 2020.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8521370