K820x#14complaint
Miss M has complained to The Prudential Assurance Company Limited about the sale of her 
Teachers Additional Voluntary Contributions (TAVC) pension  plan.  She says that if shed 
been given better information, she wouldve purchased added  years in the Teachers 
Pension Scheme (TPS)  instead of setting up the TAVC plan.
background
Miss M took out a TAVC plan in 1994 after meeting  with a representative  from Prudential.  The 
paperwork completed at the time of the sale confirms  that Miss M was 36 years old and was 
earning £21,444 a year. Miss M had been  a member of the TPS since  1980, when she was 
22 years  old.
The TAVC policy was set up with a starting contribution of 3.7% of Miss Ms salary per year. 
Miss M increased  contributions to her TAVC  plan in September 1995 and May 1998.  Miss M 
stopped making  contributions for several months  during 1999 and 2000. She made  no 
further contributions  to her TAVC after December 2004.
Miss M complained to Prudential in 2018.  She argued that Prudential  cannot prove they 
made her adequately  aware of the alternatives to the TAVC  and she was given the 
"hard sell" on this option only. She says Prudentials adviser persuaded her that the TAVC  
was preferable without  making an effective comparison with the added years  option so she 
wasnt able to make a fully informed decision.
Prudential reviewed Miss Ms complaint but it didnt think it had done anything  wrong.  It said 
its representatives were only required to provide information about  the added  years option 
and it wasnt allowed to provide advice on added  years. It thought its information was clear 
enough about the added years option. But even  if it wasnt,  Prudential didnt think  Miss M 
wouldve have chosen to buy added years instead of contributing to her TAVC plan. 
Prudential said the TAVC  offered flexibility and was expected to provide greater benefits 
than the added years option.
Unhappy with this response,  Miss M referred her complaint  to our service. One of our 
investigators considered  her complaint  but didnt uphold it. He didnt think  Prudential gave 
clear enough  information  about  her in-house options.
However, he didnt  think  it was likely Miss M would  have  bought  past added years  if shed 
been given enough information. He noted she was only able to buy two added  years.  Whilst 
the added  years would likely have cost less than Miss M contributed  to her TAVC, he didnt 
think Miss M would  have thought added years were  the cost effective option. He said this 
because, at the time Miss M took out the TAVC  plan, it would probably have been shown 
that the projected benefits from AVCs  based on what she was contributing   would be 
greater than the benefits of using this same  contribution rate to purchase added  years.  Our 
investigator also thought Miss M would have wanted the flexibility  offered by the TAVC,  
which she took advantage of by taking a break from her contributions before stopping them 
entirely.
Miss M disagreed, saying  Prudential should have  gone further and explained  the generic 
differences between  the TAVC  and added years. She said that she would have bought 
added years had this been  done.  So this has come to me for a review  and decision. 
Ref: DRN83181772my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with our 
investigators conclusions,  and for the same reasons.
The Prudential sales representative  who sold Miss M her TAVC plan was only authorised to 
provide advice on Prudential products; he couldnt advise Miss M on the added years option.  All 
the representative had to do was make Miss M aware that added years  were an alternative option 
and refer her to the TPS booklet for further information.
The application form signed by Miss M when she took out her TAVC plan and the forms 
completed when  she later amended her contributions  mention  the added  years option. However, 
Miss M is unhappy with the information she was given  and I cant see that Prudential  referred  her 
to the TPS booklet or her employers scheme  for more information about  her in-house options.  So 
Ive considered whether its likely Miss M would have  chosen to buy added years  if shed been  
given this information.
The cost of added years of service  in the TPS was determined by the Government Actuary using 
conservative assumptions of likely future investment experience.  This made  them more 
expensive than if a less conservative  (or more  optimistic) set of assumptions had been used. The 
aim was to make sure, as far as possible, that the cost of added  years would be met by the 
members. The intention  was that this would  mean  there would be no shortfall that would have to 
be picked up by Miss Ms employer.
Miss M may have  been eligible to buy two added  years, which could have cost less than she was 
contributing to her TAVC plan. But Miss M seems to have had the capacity to save  more,  which  
the TAVC  allowed her to do. 
Having thought about whether Miss M would have used some  of her contributions to buy added 
years instead, Im still not persuaded she wouldve wanted to commit to this option. Miss M made 
use of the flexibility  offered  by the TAVC plan when she took a break from making  contributions, 
which she wouldnt have been able to do with the added  years option. 
Miss M says she wasnt looking to take any excessive  risks with her retirement planning, and 
the added  years option wouldve provided a guaranteed benefit. Having considered the level 
of risk involved  in the TAVC plan, it appears  to be suitable for her circumstances at the time. 
Her plan was invested in a with-profits fund, which was relatively  low risk. Ive seen no 
evidence to suggest Miss M couldnt take any risk at all. And at the time, it would likely have 
been shown that the projected benefits from her TAVC plan would be greater than the 
benefits of using this same  contribution  rate to buy added  years.  So I dont think  its likely 
Miss M would have thought added years would  be the more suitable  or cost effective option 
for her compared to the projected benefits  available from investing into her TAVC plan. 
Its only with the benefit  of hindsight that we know that Miss M may have been better off 
buying added years, and I cant use hindsight when making my decision. We now know 
investment returns achieved were much  lower than expected. But as Ive explained above, 
its likely  the AVCs were projected to provide  greater  benefits at the time of advice. 
I realise my decision is likely to disappoint Miss M but, having  taken all the available  
evidence into account, Im not persuaded she would have bought added years if shed been  
given clearer information by Prudential. 
Ref: DRN83181773my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 March 2019.
Vicki Blackwood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8318177