K820x#14complaint
Ms H and Mr F complain that Nationwide Building  Society (Nationwide) mis-sold them 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  in 1994  when they took out a mortgage.
background
In June 2019 I issued my provisional decision.  In it I explained why I wasnt intending to 
uphold this complaint.
I said in summary:
Ms H and Mr F took out a joint mortgage. At the same time they took out PPI which  
would have covered them 50/50  if they had an accident, were off work sick or if they 
lost their job for up to 24 months.
This policy cost £28.42 per month when they took it out and it covered their mortgage
            repayments  of £209.62 plus further payments of £43.
The first thing I thought about was whether Ms H and Mr F had a fair choice.
Ms H and Mr F say that they were told they had to have the PPI for the mortgage to 
be accepted. Nationwide  has been  able to provide a copy  of the mortgage application 
form Ms H and Mr F completed  when  they took out the policy.  Their details have 
been completed and there is a separate section on the form about the PPI. Ms H and 
Mr F have ticked the box to show that they wanted  to take out the PPI and that they 
wanted both of them to be covered. They could have ticked the no option if they 
didnt want the policy. So I think overall  they would have known that they had a 
choice and could  have refused the cover  if they didnt want  it. And theres  nothing  on 
the application form which makes me think they would have been led to believe that 
they had to have the PPI in order to be accepted  for the PPI. So I think  this shows  
that Nationwide got their consent  to add the policy.
Ms H and Mr F took this PPI out in branch  but I dont think  a tailored 
recommendation was made to Ms H and Mr F. And having  seen  a number of these 
types of sales our experience is that these  sales werent advised  sales.  So 
Nationwide didnt  need to make sure the PPI was suitable for Ms H and Mr Fs 
circumstances. But it still needed to give enough clear information so that they could 
decide for themselves whether or not they wanted the cover.
Its possible not all the information was as clear as it should  have been. But thats 
not enough for me to uphold this complaint. I next need to think about whether Ms H 
and Mr F would have changed their mind about buying the policy  if theyd been 
given better or clearer information.  Our adjudicator said the costs werent clear but 
Ive seen that these  costs were set out on the mortgage offer which  I think Ms H and 
Mr F would have  wanted to read through at the time as they were  taking on a new 
financial commitment. So I think its more likely that they understood what  they 
would have been paying for the policy  when  they took it out and as this was a 
regular premium policy they could have cancelled the PPI at any time without 
penalty.
Ref: DRN82701992This policy gave Ms H and Mr F cover if they couldnt work or lost their jobs for up to 
24 months, which is longer than some policies paid out. Ive thought about what  they 
have told us about their sick pay and savings  but as Nationwide didnt advise Ms H 
and Mr F to buy the policy they didnt need  to check about their circumstances. And 
this policy would  have  paid out for longer than their sick pay lasted and in addition  to 
anything they did get. As this was a first mortgage, they were  taking on a new 
financial commitment and the consequences  of not being  able to repay the 
mortgage were serious. So I still think they could have found the cover useful if 
things went wrong.
And theres nothing  to make me think the policy was unaffordable for them.
In summary  I said overall, even  if the information  had been clearer  I still think  
Ms H and Mr F would have wanted to take out the policy. I didnt think they wouldve 
changed their mind about buying it and I didnt  think  theyd lost out financially. So I said I 
didnt uphold  this complaint.
I asked both parties to come back to me with any further information they wanted to 
consider before making my final decision.
Nationwide didnt have  anything further  they wanted  me to take into account. 
Ms H and Mr F said they were  unhappy  and disappointed with my provisional decision.
In summary  they told me:
They were upset  with my decision. They  thought there were some  inaccuracies in it. 
For example, they were clear they didnt go into a branch to buy the policy.  They  told 
me that a financial adviser had dealt with the whole process from start to finish and 
they were led to believe the mortgage was tailored to their specific circumstances.
They also told me that if they wanted  the mortgage with Nationwide they were 
categorically told they had to have Nationwides PPI due to Mr Fs job.
They said they were  first time buyers, embarking on a big step and they were fearful 
they wouldnt get the mortgage without the insurance. If they had ticked  the no box 
they wouldnt have  got the mortgage  - they had no choice and were scare-mongered 
into taking it out.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive looked again at all the points raised by Ms H and Mr F and Im sorry to disappoint them 
but Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
The sale happened over 25 years ago now - thats  a long time and its understandable if not 
all the information  or evidence  is available  after so long - although I do have a number of 
the documents completed at the time. I have looked at this evidence and also taken into 
Ref: DRN82701993account what the parties have told me to make my decision. Where the evidence is 
incomplete, I have made my decision on the balance of probabilities  - that is whats more  
likely to have happened.
Ive thought first of all about what Ms H and Mr F told me about being advised  throughout 
by a financial adviser and that they never went into a branch. I have no doubt  that 
Ms H and Mr F have given me their honest  recollection of events but I have also thought 
how long ago this sale took place. It looks from Nationwides records that this was a branch 
sale. But I dont think it matters how it was sold, I dont think whether the sale took place in 
a branch or through an adviser  it would  change my decision.
Nationwide has said this was a non-advised sale. I accept that Ms H and Mr F might have 
had a conversation  with a representative.  I cant say what was said during that 
conversation. But the mortgage application form Ive seen doesnt make  me think a tailored 
recommendation was specifically  made for the PPI. I can see that Ms H and Mr Fs details 
have been filled out on the form. But I think that was about their application for the 
mortgage not about the PPI.
The section for the PPI cover asks that Ms H and Mr F read a leaflet to ensure they were  
eligible for the cover and it says if you are not sure of your eligibility or whether it is suitable 
for your needs, we will be happy  to discuss this with you. I think  this shows  to me that it 
was up to Ms H and Mr F to decide whether or not they wanted the PPI taking into account  
the information they received. Looking  at the paperwork, I still think  the PPI wasnt 
recommended to them. That meant  that Nationwide didnt have to take reasonable steps to 
ensure it was suitable. But it still did need to give Ms H and Mr F enough clear information 
so they could make an informed choice about whether or not they wanted the PPI.
Ive also re-considered whether they had a fair choice about buying the policy  or whether 
they were led to believe that they wouldnt get their mortgage without the cover. Ms H and 
Mr F have  told me that they had no choice about buying it for fear they wouldnt get their 
mortgage. It could  be that a representative  told them it was a good  idea to have the PPI but 
thats different  to saying that they had to take it out to get the mortgage. 
Ive looked at the evidence available. The mortgage  offer sets out that only where the loan 
was over 90% of the property value or purchase  price then the PPI would have been 
compulsory. That wasnt something which applied to Ms H and Mr Fs as their loan to value  
ratio wasnt  at this level. I think the paperwork reflected  the fact that they had a choice 
about buying the PPI - with a yes or no option  available to them. And I can see options  for 
other insurance which have been  left blank. There is nothing  written on the form which tells 
them they had to have it to get their mortgage. For me to say that they were  told that they 
had to have it, Id have to find that they were told something different to whats  written on 
the form. On balance, I think the application  form reflected that they had a choice and I 
think they chose  the cover  knowing  they could refuse it if they didnt want it.
As I explained in my provisional decision,  Ms H and Mr F were first time buyers and they 
were taking on a new financial commitment. The consequences of being  unable to meet the 
repayments if one of them had lost their jobs or couldnt work for a long time were  serious.  
So at the time I think they might have thought the PPI was a good idea. For the reasons I 
gave in my provisional  decision  and as set out in summary above  I think  the PPI could have 
been useful for them  if Ms H or Mr F lost their jobs or couldnt work for a length of time.
Ref: DRN82701994Insurance is usually  put in place to protect  an unforeseen eventuality. So even if no claim is 
ever made it doesnt mean its not useful if something went wrong. At the time I think  they 
might have valued the protection  the PPI would  have  given  them.
Im very sorry that Ms H and Mr F are disappointed with my decision but I hope  the reasons  
Ive set out explain why I dont  uphold  this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H and Mr F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 September 2019.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8270199