K820x#14complaint
Mr F is unhappy  Admiral Insurance Company Limited has added  his information to a fraud 
database after he made a claim on his car insurance policy.  
Mr F is being  represented by a third party on this complaint. For ease Ill refer to both their 
actions as that of Mr F. 
background
Mr F applied  for a policy with Admiral  through a price comparison website on 20 August 
2016. During the application he was asked the following question;
"Have you or any driver  been involved in any motoring offences within the last five years, 
including fixed penalties,  convictions, driver  awareness courses or have any pending 
prosecutions?"
Mr F answered no to this question. He then called  to accept the policy  on 21 August 2016.  
Admiral sent out policy information to Mr F which again asked if he had any motoring 
convictions in the last five years. 
On 15 September  2016 Mr F called Admiral to make a claim under his policy.  While Admiral  
was investigating  the claim, it made  a call to the DVLA with Mr F in November 2016.  During 
the call Admiral found out that Mr F had two undisclosed convictions  from February  2013.  
During the call Mr F said he thought he already  had made Admiral aware of these. As a 
result of the convictions  Admiral decided to reject  Mr Fs claim and void his policy. 
In July 2018 Mr F decided  to complain to Admiral about his details appearing on a fraud 
database. Admiral investigated the complaint and sent a final response letter  dated  19 
September 2018. It said its decision to decline the claim  and void the policy was fair. It said it 
was strange that after it discovered Mr F hadnt  disclosed  his convictions, he said he thought  
he had already made Admiral aware  of them. It also said that had Mr F made it aware of the 
convictions it wouldnt have offered  him a policy. It felt Mr F recklessly failed to declare the 
convictions under CIDRA (The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations)  Act 
2012). It added that it was also fair to report Mr F to a fraud database. Admiral added  that as 
it had caused  a delay in issuing the final response it was willing  to offer Mr F £50 by way of 
an apology. 
Mr F remained unhappy so he brought his complaint to this service in March  2019. He said 
that he thought  he only had to declare any convictions within the last three  years. And that at 
the time of the application he was suffering  from a mental illness  which he was receiving 
medication for. He felt it wasnt  fair his details would remain  on the fraud  database for six 
years. He added this was causing  various issues with his bank account, had caused  him to 
take a more expensive mortgage and it had led to him missing out on a business contract 
through his work. 
Our investigator reviewed  the complaint and initially felt Admiral hadnt treated  Mr F fairly. He 
said as Admiral wouldnt have insured  Mr F it was fair to refuse  the claim and void the policy. 
And the £50 it offered for the delay  was fair and reasonable. However,  he felt Admiral  should 
return any premiums Mr F paid.  And it shouldnt have recorded the details on the fraud 
database because  this would normally be done if a consumer had deliberately failed  to 
Ref: DRN82120712disclose previous convictions.  As a result, he felt Admiral  should pay Mr F more 
compensation for the trouble and upset  caused by the information on the fraud  database.
Admiral didnt agree. It said it had returned Mr Fs premiums and it wasnt  prepared  to 
remove the details  from the fraud database.  Admiral  then investigated  the complaint further 
and provided further information to our investigator. It felt this showed Mr F had failed  to take 
reasonable care when  applying for the policy. He had also mentioned  when calling to accept 
the policy that obviously  the details Ive given are correct which it said was a suspicious 
comment to make. It added that he had had more  than enough opportunity  to correct the 
misrepresentation after receiving the post-sale policy documentation. And he had another  
opportunity when he claimed  to tell it about  his previous convictions. Admiral  also discovered  
that Mr F had also failed to disclose  the motoring convictions to his previous insurer in 2014.  
Our investigator asked  Mr F for his comments in relation to the additional points raised by 
Admiral. Mr F said he couldnt remember the call where he accepted  his policy  in August 
2016. He was also unable to explain why he didnt disclose his convictions  to his previous  
insurer. He added that he needed  help completing  the application form because he was 
suffering from his mental health condition.  
Our investigator reviewed  this information and decided the complaint shouldnt be upheld. 
He felt Mr F had deliberately given incorrect information when taking out the policy.  And he 
wasnt persuaded by the comments Mr F had given in relation to Admirals additional points. 
So he felt the information should  stay on the fraud database.  
Mr F disagreed. He felt he had been  careless when completing the application. So the 
complaint has now been  passed  to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
this complaint. And Ill explain why below. 
Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive, or contradictory, I have  to make my 
decision on the balance  of probabilities  that is, what I consider is more  likely than not to 
have happened  in the light of the available evidence and the wider  surrounding 
circumstances. 
Both sides have provided various points for this service to consider. Id like to assure Mr F 
that Ive read it all, but I wont be commenting on everything thats been mentioned. Ill be 
concentrating on what I think is important to the outcome of this complaint. 
In reviewing this case Ive considered CIDRA,  which mirrors  this services longstanding 
approach to cases like this. It sets out the roles  and duties of the consumer and insurer 
when entering  into an insurance contract. CIDRA  places the consumer under a duty to take 
reasonable care not to make  a misrepresentation (i.e. to say something untrue or 
misleading), provided the insurer has asked a clear  question. If the consumer doesnt take 
reasonable care to answer questions accurately, CIDRA sets out the remedies available  to 
the insurer. 
Ref: DRN82120713Both sides appear to agree there was a misrepresentation,  so I need to consider whether 
this misrepresentation  was careless,  reckless or deliberate under CIDRA. In order to ask 
Admiral to remove the information from the fraud database I would need  to be satisfied Mr F 
wasnt deliberate  or reckless in his misrepresentation  when the policy was sold.   
For something to be deliberate or reckless,  we have to see that the person making the 
misrepresentation: a) knew that it was untrue or misleading, or did not care whether or not it 
was untrue or misleading, and b) knew that the matter to which  the misrepresentation related 
was relevant to the insurer, or did not care whether or not it was relevant to the insurer.
Having considered the above, Im satisfied  Mr F deliberately failed to let Admiral know  about 
his convictions.  I believe  he had various opportunities to make Admiral  aware of them  during  
the sale and afterwards - and he failed to do so. 
I also agree  that it was rather strange  for Mr F to mention to Admiral when accepting the 
policy that all his details  were correct. He also failed  to review the post-sale policy  certificate 
documents which asked  him the same  question again. I dont think  these points (plus not 
completing the application correctly) would qualify as a deliberate misrepresentation on their 
own. However, Mr F was asked again over the phone  during his claim about any convictions 
he had in the last five years. He once again  told Admiral he didnt. 
Ive also considered the additional information  from Admiral which  shows Mr F failed to 
disclose the convictions to his previous insurer  in 2014. I find this to be persuasive evidence. 
And when  Ive considered this with the evidence above, Im satisfied  that -on balance   its 
more likely than not Mr F knew the information he was giving during the sale of the policy 
was misleading. And he was aware - again on balance  the information he was 
misrepresenting was relevant to Admiral. 
I note Admiral has offered  Mr F £50 for the delay in issuing its final response.  Im satisfied 
the delay would have been  frustrating for Mr F. And I believe that £50 would  be a fair and 
reasonable amount in the circumstances. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 February  2020.
Mark Dobson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8212071