K820x#14Complaint
Mr K complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) has refused to 
refund a series  of disputed transactions made on his credit card account  in 2015. 
 
Background
Mr K says transactions carried out on a supplementary credit card assigned  to his son - who 
Ill now refer to as Mr R - on 17 February 2015 totalling over £13,000  were  not carried out by 
him. 
As the account  holder,  AESEL holds Mr K liable  for this amount.  
At the time the transactions  took place Mr K was not in the UK. The transactions were 
carried out abroad, but in another  country to that which Mr K was in. Mr K says he shouldnt 
be held liable for the transactions  as he wasnt in the UK. 
Mr R says he was at home in the UK when the transactions  took place. Living at the same 
UK residential address as his father. 
The disputed transactions are well known to both parties, so I dont need to detail  them here. 
Its noteworthy however, that a couple of the transactions were  especially high value and for 
high-end goods.  Combined, both transactions totalled just under £13,000. 
The transactions were  carried out on a replacement card for Mr R.  AESEL say it was 
requested a few days before on 13 February  2015 by Mr R. AESEL doesnt have this call 
recording. 
Mr R says he didnt order the replacement card or knew anything  about it. Mr R still has 
possession of his first additional credit  card. Ill refer to this card as Mr Rs original card from 
now on.  
Mr K says shortly after the transactions  came about, he checked  his account online.  He 
then explained  to AESEL that neither he or Mr R had made these transactions.  Mr K says he 
didnt hear anything about this again until external debt collection agents  were involved. 
AESEL accept it didnt  investigate Mr Ks claim in 2015 to the standard it expects. The 
matter was picked  up again in 2019 by Mr K and his representative. AESEL looked into the 
matter and didnt  uphold the claim. Unhappy with what AESEL said,  Mr K referred his 
complaint to this service.  
Our investigator looked into Mr Ks complaint, and they didnt recommend it be upheld.  In 
summary they said: 
Mr Ks whereabouts or activity on his personal  card are irrelevant as the disputed  
transactions were  carried out on a replacement card for the additional  cardholder.
CHIP and PIN was most  likely used to authenticate the transactions. 
Mr R hadnt given  information to confirm where  he was on 17 February 2020. But 
even if he could  show he was in the UK, it wouldnt mean that he didnt consent to 
the transactions. 
Ref: DRN87962602Its possible Mr K and Mr R may have had postal  issues. But our investigator wasnt  
persuaded a fraudster  couldve  ordered  the replacement card - as they would need to 
know Mr Rs personal  details, and then be assured  they could intercept it. 
A fraudster would have to know Mr K would overlook AESELs  email  to him 
confirming the replacement card had been  ordered. 
AESELs internal records show that on 17 February  2015,  Mr K appeared to confirm 
on telephone that the high spend  was Mr Rs.
The spending on Mr Rs original card stopped  when the replacement card started  to 
be used. This suggests the replacement card was received  correctly and ended up 
with Mr R. And if this wasnt the case, they would  have expected  Mr R to have called 
AESEL upon discovering the original card wasnt working.
The spend on high end goods  wasnt out of character based on Mr Rs previous 
activity. 
This complaint was investigated based  on its own merits - and the outcome of 
another fraud claim  with another business doesnt impact upon it.  
Mr R has said he didnt record his PIN nor had he told anybody  what it was. There 
wasnt an indication of a new PIN being ordered.  So the same PIN for Mr Rs original 
card would have  been  in use for the replacement card.  
There wasnt an explanation to show how an unauthorised individual would have 
known Mr Rs PIN. 
On balance, our investigator  found  that Mr R authorised the transactions. So Mr K, as 
the account holder, is liable for them.  
Mr K and his representative were  unhappy with what our investigator said.  In response,  
some of the key points  they made are: 
Mr K disputes having spoken to AESEL on the 17 February  2015  as he was abroad. 
Mr R noticed the transactions not Mr K, so the phone call couldnt  have  happened.  
The disputed transactions are not like Mr Rs previous  spending activity  as these are 
in the thousands of pounds.   
The PIN not being written down doesnt remove  the possibility of someone obtaining 
it fraudulently.
Mr K didnt  have access to his email  as his phone was left in the UK. 
Had AESEL investigated this matter properly in 2015, then it would have been able to 
obtain information from the retailers. 
Mr R contacted AESEL immediately after his card was declined and hed checked 
the account online.
Published fraud articles show that fraudsters are targeting and intercepting mail 
containing bank  cards.  Mr K says this shows what they think  happened isnt 
implausible. Also that fraudsters target  specific types of dwellings  just like where 
Mr R and Mr K live. 
AESEL has a responsibility to investigate the complaint properly.  And by its own 
admission it failed  given  the investigation was mistakenly closed in 2015. 
Mr Ks representative has also referenced media articles, including  from this service or 
employees of it, on matters relating to plastic card fraud.  Mr K says that there isnt any 
evidence and our investigators view was based  on opinion  rather than facts. 
 
As Mr K wasnt happy with what our investigator said,  the complaint  has been passed  to me 
to decide. 
Ref: DRN87962603My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done that Ive decided not to 
uphold this complaint.  I know  this will disappoint  Mr K - Ill explain why. 
I accept Mr K was abroad at the time of the transactions. And Im satisfied  it wasnt  his card 
that was used to carry out the transactions. From  the information Ive seen, which includes 
the account statements, Im satisfied  a replacement card issued on the 13 February  2015 to 
the additional cardholder, Mr R, was used to carry out the disputed transactions. 
It follows that my decision will now mainly focus  on activity surrounding Mr Rs original and 
replacement card. 
AESEL have limited information  available given  the passage of time since the transactions  
took place. This includes certain internal records and call recordings. I note this situation 
might potentially have  been avoided had AESEL not prematurely stopped its investigation  
into Mr Ks claim  in 2015. 
But AESEL  have given  me technical  records that show the CHIP was read on Mr Rs 
replacement card for the disputed transactions. 
As part of Mr Ks own research its not clear if hes suggesting the replacement  card may 
have been cloned. But Im satisfied  Mr Rs replacement card wasnt  cloned. Thats  because  
based on what our service has seen, and the industry guidance  available to us, we have yet 
to see a complaint  where the CHIP on a card has been cloned. 
So Im satisfied Mr Rs replacement card, albeit that he says he didnt receive  it, was used. 
  
AESEL no longer have  records of the PIN being  entered. However its analysts  say its more 
than 99% likely that a PIN number was required to process any payments. It adds that CHIP 
and PIN was commonplace, for many years, in the country these transactions  took place.  
I note Mr K has questioned why findings have been made based on whats likely or unlikely 
by our investigator. But where information  is inconclusive or incomplete,  I must  make my 
decision based on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to have 
happened. 
As AESEL have been able to show instruments used at the point of sale read and recorded 
the replacement  cards CHIP, Im persuaded on balance, that its more likely  than not that a 
PIN was also presented  to authenticate the payments. I say that because there would be 
little or no need  for the CHIP to be read if that wasnt  the case. 
But the regulations relevant to this case say that is not, on its own,  enough to enable  AESEL  
to hold Mr K liable. 
The relevant  regulations,  to this effect,  are the Payment  Services Regulations 2009 (the 
PSRs 2009). Under the regulations, a payment transaction is regarded  as having been  
authorised by the payer only if the payer  has given his consent to the execution  of the 
payment transaction. 
Ref: DRN87962604So, I also need to think about whether the evidence  suggests its more likely than not that 
Mr R, as the additional and authorised cardholder on Mr Ks account, consented to the 
transactions being made. 
Id like to assure both parties that Ive carefully considered all their arguments and 
submissions in relation  to whether I think the transactions  were  consented to.  And in the 
individual circumstances  of this complaint, I think this is a finely balanced matter. 
To my mind,  there are broadly three potential scenarios which  explain what could have  
happened: 
-Mr R received the replacement card, travelled abroad and made  the transactions  
himself
-Somebody else known to Mr R carried out the transactions  abroad with Mr Rs, and 
possibly Mr Ks, consent
-An unauthorised  individual intercepted the replacement card,  obtained Mr Rs PIN 
fraudulently and then carried out the transactions
In the first two scenarios,  this would mean  the transactions  were consented to. But in the 
case of scenario three, Mr R wouldnt have  likely  consented - and therefore Mr K should not 
be held liable for the transactions.   
AESEL say its unclear  who called in to request the replacement card.  And there isnt a call 
recording or anything  else for me to look at to show exactly what  happened.
AESEL say an additional cardholder can, amongst  other  limited  things, request a 
replacement card. It says that a main cardholder can however change anything. AESEL 
explain that in order to order a replacement card personal details of Mr R would have to be 
known for security.  Customer verification is commonplace,  and obligatory, for businesses 
like AESEL to conduct.  
It follows then that if it wasnt Mr R or Mr K, whoever  called AESEL to order the replacement 
card would have  to have known  personal  information about Mr R  and maybe even Mr K. 
AESEL have shown  me information that shows an email would have been sent to the 
registered email address  of the main  account  holder to confirm the replacement card was 
being sent. Ive seen  the email address AESEL hold for Mr K and it matches exactly with the 
one provided to this service. So Im satisfied AESEL would have sent this email  to Mr Ks 
correct email address.  
Mr K says he would  not have had access to his email address as he left his phone  in the UK 
whilst abroad. That may be the case.  But not having a phone  in of itself would not stop Mr K 
accessing his emails given they can be accessed from any device. I also note that in his 
submissions Mr K says he vaguely remembers logging on to his AESEL account around the 
time the transactions were made.  This suggests he would have had access to some device 
connected to the internet. 
And if someone unbeknown to Mr K or Mr R did order the replacement card, its likely they 
would be confident any email AESEL sent to Mr K about it wouldnt be read.  
Ref: DRN87962605Mr K says he and his family have had problems receiving post as their post box was fitted  
outside. Making it easier for someone to intercept their post. Mr K doesnt  think the matter 
was ever reported officially to Royal Mail but they had made  queries  about their problems 
with post going missing.  Mr K says Royal Mail advised him to remove  his external mail box. 
Mr K has sent me pictures of his home  to show  what type of property it is. I have no reason 
to doubt Mr K and Mr R may have issues with their post. But, equally,  I havent seen strong 
enough evidence  to show they were  having  these problems.
Ive already said the transactions were most likely  carried out by CHIP  and PIN. So if I were  
to accept that someone unbeknown to Mr R and Mr K ordered a replacement card and then 
intercepted it without them finding  out, I need  to think about how they knew  the PIN. 
Mr R says he never wrote his PIN number down anywhere nor did he tell anyone what it 
was. AESEL say its records dont show a new PIN being ordered which would mean  the PIN 
used for Mr Rs original card was still in use. Im satisfied AESEL would know  about  its own 
PIN protocols. 
Mr K, or more  specifically  his representative,  have sent me several articles  some of which 
detail how fraudsters are able to get peoples security credentials  like PIN numbers. Id like 
to assure Mr K that Ive thought about this matter very carefully.  And having done  that, I 
havent seen anything that explains how Mr Rs PIN was compromised. 
As Ive already  said, a fraudster would have  had to contact AESEL and pass its security with 
Mr R or Mr Ks personal details  before  ordering a replacement  card.  But I havent seen 
anything to explain how they would have obtained  those  details.  
They would then have  either known, or been  very assured, that Mr K wouldnt read any 
email or correspondence related to the replacement card being sent. And then they would 
have had to physically intercept the letter containing the new card, before using it abroad 
with a PIN number. A PIN number that I havent seen any evidence  to explain how theyd 
have got.  
So, given what a fraudster  would have had to have done to carry out the transactions without 
Mr R or Mr K knowing,  Im think its implausible  to conclude they werent authorised  without 
stronger evidence to the contrary. That means  I think its more likely Mr R carried  out these 
transactions himself   or that someone  else with consent did so.   
 
I note Mr K disputes making  or receiving  a call to AESEL on 17 February 2015 to confirm the 
transactions now in dispute were made by Mr R. 
Mr K says he was abroad and left his phone in the UK. As Ive said AESEL dont  have the 
call recording. But they have sent me screenshots of its internal systems.   There is an entry  
here dated 17 February 2015 and time-stamped 15:01. Below  this it says, Incoming Call 
followed by CM CALLED...ENQUIRED ABOUT SPENDWANTED TO PUT 
THROUGH 5K SPENDCIUMC SAID AUTHORSIED.  
The second  entry also dated 17 February  2015  and time-stamped 15:15 says INCREDIBLY 
BAD LINE.  COULD ONLY HEAR MY OWN VOICE MIRRORED BACK AT ME. CM DID 
CONFORM CHARGE IS HIS SON, HAVE CLEARED CONCERNS ON ACC. 
Ref: DRN87962606Ive already said that I think its most  likely consent was given to the transactions, so I dont 
think I need to make  a finding on whether it was Mr K who spoke to AESEL  on the 
17 February 2015. But for the sake of completeness, I think  this information  shows  someone 
with access to Mr Ks phone - or in possession of personal information about him - knew  
about the transactions.
Mr K argues  that previous  spending  by Mr R isnt indicative of the same spending pattern as 
the disputed transactions. I note Mr R has made  a handful of transactions  to high-end 
retailers, but they were  for payments around £1,000, and nowhere  near the £13,000 made  
here over two payments. So Im persuaded Mr K was right to say this. But this point doesnt 
change my mind about whether consent was given for the transactions  and that Mr K is held 
liable. 
Mr K is also unhappy with the way AESEL handled  his claim. AESEL have admitted they 
closed it prematurely in 2015. Information from the debt management company AESEL 
assigned this matter  to shows it sent letters to Mr K from 2015.  So Im not sure why he didnt 
contact AESEL about his claim much  sooner  and waited  till 2019. And given Im persuaded 
the transactions were likely consented  to, I dont  think AESEL need to do anything  more.   
Mr K and his representative have  sent me excerpts  from publications about fraud and how 
this service has dealt with complaints related to it. Im grateful for this - but every complaint is 
looked into individually at this service. And thats  what Ive done here.    
 
So in summary,  Im persuaded the transactions Mr K disputes were most  likely authenticated  
and consented  to. That in turns means they were authorised and AESEL are acting fairly by 
holding Mr K liable for them. 
My final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ks complaint.   
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 April 2021.
Ketan Nagla
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8796260