K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs K have  complained that Liverpool Victoria  Insurance Company Limited (LV) 
recorded an incident as a fault claim against Mr K, when Mrs Ks car was damaged  while it 
was parked and unattended.
background
Mr K was a named  driver on Mrs Ks policy. On the day in question he drove  Mrs Ks car to a 
shop and parked  it in the shops car park. Mr and Mrs K said when they later returned  to the 
car they saw that it had extensive damage  to the rear wing.  They said the person that 
caused the damage had driven off. 
They reported the claim to LV who paid for the repairs  under Mrs Ks policy.  
Mr K became unhappy when he realised that LV had recorded the claim as a fault claim 
against him and registered it on the Claims and Underwriting Exchange  (CUE, which is a 
shared record of insurance claims and incidents). He said this affected  the premium  for his 
car insurance, though his insurer later agreed  not to charge him an additional premium.  
LV said because it wasnt able to recover  its outlay  (the cost of Mrs Ks car repairs) it had to 
register this as a fault claim. And because Mr K was the last person to drive the car, the 
claim was recorded against him. 
Mr and Mrs K complained to us but our investigator didnt uphold their complaint. She said 
LV followed  standard procedure and dealt  with the claim  fairly  and reasonably. 
Mr and Mrs K werent happy  with this and asked for an ombudsmans  decision. They said 
Mr K wasnt  responsible for the accident so it shouldnt be registered  as a fault  claim. Also 
this wasnt his policy so the claim shouldnt be on his record.
The complaint has been passed  to me for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it. 
I appreciate that Mr K and Mrs K have  found themselves in a very unfortunate position. I 
dont think theres any doubt that they werent in any way to blame  for the accident.  But it 
seems that the person who was to blame wasnt ever found, so LV wasnt able to recover its 
outlay. 
In these circumstances its reasonable and also standard industry practice  for the insurer, in 
this case LV, to register this as a fault claim. This is because  its had to make a payment 
under the policy  and hasnt made  a recovery. 
Mr K says that the word fault isnt appropriate  in his case. He says he is being  treated in 
the same  way as someone who drives into a wall while  using their phone.  I can understand 
Mr Ks point  and to those  outside the insurance industry the term fault  can be misleading. 
But within the industry the term fault doesnt always  mean a drivers  responsible  for an 
Ref: DRN83175162accident. It just means the insurer hasnt been  able to recover all of its costs. And thats 
standard across  the industry. I understand Mr Ks frustration but were not the industry 
regulator and we cant dictate the terminology insurers use when recording claims. 
LV said it warned Mrs K this would  be a fault claim when she reported it and, as far as I 
know, Mr and Mrs K dont  dispute this. But even if it hadnt, I still think it dealt  with the claim  
appropriately for the reason I gave  above. It follows that I think  LV acted fairly and 
reasonably when it registered this as a fault  claim.  
Mr K was also unhappy that the claim was registered against him even though this wasnt 
his policy. Both Mr and Mrs K confirmed that Mr K was the last person to drive  the car, 
before it was damaged. Its my understanding that its standard industry practice, in 
circumstances where  the vehicle  is unattended  at the time of the accident, for the claim to be 
recorded against the person who was the last to drive it. So, again, I think  LV dealt with this 
aspect of the claim fairly and reasonably. 
As I said above, I appreciate that Mr and Mrs K found themselves in a very unfortunate and 
stressful situation. But for the reasons Ive given I dont think LV acted  unfairly or 
unreasonably. 
my final decision
For the reasons  above, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 February  2019.
Anastasia Serdari
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8317516