K821x#15complaint
Mr E says Uncle Buck Finance LLP irresponsibly lent to him. Mr E also says hes unhappy 
with the treatment he received from Uncle Buck when  he went into financial difficult  and hes 
found the situation with the outstanding balance stressful.
background
This complaint is about five payday loans Uncle Buck provided to Mr E between 
September 2015 and October  2016.  Ive set out some of Mr Es borrowing information 
below:
loan 
number start dateloan amount 
(£)repayment 
amount (£) end date
1 21/09/2015 400 524.42 30/09/2015
2 30/11/2015 345 510.95 31/12/2015
3 06/03/2016 275 397.52 31/03/2016
4 09/06/2016 275 389.52 30/06/2015
5 05/10/2016 325 475.50 outstanding
Two adjudicators looked at this complaint, the most  recent  adjudicator that looked at it came  
to a different  conclusion  from the first adjudicator.  He thought  that more loans should  be 
upheld and that Uncle Bucks search  into Mr Es credit file suggested  that he was having 
wider financial problems  and so it shouldnt have lent him loans  2 to 5. The adjudicator also 
said he thought  Uncle Buck  dealt with Mr E fairly when he went into financial difficulties.
Uncle Buck  disagreed and the complaint was passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Uncle Buck  needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr E 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Es complaint.
Uncle Buck  has said that before it lent any of the loans to Mr E, it searched his credit file, 
asked him about  his income and his monthly  expenditure.
Mr E declared his income as £1,700 throughout the lending and his expenses varied from 
£500 to £948 per month, including his housing, utility  and food. The credit checks  results 
Ref: DRN82276222also showed Uncle Buck  that Mr E didnt have  any  defaults or county court judgements  
(CCJs) recorded against him.
The adjudicator explained that the credit search  for loan 2 suggested Mr E had problems 
managing his money. The adjudicator  referred  to Mr Es total monthly regular payments on  
fixed accounts as well as his active short term lending.  Uncle  Buck disagreed  saying that the 
information on the credit file isnt accurate and wasnt up to date.
When Uncle Buck made its file submission to this service, it made  the argument, in quite 
detailed terms, about how its search of Mr Es credit file was detailed  and was the most up to 
date when it decided  to lend. So I find its argument  following the adjudication  surprising as it 
now seems to be suggesting that information  it used to make its lending decision  was 
inaccurate and out of date. 
I dont accept this argument  and Im placing weight on the results  of the credit search Uncle  
Buck were  given when  it decided to lend. If Uncle Buck  was concerned  that some of the 
information was inaccurate or out of date, then I would have expected  it to take steps to seek 
the necessary  clarification  before  proceeding  to lend to Mr E. I cant see that it did this. So, I 
can only conclude that it was comfortable lending  based  on that information it gathered.
Based on Uncle  Bucks checks, at the time of loan 2, Mr M was due to repay around £1,671 
towards his credit commitments. However,  this amount doesnt take into account his normal 
living costs.  Based on Mr Ms declared income of £1,700, Uncle  Buck ought to have  been  
aware that his outgoings were more than his income, which meant he wasnt in a position  to 
sustainably afford the loan.
Mr E was in a similar position at the time loan 3 was lent and his expenses outweighed his 
income. Id expect Uncle Buck to react to the information about  Mr Es indebtedness  and as 
a responsible lender shouldnt have lent to him.
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Uncle Bucks lending  history with Mr E, with a view 
to seeing if there was a point at which Uncle Buck should reasonably have seen that further 
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Uncle  Buck should have realised 
that it shouldnt  have provided  any further  loans. 
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Es case, I think  that this point  was reached by loan 
4. I say this because by loan 4, Mr E had been borrowing regularly from Uncle Buck  for 
around nine months  and his loan amount for loan 4 was similar to his previous loan and loan 
5 was for a higher amount. I think Uncle Buck ought  to have realised  it was unlikely Mr E 
was borrowing to meet a temporary shortfall in his income but to meet  an ongoing need. 
These loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Es indebtedness by allowing  him to 
take expensive  credit intended  for short-term use over an extended period of time.  And so I 
think hes lost out.
So Im upholding  Mr Es complaint about  loans 2 to 5 as Uncle  Buck shouldnt have lent him 
those loans in the circumstances.
Ive also considered Mr Es complaint about  how Uncle Buck  dealt with him when he fell into 
financial difficulties. Mr E acknowledges  that Uncle buck  didnt add further interest and 
charges on loan 5 when  it became  aware  of his financial  difficulty. I think  this was fair and 
positive by Uncle Buck. 
Ref: DRN82276223Mr E says Uncle Buck sold the debt to a third party and it has been  stressful dealing  with 
both parties. Uncle  Buck  says it hasnt sold the debt. I havent seen evidence  to show  that 
the debt was sold and so its unclear whether Uncle Buck did sell the debt. Even if Uncle 
Buck sold the debt,  that on its own doesnt  mean  it has done something wrong.
I appreciate Mr E says hes experienced stress and anxiety and Im sorry hes had to go 
through that but from the available information,  I cant see that Uncle Buck  treated Mr E 
unfairly in this respect and so I wont be asking it to do anything  further.
putting things right  what Uncle Buck needs  to do:
refund  all interest and charges Mr E paid on loans 2 to 4;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove all interest and charges applied to loan 5 and Uncle Buck  may use the 
redress from above to offset the outstanding  capital  balance.  Any surplus  should  be 
paid to Mr E with 8% interest but if theres still a capital balance  outstanding, Uncle  
Buck should  deal positively with Mr E.
remove any negative information  about loans 2 to 3 from Mr Es credit file;
So all entries about loans 4 and 5 should  be removed from Mr Es credit file. Uncle 
Buck should  remove  the information  about  loan 5 after Mr E fully repays  the capital 
amount on this loan.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Uncle Buck to take off tax from this interest. Uncle  Buck 
must give Mr E a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Es complaint. Uncle Buck  Finance 
LLP should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 December  2019.
Oyetola Oduola
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8227622