K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out to protect a 
mortgage in 2004. Mr M and Miss F say Santander UK Plc mis-sold  them  the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr M and Miss Fs case.
The PPI covered Mr M only so I have  mainly considered his circumstances  at the time.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Santander had to make Mr M and Miss F aware that the PPI was optional  and gain their 
consent before adding  it to their mortgage.  Santander has sent us a copy  of the paperwork 
available from the time Mr M and Miss F applied  for their mortgage and PPI. Mr M and 
Miss Fs mortgage application  had a separate section where PPI has been selected. The 
application form has also been signed  by Mr M and Mrs F. So I think Santander  made it 
clear that Mr M and Miss F didnt have to take out the PPI and they chose to take it out  
although I can understand why they may not remember this now.
Santander recommended  the PPI to Mr M so it had to check  that the PPI was right for him  
and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example he wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  and he 
seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information Santander gave  Mr M and Miss F about the PPI wasnt  as clear 
as it shouldve been. But Mr F chose to take it out knowing the other  means he had available 
including statutory sick pay. But the PPI would have paid out in addition to Mr Ms sick pay 
and for longer. And it seems like it would  have been  useful for Mr M and Miss F if something  
went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think  better information about the 
PPI would have  put them off taking  out the cover. 
Which means Santander doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr M and 
Miss F.
But Santander has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr M and Miss F because:  
Santander got a high level of commission and profit share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr M and Miss F about that. Because Santander didnt 
tell Mr M and Miss F, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Santander has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr M and Miss F have said - but these points dont change my 
decision.
Ref: DRN88208922my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Santander  UK Plc does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr M and Miss F.
But Santander UK Plc does have to pay back to Mr M and Miss F any commission  and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr M and Miss F 
to accept or reject my decision before 10 May 2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8820892