K822xcomplaint
Mr J and Miss B complain  that Bank  of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax)  gave  them incorrect  
information about whether they were  eligible  for a two months  payment holiday for their 
mortgage. They ask that it allows the payment holiday or pays  the equivalent of the 
contractual monthly payments  as compensation.
background 
Mr J called Halifax in September about taking a payment  holiday  in December 2018 and 
January 2019.  He was told they were  eligible and to call back  in November. But when Mr J 
called again in December he was told they werent  eligible  for a payment holiday. 
Halifax said Mr J and Miss B could make reduced payments. Mr J and Miss B said they 
didnt want to fall into arrears and were  shocked  that Halifax would suggest this. 
Halifax offered £100 for the upset  caused by its error.  Mr J says this isnt enough. He said 
because of the incorrect information  they were given in September,  they didnt put money 
aside or make arrangements to ensure they had enough money for Christmas presents, the 
mortgage and bills. 
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should be upheld. He said Halifaxs  error in 
giving Mr J incorrect information  about  whether theyd  be able to take a payment holiday  had 
caused necessary  inconvenience. This was worse due to the time of year and because  
Miss B was on maternity leave and their income was reduced. He said Halifax  should  pay 
£200 compensation.
 
Mr J and Miss B didnt agree. Mr J said theyd still be over £600  in debt which  will take them  
some months to repay.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
Mr J called Halifax in September 2018. Halifax cant provide a recording of the call. 
However, it made a note that Mr J and Miss B were  eligible for a payment holiday. Halifax  
says this wasnt correct   Mr J and Mrs B didnt  meet its criteria for a payment  holiday. 
Mr J called again in December 2018  to ask for a payment holiday for January and February 
2019. This time he was told, correctly, that they didnt meet the criteria for a payment 
holiday. 
When Mr J said they hadnt  budgeted  to make the payments, Halifax said it could offer a 
reduced payment  plan.  I understand that this isnt something Mr J and Miss B wanted  to do. 
But in the circumstances I dont think it was wrong for Halifax to let them know  this was an 
option if they couldnt afford to make  the contractual monthly payments.
Ref: DRN85724922Halifax made an error when it wrongly  told Mr J they were  eligible for a payment holiday.  So 
I have to considered  what it should  do to put matters right.
I should be clear here that I dont think its reasonable to require Halifax  to pay compensation 
to Mr J and Miss B for them not being  able to take a payment holiday. They were not entitled 
to this. Any compensation would be for their financial loss, trouble and upset  due to Halifax  
giving Mr J the wrong information in September 2018. 
Halifax is entitled to set criteria about when it offers payment  holidays.  Mr J and Miss B dont 
meet the criteria.  So I cant  reasonably  require  Halifax to offer them  a payment holiday.
I also dont think its reasonable to require Halifax to pay Mr J and Miss B compensation 
equal to two contractual monthly payments. They  didnt lose this money   they paid it into 
their mortgage account. If theyd taken a payment holiday theyd have had to make up the 
missed payments.
Mr J says that they would  have set money  aside  to help with payments if theyd known they 
werent eligible  for a payment holiday.  Instead, they had to borrow  money from family. Mr J 
says they arent paying interest on this. I dont think Mr J and Miss B have  shown that they 
suffered a financial loss.
However, I dont doubt it was upsetting  to find out that a payment holiday wasnt available  
and to have to ask a family member for help with the mortgage payments. I think its right 
that Halifax pays compensation for this. I think compensation of £200 for the upset this 
caused is fair and reasonable  in the circumstances.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I order Bank of Scotland plc to pay £200 to Mr J 
and Miss B.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J and Miss B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 April 2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8572492