K820x#14complaint
Mrs A complains about end of contract charges when her agreement  with Ald Automotive  
Limited (AA)  ended.
 
background
In October  2015 Mrs A was supplied with a car and entered into a hire agreement  with AA. 
The agreement was for 3 years  and the car was returned in November 2018.
Following an inspection  of the car, AA asked Mrs A to pay charges of £525  for missing 
service records.
Mrs A disputed the charges. She said the service invoices were  in the glovebox and that 
shed made  the inspector aware of this when the car was collected. She also said shed 
been told by the garage  that carried out the services  that it had uploaded these to the online 
service records.
AA has said that at the time the car was collected the service records werent  provided.  It 
also said that no services were logged on the online service records. It refused  to remove 
the charges.
Mrs A wasnt  happy with the response and complained  to this service.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She said that under  the agreement  Mrs A was 
obliged to provide service  records.  The investigator  was satisfied that the service  records  
hadnt been provided at the time of collection and that the car had been sold without a 
service history.
Mrs A didnt agree. She said the service history was in the car when it was collected.  She 
believed that AA had sold the car without  the service history due to a lack of communication  
with the inspector. Mrs A suggested that someone  had removed the service  records from the 
glovebox after collection.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions  of the agreement say that Mrs A must return  the car in good  
condition and that any damage or missing items are her responsibility. They also say that the 
car must be serviced at recommended intervals  and that the handbook must be stamped  by 
the servicing agent. They also say that at the end of the agreement the car must be made 
available for collection  with all relevant  documents.
Guidelines have been issued by the BVLRA.  These are relevant for the purposes  of 
determining whether end of contract  charges are fair. In relation to service records,  the 
guidelines say that the service book must be stamped as evidence that the service has 
taken place. They also say that if the service record is kept electronically,  the customer  must 
provide evidence that the car has bee serviced  in the form of a hard copy of the service  
record or an in voice showing the date, the mileage and the servicing agents stamp. The 
guidelines say that this information must be available  at collection.
Ref: DRN85522462In this case, AA has said that the service  records werent provided at the time of collection. It 
has also said that the records werent  available as online service records.
Mrs A has said that the service records were in the glovebox at the time of collection and 
that she made the inspector aware  of this. She acknowledged that the records  arent 
available online but says this isnt a requirement when hard copies  of the service records 
have been provided.
I wasnt present when the car was collected so I cant be certain of the discussions which 
took place between Mrs A and the inspector. In circumstances like this I have to reach  a 
decision based on what I think is most likely. If Mrs A had made the inspector aware that the 
service records  were  in the car, I think he wouldve checked for this at the time and marked 
the inspection  record accordingly. I dont think the inspector (or AA) would have any reason 
to say that the service history wasnt there if it was. Theres no financial  benefit to be gained 
by doing so because the lack of service  history affects the price that can be achieved  for the 
car when  its sold.
On balance, I dont  think its likely  that the service  history was available  at the time of 
collection. The terms and conditions of the agreement  and the relevant guidelines say that 
the information must be made available at the time of collection.  Because  it wasnt,  Im 
unable to say that AA has done anything wrong by charging Mrs A for a missing service  
history.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 June 2020.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8552246