K822xcomplaint
This complaint is about an abortive attempt by Mr P and Mrs P to obtain  a mortgage from 
The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc (RBS). The application was turned  down,  forcing Mr P and 
Mrs P to go elsewhere. This delayed the property purchase, causing them  to incur extra 
costs, which  they say RBS should  reimburse  along  with compensation for their time and 
trouble.
background 
By way of a provisional decision dated 27 January 2020, which  is attached below and forms 
part of this final decision, I set out, with reasons, the basis on which I was minded to 
determine this complaint,  subject to the further  submissions of the parties. 
Both parties  replied, saying they agreed  broadly with my proposal for settling the dispute. 
Mr P and Mrs P confirmed theyd not paid any fees, refundable or otherwise, to RBS; but 
they did ask me to reconsider including reimbursement  of their broker  fee in the redress. 
They said,  in essence, that the fee was a necessity brought on by the need to source the 
new mortgage quickly. Had they been given  more time, they could have done this 
themselves without using  a broker.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I dont need to order the refund of fees that I included in my provisional award. Mr P and 
Mrs P have helpfully confirmed they didnt pay any. Ive thought hard about the case  Mr P 
and Mrs P put forward for the broker fee to be reimbursed. I do accept  its possible  theyd 
have found the mortgage they needed  without using a broker, but possible isnt enough. 
For me to order RBS to reimburse the broker  fee, the test I have  to apply is whether its more 
likely than not (even as likely isnt enough) that the mortgage Mr P and Mrs P paid a broker  
to arrange in order to complete their transaction could  have been sourced without the 
brokers aid, simply because theyd have  had more time to look. At best,  I can only conclude  
its as likely. That being so, Im not persuaded I should fairly  include its reimbursement in my 
award.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out below, my final decision.  is that I uphold  this complaint. In full and 
final settlement, I order The Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc to:
pay Mr P and Mrs P £465  to reimburse  them their unnecessary court  costs,  and £500 
compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 March  2020.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN85583382
Ref: DRN85583383CONTENT OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
This complaint is about  an abortive attempt  by Mr P and Mrs P to obtain a mortgage from The Royal  
Bank of Scotland  Plc (RBS). The application was turned down, forcing Mr P and Mrs P to go 
elsewhere. This delayed the property purchase, causing them to incur extra costs, which they say 
RBS should reimburse along with compensation for their time and trouble.
background
In what  follows, I have  summarised events in rather less detail than has been presented, using  my 
own words  to do so. No discourtesys intended  by that. Its a reflection  of the informal service  we 
provide, and if I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored  it. Itll be because I didnt 
think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. This approach  is consistent with what our 
enabling legislation requires of me. 
It allows me to focus  on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be side-
tracked by matters which, although presented as material, are, in my opinion  peripheral or, in some 
instances, have little or no impact on the broader outcome. Another  reason  I have left out a lot of the 
detail is to avoid the risk of identifying the consumers when my decision is published. 
The property at the centre of this transaction was already owned jointly by Mrs P and her former 
partner; she and Mr P were looking to buy out her former partners share  of the equity, on terms 
agreed in court. They wanted a relatively  short-term  interest-only mortgage to fund the buyout. After 
going through  a fact-find with an RBS mortgage advisor  on 19 June 2018, Mr P and Mrs P began the 
application. 
As part of its income  verification, RBS asked Mr P to obtain a tax certificate from Her Majestys 
Revenue and Customs (HMRC) in respect of a portion of his total income that came from a pension. 
Mr P told RBS this wasnt  possible  because the income  in question  wasnt taxable.  RBS declined the 
application which meant Mr P and Mrs P had to go to another  lender to obtain the mortgage.
The new application was successful, and Mr P and Mrs P were  able to complete  the transaction. 
However, the resulting delay  meant them having to go back to court  to renegotiate the buyout from 
Mrs Ps former partner. The court fees for this came to £465,  plus they also paid out a broker fee of 
£807.50 and a second valuation fee of £571.20; thats £1,843.70 in all.
Our investigator wasnt persuaded RBS was right to insist on a tax certificate from HMRC;  he 
considered the bank  could have verified Mr Ps pension income by other means. To settle the 
complaint, he recommended RBS reimburse  Mr P and Mrs P the extra costs theyd incurred and pay 
them £500 compensation.
RBS asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
my provisional  findings
Ill start with some general observations. Were  not the regulator of financial businesses,  and we dont 
police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. We deal with individual disputes  between businesses  and their customers. In doing  that, we 
dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions  on how we investigate  a complaint. We 
conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions  without interference  from anyone  else.  But in 
doing so, we have to work  within the rules of the ombudsman service, and the remit  those  rules give 
us.
Ref: DRN85583384Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. As I said earlier, if I dont comment  on any specific point its not 
because Ive failed to consider it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome in the wider context. My remit  is to take an overview and decide 
whats fair in the round.
Having considered  what  both parties have  said and provided thus far, Ive come to broadly the same 
conclusions as the investigator on how this complaint should fairly be resolved.  But my reasons  are 
very different from those of the investigator, hence this provisional decision which allows  both parties 
to comment before I finalise matters.
As a starting point, no one is entitled to borrow money; even where a lender  has lent before, its not 
obliged to do so again. But a lender must treat customers fairly. In the context of an application for 
lending, that means assessing it fairly in accordance with the banks lending criteria.  Lenders criteria 
are commercially sensitive and not generally  made public. Those criteria typically look at income,  
affordability, applicants credit profile and the acceptability or otherwise of the property being 
proposed as security  for the loan. 
Generally speaking, its not the role of an ombudsman to interfere  with a lenders commercial  
judgement on how much  it will lend, and I see no reason to depart from that position by substituting 
my commercial judgement for RBSs. However, I fear thats what the investigator did when he said 
RBS could  have verified Mr Ps pension by means other than an HMRC certificate (without  ever 
specifying what  those other means might be). 
That was the wrong approach; the right approach - the one I have adopted - is to consider whether 
the application was one that was ever likely to be approved, given what  RBS has told us in about  its 
interest-only lending  policy. When I do that, it soon becomes apparent that RBS should  never  have 
allowed Mr P and Mrs P to make the application. Ill explain  why.
One of the key qualifying criteria for an interest-only mortgage is that the applicant (or, in the case of a 
joint application, at least one applicant)  must  have an annual income of at least £75,000. In asking for 
the case  to be reviewed by an ombudsman, RBS has further specified that the £75,000 minimum 
must come from a single  source. Mr Ps total income is more than £75,000, but it comes from more 
than one source,  and neither  source produces £75,000 on its own.  Thats not all; another of RBSs 
qualifying criteria for an interest-only mortgage is that the minimum term must be three years, but Mr 
P and Mrs P were intending to repay the mortgage within three years. 
Both of these pieces of information were captured by the advisor in the initial fact-find exercise on 19 
June 2018. In that context,  it soon becomes  apparent  that the HMRC certificate was a complete red 
herring. Right at the outset,  RBS was in possession of information that should have made  it quite 
clear that the application Mr P and Mrs P were proposing to make could never meet its lending policy.  
In other words, RBS should  have told Mr P and Mrs P there and then it couldnt  help them,  leaving 
them free to go to another lender without delay.
That being so, I do find RBS to be liable  to reimburse Mr P and Mrs P their additional costs and pay 
them compensation  for the unnecessary  trouble and upset it put them  to. However,  the costs the 
investigator proposed  to award  arent correct  either. Thats because  if RBS had acted correctly by 
saying it couldnt help Mr P and Mrs P, they would still have had to pay the broker and valuation  fees 
in respect of the mortgage they did eventually get. But they wouldnt have had to pay the court fees, 
and they wouldnt  have paid any fees to RBS.
The illustration for the mortgage application  made to RBS documented two fees (a product fee of 
£995 and a transfer fee of £150) payable at application, both of which are refundable if completion 
doesnt take place. I ask both parties, as part of their response  to this provisional  decision, to produce 
relevant evidence  of these fees having been  paid and, if appropriate, refunded. I also ask both parties 
to produce evidence of any non-refundable  fees (for example,  a valuation fee) that were paid in 
connection with the abortive application.
Ref: DRN85583385my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision, further to the final comments from both parties by 10 February 2020. is that I 
intend to uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement, it is my intention  to order 
The Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc to:
pay Mr P and Mrs P £465 to reimburse them  their unnecessary court  costs;
refund any refundable fees shown  to have  been  paid to RBS  but not already refunded - in 
respect of the abortive application;
if appropriate, refund  any non-refundable fees shown  to have been paid to RBS in respect of the 
abortive application; and
pay Mr P and Mrs P £500 compensation.
Ill review the case and issue  my next decision after 10 February  2020,  or sooner if both parties  
confirm theyve said and provided everything they want in response to this provisional  decision. 
Neither party  need repeat anything theyve said already.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8558338