K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains about esure Insurance Limiteds  decision  to split liability for a claim for 
damage to his car under his motor insurance policy and its poor communication.  He said this 
puts a fault claim on his record, and cost him an excess and affects his no claims discount.    
background
I set out the background  to the complaint within my provisional decision. In summary Mr Hs 
car was involved in an accident on a garage forecourt when driven  by a named driver on his 
policy. The named driver  and the other party had different versions of how the accident  
occurred. esure said the named driver needed to tell it about any CCTV footage and it would 
try to obtain  this. And esure explained it might need  to agree a 50/50  split in liability.
esure later told Mr H that the third partys insurer had disputed liability and in the absence of 
independent evidence it would settle  the claim as split liability,  on a without  prejudice  basis. 
esure said its decision was based on its belief that it wouldnt have a strong case  if the 
matter went to court. esure returned half of Mr Hs excess  payment. 
Mr H complained saying  esure caused confusion about who should  get CCTV footage, and 
by dealing with the named driver rather than himself and had been rude and inconsiderate to 
her. esure said its policy allows it to deal directly with a named driver and denied  that its staff 
had been rude to her. esure accepted that it had provided poor service in handling the claim 
and paid £300 compensation. Mr H said the named driver has mental  health  issues  and is 
vulnerable when stressed, but esure had bated her.
my provisional findings and the parties responses
I said our role is to investigate whether an insurer has acted  fairly  and reasonably,  and in line 
with the terms and conditions of the policy when they made  their decision as regards who 
was responsible for an accident.
esure, in common with other motor insurers, has a term in the policy  that gives it full 
discretion in the proceedings and settlement of a claim, and given the disagreement  of the 
parties it was entitled to decide to split liability  with the other insurer. 
I said esure told the named driver she would need  to tell it about ownership  and availability  
of any CCTV,  saying  it cant  legally  access the footage. I thought both parties  could have 
done more to obtain the footage. I didnt know of a legal  reason why esure couldnt have got 
the footage and we would usually expect it to do so and I thought esure was at fault here. I 
was minded to require  esure to pay Mr H £250 compensation for the poor service about this, 
over and above the £300 compensation esure has already paid for its poor service.
I said it would appear the accident occurred away from the petrol  pumps and so may not 
have had CCTV coverage, but nevertheless it wasnt clear that Mr H has lost out as result of 
the lack of CCTV footage. esure  said with completely different versions of the accident and 
the benefit of an engineers report it agreed to split liability.  And I thought this was fair and 
that even with CCTV footage esure  may still have had to accept some liability  for the claim.  
Ref: DRN85590052I said I hadnt heard anything to suggest that esure  was made  aware of the named drivers 
vulnerability, but having listened to the call recordings I thought  that its staff treated  her with 
professionalism and courtesy. I said it was reasonable for esure to deal with the person 
involved in the accident, but some of Mr Hs calls hadnt been returned and its service  could 
have been better. I thought its payment of £300  compensation  for the inconvenience  is fair. 
Mr H sent a sketch of the accident site involving  the named driver and said it was likely the 
garages CCTV would have captured the collision. esure made no further comment.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments again to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I remain  of the view that
Mr Hs complaint should be upheld in part, and for the reasons in my provisional decision.
Im grateful  to Mr H for providing  a sketch  of the accident site. However, we still cant  be sure 
that CCTV would have covered the accident,  or that it would have shown the named driver 
not to have been at fault. But as I said before, I can well understand his frustration at the 
delays and confusion  about obtaining the footage and I remain  of the view that esure should 
pay him £250 compensation for its failure to assist in gaining this evidence.
Neither party has commented on the poor service esure provided Mr H in the 
communications and progress of the claim and I remain of the view that its payment of £300 
compensation for this poor service is fair. I think that esure was entitled to deal directly with 
the named driver and its staff dealt with her considerately.
esure returned half of Mr Hs excess payment but has not reinstated his no claims discount.  
This is how we would expect an insurer to deal with a claim in Mr Hs circumstances and 
appears to be fair. esure settled the claim on a without prejudice  basis,  so if Mr H wants to 
take legal  action directly  against the third party  he could do so.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given I uphold the complaint  in part. I require esure  Insurance  Limited  
to pay Mr H further compensation of £250 for the frustration  and inconvenience it caused 
him by failing to obtain the CCTV footage from the location of the accident. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 October  2019.
Andrew Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8559005