K821x#15complaint
Mr L is concerned that Aviva Insurance Limited  (Aviva) hasnt  provided  settlement to him for 
a loss of rent claim made under  his property owners insurance policy.
Mr L has been represented by HLGB Limited in this case. But, for ease of reference when I 
refer to Mr L, Im also referring to his representative.
background
In March 2017 Mr L needed to make a claim under his property owners  insurance  policy, 
after an escape of water  at his property caused damage in the en-suite  bathroom. Aviva 
accepted the claim. It provided Mr L with a cash settlement  in April 2017, so he could 
complete the repairs needed to reinstate the property to its pre-loss  condition.
Mr L has explained the works started in May 2017,  and were concluded at the beginning of
June 2017. Following this, Mr L contacted Aviva via email and explained  he wanted to make  
a claim for a loss of rent he had suffered as a result  of the water damage at the property.
But Mr L didnt  receive  a response to this email. So, he contacted Aviva again in August and 
September 2017, chasing a response. A response  was never received. So, Mr L referred his 
complaint to this service for an independent  review.
Mr L told this service  that after receiving the cash settlement from Aviva he had come to 
realise that in addition  to the en-suite  being damaged by the escape of water, the main 
bedroom and hallway had been damaged  too. Mr L explained he hadnt  made  a claim to 
Aviva for these additional  costs.  But, he did want to claim for loss of rent.
He said the additional work to the main bedroom and hallway had made the property 
uninhabitable. So, he said until the work  was concluded he couldnt rent the property out. He 
said he had a tenant that was waiting to move  in, but they had to wait until June 2017.  Mr L 
said there had been  79 days he hadnt been  able to rent the flat out for. And based on the 
rental costs  he would have received during this time, Aviva should  pay him an amount of 
£2,065.06.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said Aviva  could have 
provided a better service  to Mr L. She highlighted  that it hadnt responded to Mr Ls emails 
asking to claim for this loss. And she thought it should have done. But, she didnt think  Aviva  
had acted unfairly in failing  to settle  the loss. She didnt think there was sufficient evidence 
that the property was uninhabitable.
Mr L disagreed. He highlighted the damage to the property had been more extensive than 
first thought.  And he provided evidence of the tenant  he had waiting to move in to the 
property.
Because Mr L didnt  agree the complaint has been referred to me to decide.
I sent a provisional  decision  to Mr L and Aviva on 14 October 2019. In this I said;
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, Im intending on 
upholding this complaint. Ive explained  why below.
Ref: DRN87617962ICOBS 8.1.1 sets out what is expected  of an insurer when handling claims. This explains a 
claim should be dealt  with promptly and fairly. And it explains that reasonable guidance  
should be provided to a policyholder in order to make  their claim. So, Ive considered 
whether Aviva dealt  with Mr Ls claim for loss of rent in line with this expectation.
Having looked  at this history of the claim Im satisfied  that Aviva didnt deal with Mr Ls claim 
promptly or fairly. Im aware Aviva  didnt respond at all when Mr L said he wanted to claim  
for loss of rent. Mr L had let Aviva  know in July, August and September 2017  that he wanted  
to make a claim  for this. And he asked how he could  go about progressing a claim of this 
nature. None of these emails were  responded to. On receiving these emails I would have 
expected Aviva to respond, and look into the claim,  to see whether this was covered or not. 
But this didnt happen.
I can understand  how this would  have been inconvenient to Mr L. He had a loss he felt was 
covered under his policy, but his insurer failed to communicate with him. So, I think  it would 
be reasonable to pay Mr L an amount  of £200 compensation. Im satisfied this amount fairly 
reflects the inconvenience caused to Mr L by the lack of progress this matter has made.
I also intend on requiring  Aviva to consider  Mr Ls claim for loss of rent, in line with the 
remaining terms and conditions of the policy.  Ive explained why below.
Since this complaint has been referred  to us Aviva has said Mr L does  have cover  for loss of 
rent under the Asset  Protection section of the policy. So, Ive accepted  this, and havent 
considered the cover  Mr L has under  the policy any further.
Aviva has also noted that whilst Mr L does have cover for loss of rent, it doesnt  think  his 
claim would be successful  anyway.  It says the only room  damaged  in this case was the 
en-suite bathroom.  And it said that as there  was another bathroom at the property that could 
be used it was still possible for someone  to live there.
I agree that if the damage was only to the en-suite bathroom, the property wouldnt  be 
deemed uninhabitable. It would still be possible  to live in all other  rooms.  But, Mr L has said 
that when the repair works to the property were underway more damage  was discovered. He 
said this was in the main  bedroom and hallway  and this made the property uninhabitable.
Im aware Aviva didnt  know  about  this additional  damage  it was never  told about it. But 
equally, Aviva never asked for information when  Mr L did try to claim for loss of rent.
So, I intend on requiring Aviva to consider Mr Ls claim  for loss of rent. As part of this Aviva 
will need  to consider  the additional damage Mr L has said the property suffered from  on 
receipt of evidence of this. It should then review whether  the property could have been lived 
in or not  or whether access would have  been  denied as a result the escape of water. And 
itll need to consider whether Mr L actually had rent due to him during this time.
As above, both parties were sent my provisional decision. Mr L agreed  with my provisional 
decision. And Aviva explained it didnt have anything further comments or evidence that it 
wanted to add.
Ref: DRN87617963my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done this, Ive decided to uphold  
this complaint.
Neither party has provided any further  evidence  or information to alter the findings noted in 
my provisional decision. Or, to alter that I think is fair and reasonable in light of those 
findings. So, my final decision remains the same as noted in my provisional decision.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Aviva Insurance  Limited  to;
Consider Mr Ls claim for loss of rent, in line with the terms and conditions of his 
policy.Aviva  will need to consider the additional  damage Mr L has said the property 
suffered from  on receipt of evidence  of this. It should then review whether the 
property could have  been lived in or not  or whether  access  would have been 
denied as a result  of the escape  of water. And itll need to consider whether Mr L 
actually had rent due to him during this time.
Pay Mr L an amount  of £200 compensation.  It should pay this within  28 days  of us 
telling it Mr L accepted my final decision. If it pays later than this it should add interest 
to the compensation at a rate of 8% simple per year from the date of my final 
decision to the date it makes payment.1
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 November  2019.
Rachel Woods
ombudsman
1 If Aviva considers that its required  by HM Revenue & Customs  to take off income  tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr L how much  its taken  off. It should also give Mr L a certificate showing this if 
he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs as appropriate.
Ref: DRN8761796