K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Lloyds Bank  Plc mis-sold them  payment protection insurance 
(PPI).
background
PPI was added to Mr and Mrs Hs mortgage account in 1983, when they took out their 
mortgage. Mrs H only was covered under the policy.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs H disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion. They said PPI was added without their knowledge and consent and that they had no 
need for the policy because of Mrs Hs sick pay. They  said if theyd been told about PPI they 
wouldve declined it. 
Mr and Mrs Hs complaint  has been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As some of the evidence  is either 
incomplete or contradictory,  Ive made  a decision on what I think  is most likely to have 
happened  based on whats available.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
I cant know what was discussed between Mr and Mrs H and Lloyds at the time they took out 
the PPI. Lloyds no longer has a copy of Mr and Mrs Hs paperwork  from the time of sale.  
Banks often only keep paperwork for six years,  so thats not surprising. Ive taken into 
account what Mr and Mrs H remember from the time of sale, but memories can fade over 
time. So I cant fairly rely on what they remember alone to decide the case.  Ive not seen 
anything to make me think that generally Lloyds  sales processes didnt give customers the 
option to choose whether to take PPI.  Based on the limited information I have, I dont have 
enough to fairly conclude  that Mr and Mrs H werent  told that the PPI was an optional and 
separate product and that they didnt opt to take it. I think it just as likely they were given this 
information.
Ive worked on the basis that Lloyds recommended the policy  to Mr and Mrs H. So, as well 
as giving them information that was clear, fair and not misleading  about the policy,  Lloyds 
had the added responsibility  of considering  whether the policy was suitable for their needs. 
Mrs H only was covered under the policy. But, as this was a joint mortgage  Ive taken into 
account Mr Hs circumstances too when deciding if the policy  was suitable  for their needs  
and they were given  enough clear information.
Lloyds no longer has a copy of the terms and conditions from the time of sale.  So, in 
reaching my decision, I have taken into account what we know  about  the policies being sold 
around this time from dealing with other  cases.  
Ref: DRN85365242The PPI didnt appear unsuitable for Mr and Mrs H looking at their circumstances at the time. 
Ill explain  why.
Mrs H appeared eligible  for the policy and it seemed affordable. 
Mrs H said she was eligible to get sick pay through work. The PPI wouldve paid out on top 
of Mrs Hs sick pay, and likely  for up to 12 months per successful claim. Given  that their 
home was at risk, I think PPI couldve provided  them with a useful benefit. Repeat claims 
were possible  under the policy,  so it gave them long term protection  for their mortgage.  
Mr H said he couldnt remember if he was eligible to get any sick pay through  work. The 
policy wouldve allowed  them  to use any work  related benefits they got to meet  their other 
household expenses. They said they had no savings or other insurances. So, I cant  see that 
their other resources made the policy inappropriate for them.
I cant see that Mrs H was affected by any of the main things that wouldve likely made it 
more difficult for her to make a successful claim. So, I think  having better information about 
these things wouldnt have changed  her mind  about  taking out the policy.  
Looked at overall, I find PPI couldve been  useful if Mr and Mrs H had needed  to make a 
claim. I cant  see that their other means  made  the policy inappropriate for them.
Its possible there may have been some shortcomings in the way this policy  was sold.  I think  
it likely  that Mr and Mrs H couldve been  given  clearer information about the costs of the 
policy, for example.  But given the likely cost of the policy per month, and that the PPI 
covered their mortgage repayments in full, I dont think this wouldve put them off taking PPI 
out. I think, Mr and Mrs H likely  still wouldve decided to buy the policy  if theyd been  better  
advised and informed as it gave them useful protection in their particular situation. I dont 
think better advice or information wouldve stopped them buying PPI.
This means  Lloyds doesnt need  to pay back all of the premiums Mr and Mrs H paid.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs H because:
When the policy was sold, Lloyds  expected to get a high level of commission  and profit 
share (more than 50% of the PPI premium)  - so it should  have told Mr and Mrs H about 
that. Because Lloyds didnt tell Mr and Mrs H, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
I dont think the PPI policy was mis-sold  so Lloyds  Bank Plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs H.
But Lloyds Bank Plc does  have to pay back to Mr and Mrs H any commission and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 June 2019.
Ref: DRN85365243Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8536524