K820x#14complaint
Ms W complains that National Savings and Investments (NSI) didnt  allow her to change 
her title from Miss  to Ms without calling  or writing. Shes also unhappy that she didnt  
receive her February prize of £25.00.
background
In February 2019  Ms W contacted NSI via webchat to let them  know she hadnt received her 
February prize of £25.00. She also asked them to change her title from Miss to Ms as shed 
been unable  to do this herself.
In the webchat,  NSI explained  to Ms W that she would need  to call them to change her title. 
It said alternatively she could write  to them. Ms W advised NSI that she was disabled and 
was unable to make calls.  She also explained that her disability meant that she was unable  
to get out to the post office to post a letter.
NSI asked  if there was someone else who could post a letter for Ms W. This upset Ms W and 
she felt that she was being treated unfairly  under the Equality Act 2010. She raised  a complaint.
In its final response,  NSI said that Ms W had always referred  to herself  as Miss.  It said its 
records showed she had tried to change her title in January  2019  but had been  unable to do 
so as she had failed the telephone security process. NSI said that if Ms W wanted to change  
her title the available  options were to call or write.
In relation to the February prize payment NSI said that the payment had been sent to 
Ms Ws nominated account  and hadnt  been  returned. 
Ms W wasnt happy with the response  and complained to this service.
During the investigation by this service, NSI said it would arrange for Ms Ws title to be 
changed without  the need for her to call or write. It also offered to pay compensation of £50 
for any distress caused.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He said NSI had acknowledged  that it couldve 
provided better customer service but it had now changed Ms Ws title for her. The 
investigator felt that the compensation offered was fair.
Ms W didnt  agree. She said when she called NSI to try and change  her title she was asked 
upsetting questions as part of the security process and felt so traumatised that she had to 
end the call. She also said she still hasnt  received her February  prize  money.
Ref: DRN80852082my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
February prize payment
NSI has confirmed that it sent Ms Ws February prize  payment to her nominated account 
ending 285.  The bank  automatically forwarded the payment to a new bank account which 
Ms W had switched  to ending 154. NSI says that Ms W should find the February payment in 
her account  ending 154. It has confirmed that the payment hasnt been returned.
Ms W says she no longer has access to the bank account and cant  check  it online. Im sorry 
to hear that this has caused so much  frustration to Ms W but because NSI has done what  Id 
expect them to do (send the payment  to Ms Ws nominated account) I cant  ask them to do 
anything further.  Ms W may need to make  enquiries of her bank directly. 
Change of title
NSI has said that Ms W previously referred to herself as Miss. I dont think  this matters 
because Ms W is entitled to change her title at any time if she wishes. 
Ive looked at how NSI responded  when Ms W asked them  to change her title. It explained 
that the available options were to call or to write. I think these are reasonable options  to 
offer. But I also appreciate that Ms W felt that neither of these options were suitable.  
Its not my role to determine whether Ms W has been discriminated against under the 
Equality Act 2010 or whether NSI failed to make a reasonable adjustment. Its not clear 
whether other options NSI could have offered to Ms W. Dealing with the request to change  
title via webchat wouldnt be viewed as a particularly secure method and I dont think it was 
unreasonable for NSI to ask for the request to be made by another method.
I understand that Ms W had already attempted to change her title by telephone  in January 
2019 but had abandoned  the call due to difficulties with the password process. Im sorry to 
hear that Ms W found it upsetting to be asked security questions.  But its important for a 
business such as NSI to be able to establish  that the person calling is who they say they are.
I appreciate that Ms W finds  it frustrating that she can change some  of her details online 
(such as her address) but not others (such as her title). I also understand the importance  she 
attaches to being referred  to in the correct way (as Ms). Whilst I cant  say that NSI has acted 
unfairly, I think it could have handled the webchat a little more sympathetically once it was 
made aware  of Ms Ws concerns. So I think its right that NSI has offered some 
compensation for the distress  caused   and I think the amount of £50 is fair.
NSI has also confirmed that it has changed Ms Ws title for her. I wont be asking NSI to do 
anything further.
Ref: DRN80852083my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 November 2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8085208