K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1996. Mr H says The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Hs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
RBS says Mr H took out the PPI through a postal application and it has sent me a copy  of 
his credit card application form. On this form, there is a separate section for PPI and 
customers had to tick a box requesting PPI cover. On Mr Hs form, the box requesting PPI 
cover has been ticked and he has signed the form. The PPI also appeared on Mr Hs credit 
card statement so had he not agreed to the cover,  I wouldve expected  Mr H to have 
questioned what  these payments were for. 
Mr H says prior to receiving the postal application, he spoke to a member of RBS staff on a 
trade stand  who strongly recommended  he take the PPI and thats  why he took it. The 
application form also says, RBS strongly  recommend[s]  customers take the PPI. Ive 
thought carefully  about what Mr H has said,  but, ultimately there was nothing  suggesting  the 
PPI was compulsory,  it was set out as a choice  and Mr H completed the forms requesting 
cover. 
So, overall, I think RBS made  it clear  Mr H didnt  have  to take out the PPI and he chose to 
take it out.   
RBS says it didnt  provide  Mr H with any advice in relation to the PPI but Mr H strongly feels 
it did. If the sale of the PPI was advised, RBS should have checked  the PPI was right for 
him. It may be helpful  to explain that an advised sale is where  a customers individual 
financial circumstances should be assessed and the business then provides the customer 
with a tailored  recommendation that the policy is suitable for their needs  rather  than 
recommending they should consider taking PPI more generally.  So while Ive thought about 
the wording on the form, and Mr Hs testimony, I cant  see that RBS provided Mr H with 
advice of this nature.   
But in any event, even  if the policy was advised, I dont think it was unsuitable for Mr H so 
Ive assessed  the case  on that basis and held RBS to the higher standard of an advised  
sale.  
Mr H was eligible for the policy and he wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on 
the PPI cover. Mr H seems to also have had a need for the cover.  He told us he had good 
sick pay provided by his employer. Hes also mentioned some savings, a life insurance 
policy and an income insurance policy. 
But this policy wouldve paid out on top of his sick pay for up to 12 months if Mr H was 
unable to work because of illness  or injury  so potentially longer than his full sick pay 
wouldve lasted. It also provided  cover for unemployment. Life insurance  doesnt provide the 
Ref: DRN81507292same type of cover as PPI, and having  the PPI policy left his savings available  for him to use 
on other essential expenditure. 
Ive also considered carefully Mr Hs income  insurance policy   but this policy  only provided 
a benefit of £400 a month. Mr Hs salary was significantly  more than this. So despite having 
this, I still think  having  his PPI pay out for his credit card in the event he couldnt work due to 
illness, injury or unemployment could have been useful for him. 
Its possible the information RBS gave Mr H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But I think he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover.  And it 
seems like it would have  been useful for him if something went wrong.  It also looks like it 
was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put him off 
taking out the cover.  
Which means RBS doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But RBS has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr H because: 
RBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr H about that. Because  RBS didnt tell Mr H, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, RBS has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share  that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc does  have to pay back to Mr H any commission  and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont  award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2019.
Asma Begum
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8150729