K821x#15complaint
Mrs J complains that Elevate Credit  International Limited, trading as Sunny, lent to her 
irresponsibly.
background
Sunny approved a credit  facility  with a £500 limit for Mrs J in September  2013. That facility 
let Mrs J draw  down  what she needed up to the credit limit. During the application process, 
assumptions were made that if Mrs J took the whole of the £500 on the first day and repaid it 
within five months then that would translate to about £188 a month. 
Mrs J applied by telling  Sunny she earned £1,000  a month. She used  the facility  for several  
months, took a last draw down in January 2014.  She repaid the balance with regular 
repayments up to March 2015 when  it was repaid in full. . 
One of our adjudicators looked  at the complaint twice. Once before Sunny had sent to us its 
files and records to defend the complaint, and once again afterwards. Both times she 
thought that the facility should  not have been  approved for Mrs J and it should put things 
right for her. Sunny  has not responded to the second view. 
The complaint remains unresolved and was passed  to me for a decision.  
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have considered  the law, any relevant 
regulatory rules and good industry practice at the time the loans were offered.
Before lending money to a consumer, a lender should take proportionate steps to 
understand whether the consumer will be able to repay what they are borrowing in a 
sustainable manner  without it adversely impacting  on their financial situation. 
A lender should gather enough  information  for it to be able to make an informed decision on 
the lending. Although the guidance  and rules themselves did not set out compulsory checks, 
they did list several things  a lender  could  take into account before agreeing  to lend. The key 
element was that any checks needed to be proportionate and had to take into account  a 
number of different  things,  including how much was being lent and when  the sum being  
borrowed was due to be repaid. 
Sunny in its final response letter to Mrs J said this: The information we rely on and our 
calculations take into account your declared  expenditures, including  other borrowing and 
priority debts before deciding whether to lend and if so, how much.
I can see from Sunnys records that it knew Mrs Js income of £1,000  and little else. In my 
view its clear that it did not carry out any checks and approved the credit  facility based on 
her income alone. 
Had it done the checks it ought  to have done, and at least  found out her usual expenditure 
each month, then its likely  Mrs J would have told you what  she has told us about  her 
outgoings. These were, rent of £800 and she has told us that she did not split this cost with 
any partner at the time; bills which added up to about £250 a month;  council tax £127;  petrol  
Ref: DRN87364342£80 and food of £450. Then other items  (not sub-divided) were given to us as £300. These 
all add up to about  £2,000. 
I have not seen any documents to verify these outgoings, but I have received Mrs Js 
explanations about her situation at the time and very reasonable explanations  as to why she 
cannot send me details  of her banking transactions from 2013. And even if I made  a 
substantial reduction  to her outgoings list then still its likely that they would exceed her 
income, or at the very least  match her declared income of £1,000.   
And I see from Mrs Js personal credit file that she had credit cards  to repay as part of her 
regular commitments. 
I have concluded  that its highly likely that carrying out proportionate  checks  - even just 
getting her expenditure and regular financial commitments - would  have led Sunny to realise 
that Mrs Js expenditure  outstripped her declared  income. Mrs J was not able to afford the 
assumed regular repayment  sum of around £188  a month for the £500  credit limit on her 
facility. 
I uphold this complaint.  
How to put things right
Sunny should  do as follows:  
refund  all interest and charges Mrs J paid on this credit  facility from its inception;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on all refunds from the date of payment to the date
of settlement*;
remove any negative payment information for this facility  from Mrs Js credit  file.
*HMRC requires  Sunny to take off tax from this interest. If Mrs J asks for a certificate 
showing how much  tax has been taken off, Sunny should provide this.
 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Js complaint and Elevate Credit  International  Limited, 
trading as Sunny, should do as I have outlined above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 June  2020.
Rachael Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8736434