K821x#15complaint
Mrs C complains that AvantCredit of UK, LLC, treated her unfairly when it lent her money in 
2015.
background
In July 2015, AvantCredit lent Mrs C £5,500. She agreed to repay this amount, with interest, 
over 48 months. The monthly instalments were  £246.11, and if Mrs C made each payment 
on time shed pay £11,813.23 in total.
Mrs C repaid the loan early, in April 2016.  Mrs C thinks AvantCredit was irresponsible to lend 
her this money.
Our investigator looked at the complaint and thought  it should  be upheld.  The investigator 
thought the credit file AvantCredit  had sent us suggested that it should have carried  out 
further checks to see if the new loan was affordable. And if AvantCredit had done this, it 
wouldnt have lender Mrs C the money.
AvantCredit didnt  agree. It said the credit file it had sent us related to a later, declined, 
application, and provided a new file which it said reflected Mrs Cs circumstances at the time 
of sale. The investigator  felt this new credit  file nevertheless suggested Mrs C was in 
financial difficulties. So the investigator  still felt that the complaint should  be upheld.
AvantCredit doesnt agree. The complaint has been referred to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As AvantCredit was entering a regulated credit agreement, it needed to undertake an 
assessment of the creditworthiness  of Mrs C. This included the potential for commitments  
under the agreement to adversely impact Mrs Cs financial  situation, and the ability  of Mrs C 
to make repayments as and when they fall due over the life of the agreement.  
In particular, the rules  that applied to AvantCredit said it had to check that Mrs C could meet  
the repayments under the agreement  in a sustainable manner without Mrs C incurring 
financial difficulties or experiencing significant  adverse  consequences.  This meant Mrs C 
needed to be able to make  her repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable 
commitments, and without  having  to borrow to meet the repayments.
Any checks  AvantCredit  carried out had to be proportionate. This would depend  on the 
individual circumstances  of the customer, including her financial history, her financial history 
at the time of the loan application, along  with other  factors such  as the amount borrowed, 
type of loan and the cost of the credit being  sought.
In light of this, I think that reasonable and proportionate checks  should  generally be more  
thorough in situations where:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income); 
Ref: DRN82297852the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the longer  the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit  is 
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make  payments for an extended  
period).
In this case, AvantCredit said it used information  Mrs C gave them  as part of her application, 
together with information from a credit reference agency. Its sent us copies of these. It says 
it verified Mrs Cs income at the time by checking a bank statement. This showed  Mrs C 
earned £1,921.53 a month. 
But AvantCredit says the other information about what  Mrs C said in her application may not 
be accurate  it says that, as Mrs C applied for further loans after she repaid this one, some 
of the information it has sent us will relate to the later, declined  application  and not this one.
Bearing this in mind, Ive looked at the results of AvantCredits checks. 
I see the reports by the credit reference  agency  highlighted  concerns that Mrs C was 
overindebted. I see that, out of a total active debt of £65,506, over £20,000  had been  
opened in the last six months  and much of this was secured. I see Mrs C had opened 13 
accounts, with 12 different  companies,  in the last 12 months. She also had around £15,000 
in unsecured debt.  
AvantCredit has also sent us an affordability report. This showed concerns about  the number 
of new accounts  (4) and balance increases (6) in the last three months.  This said her total 
debt balance had increased by £7,691 in the prior 12 months. And it looks like the usage of 
her credit cards had increased significantly over the 12 months  prior to taking out this loan: 
12 months previously,  Mrs C had been using around 31% of her credit limits; now she was 
using 99% of her credit limits.
I recognise that the purpose of this loan was debt consolidation, and so Mrs C would repay  
some of her existing debts with this new loan. But given Mrs C needed to repay this loan 
over 48 months, and given this loan would only repay part of her existing indebtedness.  I 
think AvantCredit needed to think about  whether  it would remain  affordable over the term of 
the loan. Given  what Ive said about what was shown  on the credit reports, I think  further 
checks would have  been proportionate.
Ive therefore  thought  about what further checks would most likely  have  revealed.  Ive looked 
at Mrs Cs bank statements in the two months prior to this loan. I see Mrs C was spending 
quite a bit more each month than she was receiving  as salary. From payday in May until 
payday in June, she spent over £3,700;  from 19 June until 6 July, the end of the last 
statement she sent us, she spends  £2,992.72.
I also see payments into her account from other  lenders, suggesting she needed to borrow  
to meet  her essential payments. And I see that, aside from her mortgage and unsecured  
credit, Mrs C was also paying  around  £339.46  a month towards a loan secured on her 
property.
In response to the investigator, AvantCredit  said that, after taking account Mrs Cs verified 
income, monthly expenses, existing credit commitments, and loan instalment  and allowing 
a £100 buffer for emergencies  Mrs C had a disposable income of £16.42 a month. This 
alone, I think, calls into question the sustainability  of this arrangement.  
Ref: DRN82297853But given what Ive said about Mrs Cs circumstances at the time she took out this loan, her 
high level of spending and other debts, I think there was a real prospect that shed need to 
borrow again to pay for this new borrowing.  If AvantCredit carried  out further checks, I dont 
think it would  have  concluded this new lending was sustainable. So I dont think AvantCredit  
would have lent Mrs C the money.
Putting things  right
AvantCredit shouldnt  have given Mrs C the loan.  I understand  that there may be a balance  
outstanding on it.
a)AvantCredit should remove all interest, fees and charges from the outstanding 
balance on the loan, and treat any repayments made  by Mrs C as though  they had 
been repayments of the principal.
 
If this results  in Mrs C having made overpayments then AvantCredit should refund  
these overpayments  with 8% simple interest*  calculated  on the overpayments, from 
the date the overpayments would  have arisen,  to the date the complaint is settled. 
If there is an outstanding balance  then AvantCredit should agree an affordable  
repayment plan with Mrs C.
b)AvantCredit should remove any adverse information recorded on Mrs Cs credit  file in 
relation to the loan once the loan is settled
*HM Revenue & Customs  requires AvantCredit  to deduct tax from this interest. It should give Mrs C a certificate 
showing how much tax it has deducted, if Mrs C asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, I uphold Mrs Cs complaint. AvantCredit of UK, LLC should  put 
things right by doing what  Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2020.
Edward Hardman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8229785