K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that hes unable to get another interest rate with NRAM Limited and is 
currently trapped on the Standard Variable Rate (SVR).
background
Mr C took his repayment mortgage  out with the Northern Rock in 2007. Following Northern 
Rocks collapse, his mortgage was transferred to NRAM. Mr Cs mortgage was taken out on 
a Together 5 Year Fixed rate at 6.29%.  He borrowed £77,865 which included £1,340 fees 
and additional  unsecured  borrowing of up to £14,029 which was charged on the same rate.
Once this rate expired,  Mr Cs mortgage  was going  to be transferred onto Northern Rocks 
SVR which  was 7.34%,  at that time  for the remainder of the mortgage. At the time that the 
complaint was raised, the SVR was 4.78%.
Mr C complained to our service. He said he is now trapped  on the SVR and is unable  to get 
a new rate with NRAM because they are not offering any new rates to him. The case was 
looked at by one of our investigators who didnt  recommend that the complaint be upheld.
Mr C remained  unhappy with this and asked for the complaint to be looked at by an 
ombudsman so it has come to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  While Im sorry to disappoint Mr C, I 
agree with what the investigator has said, for broadly the same reasons. Ill explain why.
Id firstly  like to reassure Mr C that I have taken  into account legislation,  regulation  and good  
industry practice in reaching my decision.
NRAM was one of the lenders that got into financial difficulty when the financial crisis 
happened, and they were taken over by the government.  The government explained that, for 
legal reasons (to do with competition  law and state aid), government  owned lenders  
including NRAM  are not permitted to offer new interest rate products  such  as fixed and 
discounted rates.
For the same reasons,  NRAM is not allowed to reduce  its SVR below the levels of SVR set 
by other  lenders on the market.
I dont think NRAM are acting in breach of the terms and conditions of the mortgage 
agreement in not offering Mr C a new rate or lower  SVR.  Mr Cs mortgage offer sets out that 
he would  be paying  a fixed rate until 2012  and thereafter the SVR.  Nothing in the mortgage 
offer or the mortgage terms  say that Mr C would be entitled to another interest rate after that 
one expired.
Ref: DRN86792532Im aware from my knowledge of the mortgage  market that it is common for borrowers to 
take out another rate, be it a fixed or a tracker rate product,  when their product expires   
rather than let the rate revert to SVR.  Sometimes that might be with their existing lender or 
sometimes they may move their mortgage  to a new lender. But as Ive already mentioned, 
there is nothing in the mortgage agreement that says Mr C is entitled to a new rate. This is 
also true of most other lenders mortgage  agreements too.
The rules  of mortgage regulation dont say that a lender must offer new interest rates either. 
They say that lenders  must treat their borrowers  fairly. And where new rates  are available,  
there are rules  around whether its fair to restrict access  to them. But theres nothing in the 
rules that say new interest rates have to be made available.
Mr C has said that he feels trapped on the SVR and is currently held a mortgage prisoner 
by NRAM. He has made a number  of points as he doesnt agree with what  has happened. I 
understand that Mr C was a customer of Northern Rocks previously and would have had 
rights as a customer.  But the original mortgage agreement  would usually  provide  lenders for 
mortgages to be able to transfer it to other lenders  if appropriate. The right to transfer the 
mortgage is included  in the terms and conditions relevant to this mortgage  which  I have 
seen. In any case, lenders can decide,  at any point if they want  to offer new products or not 
to their borrowers.
Its very unfortunate  that through  no fault of his own that Mr C has ended up with a closed 
book lender, that doesnt offer new rates. But NRAM is still regulated by the Financial 
Conduct Authority  and they have  to follow their rules. NRAM still need to make sure that they 
treat their customers fairly. Because NRAM are not able to offer any new interest rates  to 
Mr C, they needed  to ensure that they treat their customers fairly  by not putting barriers in 
their way if they wanted to move their mortgage elsewhere. NRAM is not treating Mr C any 
differently to any of its other customers  who are also on the SVR once their deal expired. 
And I can see there were  no contractual barriers, such as an Early  Repayment Charge, 
which wouldve stopped  him from moving his mortgage elsewhere.
NRAM made arrangements  for Mr C to see one of their mortgage brokers,  free of charge, to 
discuss options available to him. Mr C says that the broker wasnt  able to help find another  
lender. Lenders  have  their own criteria and guidelines in place on what products they are 
able to offer borrowers  which are mostly  subject to the borrowers financial and personal 
circumstances. It seems  that the broker that Mr C saw wasnt able to help him because his 
property is in negative  equity. But NRAM made  sure he could obtain independent  financial  
advice, if he wanted  to, to see what options  are available  to him. 
If it would be difficult for Mr C, due to his personal  circumstances,  to obtain a mortgage  
elsewhere, I cant say that NRAM would  be responsible for this. Changes  to Mr Cs 
circumstances, or to the wider mortgage lending  environment,  that arent part of the 
mortgage contract and that may not be foreseen when the mortgage was taken out, arent 
within NRAMs control. So it wouldnt be fair or reasonable  to hold NRAM liable for that. Im 
satisfied that NRAM  did enough to try and help Mr C by offering him the chance to speak to 
a broker  to see if they could  help him.
While I empathise  with the situation  that Mr C is in, I dont think  that NRAM have  treated  him 
unfairly.
Ref: DRN86792533my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 June  2019.
Maria Drury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8679253