K820x#14complaint
Miss M complains that Covea Insurance plc (Covea) wont  meet  a claim she made under a 
motor insurance policy  on which she was a named driver for damage to a car she entrusted  
to a mechanic  for repair.
background
In July 2018 Miss M was driving  her car when it broke down. Miss M took it to a mechanic 
known to her family who said he could  repair  it at a cost of £600. Miss M agreed and paid 
£300 in advance. Miss M then received several  promises from the mechanic that the car 
would soon be ready.
Eventually on 11 August  2018 she went to his premises. She found the premises empty,  and 
no sign of either the mechanic or her car. So she contacted the police to report  her car 
stolen. She also notified Covea.  
Later in August Miss M was contacted  by the mechanic who told her the car was in a lock up 
near where  she had left it with him. Covea recovered the car from the lock up. Its engine was 
part dismantled and there were minor  scuffs  to the front and sides. Covea considered it was 
beyond economic repair and a total loss.
The police told Covea  that in the circumstances they didnt consider that a theft had occurred 
and so were closing their theft file. As a result Covea told Miss M it was rejecting the claim 
she had made under  the policy. It said there wasnt damage caused  as a result  of the theft of 
the car, but a civil dispute between Miss M and the mechanic. Covea said it would 
reconsider if the police were to confirm they considered a theft had occurred.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld.  He thought Covea 
had acted reasonably in rejecting a claim under  the policy for theft when the police told it that 
they didnt consider a theft had occurred and were closing their theft file. He noted that if the 
police were to change their view on this, Covea would reconsider Miss Ms claim under the 
policy.
Covea considered the damage to the car was a civil dispute between Miss M and the 
mechanic arising  out of the agreement for him to repair  her car. The investigator  had 
considered whether Miss M could  make a claim under the policy  for the damage under any 
other section  of the policy.
The damage happened while in the possession of someone not named  on the policy  to 
whom Miss M had entrusted  the car for repair. The investigator said a claim in these 
circumstances was specifically excluded by the policy. So Covea was entitled to decline her 
claim.
Miss M responded to say, in summary, that in his last message the mechanic told her the car 
would be ready  within  the hour. But when it was recovered it was nowhere near repaired,  
and parts were  now missing that werent when she took it for repair.
She considered the car had been  stolen as it wasnt returned when she asked. It hadnt been 
repaired and was now more damaged  than it was originally.
Ref: DRN82280422my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The police have  said that in the circumstances that have happened  they dont consider that 
a theft has occurred. They say this because  they dont think  there was any intention on the 
part of the mechanic to permanently deprive Miss M of the car, which is an essential part of 
the legal  definition of theft.
While the police take this view, Covea  has said it wont  meet  a claim under the policy for 
theft. If the police view changes, it will consider such a claim. Like the investigator,  I think  
Covea has acted reasonably in coming to this decision, and dont require it to do anything 
more.
I have also considered whether the damage which has happened is covered by any other 
provision of the policy such as accident  or malicious  damage. The damage which  has 
occurred would seem  to have been  caused by the mechanic dismantling the engine to carry 
out repairs and then failing to repair and rebuild it, neither of which is an accident or 
malicious damage.
In addition, there is a general exclusion under the policy,  which I think would also apply in 
this case, for any loss or damage which arises while the car is being 
   driven  by, or is in the charge of, a person who has your permission  to drive  and who 
is not an insured  driver  (anyone not named on the policy);
The mechanic had implied  permission  to test drive  the car in the course of repairing it. So 
while Miss M may well have a civil claim against the mechanic for his failure to repair her car 
as he promised, and the condition he left it in, I cant reasonably  require Covea to meet her 
claim under the policy.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint,  and make  no order  against Covea 
Insurance plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 July 2019.
Lennox Towers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8228042