K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that a car that was supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with 
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited,  trading as Seat Finance, wasnt  of satisfactory  
quality.
background
A new car was supplied  to Mr S under a hire purchase agreement with Seat Finance that he 
signed in February  2017. He says that there  were  electrical issues  with the car from the 
outset but that the dealer  told him that they were  normal and would rectify themselves. Mr S 
complained to the dealer  and Seat Finance about  issues with the cars  radio  and rattling 
noises in February 2018. He wasnt satisfied with Seat Finances response so he 
complained to this service  in July 2018.  The car was inspected by an independent expert  in 
January 2019.
The investigator recommended  that this complaint should be upheld.  She said that it was 
clear that there were issues affecting the cars  centre  console  area and hand  brake   and 
she didn't think that it was reasonable to expect a one or two year old car to have such  
problems or a rattling noise indicating that some parts were loose. And she said that Mr S 
had given the dealer and Seat Finance  chances  to repair  those issues.  The car had been  
subject to a recall for an issue with the hand  brake  and she said that she could understand 
why Mr S was disappointed and had lost faith in the car. So she recommended that he 
should be able to reject  the car. And she said that Seat Finance  should: end the agreement  
and collect the car; refund  the deposit,  10% of repayments since he reported the problems 
with the radio  and rattling to the dealer for the impaired use and loss of enjoyment, and 10% 
of the repayments  for the period of repairs  (approximately 10 weeks) when he was paying 
for a better spec car than he was actually driving  (all with interest);  pay him £200 for any 
trouble and upset  and inconvenience caused;  cover  the insurance  cancellation  fee (on 
receipt of evidence of it); and remove any adverse information from Mr Ss credit file.
Seat Finance has asked  for this complaint  to be considered by an ombudsman.  It says, in 
summary, that:
Mr Ss video  of flickering lights hasnt  been  investigated by it or the dealer so cant be 
included within this complaint;
the independent report says that most of the faults werent present but could  be 
intermittent and could  become persistent  over time  but it isnt fair to make  a 
decision to reject a car because of something  that might happen;
the service action hasnt been carried out on Mr Ss car and it should be given  one 
rightful chance to repair; and
the independent expert has suggested  further investigation into the phone  charging 
issues and door rattles  so its fair to do that first before deciding on a rejection;
and it has now offered Mr S £700 compensation for the issues  that hes had with the car and 
his loss of enjoyment   but Mr S hasnt accepted  that offer. And he says that the cars 
reversing lights and parking sensors have now completely stopped  working.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN81292742Seat Finance, as the supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring that the car was of 
satisfactory quality. That will depend  on a number of factors,  including the age, and mileage 
of the car and the price  that was paid for it. A new car was supplied to Mr S and the 
expectation is that the car would be free from even minor  defects. Satisfactory quality also 
covers durability which means that the components within the car must be durable and last a 
reasonable amount of time. Exactly how long that time is will depend on a number of factors. 
The car was supplied to Mr S in early March 2017. He says that there  were  electrical  issues 
with the car from the outset but the dealer told him that they were normal and would rectify 
themselves. Mr S complained to the dealer and Seat Finance about  issues with the cars 
radio and rattling  noises  in February  2018.  The cars  history  record  shows  that no rattle  
could be found  and that the radio  was repaired.  But Mr S complained  to the dealer  about 
those issues again the following month (and the cars mileage was recorded as being 7,223 
miles at that time).
The faults continued and the cars  history  record shows that the cause of the rattling  noise 
was found in July 2018 as the door trim was missing felt insulation.  But the electrical issues  
continued with the car and Mr S says that it continues to rattle.  
The car was subject to a recall because of an issue with the hand brake and it was inspected  
by an independent expert in January 2019. The expert couldnt replicate  the rattling noise or 
most of the electrical issues about which Mr S had complained  but the inspection  report  
did say that the wireless  phone charging  station  wasnt  working  (and Mr S has provided  
evidence to show that theres  no problem with his phone).
I consider it to be more  likely than not that there've been electrical and rattling issues with 
the car since  it was supplied to Mr S. Those issues were first recorded in the cars history  
record in February 2018  when Mr S had had the car for less than a year. The radio  was 
repaired but Mr S has continued to experience  electrical issues  and the rattling noise 
couldnt be found. Five months later the cause of a rattling noise was found to be missing 
insulation  and its likely  that the insulation  was missing when the car was supplied to Mr S. 
Despite the repairs,  Mr S continues to complaint  about those issues. And he says that hes 
complained about electrical issues with the car since soon after it was supplied to him.
I dont consider it to be reasonable to expect a new car to have such issues  within the first 
year when its mileage was less than 7,223 miles. And Im persuaded that its more  likely 
than not that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality  when  it was supplied to Mr S because of 
those issues. So I find that it would be fair and reasonable  in these circumstances for Seat 
Finance to allow Mr S to reject the car. And I consider that it should end the agreement and 
collect the car from Mr S  both at no cost to him. Mr S made an advance  payment of 
£334.43 for the car and his use and enjoyment of the car have been affected by the issues 
with it. The car has been  with the dealer in total for nearly ten weeks.  Mr S has been 
provided with a courtesy car but it was smaller and of a lower specification  than his car. I find 
that Seat Finance should refund to Mr S the advance payment, 10% of the monthly 
payments that hes made under the agreement for his loss of use and enjoyment of the car 
and an additional10% of his monthly  payments for the ten weeks that his car was at the 
dealers for repair (all with interest).  And it should  also reimburse him for any insurance 
policy cancellation fee that he incurs  (but he must  provide evidence of that amount  to Seat 
Finance). These events will have  caused  distress  and inconvenience to Mr S. And I find that 
it would  be fair and reasonable for Seat Finance to pay him £200  compensation for that 
distress and inconvenience. And it should  ensure that no adverse information about the 
agreement is recorded on Mr Ss credit file.
Ref: DRN81292743my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I uphold Mr Ss complaint. And I order  Volkswagen 
Financial Services (UK) Limited, trading as Seat Finance, to:
1.End the hire purchase agreement and arrange  for the car to be collected from Mr S  
both at no cost to him.
2.Refund to Mr S the deposit of £334.43  that he paid for the car. 
3.Refund to Mr S 10% of the monthly payments that hes made under the agreement 
for his loss of use and enjoyment of the car.
4.Refund to Mr S an additional  10% of the monthly payments that hes made  under the 
agreement for the ten weeks that his car was with the dealer for repairs.
5.Pay interest on the amounts at 2, 3 and 4 above at an annual rate of 8% simple from 
the date of each  payment to the date of settlement.
6.Reimburse Mr S for any cost that he incurs for cancelling his insurance  policy.
7.Ensure that no adverse  information  about  the agreement is recorded on Mr Ss credit  
file.
8.Pay £200 to Mr S to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience  that hes 
been caused.
HM Revenue & Customs  requires Seat Finance to deduct tax from the interest payment 
referred to at 5 above. Seat Finance  must give Mr S a certificate  showing how much tax its 
deducted if he asks it for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 April 2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8129274