K821x#15complaint
Mr R says Emergency Cash Limited  trading as Wizzcash irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about three payday  loans Wizzcash provided to Mr R between November 
2017 and April 2018. Mr Rs borrowing  history is as follows,  with the information taken from 
the credit  agreements provided:
LoanDate
TakenDate
RepaidInstalments Amount Highest  
Monthly 
Repayment
1 21/11/2017 31/01/2018 3 £600.00 £266.03
2 23/02/2018 22/03/2018 3 £300.00 £156.97
3 03/04/2018 08/04/2018 3 £500.00 £251.27
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Rs complaint and thought  the loans two and three shouldnt have 
been given as Mr R was having issues managing his finances.  Wizzcash disagreed and said 
it acted fairly  and responsibly in its dealings with Mr R. As no agreement could be reached, 
the complaint  was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Wizzcash needed  to take reasonable steps to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr R 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Wizzcash  should fairly and reasonably have  
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ref: DRN86560182There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Wizzcash was required to establish 
whether Mr R could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether  the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Rs complaint.
Our adjudicator explained that had Wizzcash carried out proportionate checks for loans two 
and three  it would have shown  Mr R was having  issues managing his money. I agree that 
loans 2 and 3 shouldnt have been given and Ill explain why:
Wizzcash says it carried  out checks on Mr R when  he applied for loan 2. Had 
Wizzcash reacted to the information gathered during these checks  it would have 
shown that by loan 2 Mr R had at least three  other short-term loans, all taken out 
within months of each other. This shows Mr R was potentially having  issues 
managing his finances because he was relying  on short  term credit  to cover ongoing 
shortfalls in his finances. So Mr R wasnt in a position to take on these loans and 
repay them in a sustainable manner.  
Wizzcash has said Mr R had adequate disposable income to afford the loans. 
Although Wizzcash may have thought there  was sufficient  disposable  income, the 
information from Mr Rs credit  files was enough to suggest that Mr R had wider 
money problems, and this should have been  taken into account before providing 
further lending.
So Im upholding  the complaint about  loans 2 and 3 and Wizzcash should put things right.
putting things right  what Emergency Cash  Limited needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr R paid on loans 2 and 3;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loans 2 and 3 from Mr Rs credit file;
Ref: DRN86560183 HM Revenue & Customs  requires Emergency Cash Limited to take off tax from this interest.  
Emergency Cash Limited must give Mr R a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks 
for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Rs complaint. Emergency Cash  
Limited should pay put things right for Mr R as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2020.
Chandni Green
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8656018