K820x#14complaint
Mr H complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold him payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) when he took out a personal loan in 2001.
background
Mr H says he cant remember much about the sale. But Barclays  records  show that he 
applied for a £3,500 loan in one of its branches  and bought a single premium PPI policy  
costing £553,  at the same time.  
These types of policy needed to be paid for up front so Mr H also borrowed the money for 
the PPI from Barclays. Both the loan and PPI part of the loan ran for terms of 36 months. Mr 
H says it was implied that he needed  to have  the PPI to get his loan approved.
Our adjudicator in this case said the complaint shouldnt be upheld.  But Mr H has asked for 
an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint.
This sale took place  some  considerable time ago and so its not surprising or indeed unusual  
that most  of the documents relating to it no longer exist. Businesses arent expected  to keep 
records indefinitely. Nevertheless, weve seen quite a few similar sales to this one and as a 
result, we know quite  a bit about  how the process  normally worked and the type of 
information consumers  were usually given by Barclays.
And based on that experience, we think Barclays provided consumers with an application 
form where they would  have had to make a specific selection to buy PPI for the cover to be 
added to their loan. A credit agreement was then usually produced, which  explained the 
consumer had agreed to the PPI. The cost of the loan and the PPI were  then set out 
separately on the documents given to the consumer to sign.
I dont know what was said to Mr H during his meeting and I dont doubt he now honestly  
believes he was mis-sold the cover. However I think the documents that Mr H most likely 
signed would have shown him that he had a choice about buying PPI and that it wasnt  a 
compulsory part of his loan. 
I therefore think its more  likely that Mr H would have been  able to see he had a choice about 
buying this policy and I think he agreed  to it.
Barclays says it recommended this cover  to Mr H. This means it had to make  sure that the 
policy was suitable  for him. Overall, I think it probably was.
This is because I can see he was eligible for the cover and I dont think  hed have been 
caught by any of the major exclusions we tend to see in these types of policy.  The PPI term 
Ref: DRN81215432and the loan term were  the same length and Ive nothing that specifically  suggests  Mr H was 
likely to pay the loan off early when he was taking it out.
Mr H told us he had some sickness  protection  through  his work and Ive thought carefully 
about this. But I think this would have been moderate. The PPI, on the other hand, would 
have paid him a monthly sum for up to a year in the event of a successful claim.  So  I think 
the PPI would have been of use to Mr H in his situation. I think  it was suitable for him.
Barclays also had to give Mr H information  about the key features of the policy that was 
clear, fair and not misleading. I accept  we dont know if he was told everything  he ought to 
have been told. But looking at what weve been sent, I think  its more  likely Mr H was given 
clear enough  information  about  the cost of the policy and some  documents  explaining the 
rules. On the sample documents  Ive referred  to above, I can see that the cost of the PPI 
was set out. It showed the total cost of the policy over the term of the loan, the interest Mr H 
needed to pay and the monthly repayments. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr H, but I dont  have enough evidence to say the policy  was mis-
sold.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint. And I dont direct Barclays  Bank UK PLC to pay any 
compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service I am required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 March  2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8121543