K820x#14complaint
Mr Bs complaint is about the transfer  of his stakeholder pension plan to a self invested  
personal pension  (SIPP)  with a new provider.  
Mr Bs complaint is made  against South Somerset  Mortgages Ltd, an appointed 
representative of Intrinsic Financial Planning Ltd (Intrinsic).  
The complaint has been dealt with by Intrinsic. For convenience Ive just referred to Intrinsic 
below. That should be taken to mean South Somerset Mortgages Ltd where appropriate.  
 
background
Mr B was put in touch  with Intrinsic by the estate agent who was dealing with the sale of the 
house Mr B wanted  to buy. Mr B had a stakeholder plan with Clerical  Medical  with a fund 
value of £165,910. He wasnt  making contributions to the plan. 
Intrinsic recommended that Mr B transfer his existing pension  benefits with Clerical Medical 
to a SIPP with Aegon  and then go into Aegons Flexi  Access Drawdown arrangement. Mr B 
could then take 25% of his fund as a tax free cash lump sum to assist him in purchasing  the 
house. The rest of his fund would be invested  in a balanced fund  Mr B had completed an 
attitude to risk questionnaire  and had been  identified as a balanced or medium risk investor. 
Intrinsic produced copies  of the documents including a fee agreement dated  15 August 2017 
which Mr B signed. It confirmed the Amount of payment  for advice  was a percentage of 
the amount invested, which is 3% equating  to £3,733.  It also shows  the optional  annual 
review was selected as an ongoing  service. The amount payable for this was a percentage 
annually of the value of your portfolio invested  via ourselves of 1%, this equates to 
approximately £1,200.
Theres a suitability report dated  23 August 2017.  It records Mr Bs main objective was to 
release the tax free cash with no income withdrawals. And that this option wasnt  available 
through his existing plan. The report also confirmed the advisers charges which  were set out 
(on page  2 of the report). 
Mr B signed  Aegons  transfer authority on 15 August 2017 confirming that he wanted to go 
ahead with the transfer. Aegon received  the funds from Clerical  Medical  on 5 September 
2017. The adviser received the initial fee (around £3,800). Mr B was paying an ongoing 
adviser charge  of just under £100 a month. But I think thats since stopped. 
About a year or so later Mr B complained to Intrinsic. He said hed been told by Clerical 
Medical that he didnt  need to transfer to take his tax free cash.  He also said he hadnt  been 
given details of the new arrangement and alternative options werent discussed. And the 
adviser had said he wouldnt  charge  for the advice. Mr B added  that performance  of his 
Aegon plan was poor.
Intrinsic didnt uphold  the complaint. It said Mr Bs existing pension plan with Clerical  Medical  
didnt offer Flexi Access drawdown. To meet Mr Bs objective of accessing the tax free cash,  
his existing pension  had to be transferred to a different product and, regardless of who the 
provider was, Mr B would still have required the services of a financial adviser,  which hed 
have to pay for. 
Ref: DRN81908202Intrinsic said its recommendation, including the fund selected, was suitable.  It referred  to the 
documents provided to Mr B (including the client service proposition,  personalised 
illustration, initial/advice fee confirmation  and ongoing service  fee confirmation,  suitability  
report and policy documentation) which set out the fees and confirmed that Mr B had 
received documentation. 
Mr B referred his complaint to us. One of our adjudicators looked into it. She asked Clerical 
Medical about the stakeholder plan Mr B had previous held. Clerical Medical confirmed:  
It would have been possible to access 25% tax free cash via Flexi Access  Drawdown. Flexi-
Drawdown is not available directly from the plan, conversion to the Scottish Widows 
Retirement Account is required. 
Based on that the adjudicator was satisfied that Flexi Access Drawdown (the ability  to take 
25% of the fund as tax free cash leaving the remainder invested) wasnt available from the 
stakeholder plan Mr B had and that hed have needed to have converted  that plan in order  to 
go into Flexi Access Drawdown.
She also considered  the fees.  She said there was no record of the adviser  telling Mr B that 
he wouldnt  be charged any fees.  Shed based her investigation on the documentary  
evidence available. The fees were set out clearly on the fee agreement Mr B signed and 
which said the fees would be taken from the amount invested. She said Mr B was aware of 
the fees before the transfer took place.  She noted  Mr B had agreed  to an ongoing adviser 
charge for an annual  review but the adviser  had been removed before that happened. She 
didnt think Intrinsic had acted unreasonably  by taking the initial  and ongoing charges. And, 
although it seemed  Mr B was disappointed with performance, the fund recommended wasnt 
unsuitable for an investor with a balanced  attitude to risk.
Mr B replied  saying he was disappointed. He still believed  the advice hed been given fell 
short of the standard required.  In particular he said the two transfer documents  hed been 
asked to sign hadnt been fully explained  and the costs highlighted.  He said he should have 
been advised as to the alternatives available to him, including  what  he termed a simple, cost 
effective conversion. He felt that the main  driver  for the transfer  was the considerable fees 
that would  be deducted from his fund and paid to the adviser. Mr Bs only aim at that stage 
was to secure sufficient  funds to complete the purchase of his house.  
The adjudicator put what Mr B had said to Intrinsic and asked for its further comments. She 
also made some further enquiries with Clerical Medical.
In summary  Intrinsic said thered been three  meetings to discuss  with Mr B his options, plus 
other ad hoc visits. Mr B had been  given a copy of the client service proposition and terms 
of business. These included  details of the level of service that would be provided and the 
costs. The documents  were discussed at meetings on 3 July 2017 and 15 August 2017.  At 
the latter meeting Mr B signed to confirm  hed received the documents.  Hed also signed  (on 
3 July 2017)  to confirm the agreed  charges. The personalised illustration (also issued to him 
direct by Aegon along with the key features document) he was given included full details of 
the adviser charges. And the suitability letter - which  was fully discussed  at the meeting on 
15 August 2017  - showed the adviser  charges and set out details as to how the on going 
service charge could  be cancelled  at any time.  
There was no conversion option. There was a facility  to transfer to a Flexible Drawdown 
Plan in respect  of which transfer financial advice was mandatory. Mr B would have incurred  
Ref: DRN81908203fees for financial advice  irrespective  of whether hed transferred as he did or to a different  
product provider. The on going  service  fees were  for an optional  service Mr B chose to incur.  
But these  could be cancelled  at any time.  
The adviser was a restricted adviser. That was disclosed to Mr B. The suitability letter  said 
that the recommendation was made from a selected panel of investment, pension and 
platform providers. If Mr B had wanted  whole of market research he should  have gone to an 
independent financial  adviser. But hed have incurred fees in any event. 
Having considered Mr Bs comments and Intrinsics responses,  the adjudicator wasnt  
persuaded to change  her view. She explained why in her letter to Mr B dated 30 November  
2017. She confirmed,  as Mr B had requested in an earlier telephone conversation with the 
adjudicator, that shed  refer the complaint to an ombudsman for a decision.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with what the adjudicator  has said and the reasons  that she gave. I 
dont have much to add.
Theres no dispute that in June 2017  Mr B needed to raise  funds to assist with buying a 
house. He didnt want to borrow any money. I dont think  hes saying he shouldnt  have been 
advised to access  his tax free cash from his pension  fund, then held with Clerical Medical. 
But it seems  hes not sure that what was recommended  a Flexi  Access Drawdown 
arrangement with Aegon  was the easiest (or most cost effective) option. 
In particular Mr B has referred  to the possibility of converting his fund to allow  him to access 
his tax free cash. I note Clerical Medical used that term.  As Ive set out above it told the 
adjudicator that conversion to the Scottish  Widows Retirement Account is required.
I think thats a little confusing. As Clerical  Medical has since confirmed, drawdown wasnt 
available directly from Mr Bs existing stakeholder plan. So he did need to transfer  that is 
close his stakeholder plan and transfer the proceeds to a new and completely different 
product. 
I note what Intrinsic has said about Mr B needing  the services  of a financial adviser and so 
hed have incurred  fees anyway. But I dont  think in Mr Bs situation  that financial advice was 
a regulatory requirement.  In certain circumstances, advice from a regulated financial adviser  
must be obtained  for example, if a consumer wants to transfer from a defined  benefits 
pension scheme  and the value of the benefits being  transferred  is more  than £30,000.  That 
wasnt Mr Bs position  he wasnt giving up valuable guaranteed benefits. 
That said,  Im aware some providers wont be willing to accept a transfer to a Flexi  Access  
Drawdown arrangement unless financial advice has been given. From what Intrinsic  has 
said, that was Clerical Medicals  position  it had a product but it would have required Mr B 
to seek financial advice.  I suspect that might  be Aegons position  too. 
But, in any event, I dont  think  its unreasonable to assume that Mr B would have sought 
financial advice anyway.  Accessing tax free cash by transferring to a SIPP  and then taking 
Ref: DRN81908204Flexi Access Drawdown isnt an entirely straightforward decision or process.  So on that 
basis I can agree with Intrinsic that Mr B would  have incurred advice fees anyway. 
 
Mr B says the fees werent made clear to him and some documentation  wasnt provided to 
him or not explained. And that, in any event, he was told he wouldnt have to pay any fees. 
On that last point,  while  I dont  doubt Mr Bs integrity, I dont think  I can agree with him that 
what he says was definitely agreed  and when the documents,  some  of which  he signed, 
indicate otherwise  and show that he would be charged fees.  
I note what the suitability report says about the cost of Intrinsics services being  paid through 
the pension product rather  than being charged to Mr B directly.  I think  there may have been 
some discussion  about Mr B not being  required to make any direct or up front  payment. 
And he may have understood  from that that he didnt have to pay at all. But, as the report 
went on to say, it didnt  mean Intrinsics  services were free, only that the fees would be paid 
out of Mr Bs pension  fund. 
Ive looked at whether the fees were made clear. Like the adjudicator I think they were. They 
were clearly set out in more than one document.  There were  several  meetings too. I dont 
overlook what Mr Bs said about things not being explained but I dont  think  its unreasonable  
to assume that the documents were discussed  at the meetings. Id have thought, if Mr B 
didnt understand  or what was written was different to what hed been  told, hed have queried 
it. I think he should have  known what Intrinsic would be charging  him and that the fees would 
be deducted from his pension fund.
I note that the suitability  report is dated after Mr B had signed  Aegons transfer  authority.  But 
that is permissible  a suitability report may confirm  earlier discussions and advice given. 
Here the report says the adviser gave his advice at earlier  meetings.  And, when the 
suitability report was issued, the transfer hadnt  actually gone  ahead.  So there  was still time 
for Mr B to have changed his mind  or queried anything  he wasnt sure about. 
It seems  that Mr B is also unhappy with the value of his fund. But, like the adjudicator, I dont 
think the fund Intrinsic recommended was unsuitable for Mr B as an investor whod been 
assessed as having a balanced attitude  to investment risk. If the fund was suitable Intrinsic 
wont be responsible  if it hasnt performed as well as Mr B had perhaps hoped. 
Im sorry  that Mr B is unhappy with the advice he was given and the charges for that advice.  
But I dont think Intrinsics  advice was unsuitable  or that it didnt make its charges  clear.  
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint and I dont make  any award. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2020.  
Lesley Stead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8190820