K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance Plc turned down a claim for a 
damaged roof made  under their home insurance policy. 
background
In November 2018 Mr and Mrs W made a claim on their home insurance policy after they 
noticed a damp patch  on the ceiling where water had been  dripping. Mr and Mrs W said the 
damage happened on the evening  of 9 November when there  had been  strong  winds. 
RSA sent surveyor  to look at the damage. The surveyor said that whilst  there  was a leak, 
there was no evidence of storm  damage. Because of this RSA turned down the claim. 
During the inspection the surveyor told Mr and Mrs W that the damage was minor  and would 
cost less than the policy  excess to repair. Using this information Mr and Mrs W asked a 
builder for a quote  to fix the damage.  When the quote was over £1,000 Mr and Mrs W went  
back to RSA who looked at the claim again.  RSA considered the quote from the builder and 
spoke to them to gather more information. 
RSA maintained that the claim wasnt covered. They said whilst there were winds on the 
day, they didnt constitute a storm. They also said that the weather conditions  highlighted  
maintenance issues, or wear and tear, which is excluded under the policy. Overall RSA 
didnt consider what happened to be storm damage so turned down the claim.
Mr and Mrs W remained unhappy so brought their complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators looked into things. He agreed  with RSA saying the weather conditions on the 
day wouldnt  be classed as a storm. He also thought RSA didnt  act unfairly when  saying the 
damage was wear and tear which isnt covered under  the policy.  Mr and Mrs W disagreed so 
the complaint  has come  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important to tell Mr and Mrs W theres  obviously been an issue  with the roof. This 
has clearly caused  a great deal of upset, and theres a cost to repair it. But its also important  
to say that my role isnt to re-underwrite  the claim,  but to decide  whether RSA acted fairly 
and reasonably when applying the policy terms to their claim.
Insurance policies  cant  and dont  cover every eventuality. Insurers  are free to decide what 
events they wish to provide  cover for under  a policy. They  are also free to include exclusions 
in policies for events  they dont want to cover. Here  the policy doesnt cover  damage or loss 
caused by wear, tear or anything that happens  gradually over time. RSA has relied upon this 
exclusion, as well as the lack of storm conditions, when deciding not to pay the claim.
When considering  claims  for storm damage  an insurer should investigate three things:
-were there storm conditions at the time?
-is the damage of a type consistent  with that caused by a storm?
-was the storm the main cause of the damage?
Ref: DRN83403162RSA says the wind speeds  at the time didnt constitute a storm, and there had been no other 
claims reported in the same area for that date.  Mr and Mrs W say that RSA looked  at the 
storm data for the wrong day. Ive looked at the storm data for both days. There  were indeed  
very strong winds on the day which were close to the strength of a storm. I can see why RSA 
interpreted the storm data as they did. Had this been the only reason for turning down the 
claim I mightve questioned RSA further as deciding  on storm conditions  is not an exact 
science. However, the lack of storm conditions isnt the only reason the claim was turned 
down, so I dont  feel its necessary  to make a finding on this aspect of the complaint.
To answer  the second  and third questions RSA instructed a surveyors report on the roof. 
The surveyor inspected the property. It was their opinion that winds  were  causing the roof 
tiles to lift allowing  rain to be driven  under  the tiles. The rain water was then passing  through 
the felt barrier which was sagging  and tracking  down the valley board to the corner  of the 
ceiling below.
At this point the surveyor told Mr and Mrs W that the repairs  would cost less than the excess. 
Mr and Mrs W took this advice.  They  didnt  pursue  the claim further with RSA and asked a 
builder for a quote  for the repairs. When the quote  came back at over £1,000 Mr and Mrs W 
went back to RSA who again looked at the claim.
When looking at the claim again, RSA spoke  with the builder who provided the quote. The 
builder told RSA that the pointing had fallen out of the valley allowing the wind and rain to 
drive through the gaps. The builder was unable to confirm how the pointing had fallen out. 
RSA said in their opinion failure  of mortar  is normally caused over a period of time with it 
becoming brittle and breaking  up. 
RSA applied the policy terms to the claim.  They said because  of the issues  highlighted by 
the surveyor and the builder, the main cause of damage wasnt  due to the storm. RSA said 
the weather conditions highlighted maintenance issues with the roof and there was no 
evidence of the storm being the main cause  of damage.
In order to be covered  under the policy the damage would need to be caused by an insured 
event. Because  neither the surveyor or the builder were able to say why the pointing had 
fallen out RSA hasnt been able to establish  that an insured event occurred. The most  likely 
explanation, as RSA has said, is that the mortar failure happened  over time. 
Having looked  at all of the information, Im satisfied RSA considered the evidence  in a 
reasonable way. Im also happy that RSA made  a reasonable assumption, based on the 
evidence, that wear and tear was the cause of the problem.  
Thats not to say there isnt a problem with the roof; there is. But RSA looked at what  both 
the surveyor and builder had to say about the cause of the damage,  and applied an 
exclusion under  the policy.  Im happy  this is a fair way of investigating a claim and that RSA 
acted reasonably on the evidence provided.
RSA have said that Mr and Mrs W have  accidental damage as part of their home insurance 
policy. Its possible for Mr and Mrs W to submit  a claim  under this part of their policy for the 
internal damage  if they wish to do so.
Having considered everything, Im satisfied  RSA applied the policy terms in a fair and 
reasonable way when  turning down  the claim.
Ref: DRN83403163my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 March 2020.
Warren Wilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8340316