K822xComplaint
Miss D has complained Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) didnt properly notify her of the changes 
to its overdraft pricing structure  in November 2017. 
Shes also says Lloyds unfairly failed to offer her the option of taking the loan it provided in 
June 2018, to repay her overdraft, when she first got in contact in February 2018. Finally, 
Miss D is also unhappy  with the length  of time it took for Lloyds to supply information once it 
agreed to provide a loan.
Background 
Lloyds moved from an overdraft pricing  structure  based on an Annual Percentage Rate  
(APR) to a daily charge of 1p per every full £7 per day, in November 2017. Miss D says 
she wasnt notified of these changes in advance  of them happening and complained  to 
Lloyds about this in February  2018. Lloyds said it wrote to Miss D in August 2017 providing  
her with more than two months notice of the change, which  was in line with the terms and 
conditions of the account. Miss D was unhappy  with this as well as the options provided  to 
reduce her overdraft and so referred  her complaint to us. 
In June 2018, while Miss Ds complaint was awaiting consideration, Lloyds agreed to provide 
Miss D with a loan to clear the overdraft. Miss D proceeded  with the loan but remained 
unhappy that it hadnt been offered as an option when she called in February 2018. By this 
stage, she was also unhappy with the length  of time it took for the application  to be 
processed as it wasnt finalised until August 2018. 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 22 February  2021.  In my provisional 
decision, I found that Lloyds had notified  Miss D of the changes  to her overdraft in August 
2017 and that she could  apply for a loan to clear her overdraft in February 2018. But it 
should also pay Miss D £250  for the delay  in processing the loan.  
Following this, Lloyds  confirmed it agreed with my provisional decision and that it would pay 
Miss D £250 in compensation. Miss D disagreed  saying she didnt receive Lloyds letter  and 
that she wasnt offered  a loan.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully thought  about the further  points Miss D has made.  But Ive not been persuaded 
to alter my conclusions. Ill explain the reasons  why.
As I explained in my provisional decision,  Lloyds says it wrote to Miss D in August 2017 to 
explain this. It provided  a sample  copy of the letter, which  it says is similar to what  it sent in 
August 2017 as well as evidence to confirm the letter was sent at this time. The letter 
appears to have been sent to Miss Ds correct address and the vast majority of correctly 
addressed post is usually  successfully delivered  too. Miss D might not have received the 
letter. But the key here is Im satisfied Lloyds took reasonable steps to provide her with the 
appropriate notice  of the changes to her overdraft in advance. So Im satisfied that Lloyds 
actions in relation  to the notification werent  unfair.  
Ref: DRN84449002Miss D has also said there might be a slight misunderstanding as to what  she was unhappy 
about in relation to her call with Lloyds in February 2018. She says was never  told applying 
for a loan to repay her the overdraft was an option,  not that she was only offered  the option  
of applying for a loan instead of a guarantee shed get one.
Ive thought about what Miss D has said. But the conversation  referred to took place over 
three years ago. And quite understandably Miss Ds recollections of it might  not be as 
strong. In any event, I should  probably make it clear that Ive once again listened to a 
recording of the February  2018 call and I can confirm that the agent  does say that applying 
for a loan is a possible option. Miss D even goes  as far as saying that applying  for a loan to 
repay an overdraft is ridiculous and almost  dismisses  the possibility because  shes unhappy 
with the increased  amount of interest.  
Its also important to note that Lloyds agent  also enquires whether Miss D has spoken to 
anyone at her branch  as there may be further  options it might be able to provide. The agent 
didnt go as far as saying  Miss D would get a loan. But as I explained in my provisional 
decision a lender is required not to lend irresponsibly.  So Id expect  Lloyds to check whether 
a loan is affordable  for a prospective  borrower,  bearing in mind their existing commitments, 
before providing  one. Furthermore, Lloyds appeared open to completing  an income an 
expenditure assessment to work out whether the overdraft had become unsustainable. 
So I am satisfied that Lloyds didnt mislead Miss D or treat her unfairly  in February 2018 and 
it was willing  to work with her to find a way of reducing her overdraft balance. And as it, in 
any event, stopped charging  interest on Miss Ds overdraft in June  2018  ahead of her 
receiving the funds from her successful  loan application, Im satisfied it didnt continue simply  
applying charges for an excessive and prolonged period after Miss D got in touch  either. As 
this is the case,  Ive not been persuaded to alter my conclusions on this part of Miss Ds 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im satisfied  that Lloyds Bank PLCs offer to pay Miss D £250 
is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the case. So Im not requiring it do anything 
more here.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 April 2021.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8444900