K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Bank of Scotland  plc (BoS) unfairly blocked his account. 
background
Mr H says BoS blocked his account  in November 2017 and then again in January 2018. He 
says he was abroad for the first seven months of 2018 and was unable to visit a BoS branch 
to sort matters out. Mr H says he did have access to another  bank account whilst abroad but 
didnt receive any calls or e-mails from BoS about  the account  block.
BoS upheld Mr Hs complaint and says it applied the account  block on 29 November 2017 
and should have removed it on 12 December 2017. It accepts it didnt and paid Mr H 
compensation of £30. BoS says the block was then removed but again  the account  was 
blocked on 29 January 2018  in error. Its apologised and paid Mr H further  compensation of 
£100.
Mr H brought his complaint to us but our adjudicator thought BoS had dealt fairly with the 
complaint. The adjudicator  didnt think Mr H had been caused  a significant level of 
inconvenience and thought the block was in place  for some time as Mr H was abroad at the 
time. She thought BoS had apologised and paid a fair and reasonable amount of 
compensation of £100.
Mr H has asked that the adjudicators decision be reviewed. He would like between  £300 
and £500 compensation.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall conclusions  as the adjudicator  that BoS has dealt fairly with this complaint.
Im satisfied that Banks and building societies are entitled to use security and fraud 
measures in certain circumstances. I accept  that on occasions that can cause inconvenience  
to their customers. But there is no question here that BoS made  a mistake by reapplying  
those fraud  measures and blocking Mr Hs account.  I can see that BoS cant  explain why it 
did so but Im satisfied  its apologised  to Mr H and paid him what  I think  is a fair and 
reasonable amount of compensation of £100.
I appreciate Mr H says the compensation should  be higher but I have to consider the impact 
BoSs mistake  had upon Mr H. Im satisfied that Mr H had access to another account whilst 
he was abroad and in any event he had about  £5 in his BoS account  at the time the block 
was applied. So I dont  think  there  was a significant  impact on Mr H. I also appreciate Mr H 
says BoS should have  told him about the account block.  But I think it likely that as BoS had 
made a mistake it was unaware that it had blocked the account until Mr H told it.
I accept the block  was in place  for some time but Im satisfied that the reason for that was 
that Mr H was abroad. I think  that when Mr H told BoS about the account block  that it 
removed it within a short period of time.
Overall as Im satisfied BoS has paid a fair and reasonable amount of compensation, I cant 
fairly order it to increase  that amount.
Ref: DRN88025022my final decision
My final decision is that Bank  of Scotland plc has paid a fair and reasonable amount of 
compensation and I dont  require it to do anything further in the circumstances of this 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 May 2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8802502