K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain about information  Clydesdale Bank Plc reported to the credit  
reference agencies  in relation to a joint account  they held after Mrs G entered into an IVA. 
background
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions are set out in my provisional 
decision dated 8 January  2020  a copy of which is attached and forms part of this final 
decision. In my provisional  decision I explained  why I intended to uphold this complaint. I 
also set out how I intended to tell Clydesdale to resolve the situation. 
I invited both parties to respond with any additional  information they wanted me to take into 
account before I made my final decision.  
Mr G responded and gave  further details about  how the information reported on his credit file 
had impacted his ability  to secure other credit and his job. Clydesdale didnt provide any 
further comments. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I remain of the view that Mr and Mrs Gs 
complaint should  be upheld  for the same reasons. 
Mr G has told us about the difficulties hes experienced gaining  a mobile phone contract and 
credit. Mr G has told us he understands that its not possible to tell exactly  why he hasnt 
been able to borrow funds elsewhere as we dont know  the lending criteria  used to assess 
his applications.  And I have to take into account  that even after the settlement  is put in place, 
there will still be two missed  payments  on Mr and Mrs Gs credit  file for January and 
February 2018. Whilst I acknowledge the information from Clydesdale  will have impacted 
Mr and Mrs Gs credit file, I cant safely conclude it was the sole reason other businesses 
havent agreed to lend.  
Mr G has also told us that he had to tell his employer about the information on his credit file 
due to the nature of his work. I understand how frustrating that must have been, but I remain 
of the view that £200 fairly reflects the impact of Clydesdales errors on Mr and Mrs G. 
I still think this complaint should be upheld that that Clydesdale should amend 
Mr and Mrs Gs credit file to remove the late payments it reported from March,  April and 
May 2018.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and direct  Clydesdale Bank Plc to remove the 
arrears information reported on Mr and Mrs Gs credit files between  for March, April and 
May 2018. Clydesdale Bank Plc should also pay Mr and Mrs G a total of £200 (less any 
compensation already paid) in recognition  of the distress and inconvenience caused.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 July 2020.
Ref: DRN81245592Marco Manente  
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN81245593Copy of Provisional Decision 
Complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain about information Clydesdale  Bank Plc reported to the credit reference 
agencies in relation to a joint account they held after Mrs G entered into an IVA. 
Background
Mr and Mrs G had a joint bank account with Clydesdale with an overdraft limit of £2,000.  In January 
2018 Mrs G entered  into an IVA and Clydesdale  was notified.  On 7 February  2018 the account was 
closed. 
On 21 February 2018 Clydesdale  says it sent two letters, one to Mr G and one to Mrs G. The letters  
were the same and required immediate  payment  of the outstanding balance  of £2,224.55. Mr G says 
his letter wasnt received. 
On 6 March 2018 Mrs G called  Clydesdale  to ask about the impact of her IVA on the account  and how 
the situation would affect Mr G. At the end of the call, Clydesdale agreed to ring Mrs G back  but that 
didnt happen. 
On 15 June 2018 Mrs G called Clydesdale again and said Mr G had checked  his credit file and found 
adverse information had been reported.  Mr G called Clydesdale for answers over the following week. 
On 26 June 2018 Mr G called and paid off the outstanding balance.  
Mr and Mrs G complained about the impact of the way their account had been closed on 
Mr Gs credit file. The overdraft debt was never included in Mrs Gs IVA but increasing arrears have 
been reported  between  January and May 2018. Mr G says thats unfair. Clydesdale  accepted that it 
had provided poor service  and hadnt  called Mr and Mrs G back as promised. Clydesdale  sent Mr and 
Mrs G a cheque for £100. 
Mr and Mrs G referred their complaint to our service and it was passed to an investigator.  He didnt 
uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs G asked to appeal so their complaint has been passed to me to 
make a decision. 
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Based on what  Ive seen so far Ive reached a different decision to 
the investigator and intend to uphold this complaint in part. 
Id like to start by clarifying that Clydesdale has confirmed  to our service that this debt didnt form part 
of Mrs Gs IVA. The debt was repaid in full by Mr G on 26 June 2018.  Our investigator asked 
Clydesdale to confirm the nature of the adverse information it reported to the credit reference 
agencies. Clydesdale says its reported that Mr and Mrs G were  in increasing arrears (going from one 
month to five months) between January  and May 2018.  As Mr G repaid the account balance  in June 
2018 the arrears marker reverted to 0. 
Mr G says that the information reported isnt fair as he didnt receive Clydesdales letter  dated 21 
February 2018 and Mrs G wasnt called  back after she rang on 6 March 2018. I agree with Mr G in 
part. I think Clydesdale missed opportunities to explain the implications of this situation on Mr and Mrs 
G when  it failed to call back as promised. 
Ref: DRN81245594Mr G says he didnt receive Clydesdales letter dated 21 February  2018. But, like the investigator, Ive 
looked at a copy  provided  by the business. Its identical to Mrs Gs letter and Im satisfied  it was sent 
by Clydesdale. I dont know why it wasnt received.  I dont think Clydesdale would  have written to one 
account holder, but not the other. Im satisfied  Clydesdale did write to Mr G as it claims on 21 
February 2018. We do know Mrs G received  her letter and went on to contact Clydesdale on 6 March 
2018 to discuss the IVA, their account and how the situation would impact Mr G. 
Ive listened to this call. Its a shame Clydesdale was only able to provide Mrs Gs comments  in the 
call recording as it means  I can only hear what she says. The comments of the call handler at 
Clydesdale arent recorded.  But Mrs G asked a lot of questions and they mainly relate to how the IVA 
and joint account closure will impact Mr G. She wanted to discuss arrangements  for making 
repayments and to check  whether he would be affected. Mrs G is placed on hold for several minutes. 
After that she confirms how to get back in touch with her and asks the business to leave her a 
message if shes unable to answer. Its clear  Mrs Gs questions  werent answered during her call with 
Clydesdale on 6 March  2018 and that she was waiting  for a call back. 
That didnt happen and the next time Mrs G spoke with Clydesdale was on 15 June 2018 after Mr G 
found the adverse information on his credit file. Its a shame Clydesdale failed to contact Mrs G again. 
I think  its likely that if Clydesdale  had called  Mrs G back as promised this situation would have been 
resolved much sooner.  
Mr G repaid the entire balance on 26 June 2018 after discussing the account  and impact on his credit 
file. Ive thought carefully about what happened, and Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr G 
would have repaid the outstanding  balance  much sooner if hed been aware of how the situation 
would impact his credit file. But Clydesdale didnt call Mrs G back to answer her questions at the 
beginning of March 2018 so they didnt understand what would happen if the account wasnt repaid in 
full. 
I have to take into account that the account  statements  show no payments were made in January  
2018 and that the balance was above the agreed  overdraft limit. So I think its accurate for Clydesdale 
to report  a 1 for January  2018. In February 2018 Clydesdale closed the joint account which  was over 
its limit and had received  no payment. Im satisfied that Clydesdale was right to report a 2 for the 
arrears level to the credit reference agencies  for February 2018. 
But, as Ive said above,  Mrs G called Clydesdale on 6 March 2018 for information and advice. Theres 
nothing to show  Clydesdale followed that call up with the information Mrs G asked about. Had it done 
so, I think  its probable that Mr G would have repaid the outstanding  balance in full much sooner and, 
most likely, in March 2018. As a result, the level of arrears reported would have stopped at 2 in 
February 2018 and reverted to 0 for March  2018. Unless Clydesdale  can provide any evidence  that 
it did respond to Mrs G after her 6 March 2018 call, I intend to tell Clydesdale to remove the arrears 
information it reported for Mr and Mrs G from March  2018 onwards. 
Its clear this situation has been stressful for Mr and Mrs G. I can see Mrs G tried to find out the extent 
of the impact of the IVA on her and Mr G early on and responded to Clydesdales letter.  But it doesnt 
appear to have called her back or provided the answers  she wanted. I dont think  the £100 currently 
offered fairly  reflects the amount of distress  and inconvenience caused and intend to increase the 
award to £200. As Ive said above, I think that delayed the final repayment Mr G agreed to make and 
meant the information reported to the credit reference agencies had a greater impact.  Whilst  I agree  
that the account  was in arrears in January and February 2018,  I havent been persuaded that its fair 
to report  late payments for March, April or May 2018. As a result, I intend to uphold this complaint. 
Ref: DRN81245595My provisional decision
My provisional  decision  is that I uphold this complaint and intend to direct 
Clydesdale Bank Plc to remove the arrears information  reported on Mr and Mrs Gs credit  files 
between for March, April and May 2018. Clydesdale Bank Plc should also pay 
Mr and Mrs G a total of £200 (less any compensation  already paid) in recognition  of the distress and 
inconvenience caused.  
Mr G and Clydesdale have until 8 February 2020 to send me any additional comments  or information 
they would like me to consider before I make my final decision. 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8124559