K820x#14complaint
Mr O complains about the charges Volkswagen Financial Services  (UK) Limited (VWFS) 
have asked him to pay for refurbishment of a vehicle he was financing through them.
background
Mr O took receipt of a new car in March  2015.  He financed the deal through  a hire purchase 
agreement with VWFS. But when  he returned the car at the end of the finance agreement  he 
was disappointed to be charged for refurbishment to two alloy wheels and for a dent to the 
car door that VWFS  said was beyond  fair wear  and tear and chargeable under the terms of 
his contract with them.
VWFS later reviewed the independent inspection report and agreed with Mr O that the dent 
to the door was not evidenced.  So they waived this charge  but they thought  the damage to 
the alloys was clearly shown and in excess of fair wear  and tear.
So Mr O referred  his complaint to this service and our adjudicator  took a look at the 
evidence. She didnt think VWFS needed to take any further  action as she thought that the 
damage to the alloy wheels  was outside  of the fair wear and tear guidelines provided for the 
industry by the British  Vehicle Rental  and Leasing Association (BVRLA).
But Mr O was still dissatisfied. He agreed  there was scuffing to the alloys but he said that 
this was the third car of this type hed had and hed not seen corrosion of this type on the 
alloy wheels  of the other cars, despite  the alloys being scuffed. He thought it was likely  this 
corrosion was therefore the result  of a manufacturing defect and that he therefore shouldnt  
be held responsible for the refurbishment. He suggested a fairer resolution  would  be for him 
to pay half of the costs  and he asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think the evidence  here suggests that its most likely the charges for the alloy wheel 
refurbishment are fair and within the relevant guidelines. I know  that will be disappointing  for 
Mr O but please let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
The hire purchase agreement Mr O signed  explained that he would be:
responsible for any deterioration of the vehicle which  is in excess of fair wear and tear 
commensurate with the age and mileage of the vehicle
Ref: DRN87654702And when  Mr O returned his car VWFS used  an independent inspector to inspect the car 
using the BVRLA  guidelines to identify any damage outside of fair wear and tear. 
The inspectors report said there  was damage to two alloy wheels. He suggested the 
damage and subsequent  corrosion, was caused by a collision.  Ive seen the pictures and I 
agree that there is damage  visible  and that this damage is in excess of the fair wear and tear 
guidelines provided by the BVRLA that say:
scuffs totalling up to 50mm on the circumference of the wheels are unacceptable
Mr O suggests  that the corrosion, thats come about  as a result  of the wheel scuffing,  may 
be due to a manufacturing fault as hes not seen  this on other cars hes had of the same  
type. Im not persuaded theres evidence this is the case. I think its likely that all wheels that 
scuff wont exhibit corrosion because that will depend on the extent of the scuff and the 
conditions the exposed metal are subjected to. Im not persuaded,  on the evidence I have, 
that this particular damage is any different.
But regardless, I think even without the corrosion,  there was scuffing that was unacceptable.  
So the alloys  would need refurbishing anyway. And I think VWFSs charges are therefore 
reasonable in the circumstances. I therefore dont think VWFS  need  to take any further 
action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 February  2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8765470