K821x#15complaint
Mrs M says Allianz Insurance Plc mis-sold  her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a charge card (and later credit card) PPI policy Mrs M took out in
1995. It was added to her account when she applied for the card.
I issued a provisional decision explaining that I was planning to uphold the complaint. 
Neither Mrs M nor Allianz had anything further to add, so this final decision is along the 
same lines.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ms case.
Ive decided to uphold  Mrs Ms complaint because I dont  think  Allianz gave Mrs M clear 
enough information about the policy. I say this because she had a medical condition which 
wouldnt have been covered. So she couldnt  have claimed on the policy for everything  she 
expected to be able to.
I dont think Mrs M wouldve bought the policy if Allianz had given her enough information 
about it. So, I think Mrs M has lost out because of what Allianz did wrong.
putting things right
Allianz should put Mrs M in the financial position  shed be in now if she hadnt  taken out PPI.
A.Allianz should find out how much  Mrs M would have owed when she closed her credit  
card account if the policy hadnt  been added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges.
Allianz should then refund  the difference between what Mrs M owed when she closed 
her account  and what she would have owed  if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs M made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Allianz can take off what  she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.
B.   Allianz should  add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs M would have 
owed when she closed  her account from when  she closed it until she gets the refund. The 
interest rate should be 8% a year.  
C.   If   when Allianz works out what Mrs M would  have  owed each month without PPI  
Mrs M paid more than enough  to clear her balance, Allianz should also pay simple interest 
Ref: DRN88832982on the extra Mrs M paid.  And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mrs M 
wouldve owed Allianz something on her credit card. The interest rate should  be 8% a year.  
D.   Allianz should tell Mrs M what its done  to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Allianz  to take off tax from this interest.  Allianz must give
Mrs M a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
Allianz Insurance Plc should put things right by doing what  Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs M to accept 
or reject my decision before 31 August 2019.  
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8883298