K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that when  they were given  mortgage advice by an appointed 
representative of Legal & General Partnership Services  Limited (L&G), they were mis-sold 
additional products and services. 
A claims  management company (CMC) brings this complaint on Mr and Mrs Ws behalf.
background 
Mr and Mrs W were advised  by a mortgage  broker from the firm Carrington Carr  an 
appointed representative of L&G  when taking out a mortgage in 2005 and then again when 
remortgaging in 2007.
In May 2018, the CMC complained to L&G on behalf  of Mr and Mrs W. In summary, it said:
The broker had sold Mr and Mrs W a will-writing service with a third party that they 
didnt need and by which the broker had earned  undisclosed commission;
This fee had been added to the mortgage balance  so Mr and Mrs W had to pay 
interest on that amount over the full term of their mortgage;
Mr and Mrs W had been charged a high fee for a legal administration  service that the 
broker didnt explain was optional; and
It was instructed to recover  premiums  totalling £7,110 in respect of a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
L&G didnt think it had been wrong for the broker to recommend a will package to Mr and 
Mrs W, but agreed that it wasnt right to fund it through the mortgage. So it offered to 
reimburse Mr and Mrs W the interest that would accrue on that amount  over the term of the 
mortgage. It also offered  £150 for the inconvenience  caused.  
L&G also said it had previously investigated complaints about accident,  sickness and 
unemployment (ASU) policies sold alongside the mortgage, so wouldnt be looking into the 
issues relating to PPI that the CMC  had raised. It didnt comment  on the points relating to the 
legal administration  service.
Mr and Mrs W didnt  accept L&Gs offer, so the CMC  referred  the complaint to us and it was 
reviewed by one of our adjudicators. He noted that the ASU policies had been addressed by 
L&G back  in 2012,  so he explained  that we couldnt look at that again  now. He thought  L&G 
had made  a fair offer in response  to concerns about the will package.  And he didnt think  Mr 
and Mrs W had lost out by using the solicitors recommended by the broker. So he didnt 
think L&G needed to do anything more.
As the CMC didnt  accept our adjudicators view, Mr and Mrs Ws complaint was passed to 
me to decide.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on Mr and Mrs Ws complaint last month, explaining why I 
thought L&G had already  made a fair offer to resolve matters. 
Ref: DRN82284872On the will package, I said:
Mr and Mrs W took out the will package  alongside their mortgage  in 2007. I cant  see 
they were sold one alongside  the mortgage  they took out in 2005. The CMC says that 
Mr and Mrs W had no need for it. But I dont think its bad advice to keep such  
arrangements under  review. And the CMC hasnt  told us anything about  Mr and Mrs 
Ws circumstances that make me think it was inappropriate  for them.  
The CMC has made  a number of other  arguments about the referral  by the broker  to a 
particular will-writing company, most  notably  that the two businesses  had directors in 
common and that the broker  earned  commission. I dont think that having  shared 
directors renders the advice to take out a will inherently unsuitable or inappropriate. 
And Ive not seen  any evidence that the broker earned commission from its 
recommendation of the will-writing  company.
The CMC also says that will package  was too expensive. But that was a matter for the 
will-writing company  to decide. If Mr and Mrs W think they were overcharged for what 
they got, thats something theyll need to take up with the provider.
It may not have been good  advice  to fund the will package by adding the fee to the 
mortgage balance.  But L&G has already accepted that might not have been 
appropriate for Mr and Mrs W, and offered to refund them the additional interest theyll  
have had to pay as a result. So that means they wont have lost out financially as a 
result of that decision.  L&G has also offered them £150 compensation, which seems 
reasonable for any upset or inconvenience theyve been caused.
So I cant see any basis on which to require L&G to refund the fee for the will package, 
as the CMC  has requested.
On the legal costs,  I said: 
The CMC notes that some of the costs in respect of the legal work were charged  by 
the broker rather than the solicitor  in the form of a legal administration fee. 
I dont find anything inherently unreasonable in the fee itself:  there  are a number of 
administrative procedures that need  not have been  carried out by a solicitor.  I know 
the CMC  questions the value of the work  given that a solicitor was involved, especially 
in view of the fee it recouped. But it was up to the broker to decide  what  fee it wanted 
to charge for the services  it provided.
Importantly here, I can see that the broker advised Mr and Mrs W of the fee. In both 
2004 and 2007, Mr and Mrs W signed  a Solicitors  Form of Authorisation.  This 
confirmed their instruction  to pay £250  plus VAT to the broker  in respect of the legal 
administration service,  on top of the legal costs paid to the solicitor  (£195 and £245 in 
2005 and 2007 respectively). So I cant say they were misled or misinformed about this 
fee (although  it seems  from the completion  statement prepared by the solicitors  that Mr 
and Mrs W ended up paying  somewhat less than these  combined costs in 2007 
anyway).
Ref: DRN82284873The CMC also says that Mr and Mrs W couldve  got free legal services through the 
lender, but theres no evidence to suggest that was the case. So Mr and Mrs W would 
always have needed  to pay for the conveyancing work to be done. It was then a matter 
for them to decide  who to instruct in that regard, and Ive not seen anything to suggest  
they didnt have the freedom to appoint their own solicitors if theyd wished.
The CMC has also raised concerns that the broker received commission  for 
recommending the firm of solicitors used for the conveyancing work. But while the 
complaints been  with us, L&G has made an offer to resolve that aspect of the 
complaint which  the CMC  has accepted.  So I make  no finding on that matter  here and 
understand that L&G will settle the issue directly with the CMC.
And on the ASU policies,  I said:
As our adjudicator explained, Mr and Mrs W complained to L&G in 2012 about the 
ASU policies sold to them alongside  each of the two mortgages at issue here. I can 
see that L&G responded to those concerns at the time, and notified  them  that they 
needed to refer the matter to us within six months  if they remained unhappy. These 
matters have been raised substantially outside of that period. As I cant  see that was 
due to any exceptional circumstances, we cant look into these issues  now.
L&G and the CMC confirmed receipt  of my provisional decision, but neither responded with 
any further comments or evidence for me to consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and with neither party having  sent me anything further to take into 
consideration, I see no reason to reach a different conclusion. So this decision confirms my 
provisional findings, as summarised  above.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint in part and require 
Legal & General Partnership Services Limited to honour its offers  in respect of the will and 
estate planning  package and the commission paid by the conveyancing solicitors.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 April 2020.
Ben Jennings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8228487