K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax)  reported adverse information 
about him to credit  reference agencies when  he was on a debt management plan.
background
Mr F had a significant amount of unsecured debt including an overdraft with Halifax.  He was 
in financial difficult and approached a third party debt agency for help.  It sent a proposal  for a 
debt management  plan to Halifax and his other  creditors. Halifax  agreed  to stop interest  and 
charges. But it removed his overdraft limit and made a formal demand.  Even though 
payments were made  in line with the debt management plan it reported that these were 
missed payments on his account. Mr F repaid the overdraft in full and wants  this information 
to be removed.
The adjudicator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that:
-Once Halifax received  notice  of the debt management plan in February 2018 it 
started the process of transferring the account  to its recoveries team.
-It was not unreasonable for it to remove the overdraft limit to prevent  any further 
increases in borrowing.
-This made  the overdraft repayable in full  so even though Mr F was making 
payments in line with the debt management plan these were not that full amount and 
so could be recorded as missed payments on his credit record.
-Information available online  from the third party stated that being on such  a plan will 
almost always  affect your credit  file and score.
-Halifax had not made  a mistake and had acted  fairly in agreeing  to the plan through  
an agency. The alternative would have been  for Mr F to have  contacted it directly and 
he would  still have  expected it to act positively and sympathetically  if he had.
-He noted Halifax had paid Mr F £50 for being  passed between a number of different 
members of its staff when he tried to find out about  the entries on his credit record.
Mr F did not agree. He understood the process  followed  by Halifax  but thought that the 
outcome  which was adverse information  on his credit record   was unfair. This had a 
significant impact on his ability to borrow and get a mortgage. He did not know  that Halifax 
might have been able to come to a different agreement with him if hes approached it 
directly. But he had multiple creditors and he wanted to pay them all off as fast as he could.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Mr F took a proactive approach to his financial difficulties and wanted to pay 
off his borrowing. But it was his decision to approach the third party rather than Halifax.  And 
he gave it authority to make a proposal on his behalf - particularly because he wanted to 
deal with all his creditors at once. I am not looking here at what that agency did  but at the 
actions of Halifax in response.  
The adjudicators already  quoted information from that agency about the likely impact  of the 
debt management  plan. I appreciate Mr Fs borrowing with Halifax was on overdraft. But hed 
asked for arrangements  to be made to repay  the borrowing without interest and charges. 
And hed made this request  based on his financial difficulties.
Ref: DRN89927282The notes Ive seen  from Halifax show that the account was first moved  into collections 
when agreement to that plan was noted. I agree that it was reasonable as a result for the 
limit on the overdraft to be removed.  Halifax followed its normal  process and set out there 
was outstanding borrowing that needed to be repaid and it made formal demand on what it 
has confirmed was 1 May 2018. That gave it a number of options for recovering the money 
even it continued  to accept the payments. And the right to register a default against the 
borrowing.
Mr F was able to repay all of the overdraft borrowing by the end of May 2018  in a lump  sum. 
He does not think it fair that his credit  record shows missed  payments.  Im afraid I dont 
agree and I think that this is in line with the arrangement he had come to and his ability  to 
make payments at that time.
So I wont  be asking Halifax to take any further  action.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 February  2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8992728