K820x#14complaint
Mr W complained  that Oaklands Wealth Management Ltd (Oaklands) did not advise him 
about the lifetime  allowance (LTA) and available protections.
background
While he was Oaklands client Mr W had a self-invested personal pension (SIPP), to which  
he made a number of contributions.  He also held preserved  occupational  pension scheme 
(OPS) benefits. It appears Oaklands  advised him in relation to the SIPP,  but not in relation to 
the OPS benefits  after 2007.
Mr W transferred  to a new adviser  in 2018. He established that the cash  equivalent transfer 
value (CETV) of the OPS  benefits was £876,726. His SIPP  was valued at £328,000.  He 
complained to Oaklands that the value of his benefits was over the LTA. He said Oaklands  
should have advised him to apply for Fixed Protection 2016, which  would have fixed  his LTA 
at £1.25m.  He felt that Oaklands should  cover any future tax liability  arising from its omission  
and refund adviser charges. 
Oaklands rejected  the complaint. It said its understanding had been that Mr W wished to 
leave the OPS benefits intact, therefore it hadnt  advised on them. It also said hed never  
mentioned retiring  at 55. It felt it was unclear whether a loss would occur.  It also pointed out 
the regulators rules  require advisers  to start from the assumption that an OPS  transfer is 
unsuitable. 
An adjudicator considered  the complaint but he didnt uphold it. He made  the following main 
points:
He agreed that Oaklands should have assessed Mr Ws circumstances during 
ongoing reviews.  This should have included an assessment  of the OPS benefits. And 
Oaklands should have taken them into account  in providing advice.
The CETV was not tested against the LTA. The OPS benefits were  valued using a 
factor of 20. Mr Ws total benefits valued by that method were  some way short of the 
LTA.
Assuming the SIPP was fully crystallised  at 55, it would have to have grown  by 
around 15% in order for the LTA to be breached at 65, assuming CPI (Consumer 
Price Index) would be 2%.
If Oaklands had fully assessed Mr Ws circumstances, it would probably have 
advised him to make  the contributions regardless. His current position  was therefore 
broadly the same as it would have been  if no error had been made. 
Adviser charges shouldnt be refunded, as they would have been payable  if no error 
had been made.
Mr W didnt agree. He explained  hed in fact transferred his OPS  benefits on advice  from his 
new adviser and he therefore had a potential LTA liability.  He said hed been  aware  of how 
the OPS benefits  would have been  tested against  the LTA,  had he retained them. He said 
Oaklands should have periodically  reviewed his deferred OPS  benefits. He pointed  to the 
pension freedom legislation  in 2015  and said that should have triggered a review,  particularly 
as his financial situation had changed  a lot. He maintained  he wouldnt have made the more  
recent contributions  had he been advised appropriately and hed have applied for Fixed  
Protection. 
Ref: DRN83404642The adjudicator said he couldnt assume a transfer  would have been advisable  or a 
recognisable possibility in 2015. He explained  a number of issues  relating to pension  
transfers and said that Oaklands would argue that it would not have recommended a 
transfer. Mr W had apparently transferred in full knowledge that doing so would markedly 
increase the risk of breaching the LTA allowance but had chosen to do so anyway. The 
adjudicator felt it would  be unfair to recommend that Oaklands should compensate  him for 
any tax charge. 
In response Mr W said, amongst other things, that the adjudicator seemed to be suggesting 
that an adviser wouldnt make a recommendation to transfer, simply because the regulators 
view was that the starting position was that a transfer wasnt in the clients best interests. 
Oaklands should have taken a much broader  view of his developing financial position and 
reviewed his overall pension provision, in more  detail and regularly. A discussion in 2007 
and nothing thereafter wasnt adequate. 
Mr W said he was more knowledgeable  now but at the time he was dependent  on Oaklands. 
He said, for those fortunate enough to have accrued a meaningful  level of benefits,  the low 
interest rate climate had led to a period  where  transfer values had been relatively high for 
several years. That, and other factors, including phased retirement  and the inheritability of 
pensions, are all attractive  benefits of which he was now aware but should have been 
advised about earlier. He hadnt  been persuaded to transfer. Hed been able to weigh up 
the risks and advantages via a thorough review process before deciding, on balance, that it 
would be in his and his familys long term interests to transfer. 
He said hed probably have decided to transfer  earlier, ceased contributions to his SIPP  and 
applied for LTA protection. His dissatisfaction with Oaklands is that he was never invited to 
consider the merits  of effecting a transfer  earlier, nor was any effective planning advice 
provided. Oaklands simply accepted their contribution based fees without providing any 
advice. 
The adjudicator wasnt persuaded  to change his view. As agreement  couldnt be reached the 
complaint has been referred to me for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Having done so, Im unable  to uphold Mr Ws complaint. I know that will come as a 
disappointment to him. I can understand why he considers hes been let down by Oaklands.  
And, to a certain  extent, I dont disagree. But that doesnt mean  I can agree with Mr W that 
Oaklands should be responsible for any LTA charge  that he may now face.  
Mr W says Oaklands didnt  give him any advice about his OPS and any possible transfer 
after 2007. I think the rules about  OPS transfers  changed  then. And, in 2007,  the LTA was 
much higher  and set to increase. So continuing  to contribute  to the SIPP would have made  
sense. But Mr Ws point is that, moving forwards, that, and any possible transfer  out of the 
OPS, wasnt revisited. 
I agree  with what Mr W says about Oaklands being  required  to keep all aspects of his 
pension planning  under review. And, like the adjudicator, I consider Oaklands, in giving  
advice about Mr Ws SIPP, should have assessed  Mr Ws circumstances,  including  his OPS  
Ref: DRN83404643benefits. I agree that Oakland  failed,  when reviewing Mr Ws pension  arrangement  or his 
SIPP at least,  to take into account a relevant and important, consideration  his OPS  
benefits. 
But that doesnt automatically mean that any loss thats arisen later has been  caused by that 
failure. In this sort of situation wed look at what the consumers position would have been, 
had the firm done what it should  have  done.  And, if we dont think  the consumer would  have 
done (or been advised to do) anything different anyway, then we wont usually be able to say 
that any loss that may in fact arise  has resulted from the firms failing.  
Here the adjudicator didnt think,  if a full assessment of Mr Ws circumstances had been 
undertaken, Oaklands would have advised  him not to make further contributions  or transfer 
out of his OPS.   
I take Mr Ws point  about his overall position,  including his OPS  and any possible transfer 
not having been properly  reviewed since 2007. And hes pointed in particular to the pension 
freedoms introduced in 2015.
But Im not sure Oaklands would necessarily be expected to advise Mr W about a possible 
transfer and when Mr W hadnt raised  that. I understand Mr Ws point is that he didnt know a 
transfer might possibly be favourable, given his circumstances, which had changed.  But 
Oaklands understanding was that Mr W wanted  to retain his OPS benefits. Mr W had a mix 
of secure pension benefits  (his OPS) and less secure benefits (his SIPP  where his pension  
benefits were dependent  on investment returns).   Many  investors  will be happy with that and 
will want to maintain that balance. 
In the absence of any indication from Mr W that his priorities,  and, in particular, his attitude to 
his OPS benefits, had changed, Im not sure Oaklands should have reviewed with Mr W 
whether a transfer might be suitable.  Nor, it seems, was Oaklands  aware  of any intention  on 
Mr Ws part to take benefits early. 
Nor can I say that Oaklands would or should  have recommended a transfer in 2015  or any 
other time. The regulators starting point is that a firm should assume that a transfer out 
wont be suitable. That doesnt mean  a transfer will never be suitable in any case. It will 
depend on a large number of different considerations, including whether the CETV offered at 
any particular time is seen to represent good  value for money and other factors,  such as 
those mentioned by Mr W  for example, inheritance  considerations. But, given that the 
starting point is that a transfer is unlikely to be suitable, I dont think its unreasonable  to 
accept what Oaklands  says about  it being  unlikely to have recommended a transfer,  had that 
been discussed. 
In my view Mr Ws potential loss  a LTA charge  has arisen because  he decided, on 
advice from a new adviser, to take the CETV then offered  and transfer his OPS  benefits, in 
the knowledge as to how that would impact on his LTA.
I dont think it would  be fair to say Oaklands should be responsible  for any loss that Mr W 
may incur in consequence  and when I cant say that Oaklands would have advised 
differently in any event.  
Ref: DRN83404644my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint and Im not making  any award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 June  2020.
Lesley Stead
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN8340464