K821x#15complaint
Miss B complains  that Bank  of Scotland plc trading as Halifax lost a cheque  for large  amount  
of money.
background
Miss B paid a cheque  into her Halifax account  for just under $479,000 in September  2018. 
She says she was told the cheque may take up to 10 weeks  to clear but she would receive a 
preferential exchange  rate. Miss B says she became concerned  that the money  hadnt  been 
paid into her account and says she contacted Halifax on a number of occasions. She was 
told the cheque  had been lost.
Halifax upheld Miss Bs complaint and accepted it lost the cheque.  It paid Miss B £100 
compensation and £10 for any costs in cancelling the cheque. Halifax  says it cant provide 
exchange rates in advance of a transaction but agrees Miss B would have received a 
preferential rate.
Miss B brought her complaint to us and says the money was eventually sent to another  bank 
account she has. She says she received just over £373,880 but says she would have  
received a better exchange rate with Halifax. 
Halifax looked into matters and found Miss Bs cheque.  It also says when it received the 
cheque, it calculated Miss B would receive  about £357,605 based on exchange rates  in 
September 2018.
Our investigator thought initially Halifax had paid a fair and reasonable amount of 
compensation but reconsidered her view.  She thought Halifax  should increase the 
compensation to £250 and also pay for the $45 transaction fee that Miss B paid to transfer 
the money. The investigator accepted  Miss B had spent  some time trying to sort matters out 
but didnt think  she had lost out financially as a result of the delay.
Miss B doesnt accept  that view and says shes not been given any reason why her cheque 
was lost or what took place. She says she did lose out on a preferential  exchange rate and 
says the investigators  recommendation  is not fair taking into account the size of the cheque.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the overall 
view that Halifax should pay further compensation to Miss B and I broadly agree with the 
investigators recommendations.
There is no question here that Miss B paid a cheque for a large amount of money into her 
account. So Ive no doubt she was caused distress and worry in not knowing where the 
cheque was or what had happened to it. I also accept that Halifax didnt tell Miss B what  had 
happened but it was Miss B that contacted  Halifax no doubt concerned about why the 
cheque hadnt  cleared.  I also appreciate Miss B would like answers to her questions  about 
what took place.  But whilst Im sorry to disappoint Miss B thats not our role. And I dont  think 
Halifax can say any more  about the issue, as its apologised and said it lost and then found 
the cheque. Im satisfied Halifax made  a mistake here.
Ref: DRN82584712I accept that Miss B made a number of calls to Halifax about the lost cheque  and as a result  
also spent some time contacting her solicitor  in the United States to cancel the cheque  and 
pay the money by another method. I appreciate Halifax has paid £110  in compensation but I 
dont think that amount  goes far enough or takes into account  the level of distress  and 
inconvenience Miss B was caused and the extra costs she paid as a result of Halifaxs  
mistake.
I think Halifax should pay total compensation of £300 which also includes the additional 
transfer costs Miss B paid. I think that amount  is broadly  in line with the investigators  
recommendation.
Miss B says her main area of complaint is any potential exchange rate loss caused by the 
delay and by her losing out on Halifaxs preferential rate. She says that she was told by 
Halifax that its exchange rate would always be below 1% and gave me an example of .86. 
So Ive looked  at Halifaxs records and the exchange rates it used  in or around September  
and October 2018  and compared them with rates in January 2019 when the exchange was 
made. And Im satisfied that overall  the exchange rate between Dollars and Sterling 
improved in Miss Bs favour by January 2019.  I also think  there  may be some confusion  
about what Miss B was told by Halifax as she has used the expression  below 1%  which  I 
dont think can refer to an actual exchange rate as they are not expressed in that way. And I 
dont think Halifax could  accurately say what the rate was going  to be when  Miss B 
presented her cheque  as it couldnt know when it would cash and what the rates  were  that 
day.
I accept Miss B was told she would  receive a preferential  rate but for the reasons Ive 
explained I cant be sure what  that rate would have  been. But I can see that Halifax 
calculated that if Miss Bs cheque had cashed  on the day it was presented  she would have 
received just over £357,605. And I can see that Miss B did receive just over £373,880 in 
January 2019.  Im satisfied that increase is in line with the exchange rate movements. So I 
think the delay  caused by the lost cheque meant that Miss B received a better exchange rate 
and so I dont  think she lost out financially by the delay. But I accept there  were  extra  costs  
which I have dealt  with in my decision.
Overall I dont think Halifax  dealt with this matter  as it should have and for that reason I think  
it should increase  the amount of compensation. But I dont think  Miss B suffered a financial 
loss caused by the different exchange  rate used by the bank that she paid the money into to.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and order  Bank of Scotland  plc trading as 
Halifax to pay further compensation to Miss B of £190 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 August 2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8258471