K820x#14Complaint
Mr I complains that HSBC UK plc wont provide  him with a refund after,  he says, there was 
fraudulent activity on his account.  
Background
In December 2017 a cheque for nearly £10,000 was paid into Mr Is HSBC  account. Within a 
day, three payments wee made by online banking from the same  account, for £3,000, 
£4,000 and £2,864.  
The cheque turned out to be fraudulent and HSBC debited Mr Is account when it found out, 
leaving the account significantly overdrawn.  Mr I says he knows  nothing  about the cheque or 
the payments  from his account, which he thinks should be refunded.  
HSBC investigated  the matter but concluded that Mr I was more  likely than not to have been 
involved. It noted that Mr I had said hed lost his card and various banking details when he 
was away from home,  but that the cheque  had been  drawn on Mr Is own branch. And 
whoever had logged in to make the payments  would  have needed Mr Is card and secure  
key, as well as account information that wouldnt have been  readily  available to anyone  else.    
The bank concluded that Mr I had been  involved  in the transactions,  or had failed properly to 
look after his security  details  in breach of the account terms. It wouldnt give him a refund. 
Mr I referred the case to this service,  and one of our investigators considered it. She thought  
however that Mr I had authorised the transactions and that no fraud had taken place. Mr I 
asked that an ombudsman review the matter as the final stage in our process.     
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have however reached broadly the same 
conclusions as the investigator did, and for very similar reasons.
Mr I says that he wrote down his account details (including passwords and other log-in 
details) and that he lost the piece of paper  on which hed recorded that information. At the 
same time he lost his card and secure  key, which were needed to access  his account online. 
He explained  that he needed to record his security information because he rarely uses 
online banking. The banks records show however that Mr I was in fact a regular user of 
online banking before the disputed payments  were  made. 
The bank also pointed out that Mr I had made small undisputed payments to two of the three 
recipients before the large  payments took place. Mr Is explanation was that he thought  he 
must have  lost his account details several  weeks earlier than hed first thought. He had 
however previously been very specific about the circumstances in which he wrote  them  
down and took them with him when he was away from home at a family  wedding. 
In fact, there  are a number of inconsistencies in what Mr I has told us and the bank. He said 
he rarely  used online banking, but then needed  to write down his account details when he 
was away. As Ive said, he was in fact a regular user of online banking, so might  perhaps 
have remembered,  for example, passwords. 
Ref: DRN89339842Mr I said he lost his card and other  information  while he was 150 miles away  fro home.  Yet 
the (fraudulent) cheque against which the funds were withdrawn was drawn on and paid in at 
his home  branch. It seems unlikely that someone  who stole  or found his account information  
would then arrange for a cheque to be paid in at a branch 150 miles away. 
I have little doubt that there was a link between  the paying in of the cheque and the transfers  
from the account. Whoever  paid in the cheque knew they had access to the account and 
would be able to withdraw funds before the cheque was returned unpaid.  On balance, I 
believe that Mr I was very closely involved in that and either  made the transfers  himself  or 
authorised someone  else to do so. I dont therefore  need to consider whether  he took proper 
case of the card and account details. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont require HSBC UK Bank plc to do anything  more to resolve  
Mr Is complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask 
Mr I to accept  or reject my decision before  5 October 2019.
Michael Ingram
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8933984