K821x#15complaint
Mr T complains Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold him a Total Mortgage 
Protection (TMP) plan.
background
In 2004 Mr T applied for a mortgage  with Halifax. At this time he was sold a TMP  plan that 
included PPI, as well as life and critical illness cover. 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint  a copy  of which is attached  and forms part 
of this decision. I set out the background to the matter and explained why I didnt think Mr Ts 
complaint about  the TMP  plan should be upheld. In summary, this was because  I didnt think 
that any of the cover  provided by the plan was unsuitable for Mr T. 
Neither Mr T nor Halifax responded to my provisional decision by the deadline  Id set.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I still dont think Mr Ts 
complaint should  be upheld.
As neither party has provided any further evidence  or arguments  for me to consider, I see no 
reason to reach a different decision to that set out previously in my provisional decision. It 
follows that I dont  uphold Mr Ts complaint and Halifax  doesnt  need to refund everything  he 
paid for the TMP plan.
But as I mentioned in my provisional decision, Halifax  has offered to give Mr T back some of 
the cost of the PPI part of the plan. Halifax will make  arrangements to pay Mr T now Ive 
issued by final decision.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 March  2019.
Claire Allison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN84995472my provisional decision
complaint
Mr T complains Bank of Scotland  plc (trading  as Halifax) mis-sold him a Total Mortgage Protection  
(TMP) plan.
background
In 2004 Mr T applied  for a mortgage  with Halifax. At this time he was sold a TMP plan that included 
PPI, as well as life and critical illness cover. 
Our adjudicator didnt think this plan had been mis-sold. But they explained  that Halifax had agreed to 
give Mr T back some  of the cost of the PPI. Mr T didnt agree with this opinion so the complaint has 
been passed  to me to make a decision.
Mr T took out a further  TMP plan in 2008 that provided life and critical illness cover only. Halifax  has 
already agreed  to refund  everything Mr T paid for this plan and I understand it has paid this to him. So 
my decision  is only about the plan taken out in 2004.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Mr Ts case.
Ive decided the plan wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Mr T says he was told he needed the plan and he wasnt told it was optional.  He thought  he had to 
have the insurance to get the mortgage. I accept that (over 10 years on) this is how Mr T might 
remember the sale. But theres  a difference between Halifax encouraging him to take out the PPI and 
it leading him to believe  he had no choice  but to take it if he wanted the mortgage.
Because the plan was taken  out some time ago, there  isnt much paperwork to show how Halifax 
presented it to Mr T and whether it made it clear he had a choice  about taking it out. I have seen a 
copy of the mortgage offer, which doesnt mention  the plan at all. Had it been part of the mortgage 
package or something Mr T had to have to get the mortgage, I would  probably have expected to see 
something about it in this document. And Ive seen the type of paperwork Mr T is likely to have 
completed at the time when he agreed to take out the plan and think this would have made  it clear it 
was optional.
Having carefully considered this point, I think its more likely Halifax made  it clear Mr T didnt have to 
take out the plan and he chose to take it out.
Halifax recommended the plan to Mr T so it should have checked the cover it provided was right for 
him. As Ive explained,  there were essentially three parts  to the plan  life cover, critical illness cover 
and PPI. Mr T seems to have had a need for these three types of cover   he doesnt appear  to have 
had any other  policies in place that would  provide similar protection.
Although Mr T was taking out the mortgage  in his sole name, the mortgage paperwork suggests  there 
was another person living at the property. If hed died then the life cover would  have meant the 
mortgage would have been repaid and that person would  have been able to continue living in the 
property, without having  to worry about making the mortgage repayments. Even  if this wasnt an 
issue, having life cover  would have made things easier  for his family to sort out if he died.
Ref: DRN84995473The critical illness cover  would have repaid the mortgage if Mr T was diagnosed  with one of the 
serious illnesses covered by the plan. Its likely that if Mr T did have  one of these illnesses,  he would 
have found it difficult to keep  up with his mortgage repayments. And he could risk losing  his home. 
The critical illness cover  would mean he wouldnt have  to worry about  this, at what  would  certainly be 
a difficult  time.
The adjudicator noticed  that the life and critical illness  cover Mr T was sold was set up on a level 
basis. This means the amount the plan would pay out if a successful claim was made under  either  of 
these two covers would  stay the same through the term of the mortgage. So in Mr Ts case, it would 
pay out £25,000. But Mr T had taken  out a repayment mortgage where  the amount he owed Halifax 
reduced over time. So cover  where the amount that would be paid out also reduced,  would have  been 
more suitable. 
When we asked Halifax  about this, it checked how much decreasing  cover such  as this would cost. 
And its confirmed it would  actually have been very slightly more  expensive.  So it doesnt  look like Mr 
T has lost out financially  because  the life and critical  illness cover  was set up on a level  basis. There 
doesnt seem  to be anything else about the life and critical illness cover that would  mean  it was 
unsuitable for Mr T.
The PPI also seems to have been suitable for Mr T. Based  on what Ive seen of his circumstances at 
the time, it doesnt look like he would have been affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the 
PPI cover. He also seems  to have had a need for this type of cover.   
Mr T told us he had no other ways of making  his repayments if he couldnt work because  of an 
accident or sickness or if he was made redundant  such as sick pay or savings. Hes said his family 
would have helped  out but the PPI would mean he wouldnt have to rely on the help of other people to 
make his mortgage  repayments. I think its likely Mr T would struggle financially if he wasnt able to 
work and the PPI would give him peace of mind that at least his mortgage repayments would be 
made.
Mr T says he became unemployed a few years after taking  it out and didnt claim on the PPI because  
he didnt know what it was actually for. But I think its unlikely he would  have agreed to take out 
insurance without having some understanding of what it covered.  I think its more likely hed forgotten 
about it in the intervening years and thats why he didnt  try and make a claim.
Its possible some of the information Halifax  gave Mr T about the plan wasnt as clear as it shouldve  
been. But as Ive already  explained, it seems like it would  have been useful for him if something went 
wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about  the plan would have 
put him off taking it out.
Mr T also says he wasnt  told the insurance wouldnt be suitable  if he was self-employed,  as he is 
now. Im not persuaded  the insurance is unsuitable for someone who is self-employed  it doesnt 
look like it would be any harder for a self-employed  person to make a successful claim. I also cant  
see Mr T asked  Halifax  about this when his situation  changed. So this point doesnt change  my 
decision.
Overall, I currently dont think any of the cover provided  by the plan was unsuitable for Mr T, so 
Halifax doesnt need to refund everything he paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give Mr T 
back some  of the cost of the PPI part of the plan. I dont think it needs to do anything  more.
my provisional  decision
I dont plan to uphold this complaint.
Claire Allison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8499547