K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Bank  of Scotland plc (trading  as Halifax) mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
In October  1998, when  he was in a Halifax branch, Mr S bought the policy  at the same  time 
as taking out a credit  card.  It protected his monthly  card repayments if he couldnt work as a 
result of accident, sickness or unemployment.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint  comes  to me to make a final decision.  
Mr S mainly  says that PPI was never mentioned  and he didnt know he had it. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ss complaint.
On the form Mr S completed to get his credit card theres a pre-printed  cross in the box to 
have PPI added to the account. I think this probably reflects what Mr S told the advisor he 
wanted. Mr S signed the completed  agreement  next to where it says:  Sign  it only if you want  
to be legally bound by is terms. So I dont think its likely  that Mr S wouldve signed the 
completed form before carefully reading all the information to make sure it was correct. 
On balance, I find that Halifax made Mr S aware  that the PPI was optional and that he chose 
to take it.
Halifax has told us it recommended the PPI to Mr S. If a business makes  a recommendation 
about PPI, it doesnt  just have to give important policy  information  in a clear  way. It also has 
to take reasonable steps to make sure the cover it recommends is suitable. 
Im not sure what Mr Ss work arrangements were  hes told us he was employed when he 
took out this credit card. The information  shown on his signed  credit card application 
suggests he mightve been self employed.  But it makes no difference  overall. Whether Mr S 
was employed or self employed at the time, he wouldve still been  eligible for the policy.  And 
his work  circumstances wouldnt have made it any more difficult for him to make  an 
unemployment claim if hed needed  to, whether he was self employed or working  for an 
employer.  
Mr S told us that he was entitled to 6 months full sick pay through  work.  But the policy  
wouldve covered  him for longer than this  up to12 months if hed had an accident or been 
too unwell  to do his job. 
Ref: DRN88765292And it wouldve paid out for 12 months if hed lost his job and been made unexpectedly 
unemployed. 
I dont know if hed always have  had savings he could rely on. So I think the PPI couldve 
been useful if Mr S had needed to make a claim.  And I dont  think Halifaxs  recommendation 
was unsuitable  in his particular circumstances.  
Its possible some of the information  Halifax  gave  Mr S about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  There were some circumstances when the policy wouldnt pay out. But 
I dont think having  more information  about  those wouldve affected  his decision to take out 
PPI. I say this because it doesnt  look as if there  wouldve  been  any reason why Mr S 
wouldnt have been able to take advantage  of all the policy  benefits. 
I dont know if the PPI cost was made  clear to Mr S when he bought  the policy. But he chose 
to take out the policy when he didnt have to  so he seems to have  wanted  it. And it seems  
to have been affordable for him at the time.  Mr S couldve cancelled the policy  anytime - and 
it appears he did this in 2003.
Overall its possible there  may have  been  some failings  in the way this policy  was sold.  But 
I think Mr S still wouldve  decided  to buy the policy if hed been better informed as it gave 
him useful  protection in his particular  situation.  I dont think  better information wouldve 
stopped him buying it.
This means  I dont  find that Mr S has lost out as a result of anything that Halifax  mightve  
done wrong. So it doesnt need to do anything to put things right.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN8876529