K820x#14Complaint
Mr K complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) lent irresponsibly when 
it increased his credit  limit in stages from £2,200 in February 2016 to £6,000 in 
January 2018.
Background
Mr K opened  his credit card in May 2011.  In February 2016  Mr K successfully  applied  to 
increase his credit limit from £2,200 to £4,000. Further  increases took place in November 
2016 when the credit limit was set at £4,400,  September 2017 when it went up to £5,200  and 
finally January 2018  when  it was set at £6,000.
In February 2019  Mr K complained to Barclaycard and it responded on 7 March 2019.  
Barclaycard didnt uphold the complaint and said it completed internal and external checks  
before deciding whether to approve a credit limit increase. Barclaycard said Mr K had run his 
account well and made payments in excess of the minimum required. 
Mr K referred his complaint to our service and it was passed  to an investigator. The 
investigator thought  Barclaycard had lent responsibly and didnt uphold  Mr Ks complaint. 
Mr K asked to appeal so his complaint  has been passed to me to make  a decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K has sent us copies  of his credit report and I can see he has a high amount of 
unsecured borrowing.  Ive thought about the information available  to Barclaycard when it 
was considering Mr Ks requests to increase  his credit limit. Whilst I can see Mr K has 
increased how much he owes over the years, I havent been persuaded that Barclaycard lent 
irresponsibly or failed  to complete appropriate  checks. 
Lenders are required to ensure they complete proportionate checks to ensure the credit 
applied for is sustainable  for the borrower. In this case, Barclaycard  has provided its internal 
notes and systems evidence to show the things it looked at when the credit limit increases 
were approved. 
Barclaycard looked  at Mr Ks credit file and whether there was any adverse information 
showing. I appreciate  Mr Ks use of credit increased during this period, but his credit file 
shows he maintained  his commitments  without  regularly missing payments  or exceeding his 
credit limits. 
Barclaycard also considered the information it held about Mr K when deciding whether  to 
proceed. Barclaycard says Mr Ks account was well run. I can see from Mr Ks credit file and 
statements that there were long periods  where  there was no balance.  And the outstanding 
balance hasnt always sat at the credit  limit. Mr K says he only made  the minimum payments 
but Ive seen months where he paid more.  There were no missed payments (the only late 
payment occurred when  a direct debit was returned in May 2018  after the final credit limit 
increase). 
Ref: DRN82406382Barclaycard has also provided  details of its applications process which shows it took all the 
available information  and used it to assess whether it was reasonable to proceed.  A score 
was given to the application which assess how likely  it was that Mr K would maintain his 
payments. The information Ive seen  shows that Barclaycards application system found that 
the chance of Mr K defaulting after his credit  limit increases went  through  was low which  
meant it could proceed. 
The investigator reviewed  Mr Ks bank statements and said he thought they showed 
Barclaycard had lent responsibly.  Ive focused  on the checks Barclaycard completed. Having 
done so, Im satisfied it carried out proportionate  checks to verify whether the credit limit 
increases were affordable and sustainable.  I think Barclaycards decision to go ahead with 
the credit  limit increases, based on what  it knew  about Mr K, was reasonable. 
If Mr K is experiencing financial difficulties  there  are a range of organisations that can 
provide help and advice.  Details  of these organisations are given on our website.  In addition, 
Mr K can discuss his circumstances with Barclaycard to see if there is any assistance 
available. As I havent found that Barclaycard lent irresponsibly and Im satisfied its dealt 
with Mr Ks complaint fairly Im not telling it to take any further  action.
My final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2020.  
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8240638