K820x#14Complaint
Mr W complains that TSB Bank plc will not refund five debit card transactions which  he says 
were made without his knowledge or consent.
Background
On the evening of 10 May 2018, five transactions were made with Mr Ws debit card at a bar 
in Malta.   After exchange from EUR to GBP and the addition of exchange/transaction  fees 
they total £1,851.42.  TSB has declined  to refund the transactions  to Mr W because it 
considers that he authorised them  but Mr W disagrees.  Although he accepts that he spent 
the evening out in Malta (with  a colleague; he was away  working there at the time) he says 
he did not visit the bar in question.  Mr W adds that because the transactions were  unusual, 
they happened so quickly (over a period  of about  1 hour 10 minutes),  and were  for 
increasing amounts  the bank should have flagged them as being  potentially suspicious  as 
his colleagues bank did for a similar sequence  of transactions  that same  evening.
Our investigator concluded, in summary, that it was most likely that Mr W had authorised the 
transactions himself.   They were  all made with his genuine card  the chip in the card was 
read for each transaction  and the correct PIN was used each time without any failed 
attempts.  Mr W had said that he had his card with him throughout the evening and, as well 
as not having his PIN written down,  no-one  else had access  to it.  
Mr W did not accept the investigators  conclusions.  In asking for his complaint to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman he drew attention to the short  period of time during which the 
transactions were  made (including  two timed at 22:57 hours)  as being a hallmark  of 
fraudulent activity.  Mr W also noted that a sixth transaction was not authorised because 
there wasnt enough money  left available in his account  by then; he questioned why he 
would have continued to try to use his card in those circumstances.  Mr W added that TSB 
had subsequently paid a direct debit which had caused his account to exceed his agreed 
overdraft facility, leading  to charges being  applied.  His account has since been passed  to 
debt collectors and his credit history has been  damaged as a result of the banks continued 
refusal to refund the disputed  transactions.
My findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments in order to decide what is fair 
and reasonable in the individual circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence  is 
incomplete, contradictory, and/or inconclusive, as some of it is here, I reach  my decision on 
the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider  is most likely to have  happened,  in light 
of the available evidence and the wider surrounding  circumstances.
Firstly, there  is no dispute that Mr W was in Malta  at the time and that he visited  a number of 
bars on the evening in question.  He accepts that he made a small retail transaction earlier in 
the day and withdrew  cash  from a cash machine  during  the evening.   Mr W explains that he 
used that cash   rather than his card  at the bars he subsequently visited.   Mr W also 
accepts that he had the card with him whilst  he was out, having  left all his other  cards  at his 
hotel.  He explains that he kept his card in the back pocket of his shorts,  with his cash in the 
front pocket,  and he had his card with him the following morning.
Secondly, and like the investigator,  Im satisfied that Mr Ws genuine card was used to make 
the transactions.  This  is because  the chip embedded in the card was read on each 
Ref: DRN85363782occasion.  Moreover, the correct PIN was used each time as well  without any failed input 
attempts.  So, whoever made the transactions had Mr Ws card and also knew  his PIN.
I accept that it is possible  for someone  an unacquainted fraudster   to observe a 
cardholder use their card, make a note of the PIN, obtain the card and make transactions  
without the cardholders knowledge, and then return the card to the cardholder  without their 
knowing that any of that had occurred.   This,  in effect, is what  Mr W is suggesting must have 
happened.  But, in my view, this is a relatively unlikely explanation in this instance.  
First of all, it is difficult to see a point of compromise for the PIN.  Mr W has explained, and 
his account activity supports what he says, that his card was not used in any of the bars he 
visited prior to the disputed transactions.  Secondly, Mr W has said that  whilst  he cant  
remember which bars he visited  he cant recall  visiting  the bar where  the transactions were 
made.  So, accepting  what Mr W says, it seems unlikely that someone might have observed 
Mr W use his card when  he withdrew  cash (so discovering his PIN) and then obtained  his 
card at some later point,  taken it to a bar he hadnt visited, used it over a period of over an 
hour, and then returned it to the back pocket  of Mr Ws shorts  without his noticing.  
In all the circumstances, therefore, and based  on the totality of his own evidence and the 
information the bank has provided  about the transactions, on the balance  of probabilities 
I consider unlikely that the transactions were  made  by an unacquainted fraudster.  I consider 
it more likely that Mr W either made,  or otherwise authorised, them  himself.
I do nevertheless acknowledge what Mr W says about the speed, frequency, and increasing 
value of the transactions being  an indicator  of potential fraud.  However,  there can be other 
explanations  the most obvious  being that the cardholder was simply using his card to pay 
for services the bar was providing, and doing  so in quick succession.  I also consider that its 
not impossible for a cardholder to overlook when he might be getting  close  to the limit of his 
overdraft facility, especially when  transactions are made in a different currency.
Mr W is right to say that banks have systems in place to try to protect  their customers 
against fraud.  He  has explained that his colleague  received a notification from his bank the 
following morning to ask if he recognised/had authorised about  £1,000  of transactions   to 
which Mr W says his colleague  replied  no.  Mr  W has said he doesnt  know  where those 
transactions were  made  in other  words, whether they were in the same bar or somewhere 
else.  But even if TSB had done  the same and contacted Mr W the following morning 
I consider it likely that the bank would then have looked  into the transactions in more detail  
as it has since done  and that it would most probably have come to the same  conclusion; 
that, in its view, he had in fact authorised them.
Mr W makes a couple of supplementary  points.   Firstly, he complains that the bank paid a 
direct debit and so allowed him to incur charges, and secondly  he considers that TSB took 
too long to look into his complaint.  
On the first, I consider that the bank was entitled to make the decision it did to pay the direct 
debit.  Not doing so could  have led to other adverse  consequences for Mr W, and it was 
always open to him to pay money back into his account to bring it back below the agreed 
overdraft limit to cover  the direct debit and to offset  any ongoing charges.
Mr W says it took the bank too long to look into his complaint,  during  which  time his account 
had been placed into default and the balance  passed  to a debt collection agency.  I can see 
that it did take TSB several months  to look into the complaint, but it also seems to be the 
Ref: DRN85363783case that  during this time  Mr W did not pay enough money into his account to bring  it 
back within the agreed overdraft facility.  It was that which led to his account being  defaulted,  
being passed to debt collectors, and adverse credit information being registered  against him.  
So, in all the circumstances  and notwithstanding any delay by the bank in looking into the 
complaint, I do not find I can fairly hold TSB liable for the adverse consequences  Mr W has 
described.
My final decision
For the reasons  I have  explained, I do not consider  that TSB Bank  plc should be required to 
refund the disputed  transactions  to Mr W.  My Final Decision, therefore,  is that I do not 
uphold his complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W either to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 November  2020.
David Millington
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8536378