K820x#14complaint
Mr E complains that Gregory Pennington Limited wrongly advised him about his annual 
review of a debt management  plan (DMP).
background
Mr E tells us that after Gregory  Pennington  took over his DMP it asked for a review. It 
completed this over the phone and told him his next review would be after a year. But it kept 
harassing him. That made him very stressed  and he lost work. He would like compensation.
Gregory Pennington  said that when it spoke to Mr E in October 2018 its agent  wrongly  
advised him that his review was due by September 2019 and he booked Mr E in for this. But 
that wasnt the correct  information. His review was due on 1 October 2018. It apologised for 
this and said itd provided feedback to the agent  concerned.
Our investigator listened to the phone  call and said he could understand why Mr E thought a 
review had been completed. But he was satisfied this wasnt the case. So he thought  
Gregory Pennington  was obliged to carry out such a review under Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) rules. So once itd realised itd given Mr E the wrong information on the 
phone, it was reasonable for it to try to arrange the review.
Mr E wasnt  happy with this. He said hed done  his review and Gregory Pennington  told him 
he didnt need  to do another one for a year. It then bullied and harassed him.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  to hear that this situation has made  Mr E unwell and I know  my decision will 
disappoint him. But for the reasons I give below I am not going to ask Gregory  Pennington  to 
do anything more.
At the beginning  of September  2018 Gregory Pennington contacted  Mr E to respond to his 
message that he didnt  need a review.  It said it needed to carry one out to make sure he was 
on the most suitable solution.  It said such a review would take around 45 minutes  and 
asked him to suggest a suitable  date and time for it to contact him.
In October  2018 Mr E spoke to Gregory Pennington  on the phone. Ive listened  to that phone 
call. And I agree  with our investigator that it was understandable that Mr E thought  a review 
had been completed. The person  he spoke to said there wasnt  any rush and that Mr E had 
until September 2019. 
Gregory Pennington  then sent Mr E an annual  review  reminder  letter on 6 January 2019, an 
email on 4 February saying he needed to complete his review and another  email reminder 
on 19 February. It also sent him two text messages on 5 and 7 February saying itd delayed 
his review date. 
Ref: DRN88390382On 19 February 2019 Mr E emailed Gregory Pennington and explained hed spoken to an 
advisor who had carried  out a review.  Gregory Pennington responded asking him for more  
information. And after an exchange of emails, the following day Gregory Pennington  sent Mr 
E a further email  and said that he had been  incorrectly advised that he had until September  
2019 to complete the review when  it shouldve been  1 October  2018.  And so the review  was 
significantly  overdue.  
Mr E wasnt  happy with this and Gregory Pennington again responded by email and said we 
did advise that the plan would not close until September 2019 however this information is 
incorrectyour review remains overdue and still needs to be completedwe  are happy to 
take further measures to make the review  easier, such  as completing part of this via email 
but we would need to complete  the review.  So at that point I think  Mr E shouldve  
reasonably been aware that a full review needed to be completed.  Gregory  Pennington knew 
Mr E was unwell and I think it tried to work  with him to minimise the stress this was causing 
him.
I know that Mr E wont agree with me but I dont think Gregory  Pennington was harassing 
him. It didnt  think the review had been done and over four months it sent him one letter, two 
emails and two text messages to remind him. Mr E then emailed Gregory  Pennington  and it 
seems to me that it tried to help Mr E as much  as it could and eventually the following day it 
could see there had been a misunderstanding and that Mr E had been  given  the wrong 
information. 
So although  Gregory  Pennington gave Mr E incorrect  information,  as soon as it realised 
what had happened  it apologised  and tried to work  with him so that it could complete the 
required review with the minimum inconvenience to Mr E.. It then sent reminders  to Mr E to 
make sure the review  was completed  so his DMP could continue. I dont  think that amounts 
to harassment  or bullying. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 October  2019.
Linda Freestone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8839038