K820x#14complaint
Mr R says HSBC UK Bank  Plc, trading as First Direct, mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr R bought the policy in 1994 at the same  time as taking out a credit card. He applied  for 
the credit  card and PPI policy  through the post. 
At the time,  Mr R was employed  as a branch manager. He has told us he was entitled to at 
least six months full sick pay, a death in service  payment and redundancy pay. He has also 
told us he had some savings and a critical  illness  policy. Mr R has said he had a medical 
condition at the time of the sale. 
The policy provided  cover  for life, accident,  sickness, and unemployment  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  10% of Mr Rs credit  card balance  in the event 
of a successful claim for accident, sickness or unemployment.  And for claims under the life 
section it would have  repaid the outstanding balance. At the time, it cost 69p per £100 of the 
monthly outstanding  balance.  The premium  would continue to have to be paid during  a 
successful claim  and it did attract interest.  
HSBC has sent us screenshots to show that the credit card account  closed in 2003.
Mr Rs representative has made lengthy and substantial representations on his behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr Rs representative says:
HSBC failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr R wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr Rs representatives 
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means HSBC should  have 
told Mr R about  the poor value;  
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means HSBC should  have explained  
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr R and the impact  they 
would have had on his chances of making a claim; and
The information Mr R received was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Ref: DRN81335112Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had the 
opportunity to provide their responses  to the adjudicators opinion.  Mr R disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion for several reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Rs. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Rs complaint.
This sale took place  in 1994 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2003. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
Ref: DRN81335113The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like HSBC  at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI code and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr Rs case.  
 
I have also taken account of relevant law in reaching  my decision, including: the law relating 
to negligence, contract (including the express and implied duty on professional  advisers to 
give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost duty of 
good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness).  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
HSBC was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mr Rs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If HSBC gave advice,  whether  it advised  Mr R with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him, given his needs  
and circumstances.  
-Whether HSBC gave Mr R sufficient, appropriate  and timely information  to enable 
him to make  an informed  choice about  whether to take out the policy, including 
drawing to his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr R, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr R suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Ref: DRN81335114Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr R and 
HSBC, Ive decided  not to uphold Mr Rs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning  below. 
did Mr R know  he had a choice?
HSBC had to make  it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
Ive been given a copy of the application  form completed at the time and this includes a 
section about  PPI. In this section there  are options  to tick to either accept or decline to 
take out the cover. The yes box has been ticked and Mr R has signed  the overall 
application which suggests he agreed  with everything that had been entered.  If Mr R 
didnt want to take out the cover he could  have ticked the no box.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr R knew the policy was optional  
and he agreed  to take it out without undue pressure. 
did HSBC provide  advice?
Both HSBC  and Mr R agree that advice wasnt provided during this sale.  
This means  HSBC didnt  have to check if the PPI was suitable  for Mr R. Instead,  it had to 
give him sufficient, appropriate  and timely information to enable  Mr R to make  an informed 
choice about whether  to take out the policy, including drawing to his attention and 
highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main provisions of the policy and 
significant limitations and exclusions. 
the information
HSBC has provided  us with Mr Rs application  form  showing that PPI had been selected. It 
has also provided a copy of the paperwork  it says he wouldve received, including  the policy 
terms and conditions  which  I accept on a balance of probabilities   applied to policies like 
Mr Rs. 
Looking at the documentation provided to Mr R at the time, I dont think  HSBC gave Mr R the 
information he fairly and reasonably needed  to make an informed decision about  whether or 
not to take out the policy. 
This sale took place  by post. I can see the application form described the PPI policy as 
providing cover against accident, sickness, unemployment and death.  It also informed Mr R 
that the premiums  would be debited from his account.
The information provided would have given Mr R a broad sense of what the policy covered. 
But it was HSBCs responsibility  to draw to Mr Rs attention the important information   i.e. 
the key information about the nature of the cover and any significant  exclusions and 
limitations which might be relevant to his decision. 
Im not persuaded HSBC did enough to do this. For example, I dont think  the true cost of the 
policy was made clear to Mr R, including the need  to maintain premiums during a claim or 
that the payments would attract interest.  In addition, I cant see that HSBC  adequately drew 
to his attention  the main provisions of the policy and significant limitations and exclusions. 
Ref: DRN81335115So I dont  think HSBC  gave Mr R sufficient,  appropriate and timely  information to enable  him 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including drawing his 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.  
I have considered how my findings interact with the FCAs list of significant  failings  in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded that there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Rs representative has raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Rs. Ive considered  
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr Rs representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr R about  the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Rs representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  
I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr R has suggested. And taking into account  the law, industry  codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that HSBC ought to have done  either. 
what effect did HSBCs shortcomings have on Mr R? To what extent did Mr R suffer 
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that HSBC  didnt do all it should  have done when it sold this policy to Mr R. So Ive 
gone on to consider whether it would  be fair and reasonable to conclude  Mr R suffered loss 
and damage as a result.  To answer  this, I must  decide whether or not Mr R would have still 
taken out the policy,  had HSBC done  things properly. 
Mr R says he wouldnt have taken it out and believes that I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. 
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr R had to weigh up in his own mind  the cost of the policy  
against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if he didnt insure against the 
risk of being  unable  to work. 
As Ive found above, Mr R chose to take this policy out. So I consider that its reasonable to 
conclude he had some  interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But he made 
this decision based  on incomplete information.  So what Mr R thought he was getting is not 
exactly what he got. The extent to which this differed is a relevant consideration when 
determining if Mr R has suffered any loss or detriment.  
Ref: DRN81335116In relation to the costs, Im satisfied Mr R ought  reasonably to have known he would have to 
pay something for the PPI and that it would cover a portion of his outstanding balance.  But, I 
accept that HSBC didnt make  clear the on-going cost information.  So while Mr R didnt know 
some things, the ultimate position in the event of a successful  claim was not dissimilar to 
what he would reasonably have thought from the information he based his decision to take 
out the policy on and found  acceptable.  
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr R thought he had bought and 
what he actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to any physical or mental  condition  or disease 
which Mr R knew  of, or should  reasonably have known of, on the start date of the 
policy, or which he had received  treatment or advice for during the 12 months before 
the start date and which  recurred within 12 months  of the start date. The policy also 
excluded claims for chronic  or continuing  diseases that Mr R had on the start date; 
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr R 
wasnt a permanent employee.
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mr R pause for thought  and may well have caused  him to conclude  that the policy 
was not as good as he thought  and he might have decided not to proceed.  The limitations on 
the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might have dissuaded 
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr R from taking out the policy. 
The evidence about Mr Rs circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the policy  wasnt 
fundamentally wrong for him. He was eligible for its benefits and it provided cover  that, 
despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to him should  the insured 
risks have become  a reality. Although Mr R says he had a medical condition when the PPI 
was taken out and the policy wouldnt have provided  cover  had he needed time off work  
because of this condition, I dont think better information about this exclusion would  have put 
him off agreeing  to it. I say this because from what Mr R has told us, the condition could be 
treated with painkillers  and had only caused him to have the odd day off work. So I dont  
think he would have  expected to have  been off work (for more  than the 15 day period 
required by the policy) and need  to claim because of it.
And I havent seen  any evidence  to suggest  he wouldve been caught by any of the other 
significant exclusions. So I still think he had some good reasons to take the policy  out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions, or place  any additional 
restrictions or more onerous  evidential  requirements in the event of a claim on those 
grounds than would have applied to any other  disability claim. And I think its unlikely Mr R 
would have expected to make a disability claim on the policy  without first providing some 
evidence to support  that claim.
To make a disability claim, Mr R needed  to be totally unable to do any work. I dont think this 
is likely  to be too different  to what he would have expected to make a claim. So it seems  
unlikely he would have  thought hed been able to make a successful claim if he was still 
working, whether  that be in his normal job or any other job.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not that Mr R would still have taken  out the PPI. The policy was sufficiently close to 
Ref: DRN81335117what he thought  he was getting I think the policy could provide  a useful benefit in a difficult  
time, notwithstanding his employment benefits  and other means. And in those circumstances 
I consider it more likely  than not that he would have taken out the policy  in any event.  
Mr Rs representatives say the rules  about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
I have thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, I have found  it would be reasonable to conclude  there  
were substantial flaws  in the sales  process.  In those  circumstances, DISP App 3 says it 
should be presumed Mr R would not have  bought  the PPI he bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
I am satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude  the presumption  is rebutted 
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr Rs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr R 
found himself in as result  of the sale was the same  position he would  have been  in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr R believes  the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I dont  consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr R in the position he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that he would not have taken out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that he would still have 
taken out the PPI had he been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy he was buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude HSBC should  pay Mr R compensation,  as that would  put him in 
a better  position than he would have been in if everything had happened  as it should have 
done. 
Im also aware that Mr R thinks HSBC misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
HSBCs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why HSBC  failed 
to act fairly  and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  HSBC gave Mr R, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
1994 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ref: DRN81335118Ive also thought about the approach Mr Rs representative  says a court might take if it were 
to find HSBC negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr R and about the remedy  a court  
might award if it were  to find that HSBC had been  in breach of its duty of utmost  good faith. 
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr R in a better position  than if everything had happened  as it should 
have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2019.
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8133511