K822xcomplaint
Miss P complains  about the service  she received  under her home emergency policy with 
British Gas Insurance Limited. 
My references to British  Gas include agents  it appointed to carry out work on its behalf.  
background 
Miss P contacted British Gas in December 2017 as she was having problems with her boiler 
which meant her hot water was intermittent. She was initially  unhappy with British Gas as it 
sent an engineer  who wasnt trained in breakdowns. Another engineer attended but the 
issue still wasnt fixed, so a third was scheduled. On both subsequent occasions  the 
engineer attempted to fix the problem, but Miss P eventually called an emergency plumber 
to make the boiler  operable, costing her £58. Miss P raised a complaint with British  Gas 
about the service  it had given her.
In March 2018 Miss P told British Gas she hadnt had a response  to her complaint. She also 
said she was still experiencing the same problem with her boiler and she was unhappy  shed 
had to take time away from work  to facilitate the engineer  visits.
British Gas had sent engineers to Miss P on four occasions during March 2018. And its 
records suggest the issue was eventually fixed by early April 2018, but Miss P was unhappy  
with the service shed  received, particularly because the issue  had initially  been  
misdiagnosed by one of the engineers.  
British Gas accepted that it had misdiagnosed the problem  with the boiler,  and offered to pay 
Miss P £50 compensation  for the poor service shed  received. But Miss P didnt think  that 
was enough, so she referred  a complaint to our service. She asked for British Gas to refund 
the premiums shes paid since 2003  and to compensate her for loss of earnings  due to the 
time she had to take away from work,  phone calls shed made to British Gas and the stress 
she was caused  by the way things were handled.  She also asked for British Gas to give her 
a 50% discount  on a new boiler.  
Our investigator said the complaint should be upheld. She concluded  that British  Gas had 
made multiple unsuccessful attempts to resolve the issue between December 2017  and 
April 2018 and said, overall, it had provided  a poor level of service. She recommended 
British Gas should pay Miss P £300 compensation, and refund the £58 shed paid for the 
plumber.
Miss P responded to say she also wanted a discount on a new boiler and compensation for 
the time shed had to take off work.  Our investigator  didnt  think  that was reasonable, so the 
case was passed  to me to review.
I issued a provisional decision on the case.  In summary, I said;
Firstly, Miss P has said that shes paid premiums  for her policy  since  2003 and has not had 
to make a claim, so shed like these refunded. However, she also said that shes received 
her annual services each year since. Although Miss P may not have used the cover she paid 
for, it doesnt  mean it wasnt there  for her if she had needed it. Additionally, shes  also 
received a yearly  service,  as shed expected. Therefore, Im satisfied she received the cover 
she paid for, and so I cant  fairly ask British Gas to refund any of the premiums.
Ref: DRN80115482Theres some contradictory information  about  whether British Gas had fixed  Miss Ps boiler 
by April 2018. She has recently  said that whilst her boiler worked from April 2018, it made a 
huge gushing  noise  and she says that she pursued this with British Gas. However, this isnt 
consistent with British Gas records. These suggest the boiler  had been working since late 
April 2018, and that the last visit happened  on 7 April 2018,  when additional  issues  were 
addressed. If Miss P had pursued  the gushing noise  with British Gas,  Id expect there to be a 
record of this. 
In any case, Miss P initially told our investigator that the issues  had been resolved in 
April 2018. So I think its fair to conclude that the issue  was resolved at that point. If Miss P 
raised a further  issue about a noise the boiler  was making after this, shes  free to raise it with 
British Gas as a further complaint if she hasnt  already done so. 
British Gas agrees  it handled Miss Ps claim poorly  and didnt provide a reasonable level of 
service. It agreed with our investigators  recommendation  to pay Miss P £300  compensation, 
and £58 for the plumber, and I think thats  reasonable.
However, Miss P has also asked that British  Gas compensate her for loss of earnings as a 
result of time taken  away from work due to multiple  visits from engineers. Ive no doubt that it 
wouldve been both frustrating and inconvenient for Miss P to have had repeated visits from 
British Gas, and I accept that this could have affected her ability  to work. However, claims of 
this nature will inevitably result in some inconvenience, and thats  not British Gas fault.  I 
accept British Gas took more attempts than it shouldve to resolve Miss Ps issue,  but Id 
also expect Miss P to mitigate the impact that had on her. 
Further, Miss P has explained that she receives a daily rate and only gets paid for the days  
and time she works. But she hasnt  given us any evidence to show that a visit from an 
engineer prevented her from working at a time she otherwise would have, and that shes lost 
out financially  because  of it. As a result, I dont think itd be fair to make  an award for loss of 
earnings. I nonetheless accept  that the situation was very inconvenient, but I think that the 
compensation British  Gas has offered  to pay is fair, taking that into account.  
Miss Ps asked for British Gas to make a contribution  to the cost of a new boiler. Generally 
speaking, even if a policy provides for the replacement  of a boiler, the insurer  would usually 
only do so on the basis that the existing boiler  cannot  be repaired. Miss Ps policy says a 
replacement boiler  would  be provided if British  Gas cannot fix it. It also says it will only do 
this if the boiler  meets  specific criteria regarding its age. But in any case, as Miss P has 
accepted that her boiler has worked  since April 2018, I dont  think British Gas needs to 
consider making  a contribution towards  a replacement. 
Overall, I accept  that British Gas handled  Miss Ps claim  poorly. But for the reasons 
explained above, £300 compensation  and £58 for the plumber is fair and reasonable.
British Gas accepted my provisional decision,  and Miss P said that she was happy for us to 
draw our conclusions and close the case  as we see fit. The case has been passed back to 
me to make my final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN80115483Neither British Gas nor Miss P has provided  any further information or evidence  which  is 
materially new. As such, I find no reason to depart from the conclusions  I reached in my 
provisional decision, and I make  my provisional findings final. 
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require 
British Gas Insurance Limited to pay Miss P a total of £358, made up of £300 compensation 
and £58 for plumbers  costs.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 November 2019.
Stephen Trapp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8011548