K821x#15complaint
Ms S says Uncle Buck Finance LLP irresponsibly  lent to her.
background
This complaint is about one payday  loan Uncle Buck provided to Ms S in February  2014.  
Ms Ss loan was for £300 and it was rolled  over twice before she repaid it. 
Our adjudicator upheld  Ms Ss complaint  and thought the loan shouldnt  have been given. 
Uncle Buck  disagreed and so the complaint  was passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Uncle Buck  needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms S 
could repay  the loan in a sustainable manner.  These  checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Uncle Buck should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet  a 
higher repayment  from a particular  level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Uncle Buck  was required to establish 
whether Ms S could sustainably repay her loan  not just whether the loan payments  were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. 
Ref: DRN82196952This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook  (CONC) defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties  and in particular the customer should be able to 
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Ms Ss complaint.
As our adjudicator explained, the checks Uncle Buck carried  out for the loan would most 
likely have shown that Ms S was having  problems  managing her money. This was because  
Ms Ss stated  monthly disposable  income was calculated to be about £284. Ms S had stated 
that her monthly income was £1,657. Uncle Buck estimated her monthly outgoings  as 
£1,373 in total. The loan repayment was around £404. So Uncle  Bucks  own checks  showed 
that it was unlikely that Ms S would be able to sustainably repay her loan.
Uncle Buck  said that it may have overstated Ms Ss mortgage and fixed loan repayments  in 
its calculation of her outgoings. But Uncle Buck evidently used its calculations to assess  
affordability at the time the loan was taken. I think its checks  showed  that the loan was 
unsustainable for Ms S. So Im upholding the complaint about the loan and I think Uncle  
Buck should  put things right.
putting things right  what Uncle Buck needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Ms S paid on her loan;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about the loan from Ms Ss credit file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Uncle Buck to take off tax from this interest. Uncle  Buck 
must give Ms S a certificate showing  how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I uphold Ms Ss complaint.  I require  
Uncle Buck  Finance LLP to pay Ms S compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 November  2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8219695