K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains about issues  hes experienced with a car supplied with finance  from RCI 
Financial Services Limited.
background
Mr C was supplied with a brand new car in September 2016 and entered into a finance  
agreement with RCI. Hes unhappy  that the two front tyres have worn and required 
replacement at 14,000 miles.
Mr C doesnt think the tyres were  fit for purpose. He wants RCI to reimburse  him the costs  of 
replacement.
In its final response RCI said there  wasnt a manufacturing defect with the tyres and that the 
worn tyres were  due to wear and tear.
Mr C wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He said he wasnt able to say that the tyres had 
worn prematurely because there were so many factors which influence wear to tyres.
Mr C didnt agree. He felt that the tyres werent  durable and said a reasonable person 
wouldnt expect to replace tyres at 14,000 miles. He said he hadnt had to replace the tyres  
on his previous car in which he had covered 30,000 miles. He said the tyres which he had 
purchased to replace the worn tyres  had not worn down in the same  way.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because RCI has supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement  theres  an implied term 
that it is of satisfactory  quality. Satisfactory is what a  reasonable person would regard as 
acceptable, taking  into account factors such as the age and mileage of the car and the price 
laid. I would  expect a brand  new car to be of  a very high standard.  However,  there are some  
parts of a car which are more susceptible to wear and tear than other parts,  which would 
include tyres. So in order to uphold this complaint I would need to be satisfied that the tyres 
on Mr Cs car wore  down prematurely as a result  of a manufacturing defect as opposed to 
general wear and tear.
Mr C has made the point that the tyres on his previous car didnt wear  so quickly.  Hes 
provided service records for both his previous and his current  car and Ive taken these into 
consideration.
The tyre specifications on Mr Cs previous car are different to his current car. Although the 
tyres are of the same  brand, they are of a different specification, Im therefore unable  to 
carry out a direct comparison.  
There are a number of factors which can affect wear  to tyres.  These  include,  amongst other  
things, road conditions, driving  style (i.e. harsh cornering and braking), speed, load, pressure 
Ref: DRN88528602and alignment. Position  is also a factor  front tyres wear faster because of movement 
through steering. I can see that it was the front tyres that wore down on Mr Cs car. 
Theres no hard and fast rule about  how long tyres should last because there are so many 
factors involved. Generally, rear tyres should  last longer than front tyres.
I appreciate Mr Cs frustration that hes had to replace his front tyres sooner than he 
expected based on his previous experience with other cars but Im unable  to find any 
evidence to suggest that the tyres lacked durability or had a manufacturing defect, or werent  
of satisfactorily quality. 
For the reasons  Ive given Im unable to uphold the complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 April 2020.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8852860