K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains the vehicle he acquired on hire purchase financed  by Black Horse  Limited  
was not of satisfactory quality. He wants to reject  the vehicle and end the agreement.  
background
Mr B is represented by his wife but for ease of reading Ill just refer to Mr B.
Mr B says the vehicle  was supplied as new in March 2018,  through  a dealer Ill call T. He 
says that he immediately noted numerous faults which  he reported to T. And he said he 
made it clear  he wanted to reject the vehicle. He says despite this T went ahead and did 
repairs. Mr B also says there was a period at the start of the agreement  when  T hadnt 
registered or taxed  the vehicle - so he couldnt use it.
Black Horse  told us that all the repairs have now been completed.  And that it had made an 
offer to Mr B of £745.89 compensation. This had included £200  for trouble and upset.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 27 March 2019. Since then both parties  
have replied. Mr B did not wish to add anything. Black Horse  said it is willing to proceed on 
the basis of the provisional decision - even though it disagrees with the rationale.  It points  
out this type of vehicle is manufactured in Europe  and that its often necessary - where parts  
are required  - for dealerships to have  to contact an overseas office. It says this means 
repairs can take longer  than for cars.
I thank both parties for their replies.  Having considered those responses Im not minded to 
alter my provisional view which is largely repeated in my final decision below.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Mr B has experienced  a good deal of frustration and disappointment from the time 
he acquired this vehicle. He reasonably expected a new vehicle  to be in perfect  condition  
and to be able to derive a lot of pleasure from it. Sadly thats  not happened.
Both parties  have made reference  to what they believe is relevant legislation. So I should 
explain that I do not apply the law directly  - only a court  can do that. But I do take it into 
account. As the supplier of both the vehicle and finance under a hire purchase agreement 
Black Horse  is responsible for the vehicle being  of "satisfactory quality" at the point of 
supply.
I can see reference was made by Mr B at the start of the complaint to section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974.  But as this is a hire purchase agreement its not covered by that 
section of the legislation.
Of particular relevance is the Consumer Rights Act 2015. In brief, this requires goods to be 
of satisfactory quality when supplied. And if theyre  not, a consumer may have - in certain 
circumstances - the right to reject the goods.
Ref: DRN80078932This was a new vehicle,  and to be of satisfactory quality it should have been free from even 
minor defects. And theres no dispute that when this vehicle was supplied  there were several 
faults. A table was scratched;  an overhead  locker  damaged; drivers seat damaged; drop
down bed noisy; supaguard  was peeling; and there was an electrical  fault with the motor on 
the electrical bed. So its hard to see how it could reasonably  be considered as being of 
satisfactory quality. In addition its not in dispute  the vehicle hadnt  been properly registered 
or taxed  at the time Mr B was permitted to collect it. So it wasnt  fit for purpose, as it could 
not legally  be taken on the road.
Theres a dispute  as to when Mr B first asked to reject the vehicle and/or if he accepted that 
repairs should be carried out. Black Horse  says that Mr B first raised the issue of rejection 
outside the 30 day period in which a consumer may have the short-term right to reject. While 
Mr B says he tried to reject the vehicle almost  immediately  and was within  that period.
Where evidence is unclear, incomplete or contradictory  - as some of it is here - I have to 
make my decision  on the balance of probabilities.  That is I decide  what is the most likely 
explanation to account for whats happened.
There are no contemporaneous notes or recordings of phone calls and conversations  
between Mr B and T. But the evidence Ive seen allows  me to take a view on the most  likely 
sequence of events. Mr B collected the vehicle  on 10 March 2018. He noticed various faults  
on the day - some of which were  put right then and there. But he found further faults  after 
hed taken the vehicle home. Mr B has accepted he was "talked out" of returning the vehicle 
at this stage, by T, so I infer he had reluctantly accepted to having the vehicle repaired - 
even though his first instincts had been  to reject it.
Im supported in that conclusion from the evidence of P - a relative of Mr B whom he asked  
to assist with the ongoing  negotiations with T. P says he became involved on 11 March  (the 
day after collection).  And he refers  in his testimony to a number of phone  calls "spanning  
several weeks". And reference is made  to the replacement parts which  were  needed being 
on order. Its clear  the negotiations were still ongoing by 21 April 2018  as there is mention of  
a phone call with a manager from T on that date. But when Mr B complained to Black Horse  
on 4 May 2018  its also clear hed decided he wished to reject  the vehicle and obtain a 
replacement. By this time the vehicle had been returned to T, but it wasnt until 24 May that 
T examined the vehicle  and completed the repairs.
The evidence shows that vehicle faults were  raised with T as early  as 11 March - the day 
after collection. Whilst Mr B initially agreed  to repairs  it took over two months  for these  to be 
completed on or around 24 May 2018. But by this time Mr B had made it clear hed run out of 
patience and had once again  sought  to reject the vehicle.
Black Horse  is correct in its assertion that if a complaint is raised  after 30 days  following 
supply, the supplier usually has the right to repair the faulty  item as opposed to accept it 
being rejected.  But what it failed to point out that this is subject to further  conditions  which  
are set out within the Consumer Rights Act 2015.
Referring to the final right to reject an item, Section  24 (5) (c) says a consumer may only do 
so if:
"the consumer has required the trader to repair or replace the goods but the trader is in 
breach of the requirement...to do so within a reasonable time and without significant 
inconvenience to the consumer".
Ref: DRN80078933I dont think its reasonable for a consumer to have to wait over ten weeks for repairs  and 
replacement parts for what  was supposedly a new vehicle.  And its also clear Mr B was 
caused significant inconvenience. Hes told us - and Black Horse accepted - he intended to
take a 14 day holiday as well as use the vehicle  on alternate week-ends during  the period it 
was unavailable.  And this included arrangements both for a birthday and a wedding
anniversary.
I understand the point Black Horse  is making when it refers to delays  that might  occur in 
accessing parts from overseas. But this would  not have caused  me to alter my decision in 
this case - even if Black  Horse  had not already accepted it.
If a dealer sells vehicles - knowing  spare parts need to be accessed from overseas - then its 
not unreasonable to expect it to have  arrangements  in place to minimise any delay. I 
understand why a dealer  may not want to keep expensive spare parts  in stock - so it seems 
to me all the more reason to have processes in place to reduce delays in the supply chain.
A vehicle  requiring repairs and replacement parts is an entirely foreseeable event and to my 
mind does not afford a plausible reason to account for the delay in this case.
I understand that during  the time the vehicle was standing on Ts forecourt - whilst this 
complaint was under review - it suffered  some  further damage due to theft. Thats not 
something I can deal with as it falls outside our jurisdiction. 
I think its clear  - and on a very strong  balance  of probabilities - the vehicle was not of 
satisfactory quality when supplied. I also find that - whether or not Mr B tried to exercise the 
short term right to reject the vehicle  within the requisite period - he did reasonably exercise 
the final right to reject. And so I find that Black  Horse acted unfairly in not accepting  this.
Mr B has had no meaningful use of the vehicle since acquiring  it. So its fair and reasonable 
he should recover all the repayments hes made.
I also think he should receive £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
my final decision
1.End the agreement;
2.Accept Mr Bs rejection of the vehicle;
3.Refund all monthly payments (if any) made under the agreement;
4.Arrange for the record of the agreement to be removed from Mr Bs credit file;
5.Refund the deposit of £1,173.  
6.Pay Mr B £300 compensation for distress  and inconvenience.
Simple interest at the rate of 8% per year from date of payment  to date of settlement should 
be added  to any payment  which arises  from items  3 and 5 above.
Ref: DRN80078934Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 June  2019.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8007893