K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out to protect a 
store card in 1997. Mr C says Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL)  mis-sold  him 
the PPI.
Mr C took out the store  card in 1983,  and was later sold PPI over the phone  but FICL  has 
taken responsibility  for the sale, and for this complaint, so I will refer to FICL in my decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Cs case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Mr C says that he doesnt recall any discussion about PPI  and that it mustve been  added 
to his account without his consent. He says that he wouldve declined the policy  had he been 
given the option. 
FICL has provided information which shows that Mr Cs store  card was opened in 1983  
and he wasnt sold PPI until 1997.  Mr C says that this isnt the case and that the card was 
opened while he was having repairs done  on his car. But from the information Ive seen, I 
think that FICL is correct  in saying that the card was opened at this time. 
FICL has also provided a call script that was in use at the time which shows  that its 
representative would be prompted to point  out that the PPI was optional, and gain proper 
consent for it to be added to an account. While I cant be certain how closely this script was 
followed, I havent seen anything to suggest  FICL did anything  differently when it sold PPI to 
Mr C. And as he already  had his store card for 14 years, I think  he wouldve known that he 
didnt have to have PPI to get the card,  and chose to take it out. 
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Mr C so it didnt have to check if it was right for his. But it 
did have to make sure Mr C got the information he needed to decide  if it was right for his. 
Its possible the information FICL gave Mr C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But he chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted  this type of cover. Based 
on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he was affected by any 
of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would  have  been  useful for his if 
something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think better  
information about the PPI would have put his off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr C has said, including  what  hes said about having  good sick 
pay from his employer, and a number of other assets and insurance policies he couldve 
used to make his repayments. But the PPI couldve paid out on top of his existing  sick pay, 
and couldve  prevented him from using his savings. And the insurance  policies  Mr C had 
also provide a different kind of cover to the PPI. So these points dont change my decision, 
and for the reasons set out above, I dont think the policy was mis-sold.
Ref: DRN80107612my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 August 2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8010761