K820x#14complaint
Mr Ms complaint relates to a Lloyds Bank plc classic current account that was held jointly
with his ex-wife who, for the purposes  of this decision, I will refer to as Mrs M.
Mr M complains Lloyds  has not acted fairly towards him because  it took his ex-wifes
instructions in relation to the current account  and didnt do the same  for him. Mr M says
Lloyds then unfairly registered a default  against  his name and is singling him out by only
chasing him for the overdraft debt associated with the joint current account.
background
Mr M and Mrs M divorced  in June 2016.  At this time their joint current  account  had an
overdraft limit of £2,250 and the balance on the account had been fluctuating within  
the overdraft for a long while. The account  remained in joint names  until it was closed 
on 9 May 2017  and transferred by Lloyds to its recoveries  department  with an 
outstanding debt of £2,240. A default  was registered  against  Mr Ms name on 
12 May 2017 for this amount.
Mr M is unhappy  that he wasnt given the opportunity to deal with this debt before  the
account was passed to recoveries and the default registered against him. He says he tried 
to remove himself from the account after he and Mrs M separated, but Lloyds did not help 
him to do this. And he says Lloyds simply took instruction from Mrs M instead and he wasnt  
consulted about  it. Hes told us this has all had a serious  impact  on him being able to move 
forward.
Mrs M had contacted Lloyds on 13 January 2017 to discuss the account. This resulted in 
Mrs Ms agreement  for Lloyds to move  the account  to collections in order to prevent any 
further interest or charges  accruing  on the outstanding balance  (as the account was 
deeply in the overdraft).  This was the only way Lloyds was able to stop the interest and 
charges long term, and it effectively removed the overdraft facility.  The account was 
therefore left as showing in debt of £2,240.28  (as shown on the account statement).
Lloyds have said they issued a final demand letter on 3 March  2017. The original letter  
isnt available, but Lloyds has provided a template instead. This letter gave the parties the
opportunity to clear the debt, but explained this would  still not remove the default.
Lloyds records also show that Mr M was in contact with them on 8 March 2017,
22 May 2017 and then on 4 December 2017.
On 8 March 2017 Mr M contacted Lloyds because he couldnt  make an online payment 
into the joint current account as it had disappeared from his mobile app. Mr M was told 
about a block  on the account  to freeze interest and charges, and that he should go to a 
branch to make a payment.
On 22 May 2017 it appears  Mr M spoke with Lloyds and was told the account had 
been assigned  to debt collectors.
It doesnt appear  that theres any further meaningful  contact until 4 December  2017  when 
Mr M contacts Lloyds  collection  department following a failed credit  check  for a lettings 
application. Lloyds  notes show Mr M requested his name be removed from the account  
and that he was told about what had happened  with the account and that he and Mrs M 
Ref: DRN84087672were both liable for the account. Mr M was also told the account was with recoveries and 
he was transferred through.
Lloyds recoveries department notes show Mr M was told his name  couldnt  be removed 
and that Mr M denied any knowledge  of having been previously told about  what had 
happened to the account. The notes also say Mr M was told about  the final demand notice 
and that hed called Lloyds after that had been  sent  although  they also say Mr M denied  
receiving the letter.
Mr M made a complaint. In their final response letter of 6 March 2018  Lloyds  offered  Mr M
£75 for the trouble the matter had caused  because they couldnt be sure that Mr M was
given correct information when he went into a branch  about  the account  having been 
moved to collections.  And to recognise Mr Ms submissions  that hed not received  any 
correspondence from Lloyds about  the joint account, Lloyds offered Mr M the opportunity to 
repay the outstanding balance by 4 May 2018, and that if he did so they would  remove  the 
default.
Mr M didnt  do this. Hes since said he did not have  the means to clear  the full 
outstanding amount at the time.  And during the course of our investigators review  Mr M 
told us he still wasnt able to do this.
Mr M feels strongly that hes not had the opportunity to put things right in order to avoid 
incurring the default. And hes said there  were  times  when Lloyds refused to tell him 
things about the joint account  because it said he wasnt on the account.
Our investigator considered Mr Ms complaint and concluded Lloyds hadnt done  anything
wrong.
Mr M strongly disagreed  and in reply to the investigator, amongst other things, said hed
made numerous enquiries to Lloyds about  what to do with the debt when he divorced; that
he was being  told by Lloyds to wait in order to see what could be done,  but then Lloyds just
made arrangements with his ex-wife; his financial circumstances had never  been  taken  into
account; he never received the final demand letter in March 2017;  in January 2017 Lloyds
wouldnt tell him anything except that management  were looking into things; he only found
out what had happened because hed been unable to transfer funds  online;  he queried why
only he was being  pursued for the debt;  hed never  had a chance to put things right;  his ex-
wife is prospering, why isnt she being  chased  for the monies;  he didnt think  it was fair for 
Lloyds final response  letter  to have set 60 days from the date of the letter  when the matter
was still in dispute; and said the business  shouldve acted differently when it became aware
of the divorce.
To resolve  things Mr M suggested agreeing a repayment plan to clear  the full debt and
removal of the default.
Our investigator approached Lloyds one last time to see if there  was a way to resolve the
matter informally, but Lloyds maintained its view of the complaint and so the matter  has
come to me to decide. Since receiving the complaint to review  I was able to obtain a copy  of
the call recording between Mrs M and Lloyds from January 2017 which  I listened  to before I 
issued my provisional findings. 
my provisional findings 
Ref: DRN84087673I issued my provisional findings to both parties explaining why I didnt think  Mr Ms complaint 
should be upheld.  Ive summarised  these  below: 
I concluded Lloyds  acted fairly  within  the terms and conditions relevant to the account  in 
question. 
The terms and conditions  allowed for Lloyds to take instructions in relation to the account 
from either person  and that Lloyds could  rely on information provided by either  person  about 
the other.  Examples given  were instructions to close an account, or to end a service. And the 
terms also explained Lloyds could do things for one account holder that would count  as if 
being done for the other  such as acting on information either person provided about the 
other and sending a notice  to just one person. 
The terms highlighted that each account  holder was separately responsible for complying 
with the terms of the account, and that in the event of non-compliance Lloyds could take 
action against  any or all of the account  holders. The terms went on to explain if there was an 
overdraft on a joint account, each person was liable to repay it even if they didnt know  about 
it. 
Mr M made specific  reference to account  terms that if Lloyds became aware of a dispute 
between account  holders,  it may  take steps  to prevent either person giving instruction or 
using the account individually until the dispute is ended.  I carefully considered this and from 
all the records available  to me found  no suggestion of any sort of dispute  until Mrs M 
contacted Lloyds in January 2017. And in the circumstances I thought Lloyds  had acted fairly 
in not applying these terms. 
I considered it was fair for Lloyds  to offer Mr M the opportunity to remove  the default  should 
he be able to clear the full amount  of the debt. 
As Lloyds  acknowledged Mr Ms concerns about receiving notification of the default (and 
given Lloyds is required to follow a process when  notifying someone of a default), it offered 
Mr M the opportunity to clear the debt and remove the default from his name. Given  Mr M 
wasnt in a position to do that in April/ May 2018,  it was difficult  to conclude he would have 
been able to make an arrangement to sort things out and clear the balance  at that time. The 
balance remained close to the overdraft limit, therefore I couldnt exclude  the possibility the 
default may still have  occurred anyway as potential charges and fees built up  albeit the 
default may have  just happened at a later date. 
Mr M said Mrs M continued to solely use the joint account after they separated as he had his 
own separate current account  with Lloyds. But I noted they were both responsible  for the 
outstanding debt  which had largely  built up while they were together. So while I was 
mindful of Mr Ms comments about  being  the only one chased for the debt, I couldnt say 
Lloyds were wrong to approach him for the full amount.  Mr M and Mrs M were  jointly  and 
severally liable for the joint account  and so were both responsible  for the outstanding 
overdraft debt. I also couldnt ignore Mr M monitored  the account from his mobile  banking  
app and that on occasion it appeared he did make  payments in and out of the account  so I 
thought he knew  there  was an outstanding  sum on the account that wasnt reducing.  
I couldnt see any evidence to support that Lloyds had withheld information from Mr M when 
he requested it. And that it appeared the first time Mr M sought to be removed from the 
account was after the default had been  registered.  I noted that in any event, I wouldnt have 
Ref: DRN84087674expected Lloyds to agree Mr Ms removal from the joint account when there was an 
outstanding debt. 
responses to my provisional  decision 
Both parties  were sent my provisional  decision and invited to provide any further comments 
or evidence  for me to consider. Neither party responded with anything more.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties didnt  provide me with anything  further to review, I see no reason to alter my 
findings as set out in my provisional decision.  That is, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint as I 
dont think Lloyds have  acted unfairly in the circumstances of this case.  I think  it was 
reasonable for Lloyds to close the account with only Mrs Ms instructions and I think  it was 
fair for Lloyds to offer Mr M the opportunity to have  the default removed if he could  clear  the 
full amount of the debt. 
my final decision
For the reasons  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 February  2020.
Kristina Mathews 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN8408767