K820x#14complaint
Mrs S says Bank of Scotland  plc (BofS) mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 2004.  The policy was added  to 
Mrs Ss credit  card account  when she applied for the card in a branch of the bank. 
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mrs S disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ss case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ss complaint because:
 Theres a box marked with an x on Mrs Ss card application form confirming she 
wanted the PPI. And Mrs S signed the form to say she agreed with the information  it 
contained. I think BofS made Mrs S aware that the PPI was optional  and that she 
chose to take it  although I can understand why she can no longer remember this. 
 BofS recommended the PPI to Mrs S, but it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable for her 
based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. Ive reached this decision 
after taking into account the savings, work benefits  and other insurance she had at the 
time.
 Its possible the information BofS gave  Mrs S about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it should  
have been. But Mrs S chose to take out the policy  and so appears to have wanted this 
type of cover. She was not affected  by any of the exclusions  or limitations and the 
policy was competitively priced  and apparently affordable. So I think  it unlikely Mrs S 
would have made a different decision if better information had been provided. On 
balance I think she would  still have  taken out the policy.
Ive taken into account Mrs Ss comments,  including what  shes said about not realising  she 
had the PPI. I can see the PPI premiums are shown on her card statements, and a copy  of 
the welcome letter she was sent after buying  the PPI. I think if Mrs S didnt recognise the 
statement entries or why shed got the welcome  letter she might  have queried these, but she 
hasnt said she did that. So this point doesnt change  my conclusion.
Ref: DRN82529152my decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs S to let me 
know whether she accepts or rejects my decision before  1 December 2019.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8252915