complaint
Mr H complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC (Tesco Bank) wont refund him money 
that was taken out of cash machines using his credit card. He says he didnt make the 
withdrawals or allow anybody else to make  them  for him.
background
Mr H got the monthly  statement for his Tesco Bank credit card account  in January 2018. He 
noticed five cash  withdrawals totalling  just over £1,500 on it. Mr H says he didnt know  
anything about  these withdrawals and then realised his credit  card was missing.  So, he used 
the mobile banking app to block his card. He rang Tesco Bank a couple  of days later to tell it 
about the withdrawals.
Tesco Bank asked  Mr H where hed kept his card. He said it was with some other cards in a 
wallet that he kept with him all the time apart  from when he was working.  Mr H says he had 
to put it in a locker with his clothes then.
The bank then asked  Mr H about his PIN  as the withdrawals had all been carried out using  
the correct PIN. Mr H told Tesco Bank that hed remembered his PIN and nobody else knew 
it. He hadnt kept a record of it anywhere.
Tesco Bank said it wasnt going to refund the money  taken out at the cash  machines 
because there wasnt  an obvious point at which somebody would have been able to see 
Mr Hs PIN. And it seemed odd that Mr Hs Tesco Bank credit card was with other cards  in 
his wallet  and he hadnt noticed it was missing. In summary it thought Mr H had authorised 
the withdrawals.
Mr H got back in touch  with Tesco Bank.  This time he told it that he had kept the original 
information about his PIN in his wardrobe at home.  He said he lived with family and was sure 
they wouldnt have  taken his card and PIN details  and made the withdrawals.
Tesco Bank didnt  think the withdrawals looked  like the actions of a fraudster. The 
withdrawals had been spaced  out over quite  a few days. And there was still the ability to take 
more money out (within  Mr Hs cash limit) when the withdrawals stopped.
As Tesco Bank still wouldnt refund the money Mr H got in touch with us. One of our 
investigators looked into things for him.
Our investigator recommended Tesco Bank  refund the money to Mr H. She did so bearing  in 
mind the requirements  of the Payment Service Regulations 2009 (the PSRs)  as these set 
out when a bank can normally hold a customer responsible for spending  (in this case  
withdrawals) on their account.
In summary,  the investigator was satisfied Mr Hs story about what had happened  was 
credible. Hed told us he hadnt  written  the PIN down anywhere.  The credit  card was in his 
wallet (where he kept his travel pass) so it was understandable he hadnt  noticed it was 
missing. And the withdrawals had happened in one part of London, which  Mr H said he 
hadnt visited  he normally used his credit card elsewhere.
Tesco Bank didnt  agree with the investigators  view. It asked for an ombudsman  to review  
the complaint  and issue a final decision on it. In summary, Tesco Bank  said some of the 
information in the investigators  view contradicted what Mr H had told it earlier  on.
Ref: DRN84738252In particular the details of Mr H keeping the original PIN information from Tesco Bank and 
the number of cards kept in Mr Hs wallet were different. Mr H had argued  he hadnt  noticed  
his Tesco  Bank  credit  card was missing because hed just been making contactless 
transactions with his other cards   but this wasnt possible if  as Mr H said  there  were  
multiple cards in his wallet.  Theyd clash and spending wouldnt be possible.
It seemed the available evidence pointed to somebody close to Mr H getting and using his 
card. But the investigator just hadnt  considered  this and wasnt prepared to change her 
view.
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in March 2020,  as I wasnt persuaded it was 
right to make Tesco Bank suffer the loss for the cash withdrawals made using Mr Hs credit  
card.
I could see Mr H felt quite  strongly about what had happened here. That was clear from what  
hed said to both our investigator and Tesco Bank.  And thats not surprising.  Over  £1,500  
had been taken out of cash  machines using Mr Hs credit card.  Hes got to pay this money 
back  and hes being charged interest.  So he was bound to be concerned.
But I had to tell Mr H that I didnt agree with the investigators recommendation. I thought  
Tesco Bank was right.  And I didnt propose making  it refund the money to Mr H.
In summary  I thought  the points Tesco Bank made were enough to cast doubt on what  Mr H 
had said. And I dont think all of what Mr H said actually  supported  his case.
So, I went on to explain the issues I considered  in coming to my conclusion that it wouldnt 
be fair to make  Tesco Bank refund Mr H the money that was withdrawn.
did Mr H take enough care of his credit card and PIN?
It seemed strange  that Mr H didnt notice his Tesco Bank credit card wasnt  in his wallet   
particularly as hed told us this appears  to be a small one thats  primarily used to hold his 
travel pass.
And I wasnt persuaded by Mr Hs suggestion that he wouldnt have noticed it was missing, 
because he used his other bank cards  to make contactless payments. As Tesco Bank said, 
having multiple cards used for contactless  payments in the same wallet is likely to lead to a 
clash.
Mr H used his Tesco Bank a few times most months during 2017 up to October. He then 
didnt use it again.  This seemed odd. I hadnt  at that time  seen details of any other  
payment cards (credit  or debit) that he used during the time he wasnt using his Tesco Bank  
one.
I checked what was said during the various telephone conversations  between Mr H and 
Tesco Bank about his PIN. He changed his story.  At first Mr H said he memorised the PIN 
and nobody else knew it. But he later told Tesco  Bank  he kept the original PIN notification  at 
home. This didnt help him as this is something the terms  and conditions  of his account say 
he shouldnt do. So he was leaving his account open to abuse.
Ref: DRN84738253There was no obvious point at which an unknown third party  could have seen Mr Hs PIN 
when he was using  his card. And any fraudster  would  have  had to remember the PIN on the 
off chance of being able to get his card at a later date. The last time Mr H used  his Tesco  
Bank card was mid-October 2017  and the withdrawals didnt start until late December. Thats  
around 10 weeks, which I didnt think was very likely.
When I added the lack of certainty about  where Mr H kept his Tesco  Bank credit card and 
the possibility  of his PIN being accessible to others, I couldnt be sure that he took enough 
care of his card and security information.
the location of the withdrawals and other transactions
Mr H said he didnt go to the part of London where  the withdrawals were  made   he used his 
card elsewhere. But I could see from copies of his monthly statements spending Mr H made 
using his Tesco Bank card in broadly  the same part of London as the withdrawals. His card 
was used to buy things in the locality in September and October 2017.
I accepted this alone doesnt prove Mr H made the withdrawals. But it didnt help 
convince me other parts of his story are right.
do the withdrawals  look like they were made by a fraudster?
The pattern  of the withdrawals wasnt what Id expect from a fraudster. The timing of them 
suggested the person making  them was being  careful and watching to see if they were 
noticed  either by Mr H or Tesco Bank.
And I noted a balance  enquiry was made  a few days before Mr H said he noticed what had 
happened. At this time it was possible for the fraudster to still take out more  cash.  But they 
didnt do so. Again, this suggested they were being  careful and watching to see if their 
actions came to light.
have the relevant law, rules, regulations etc. been  considered?
Were an informal dispute resolution  service  as an alternative to the courts.  But in coming 
to my decision on any complaint, I must take into account all the circumstances  in this 
case surrounding the withdrawals that are being  disputed. And I must take account  of, 
amongst other things,  relevant  law, rules and regulations.
Here the investigator  was right that the PSRs are relevant. They are regulations made  under  
statute  so they are legal  requirements. And I didnt think Tesco  Bank is disputing  this  
rather how they have  been interpreted in light of the circumstances.
So, I was satisfied the relevant law, rules and regulations had been considered by the 
investigator. And they are what  I was mindful of in my consideration.
Ref: DRN84738254the wider circumstances of the complaint
But the key thing is whether those requirements  can be applied to the circumstances of 
Mr Hs complaint purely in terms of what is right or wrong. The various requirements have 
to be put in context.  Thats what is meant by us having to consider all the circumstances of 
what happened and, in light of those, deciding what  is a fair and reasonable outcome  for 
both parties.
Here, I didnt  think the investigator  had taken proper account of the wider circumstances. 
I wasnt persuaded by what  Mr H said.
who might  have carried out the withdrawals?
It isnt our job  or Tesco Banks  to find out who actually made the withdrawals. The key 
thing is to determine whether Mr H can be held responsible for them.
Even though  I had many doubts about what Mr H had said, I didnt  think  there was any 
evidence he actually made the withdrawals  himself. That was of course  possible.  But 
I thought it more likely that somebody close and known to Mr H (either at home or at work) 
made them.
I realised that was a difficult message to give. But its where the available  evidence  pointed.
summary
Clearly it wasnt  fair that Mr H had lost a large  amount of money. But that didnt necessarily 
mean itd be fair to make Tesco Bank suffer  the loss.
I thought there are sufficient doubts over what Mr H had told Tesco  Bank and us for me to 
conclude that it wouldnt be fair to make Tesco Bank  refund Mr H the money.
responses to my provisional  decision
Not surprisingly, Tesco Bank was happy with my provisional decision  but Mr H wasnt.
Mr H thought Id got things wrong. He said the cash withdrawals were out of character with 
how his account  had been used  previously.  Tesco Bank hadnt notified him about  any of the 
withdrawals.
And he said it was unlikely somebody would have just used his Tesco  Bank credit card for 
the withdrawals. Hed got a large amount of money in other accounts. So if the fraud  was 
carried out by somebody  who knew him well  as Id said might be possible  theyd have 
taken much more money.
my further  findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I accept the cash withdrawals are out of character with Mr Hs previous use of his account. 
So he might expect Tesco Bank to contact him if it thought something looked odd.
Ref: DRN84738255But I have to balance  that against the fact the withdrawals were made using his genuine 
card and the correct  PIN. So Tesco Bank  wouldnt necessarily think  there  was anything 
wrong. And drawing cash out in the run up to the Christmas and New Year period is quite 
common.
Mr H sent in some further information about  the use of his other accounts. And I got more 
from one of the other banks involved. Ive considered this additional information carefully and 
Im sorry  for the delay this has caused to issuing this final decision. But I hope that Mr H will 
understand that Ive wanted  to think about  what hes said and make sure Im satisfied Ive 
covered the points hed raised.
I accept Mr H had substantial sums in his other  accounts. So these might seem  a more  
obvious target for a fraudster. But I can also see that he was using these accounts in the 
time before the cash withdrawals were  made   not greatly, but he would have noticed  the 
card(s) missing or the balances after certain transactions  were carried  out.
This points  me further to the person making the cash withdrawals using Mr Hs Tesco  Bank 
credit card was aware of how (and which)  accounts he was using at the time. And that is 
most likely somebody known to Mr H.
I cant ignore the contradictory evidence Mr H has given to us and Tesco  Bank around where 
his card was and how hed kept (or not) the security  information.
So I remain  of the view the withdrawals were most likely carried out by somebody known to 
Mr H, who had access to his card and security information. Im not persuaded Mr H took 
sufficient care of either his card or security information to make me think  Tesco Bank  should  
suffer the loss Mr H has had.
I realise that not changing my provisional decision will be a big disappointment to Mr H. But 
my decision  brings to an end what we, in trying to resolve Mr Hs dispute with Tesco Bank 
informally  can do. Im sorry we cant help Mr H any further on this.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  Mr Hs complaint 
and Tesco Personal Finance PLC (trading as Tesco Bank)  doesnt  have to refund him the 
money taken out of cash machines using  his credit card.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 October  2020.
Andrew Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8473825