K820x#14complaint
O, a limited company,  complains that Elavon Financial Services Designated Activity 
Company did not warn  it about the risks of taking  a manual card payment and which resulted 
in it losing money.
background
O has a merchant processing agreement with Elavon. O took a payment for £699 from a 
customer by card. It says the card was swiped  but the information from Elavon is that the 
card details were keyed in. A chargeback was raised by the genuine cardholder saying that 
this payment was not authorised. Although the chargeback was defended  this was not 
successful. O says that a member of staff called Elavon  before the goods were  released. O 
says it was told that the payment had gone through and was authorised.  So, it wants  to be 
compensated for its loss.
Our investigator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that the operating  
guide from Elavon  sets out the specific risk of payments taken in this way. And that O would 
have full liability if the payment was fraudulent or not authorised. During the call referred  to 
Elavon had said that the payment was authorised. That did not mean it was guaranteed but 
that the card involved had not been  reported lost or stolen at that time and there  were  
sufficient funds. Elavon  had tried to defend the chargeback  but it was not in control  of the 
outcome.
O did not agree. It thought that Elavon should have warned it about the particular risks and 
the possibility  of a chargeback. The loss of £699  was a significant  one and O wanted  the 
complaint reviewed.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen a transcript  of the short  call between O and Elavon shortly  after this payment was 
taken. The member of staff from O says that the card is a swipe card. And that O wanted  to 
make sure it was definitely authorised and if it went through.  The agent at Elavon confirms 
that it was authorised and successful. Following this conversation  the goods were  released 
to the customer who was present at the time.
I appreciate that O says it had not processed  a swipe  only card before and wanted some  
reassurance. One issue here as our investigator  has said is that authorisation for a card 
payment has a specific meaning   irrespective of how the card payment is taken. Under 
section 7c of the agreement  it is stated  that this does  not mean that payment is guaranteed, 
cannot be later disputed or will protect it from a chargeback.
The terms and conditions  also set out in Section 12 that O would be fully liable for any 
chargeback. But that Elavon would notify  it about any chargeback as soon as reasonably  
practicable.
The documentation  including the operating guide sets out the requirements for processing 
transactions. And the particular  risks where  it cannot  be proved that the cardholder was 
present. I think its reasonable for O to be expected to follow  that guide especially for types 
Ref: DRN81394762of payments it was not familiar with and especially where it had any concerns. I dont see 
that it asked the agent at Elavon for any specific  information  about that. And its not clear to 
me that the agent would  have been aware  at that point, for example, that the card details 
had been keyed in and not swiped as it had been  told.
The payment was made on 17 October  2018  and Elavon contacted  O on 18 December 2018 
about the chargeback giving it until 15 January 2019 to respond and provide evidence.  O 
was unable to provide  strong enough  evidence to show that the cardholder  was present. 
That would have  included,  as Elavon says in its final response,  a swipe of the card.  So 
although O explained the circumstances when it received notice of the chargeback, its 
evidence was not strong enough to defend it.
I dont doubt based on what O says that its been the victim of fraud.  But Im afraid  that 
Elavon was not responsible for that loss and, for the reasons Ive given, I dont have a basis 
to require it to refund  the payment.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 September 2019.  
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8139476