K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that Santander UK Plc mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy in 2001.  
background
Mr W bought the PPI alongside his mortgage.  He thinks the PPI was mis-sold.
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint, but didnt think it should  be upheld.  In particular, our 
adjudicator didnt think Mr W had lost out financially   as it looked as though  Mr W had 
cancelled the policy soon after it started and received a refund of the premium  hed paid at 
that time.  
Mr W doesnt agree. The complaint  has been referred to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on what Ive seen,  Mr Ws PPI policy started on 14 August 2001.  And Santander has 
sent us records  from the insurer. This shows a termination date of 1 October 2001.
Santander has also sent us records showing the payments it says Mr W made towards  the 
policy. This shows it took a payment of £19.94 by direct debit on 17 September 2001.  But I 
see a further transaction reversing this on 20 September 2001. And after this date, no further 
payments are shown.
Ive thought about what Mr W has said about  that. Hes sent us a copy  of his bank 
statements. These dont  show any transactions at all in September  2001.  He suggests the 
PPI premiums may have  been taken as part of his monthly mortgage  repayments  and says 
that he also had house insurance which he paid for this way.
Where theres disagreement about what happened, I need to decide whats  most likely 
based on all the information available.
Santander says Mr W made no further  payments after September  2001   and thats 
supported by the records the insurer has showing when the policy  ended.
While Ive carefully considered what Mr W has said, I note that none of the information hes 
sent us shows  that he was paying  for PPI as part of his mortgage payments. I accept that he 
may have  paid for his house insurance that way  but thats a different policy. And though  I 
acknowledge his statements dont show any payments,  this doesnt show that he was paying 
for the policy another way.
For these reasons, based on what Ive seen, I dont think Mr W paid anything towards the 
PPI after 17 September  2001  and I think the only premium Santander collected  was 
refunded shortly afterwards.
Ref: DRN85056382Where I decide, or a business agrees, that a complaint about the sale of PPI should be 
upheld, Id expect  the business  to pay compensation to put the customer  in the financial 
position theyd  be in if they hadnt bought the policy.
But for the reasons Ive explained,  Mr W doesnt appear to have lost out because he was 
sold this policy. He hasnt  paid anything for the policy. So even if I agreed that Santander 
had done something wrong, I wouldnt award any compensation.
Mr W hasnt lost out because Santander  sold him the PPI. It follows  that I dont uphold  the 
complaint or make an award.
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 December  2019.
Edward Hardman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8505638