K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that The Equine and Livestock Insurance Company Limited (ELI) wont  pay 
his pet insurance  policy  claim, that it mis-sold the policy and about its service.  
My references to ELI include its agents.  Mr R is represented by his partner in his complaint 
to us.
background
Mr R and his partner  rescued a dog who unfortunately had an injury to his right leg. They  
paid for his cruciate ligament  rupture operation. As that put them under financial pressure 
they wanted to insure their dog for future issues. Mr R took out the policy in May 2017 and 
told ELI about his dogs operation. He understood the leg which  had been operated on 
wouldnt be covered  for any future issues.
In 2018 Mr R's vet advised the dog needed  an operation for the cruciate  ligament on his left 
leg. Mr R called ELI and was told the operation wouldnt  be covered as from the date the 
policy started it had placed  an exclusion on Mr Rs policy for claims for both stifles and all 
related and associated conditions.
Mr R complained to us that the policy exclusion wasnt clear and the vet term stifles used in 
the exclusion wording  should have been fully explained. Mr R says ELI mis-sold the policy  
as he wouldnt have  taken  the policy if hed known ELI wouldnt cover  a part of this dogs 
body that never had an injury. He also says ELIs service had been upsetting as it showed  
no empathy or willingness  to reach  a resolution.  
Mr R wants ELI to pay the vet costs, make its policy clearer and improve  its service. He 
would also like an apology as ELI's  decision has put him and his partner under a lot of strain.
Our investigator thought ELI had fairly declined the claim and hadnt mis-sold the policy. She 
said she couldnt comment on ELIs complaint handling.
Mr R doesnt agree and wants  an ombudsmans decision. He said the exclusion was only 
mentioned once in 16 pages  of policy documentation, so not clearly stated. ELI wasnt  clear  
it was an unusual exclusion. He thought it unfair  if he had to contact ELI to ask for 
clarification of vet terminology and ELI should  be responsible  for contacting  customers with 
specific exclusions and use clear and precise language.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr R but I dont  uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
the claim
I have to decide whether ELI can fairly  and reasonably rely on the specific  exclusion to 
decline the claim.
Ref: DRN80659282ELIs underwriting guidance (which  it considers when deciding  what  risks it wants  to insure)  
says when it knows an animal has had a cruciate  ligament problem  it will add a specific  
exclusion to a policy  all claims in respect of both stifles and all related and associated  
conditions. So it acted  reasonably in wanting to add the specific  exclusion.
The key issue is did ELI make the exclusion clear, and I think it did. ELIs  letter to Mr R 
enclosing the policy documents says in bold text Please refer to policy  schedule  page 5 of 
your 16 page policy  document to review any specific notes / disclosures / warranties  / 
exclusions that have  been applied to your policy. 
On page 5, Mr Rs policy  schedule, theres  a heading Additional / Notes / Disclosures  / 
Warranties / Exclusions where the above specific exclusion  is clearly listed.
In the Key Facts policy summary document theres  a list of significant  or unusual exclusions.  
Under section 1, vet fees, those exclusions include Any condition  excluded from cover  as 
detailed on the policy schedule or notified separately  by letter  or email.  The specific 
exclusion ELI relies on to decline the claim is detailed in the policy schedule.
Many other insurers would have added the same or similar exclusion given Mr Rs dogs 
medical history. While I dont think the exclusion is unusual it is significant and should be 
highlighted to Mr R. For the above reasons Im satisfied that ELI did adequately  highlight the 
specific exclusion. It didnt  need to do any more  to bring the exclusion  to Mr Rs attention.
ELI acted  reasonably in using the word stifles to anatomically correctly  describe the part of 
the body the exclusion applied to. I dont think ELI needed to give a layperson definition  of 
stifles as if a consumer  didnt understand the term ELI could reasonably  understand that a 
consumer would contact  it for an explanation or find out the meaning through  other research. 
I do see Mr Rs point that a laypersons definition would be helpful, but its absence doesnt 
mean ELI is unfair to rely on the exclusion.
mis-sale
Mr R says the policy was mis-sold because  the exclusion wasnt  clearly set out and/or 
explained. Ive explained why the exclusion was clear enough and reasonably  explained. So 
I dont think the policy  was mis-sold on the basis Mr Rs suggests.
Ive no evidence that the policy was mis-sold  for any other  reason. Mr R and his partner 
bought the policy online and ELI was clear  that it gave no advice about the suitability of the 
policy and didnt recommend a particular  policy to Mr R. 
Mr R says if he bought  the policy on the phone he would have been  told about the specific 
exclusion then. I think thats unlikely as the sales representative may well have not known 
ELIs full underwriting  guidance. Even  if Mr R would have been  told, I still think ELI did 
enough to highlight the specific exclusion to Mr R.
Overall, on the evidence I have, ELI can fairly and reasonably rely on the specific exclusion 
to decline the claim.
complaint handling
Contrary to our investigators comment, we can look at ELIs handling of Mr Rs complaint as 
its ancillary to an insurance claim. 
Ref: DRN80659283I understand Mr R didnt find ELIs responses empathetic  particularly when it left him in a 
difficult position, which Im sorry to hear. But the information ELI gave Mr R was fair and it 
responded to his complaint in a reasonable timescale. Mr R didnt agree with ELI but Ive no 
evidence that it gave poor service.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 February  2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8065928