K820x#14Complaint
Mrs M complains that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited misled her about the interest 
payable on her conditional sale agreement.
Background
In January 2016 Mrs M bought a car which was funded by a conditional  sales agreement. 
She says that she was told the interest  rate would be 8.17%. However,  when she went  in to 
sign the agreement  and collect the car, the interest  rate had gone up to 17.9%. She says 
she was told she would  get the excess interest  back at the end of the agreement.
Later she asked for a refund  of the additional  interest back amounting  to some £2,300 as 
was agreed at the outset. Her request was refused  and she complained.  She then brought  
her complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our adjudicators who didnt 
recommend it be upheld.
He noted the finance  agreement signed  by Mrs M quoted an interest rate of 8.17% per year 
(fixed). It also set out the annual percentage rate (APR)  of 17.9% fixed. He said the figures 
differed only because they are different ways of expressing the cost of the finance,  but the 
overall cost remains the same.
He contacted the dealer  which sold the car and while the salesman had moved on it 
confirmed that there had been no special offer which returned the interest to the buyer.  He 
concluded that there wasnt  sufficient evidence of any misrepresentation by the bank. Mrs M 
didnt agree and said just because the salesman had left the company didnt mean she 
should be refused  her refund.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have noted the agreement  which Mrs M signed  and which sets out two interest rates. This 
is simply two ways  of saying the same thing and the amount of interest chargeable is the 
same using both methods  of calculating it. I can appreciate this can be confusing  and I can 
see that it may have  caused Mrs M to query it when she collected  the car.
I appreciate she says the salesman told her she would  get the excess interest  back, but I 
find that surprising.  The dealer says it didnt have any special deal on and if it did then it 
would be noted  in the paperwork given  to Mrs M. The most likely explanation  is that there 
was some confusion.  Mrs M signed up to an agreement and I can see no basis  for saying 
she should any or all of the interest  back.
Mrs M has also says that she thought she was dealing with Barclays  and not Clydesdale. I 
am happy to be able to reassure her that they are one and the same. Barclays  is the trading 
name of Clydesdale. 
Ref: DRN81380352My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or reject  my decision before 
14 May 2020.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8138035