K820x#14complaint
Mr R says Nextcredit Limited, (NL), irresponsibly lent to him. Mr Rs complaint is brought  to 
this service on his behalf by a claims management  company.  But for ease I shall refer below 
to all actions being taken by Mr R. 
background
Mr R was given seven  short term loans  by NL from February 2015 to March  2017. 
Loans 1 to 6 were repayable by one repayment. Loan 7 was repayable  by four monthly 
repayments. Loan 7 hadnt been  repaid. A summary of the loans taken out by Mr R is shown 
below:
Loan number 
Date of loan Repayment date
Loan amount 
Highest repayment  amount  
1. 15/2/15 27/2/15 £100 £111.20
2. 8/3/15 13/3/15 £100 £116.80
3. 11/4/15 30/4/15 £100 £116.80
4. 12/5/15 22/5/15 £100 £122.40
5. 17/7/15 8/8/15 £100 £116.80
6. 14/9/15 30/9/15 £200 £233.60
7. 6/3/17 Unpaid £300 £123
our adjudicators view
Mr Rs complaint was assessed  by one of our adjudicators. He didnt think NL had been 
wrong to give Loans 1 to 3 to Mr R. But he recommended that Mr Rs complaint about 
Loans 4 to 6 should  be upheld. 
NL disagreed. It said, in summary, that there was no pattern in lending between  Loans 2 
and 6 as there were  irregular gaps between  the loans of 4 to 29 days. It also said that 
Loans 4, 5 and 6 had been paid on the due date without apparent difficulty. It had conducted 
a full financial review  on the phone with Mr R before Loans 5 and 6. It noted that Mr R lived 
at home  and had few non-discretionary expenditure items and that Mr Rs loans didnt  
increase until Loan  6. It said that the checks it performed showed that Mr R could afford the 
loans and that he had sufficient disposable  income  to repay  the loans.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr R 
and to NL on 28 November 2019. I summarise  my findings:
I noted that when  NL lent to Mr R the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  
and relevant regulations and guidance  included  its Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC).  
The CONC  contained guidance for lenders about  responsible lending.  
I said that NL needed  to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this meant that it should have  carried out proportionate checks  to make sure Mr R 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I thought  less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.   
Ref: DRN87263012But certain factors might  point to the fact that NL should fairly and reasonably have  done  
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors included:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer had been  given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated  
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There might  even come a point where the lending  history  and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrated that the lending was unsustainable.
I thought it was important  to say that NL was required to establish  whether Mr R could 
sustainably repay  his loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict 
pounds and pence calculation. 
I explained that the loan payments  being  affordable on this basis  might  be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it didnt automatically follow  this 
was the case.  This was because the CONC defined sustainable as being without undue  
difficulties and in particular the consumer  should be able to make repayments, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to meet  the repayments. 
And it followed that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly  and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wouldnt be able to make their repayments  sustainably  if they were unlikely to be 
able to make  their repayments without borrowing further. 
Id carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all meant for Mr Rs complaint.
NL had made a number  of checks before it lent to Mr R. It had asked  him for details of his 
monthly income and expenditure.  Mr Rs declared income for Loans 1 to 7 ranged  from 
£1,164 to £1,600  according to NLs records and the phone conversations  it had with Mr R. 
His declared expenditure before Loans  1 to 6 ranged from £244 to £364.  It appeared that his 
regular expenditure wasnt high as he lived with his family.  
NL had also checked Mr Rs credit file before Loans  1, 6 and 7. It had provided us with the 
results of those credit  checks.  NLs credit  check before Loan 1 showed  around eight defaults 
in the period 17 to 29 months  before his application  indicating that Mr R had historic  financial 
issues which hed appeared to have  recovered  from. He had no defaults or delinquent 
accounts in the previous twelve months  and no active  county  court judgements or 
bankruptcy orders. 
Ref: DRN87263013I could see that Mr R had experienced  some financial problems in the past. But importantly 
the credit  check showed his last default had happened around 17 months  before.  I could  see 
that the credit checks also showed that Mr R had three active accounts with one opened in 
the previous six months. I didnt think the results of the credit checks  before Loan 1 should 
have caused NL to decide not to lend to Mr R. 
I couldnt see that wed received a credit report from Mr R, so I couldnt  say there were 
entries on his file that shouldve concerned NL.
Mr R needed to make monthly loan repayments of around £111.20  to £122.40  to NL for 
Loans 1 to 4. I thought these were  relatively modest  compared to Mr Rs declared income. 
And I didnt  think the repayments were so large  that it was obvious they wouldve caused 
Mr R financial  difficulty. 
Given Mr Rs repayment amounts, what was apparent about his circumstances  at the time, 
and his history with the lender, I didnt  think it wouldve been proportionate  for NL to have  
asked him for the amount of information  that would have been needed to show  Loans 1 to 4 
were unsustainable.  
And there wasnt anything  in the information  Mr R provided before Loans 1 to 4 or the 
information NL shouldve been  aware of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate to start 
verifying what he was saying. So I didnt think NL was wrong  to give Loans  1 to 4 to Mr R. 
Mr R took out Loan 5 around two months after hed repaid Loan 4. The loan amount was 
again £100. But as Loan 5 was Mr Rs fifth loan in around five months, I thought NL should 
have been concerned that Mr R might have been  reliant on its lending. And I didnt think  it 
was reasonable  for NL to base its assessment before Loan  5 on the information provided  by 
Mr R without taking steps to independently check what hed declared. So I thought  it might  
have been proportionate  at that time for NL to have independently reviewed the true state of 
Mr Rs finances. As far as I could see NL didnt do this. So I needed  to think  about  what NL 
wouldve seen if it had carried  out proportionate checks. 
I would have normally looked at the borrowers  bank statements to see what proportionate 
checks would likely  have shown. Unfortunately Id not seen Mr Rs bank  statements  for the 
month before Loan 5. I noted  that the adjudicator had asked  Mr R for his bank statements in 
October 2018 and again in May 2019, so he had had ample  time to provide these. So I 
couldnt say that if NL had completed sufficient  checks, it would have found  that Mr R 
couldnt afford to repay Loan  5 sustainably. So I couldnt say that NL was wrong  to give 
Loan 5 to Mr R.
Mr R took out Loan 6 around five weeks after hed repaid  Loan  5. The loan amount  and loan 
repayment had doubled. And as Loan  6 was Mr Rs sixth loan in around  seven  months, I 
thought NL should again have been  concerned  that Mr R might have been reliant on its 
lending. And again  I didnt  think it was reasonable for NL to base its assessment before 
Loan 6 on the information provided by Mr R without taking steps to independently check  
what hed declared.  So I thought it might  have been  proportionate  at this time for NL to have 
independently reviewed the true state  of Mr Rs finances. As far as I could  see NL didnt do 
this. So I needed  to think about what NL wouldve  seen if it had carried out proportionate 
checks. 
I would have normally looked at the borrowers  bank statements to see what proportionate 
checks would likely  have shown. Unfortunately Id not seen Mr Rs bank  statements  for the 
Ref: DRN87263014month before Loan 6. So I couldnt say that if NL had completed sufficient checks,  it would 
have found that Mr R couldnt afford to repay Loan 6 sustainably.  So I couldnt say that NL 
was wrong to give Loan 6 to Mr R.
I noted that there was a gap of around 17 months between  Mr R repaying Loan  6 and asking 
to borrow again.  I thought  it was reasonable for NL to have considered that gap in lending as 
an indication  that Mr R wasnt reliant  on its loans. So Loan  7 was the first loan in a new chain 
of lending.
I thought the repayment amounts for Loan 7 were relatively modest  compared  to the income  
that Mr R declared to NL. I could  see that its credit check showed  one recent loan for £286 
but there were no delinquent accounts  or defaults in the previous twelve months. I didnt  
think the credit check should  have caused  additional  concerns to NL. Id also listened to the 
telephone conversation between Mr R and NL in which Mr R was asked for details of his 
regular expenditure including other short term loans. I could see that Mr R had disclosed one 
other short term loan with two monthly  repayments left on it. I thought  that NL had made 
proportionate checks before Loan 7.
So given Mr Rs repayment  amounts, what was apparent about his circumstances  at the 
time, and his history  with the lender, I didnt think it wouldve  been  proportionate for NL to 
have asked him for the amount of information  that would have been needed to show  the 
lending was unsustainable.  
And there wasnt anything  in the information  Mr R provided before Loan 7 or the information 
NL shouldve been aware of, which meant  it wouldve  been  proportionate to start verifying 
what he was saying.  So I didnt think NL was wrong  to give Loan 7 to Mr R.
Subject to any further representations by Mr R or NL my provisional decision  was that 
I didnt intend  to uphold this complaint.
Mr R responded to my provisional decision to say that he rejected it. But he didnt provide 
any reasons for doing so.
NL responded  to my provisional decision to say it had nothing  to add.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Given that Mr R and NL have given me nothing further to consider, I see no reason to depart 
from the conclusions  I reached in my provisional decision. It follows  that I dont uphold  this 
complaint.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 February  2020.
Ref: DRN87263015Roslyn Rawson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8726301