K821x#15complaint
Mrs B complains that a car she acquired  through a hire purchase agreement with 
FirstRand Bank Limited (trading as Motonovo Finance)  was of unsatisfactory  quality.
background
I set out the background  to this complaint and my provisional findings by way of a provisional  
decision, which included  the relevant background. A copy  of it is attached below, and it 
forms part of this final decision. I proposed that FirstRand should refund the cost of any 
coolant related  issues that Mrs B had incurred.  And pay Mrs B £250 for the trouble and 
upset shed suffered  due to the issues with the car. I invited Mrs B and FirstRand to give me 
any more evidence and information they wanted  me to consider before issuing my final 
decision. 
Mrs B responded to my provisional decision to say she accepted it. FirstRand  didnt say 
whether or not they accepted my provisional  decision. They  also havent told us they have 
anything more to add.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion I did in my provisional  decision.
As I said in my provisional findings,  I dont think  FirstRand have treated Mrs B fairly in not 
refunding the costs  shes paid to repair the cars coolant issues.  I think  that Mrs B has been  
caused distress and inconvenience due to FirstRands handling  of their complaint - and by 
having to spend significant amounts of money  to continually repair the car so she could use 
it as expected. 
So this final decision confirms the findings and proposed  settlement as set out in my 
provisional decision.
putting things right
As Ive reached the same conclusion  as in my provisional decision, FirstRand Bank Limited  
must do the following:
refund  Mrs B the £2,731.82  she paid to repair the head gasket;
refund  Mrs B the £883.99  she paid for repairs related to coolant issues experienced 
by the car;
pay Mrs B 8% per year simple  interest  on this amount from the date Mrs B paid for 
the repairs until the date of settlement;
pay Mrs B £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  FirstRand  Bank Limited must follow  the instructions Ive set out 
above.
Ref: DRN81404292Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 April 2019.
Jenny Lomax
ombudsman
Ref: DRN81404293copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mrs B complains that a car she acquired  through a hire purchase agreement with FirstRand Bank 
Limited (trading as Motonovo  Finance) was of unsatisfactory quality.
background
Mrs B took out a hire purchase agreement with FirstRand in December 2015 to buy a used car. And 
she also took out an extended warranty at the same  time.  She told us that shortly after in January 
2016 she experienced issues relating to the cars coolant  and had to return it to the garage to repair. 
Mrs B was told that the problem had been fixed and that she didnt  have to pay for any repairs as it 
was covered by the warranty.
She then had to return it again in June 2016 as the repair  hadnt worked. She was told at this point 
the garage had been sold and her warranty was no longer  valid. However, the new dealership owner 
agreed to repair the car for her for free - at a garage of his choosing.  After a few days the car was 
returned back  to Mrs B and she was told the car had been repaired.    
In November 2016, Mrs B had an issue with the cars head gasket  so she returned it to the dealership 
she got it from - and again they repaired the car. However, in September  2017 the cars head gasket  
completely broke causing  significant repair  costs. Mrs B was told by the independent  garage that 
there was evidence  a repair additive had been added to her coolant - which would likely have caused 
the problems shed experienced  since  accepting  the car. Based on this information, Mrs B felt that the 
issues with the car had been  present  at the point of sale and the vehicle wasnt fit for purpose.  So she 
complained to FirstRand and asked them to cover the repair costs.
FirstRand didnt uphold the complaint. They said that Mrs B hadnt contacted them until after shed  
had the car for six months, and that there wasnt any evidence provided  to show that the issues with 
the car were present from the point of sale. However,  they said that if Mrs B could get an independent  
engineers report confirming this and two quotes for the repair work, they would reconsider her 
complaint. 
Mrs B sent FirstRand the repair bill from her garage and a statement from an independent  engineer 
saying it was likely the issues shed  experienced were present at the point of sale - but due to the time 
that had passed there wouldnt be any point in them  fully inspecting it. FirstRand didnt accept  this as 
they said the engineer hadnt actually  seen the car - so they wouldnt pay the repair costs. Mrs B 
didnt agree  so she asked this service to look into her complaint. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She said the independent  engineers statement,  and a 
statement from the garage  - which had carried out several repairs  - both said that it was probable that 
the issues  Mrs B had experienced with the car had been there at the point of sale.  So she felt it was 
likely that this was the case. FirstRand didnt agree  so the complaint has been passed  to me to make 
a decision. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, Ive come to the same conclusion as the 
investigator, for broadly the same reasons.  Where theres no clear information on a particular point,  
Ive made my decision on the balance  of probabilities, in other words  what  I think  is more likely than 
not to have  happened. 
Mrs B acquired the car under a hire purchase agreement with FirstRand.  Under legislation,  FirstRand 
is required to ensure  that the car supplied  is of satisfactory quality - that is what a reasonable person 
would consider to be satisfactory  taking into account the age and mileage of the vehicle. Having  said 
that, theres a limit to that responsibility  and that is that any problem must have been present or 
Ref: DRN81404294developing at the point  of sale. Under  the legislation, where the car is found  to be of unsatisfactory 
quality within the first six months, there is a presumption  that it was of unsatisfactory quality when 
supplied, unless theres information to overturn that view. 
In this case, Mrs B acquired the car in December 2015. The car was seven years old and had done 
over 71,000 miles - so its likely it would have shown signs of wear and tear. 
was there a defect at the point of sale?
Mrs B told us that shed had problems with the cars  coolant  within the first month of getting  it. So she 
contacted the dealership  for them to repair it - as she felt this should be covered under the warranty 
shed purchased. Water is a key component  in a cars  engine and is required  to keep the engine cool 
and to therefore  prevent it from overheating. I dont think this is a wear and tear issue,  but I think it 
would be reasonable to expect a car, even of this age and mileage, to be sold with a functioning  
coolant system that hadnt already experienced a temporary  repair. 
As there  have  been  changes  in ownership, the dealership doesnt  have any records  of exactly what 
work was carried out when Mrs B returned the car in January and June. Mrs B says the car was there 
each time for a couple of days and when  it was returned she was told all the problems had been  
resolved. She doesnt have  any further documentary evidence referring to what  repairs were  
completed - as these  were done at no cost to her through the warranty or as a goodwill gesture  by the 
dealerships new owners. This seems plausible to me and I wouldnt expect  Mrs B to have any further 
supporting evidence when  she didnt  have  to pay for the repairs,  and she was told theyd been fixed. 
Mrs B has been consistent  throughout her complaint and clear  that the original and repeated  issues 
all relate to a coolant fault with the car. Even in the absence of any supporting documentary  evidence  
referring to the exact nature  of the fault, Im persuaded that there was an initial fault with the cars 
coolant system that wasnt successfully repaired.
While I accept  the car wasnt new and had already done over 71,000 miles, Mrs B reported what  I 
consider to be a significant issue within days of taking possession of the car. Given the 
circumstances, I think it more likely  than not that the car was not of satisfactory  quality when it was 
supplied to Mrs B. So what I need to consider  is whether the subsequent head  gasket failure is 
something that is merely unfortunate, or if the failure was directly linked  to the coolant leak that was 
present at the point the car was supplied  to Mrs B.
was the head gasket failure a point  of sale issue?
The head gasket failed on the car towards  the end of September 2017 - by which time Mrs B had 
completed around 20,000 miles. Theres no dispute about the failure,  only the probable cause and 
timeframe leading  to the failure.
FirstRand said that Mrs B didnt make them  aware of the issues  with the car until September  2017 so 
they said that based on this, Mrs B had driven the car without fault since receiving it. But I dont agree. 
Ive seen evidence that Mrs B tried to take steps to fix the problem  herself  before this point.  Mrs B has 
provided numerous  receipts relating to various  coolant related issues,  including paying a local garage 
£624.84 in November 2016, and a further £32.83 in December 2016 for a replacement pipe - before 
the garage advised her to return the car to the original dealership. 
It was only after the significant issue in September 2017 when Mrs B was told about  the additive in 
the radiator that lead to the head gasket failure  - leading to a bill in October 2017 of £2,731.82 - that 
she contacted FirstRand about the car being of unsatisfactory quality. I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Mrs B not to contact FirstRand prior to this point as she wasnt aware of the 
underlying issues and shed previously managed to get the car repaired at reasonable cost. 
Ive also seen  that even after Mrs B had contacted  FirstRand to make them  aware of what had 
happened, the car was still experiencing related issues. And that Mrs B continued to incur  further 
costs to continue using the car due to its coolant issues  - including £101.52 in December  2017 to 
replace the heating element,  and £124.80  in July 2018 for new coolant housing.
Ref: DRN81404295When Mrs B did contact FirstRand about the head gasket failure, they asked her to get an 
independent engineers  report  to confirm  the issue was present at the point of sale. So Mrs B 
contacted a well-known vehicle inspector to ask them to inspect the car. The inspection  engineer told 
Mrs B that it wouldnt  be useful to inspect the car now given the time that had passed - and the repairs  
that had already been  completed.  However,  he did confirm that based on what  Mrs B had said it was 
likely the fault was present at the point of sale.  
I acknowledge FirstRands reasons for rejecting  the independent engineers statement as it wasnt a 
physical inspection on the car. But I feel that a physical  inspection wouldnt have proved conclusive at 
the time FirstRand asked for it - as the car had already  been  returned to the dealership  for several 
repairs before the head gasket failed. Ive also noted that Mrs B said she kept the damaged parts 
should FirstRand wish to see them, but they declined.
Having very carefully considered all the evidence thats been presented  to me, I think its most  likely 
that the car wasnt of satisfactory  quality  when it was supplied to Mrs B - as it was supplied  with a 
coolant issue.  I think  its more  likely than not that the additive that was added to prevent the coolant 
leak was either present  when the dealership bought the car or was added  by one of the garages the 
supplying dealership used  when Mrs B returned the car after shed  taken  possession of it. The 
additive is likely to have provided  only a temporary repair which might explain why the car was able to 
be driven for some  miles. However,  with the temporary repair it should  have been clear  that further 
coolant issues  or failure would again materialise. Ultimately, I find the car was supplied  with a defect 
and that the attempts at repair were only temporary. 
Whilst I recognise that its unfortunate  that there was a change-over in the garage management, I 
dont think its fair to hold Mrs B responsible. Mrs B has given  us her version of events which I think  
are plausible  - and appear to be validated by both the independent engineer  and independent  garage 
that carried  out various repairs. On this basis, I think that FirstRand is responsible  for resolving the 
issue and putting things right. So I think they should refund Mrs B the cost of the repairs  relating to the 
ongoing coolant problem.  
trouble and upset
I recognise that Mrs B has been caused  distress because shes had the worry of her car not working 
and incurred  costs of roughly £3,000 which couldve been spent  elsewhere. Shes also had the 
inconvenience of returning the car to various garages on numerous occasions. So I feel that 
FirstRand should pay her £250 compensation for the trouble and upset shes suffered.  
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I uphold the complaint.  
So subject to any further evidence or arguments I might  receive from the parties  by 
21 February 2019 - I intend  to direct FirstRand Bank to do the following:
refund Mrs B the £2,731.82  she paid to repair  the head gasket;
refund Mrs B the £883.99 she paid for repairs related to coolant issues experienced by the 
car;
pay Mrs B 8% per year simple interest on this amount from the date Mrs B paid for the repairs  
until the date of settlement;
pay Mrs B £250  for the distress and inconvenience  caused.
Jenny Lomax
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8140429