K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about an equity release mortgage  Mr and Mrs T took out with 
Legal & General Home  Finance Limited  (L&G) in 2018. This mortgage  replaced an existing 
equity release mortgage Mr and Mrs T had taken out the year before, also with L&G.  Theyd 
taken the new mortgage out hoping to raise extra  funds to replenish their savings, but ended  
up with far less than theyd expected.
Mr and Mrs T think its wrong that they had to commit to a binding process where  the 
outcome wasnt known until it was too late to stop it.
background
The events leading up to, and arising  out of, the complaint are complex.  Ive read everything,  
and its apparent that some parts of the evidence are less relevant to the underlying case 
than others. There are also a lot of duplication and repetition of arguments.  In what follows, I 
have, by necessity,  summarised events  in rather less detail than has been  presented,  using 
my own words and rounding some of the figures  involved. 
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection  of the informal service  we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think  it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint.  This approach is consistent with what  our 
enabling legislation requires of me. 
It allows me to focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be 
side-tracked by matters which, although  presented as material, are, in my opinion peripheral 
or, in some instances,  have little or no impact on the broader outcome. One reason I have 
left out a lot of the detail  is to avoid the risk of identifying the consumer when my decision is 
published. Another is because much of the complaint lies beyond  my remit, for various  
reasons.
In 2017, Mr and Mrs T bought their current home using  the first equity release mortgage 
from L&G; the amount  of the mortgage  was £83,200. This mortgage was arranged by, and 
on the advice  and recommendation of, a broker  firm Ill call R. After completing and moving 
in, Mr and Mrs T refurbished the house,  leaving  their savings depleted. In 2018, they 
contacted L&G to ask for a further advance.  L&G explained that a further advance would 
require them to execute a second  charge,  and that theyd need  to apply through R, just as 
they had with the main advance.
When Mr and Mrs T consulted with R, rather than simply  increase the existing mortgage,  
they were advised  to re-mortgage altogether, albeit still with L&G.  The application was 
submitted, and after the property had been  valued,  L&G issued an offer for a new mortgage 
of £95,700; this was on 2 November 2018.
Mr and Mr T were told by their solicitor that completion was due on 15 November 2018; 
meanwhile, they say R told them theyd receive around £6,800 from the transaction.  In fact, 
completion took place  on 16 November 2018, and Mr and Mrs T ended up with less than 
£3,600. Much of the extra money  had been  taken up with the various fees charged  by R and 
their solicitors, but there  was also an early repayment charge (ERC) payable to L&G for 
redeeming the 2017 mortgage.
When Mr and Mrs T complained, it was apparent they were unhappy with all of the parties 
involved; that is, L&G, R and their solicitors. But insofar as the complaint  was made to L&G, 
Ref: DRN81306262it could only deal with its own part. Its position was, in essence, that the redemption  
statement had been issued promptly on 15 November  2018, and that the ERC had been  
correctly calculated in accordance with the terms of the 2017 mortgage  contract.
Our investigator explained that L&G wasnt responsible for the advice  to re-mortgage and 
pay an ERC rather than apply for a further advance. Mr and Mrs T would need  to complain 
separately to R about that. As far as its role in the transaction was concerned,  he wasnt 
persuaded L&G had done anything wrong, so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld.
Mr and Mrs T have  asked  for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ill make  some general observations before dealing with the substance of the complaint. 
Were not the regulator of financial  businesses, and we dont police their internal processes 
or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority. We deal 
with individual  disputes between businesses and their customers. In doing that, we dont  act 
as a consumer  protection  agent;  nor do we replicate the work  of the courts. Were impartial,  
and we dont take either  sides instructions on how we investigate a complaint. We conduct  
our investigations  and reach our conclusions without interference  from anyone else. 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Its clear Mr and Mrs T feel very 
aggrieved at how things have turned out. Its also clear from reading what theyve said that 
their ire isnt directed just at L&G. But I can only consider this complaint as it relates  to what 
L&G did or didnt  do.
The central point  for Mr and Mrs T is that they committed to a process without knowing what  
the outcome would be. I understand that, but its important to remember  that from L&Gs 
point of view,  all it committed  to do in the 2018  transaction was lend Mr and Mrs T £95,700, 
and thats what  it did. In that context, the outcome was exactly  as it had been proposed.
When Mr and Mrs T refer to the outcome being  unknown, what  theyre really talking about 
how that money was used; specifically, how much of it they received after all other costs had 
been settled. The only part of that process  that came within  L&Gs control  was the amount 
required to repay the 2017 mortgage.  More importantly,  it wasnt  up to L&G to advise 
Mr and Mrs T on the viability  of the transaction or to predict how much new cash it would 
generate for them. That was Rs job. 
Mr and Mrs Ts solicitors  asked for the redemption statement on 15 November  2018,  and Im 
satisfied from the evidence that L&G sent it the same day. Ive no remit to consider what 
happened once  L&G had done that; it had no part in completing the re-mortgage transaction  
and distributing  the net funds to Mr and Mrs T. That just leaves the ERC  itself.  Its a variable 
charge; the right to charge it and the method  of calculating it both derived from the terms of 
the 2017 mortgage contract, which Mr and Mrs T entered into on the advice and 
recommendation of R. Theres no suggestion the ERC was incorrectly  calculated or unfairly  
charged by L&G. It may be that the ERC, once combined with the broker and legal fees, left 
Mr and Mrs T with less than theyd been  expecting,  but thats not because of anything  L&G 
did, or failed to do.
Ref: DRN81306263my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint or make  
any order or award against Legal  & General Home Finance Limited. My final decision 
concludes this services  consideration of this complaint, which  means Ill not be engaging  in 
any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 August  2020.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8130626