K820x#14complaint
Ms S is unhappy about the amount of compensation Financial Insurance  Company  Limited  
(FICL) has offered to settle her complaint about a mis-sold payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy she took out related to a store card.
background
Ms S opened a store card  and took out a PPI policy to cover the repayments in certain  
circumstances. The PPI was cancelled in March 2000. Ms S has now complained  that the 
PPI was mis-sold.
FICL was not responsible for the sale of the PPI but has accepted liability  for the complaint 
as the underwriter of the insurance  policy. It looked at Ms Ss complaint  and agreed  the PPI 
was mis-sold. It offered her £0.10 in compensation to settle the complaint.
Ms S wasnt happy with the compensation as she said FICL hadnt  taken into account the 
whole time the policy was on the card.
Our adjudicator said the premiums Ms S paid had already been  refunded  when the PPI was 
cancelled and what FICL had offered now was fair. 
Ms S still wasnt happy so asked for an ombudsman to look at her complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
FICL has offered  to settle the complaint on the basis the PPI was mis-sold. So I would 
expect it to try to put Ms S in the position  she would have been in if shed never taken out 
the PPI policy. This would involve refunding all the costs Ms S paid for the PPI, including  
interest charged. 
I have reached the same  conclusion as our adjudicator as I think based on the evidence  
available Ms S has got back everything  she has ever paid for the PPI with this store  card 
account ending  6231. However  I dont think the information explained to Ms S was totally 
accurate. 
I shall explain exactly what I have seen and why I think this shows Ms S has got back 
everything she paid for the PPI with this account.
FICL has limited records about accounts before August 2005. It does have some  basic 
computer records which has some summary information about  Ms Ss account  and also a 
copy of her credit card application.
The credit card application was completed  and signed by Ms S on 10 January 1999. This 
application form has to section to choose to take out PPI crossed through,  indicating it 
wasnt selected to be taken out with the card in January 1999.
The basic  summary  computer records FICL  has provided, show the store  card account 
opened on 10 January 1999, which is in line with the date on the credit card application. 
Ref: DRN88572572However the records indicate  the insurance started on 11 December 2000, almost 2 years 
after the original  card was applied for.
It is quite normal that a card for an account is issued  to run for 2 to 3 years and then it is 
replaced. And it was often  been  the case then when a card was replaced a phone  call to 
activate it was made and PPI was often sold during the phone call. There  may also be other 
reasons why a customer speaks to the business  about an account  and PPI could often be 
added during a telephone call. So it isnt unusual  that the PPI is added to an account some 
time after the account was actually opened. Which  I think is what happened here.
The records  from FICL also show the insurance  was cancelled on 6 March 2001.  If the PPI 
was added in December 2000  then the first premium would have been charged on the 
statement in January 2001. It is quite likely  that when Ms S saw the premiums on her 
statements in January and then February 2001  she decided she didnt want  to carry on with 
it, so she cancelled it before her March statement. All the dates in the month, based on the 
credit card agreement date of 10 December,  would support this idea of when the PPI was 
added, shown on statements and cancelled, as being correct.
Also the records from FICL  show a total amount of premiums of £5.41 were ever charged  for 
PPI. This is also shown on another record recording the refund of PPI as two amounts of 
£2.76 and £2.65 making  a total of £5.41. As I think Ms S only paid premiums in January and 
February 2001 then these  two differing amounts  and the refunds in March  2001 would all 
make sense.
When it refunded the premiums on cancellation  of the policy  in March  2001 FICL would only 
have repaid the premiums charged, not any interest  paid on them  when they were part of the 
balance of the card account. At that point the business was only cancelling  the policy  on 
request, not looking at a mis-sale of the PPI. So when  considering  the complaint of Ms S 
about the PPI being mis-sold  it has offered to pay back  the small amount  of interest that 
would have been charged. 
In total FICLs offer to settle the complaint  for this particular store card was £0.10.  Its final 
offer letter showed an amount of £0.14  but the letter also covered another card Ms S 
complained about.  The letter did separate out how much  Ms S was to get for her card ending 
6213, which was the £0.10.
I know Ms S has said her card was opened  in January 1999 and the PPI wasnt  cancelled 
until March 2001.  But I hope my explanation and clarification of the dates the card opened 
and the insurance  ran will help her understand that for this particular card she only ever 
appears to have paid two premiums which have already been refunded.
As I think  Ms S has got back everything  she should  for the mis-sold  PPI I am not upholding 
her complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I think that Financial Insurance Company Limited  has offered 
fair compensation for the mis-sold PPI to Ms S for her store card ending  6213. So Im not 
telling Financial Insurance Company  Limited to do anything else.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 February  2019.
Ref: DRN88572573Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8857257