K820x#14complaint
Mr D say Nationwide Building  Society  (Nationwide) mis-sold him a payment protect 
insurance (PPI) policy alongside his mortgage.
background
Mr D took out a mortgage with Nationwide in 2002 and at the same time bought  a PPI policy. 
The policy was paid for by a monthly premium, but for the first 12 months no premium  was to 
be charged. Later in 2002 Mr D tried to make a claim  on the policy  but it seems this was 
turned down, and the policy was cancelled. 
Mr D complained in 2012  that the PPI was mis-sold. Nationwide said it didnt agree but 
having checked its records it found  Mr D had been wrongly charged for the PPI in the first 12 
months after he had taken it out. So it offered to refund these premium,  plus some interest 
because Mr D was out of pocket. It is unclear if Mr D ever received the correspondence  
about this refund and no acceptance of the offer was received by Nationwide.
In 2016 Nationwide undertook a review and wrote to Mr D again. It now said it thought  the 
PPI had been mis-sold  as Mr D had a pre-existing medical condition which was reflected in 
the facts when the claim had been rejected. So Nationwide agreed to uphold  the mis-sale 
complaint and offered compensation. Again no acceptance of this offer has been received  by 
Nationwide from Mr D.
Mr D brought is complaint  to this service  in 2018. As it was more  than 6 months after 
Nationwide made  its offer there were  questions as to whether we could consider this 
complaint. Nationwide said it didnt think we should, but also indicated  it was still willing to 
honour the offer it made in 2016 if Mr D accepted it.
Our adjudicator considered there were circumstances  to allow  us to look at the issues  and 
put the offer that Nationwide had made  to Mr D. Mr D hasnt accepted the offer and has 
asked for the complaint to be considered by an ombudsman.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ds case. 
can we look at this complaint?
Mr D first brought his complaint to this service in 2018, some two years after Nationwide  had 
agreed to uphold that the PPI was mis-sold  and made him an offer of compensation. 
Nationwide indicated that it thought the complaint should not be considered  by this service 
as it wasnt brought  within the required six months  after the offer letter in 2016, and as 
indicated to Mr D in that letter. 
Mr D has said he never received the letter  in 2016. He is now living  overseas and although 
he uses his sons address for some correspondence in the UK, his son moves around  a lot. 
Mr D also had some medical issues.
Ref: DRN89019692I think taking into account all the circumstances surrounding this case, some of which  are 
exceptional, it is the right thing for all parties that this service considers the issues  relating to 
the PPI and resolves this matter finally.
Mr D took out the PPI at the same  time he took out his mortgage in 2002. When he took out 
the policy it seems he was offered a 12 months premium free period at the start. However, 
Nationwide made  an error  and he was charged premiums for a number of months. It seems 
he also tried to make a claim on the policy in 2002, some months after taking out the PPI but 
this claim was not successful. Nationwide has a little information from that time about Mr Ds 
claim. 
In 2012 when Mr D first raised  a complaint about  the PPI Nationwide  offered to refund the 
premiums that were paid,  plus some  interest for the time Mr D was out of pocket. But it didnt 
uphold his complaint the PPI was mis-sold. It seems Mr D never accepted the offer for the 
refund of the premiums at this time.
In 2016 Nationwide wrote  again  to Mr D but this time said it had reviewed its file and decided  
the PPI had been mis-sold. This was because the information it had from the time of the 
claim in 2002 indicated Mr D had a pre-existing medical condition when he took out the 
policy. Because of this it meant the policy was not suitable for him. So, having upheld  Mr Ds 
mis-sale claim  Nationwide  made  him an offer of compensation.
This offer was only for slightly  more  that the one in 2012. Mr D had only paid the PPI 
premiums for about nine months before he made his unsuccessful claim and the policy was 
then cancelled. As Mr D should  not have been  charged  the premiums  under the 12 months 
free period,  the offer in 2012 was to refund the full amount to Mr D that he had been wrongly 
charged. But the amount  of the premiums  being  refunded for the mis-sale is the same 
amount as Mr D was offered for the refund, as he only paid the premiums for approximately 
nine months. It is only the compensatory interest that slightly  increased between  2012 and 
2016.
I think what Nationwide has offered to settle Mr Ds complaint is fair. It is refunding him all 
the premiums he ever paid for the PPI plus some compensatory  interest for being out of 
pocket. 
In addition, in its letter of 2016,  Nationwide  offered  an additional £100 to cover the costs 
Mr D may have  incurred in pursuing his complaint and for any inconvenience  suffered. 
Mr D has provided to this service a copy of a receipt for some travel  costs he says were 
caused in having to go to the Nationwide offices to provide information  when making  his 
complaint about  the PPI. This receipt  is for £26.06.
I think the additional amount of £100  covers the costs Mr D has paid for his travel to the 
Nationwide offices  and also provides some compensation for trouble and upset. 
Overall, I think the offer that Nationwide made is fair to cover the compensation due for the 
mis-sold PPI and also for costs, trouble and upset caused to Mr D.
I note Mr D raised many issues when he brought his complaint to this service about  several  
other matters and I understand he did get a response about  those  on another  complaint that 
was set up. 
Ref: DRN89019693If there are any other issues  he has about documents or other  matters  that have not been 
addressed, then those  concerns would need  to be taken up separately with the relevant 
authorities.
In this decision I am only considering the mis-sold PPI, taken with Mr Ds mortgage in 2002, 
and I think what has been offered is fair to settle the complaint. So Nationwide should 
arrange to make the payment of the compensation to Mr D if this has not already  been paid.
If Mr D chooses  not to accept my decision, then it is not legally  binding  on Nationwide.  But 
this service will not be able to consider the complaint further.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above  I think the compensation offer by Nationwide 
Building Society, of £84.47 to settle Mr Ds complaint is fair.  I also think  the additional  £100  
offered for trouble  and upset is fair and Im not telling  it to pay anything  more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 June  2020.
Christine Fraser
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8901969