K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains CIS General Insurance Limited (CIS) unfairly  refused  to pay part of his 
buildings insurance  claim.  
background
In March 2018 Mr H discovered damage to a flat roof on his property.  The kitchen below was 
also damaged  by water that had come through  the roof. He claimed on his CIS buildings  
insurance policy. 
CIS initially refused  the claim entirely. It later agreed  to cover the damage to the inside of the 
property. But it continued to refuse  to pay for repairs to the exterior. It said it hadnt been 
caused by an insurable event. It did consider it under the storm cover part of Mr Hs policy.  It 
said that there had been bad weather  but not what it considered a storm. And it said the 
damage wasnt consistent with what it would expect  to see from a storm. Instead bad 
weather had highlighted an existing problem  with the roof.  
Our investigator didnt  think a storm was the cause  of the damage.  So he didnt recommend 
CIS pay the claim. Mr H asked for an ombudsman  to look at the complaint. So its come to 
me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our investigator said, our approach in storm cases is to ask three  questions:
was there a storm on or around  the date of loss?
is the nature of the damage claimed for consistent with storm damage?   and
were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
Its only if we can answer  yes to all three  questions  that we say the insurer  is liable to pay 
the claim.  But I dont  think the answer  is yes to all three in this case.  So Im not making CIS 
pay for the repairs to Mr Hs roof.  
Theres been a lot of discussion in this complaint  about the definition of storm and whether  
there was one around the time the damage happened. I accept  there had been very bad 
weather, including high winds and snow, around  that time. But even if I accepted there had 
been a storm  I still wouldnt say CIS needed to pay the claim. Thats  because  I dont think 
storm conditions were  the main cause  of the damage.
Water got between a felt join according to Mr H. When this froze  it expanded. Then when the 
ice melted it allowed water to get through the felt roof. Mr Hs own roofer  gave a similar  
opinion. He said frozen water between the join caused the felt to part. CIS surveyors  
opinion is also similar. He said water  got between the join.
Mr H says this means a storm caused  the damage. CIS says the weather conditions  simply 
highlighted an existing  problem   the poor condition of the join. I find CIS more persuasive. 
Water needed to get between the joins before  it froze.  CIS said that happening indicates 
there was already an issue with the join. That seems  reasonable to me. 
Ref: DRN85910582If the join was in good condition I wouldnt expect water to be able get in it. And I wouldnt  
expect winds, of the speed recorded, to have opened it up either.  So I cant  say the main  
cause of the damage to the roof was storm conditions.  Instead it seems it was probably an 
already existing problem highlighted by the weather conditions. So CIS refusal to pay for the 
repairs was fair and reasonable.
 
The felt was quite  new, about five years  old, according to Mr H. He says his roofer can 
confirm it had no wear and tear. But he could only do that if hed inspected  before the 
damage happened. If that had happened  Mr H probably would  have mentioned it already. 
And the roofer probably would have done so in his report to CIS. So I think its unlikely the 
roofer could confirm the felt was in a good  condition.     
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im not making CIS General  Insurance  Limited pay for the roof 
repairs or do anything  differently.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 March  2019.
Daniel Martin
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8591058