K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs G have complained about esure Insurance Limiteds decision to reject a claim 
they made under their home insurance policy.
background
Mrs G called esure on 1 October 2018. She said part of their living room ceiling had 
collapsed from the bathroom above  and damaged furniture. Mrs G wasnt  sure if the damage 
had been caused by escaping water.  esure explained that Mrs G would need  to ask a builder 
to establish if there was a leak as otherwise the claim for the damage to the building wouldnt 
be covered. Once  the builder had located the source  of the leak, it would need to be fixed. 
Then esure would instruct a surveyor  to visit their home.
Mrs G contacted esure six weeks later and said a builder had identified  a leak. Two days  
later a surveyor appointed by esure  inspected the damage in Mr and Mrs Gs home. The 
surveyor recommended  to esure that their claim should be declined. In summary he said the 
damage was caused by wear and tear due to a lack of sealant.  He was of the view that there 
were visible signs of water damage  before the ceiling collapsed.
Mr and Mrs G didnt agree with the surveyors findings. They asked  us to look at their 
complaint. Mrs G said water tidemarks on the walls that the surveyor  observed  were only 
visible after the ceiling collapsed. 
Our investigator thought that in order for the tidemarks to appear,  water would need to run 
over the ceiling. But as the ceiling collapsed the water would have fell straight through.  So 
he didnt think the tidemarks could have appeared after the ceiling collapsed.  He thought it 
was more likely that the marks were  there  before. So he thought  esures decision to reject  
Mr and Mrs Gs claim  was a reasonable one.
Mr and Mrs G didnt agree. They said there  were  no visible signs  of damage before the 
event to warn them  before the ceiling collapsed.
So they would like an ombudsman  to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs Gs policy provides cover for an escape of water. But there are exclusions for 
damage caused by gradual deterioration over time.  esures policy says it will not cover the 
following:
loss or damage that happens gradually  over time (for example, loss or damage  as a 
result of wet rot or dry rot or loss resulting from wet rot or dry rot, rusting, corrosion, 
the effects of light or the atmosphere, damp, condensation, fading, moths, vermin, 
birds, insects, fungi or other gradual deterioration).
The surveyor concluded that the cause  of the escaped water damage was due to a 
deteriorated shower seal. He reported  that he was unable to see the condition  of the sealant 
as the bath had been  removed. 
Ref: DRN82113082Mrs G said the bath was there  for the surveyor  to view  as they were  renovating  the 
bathroom. The surveyor took a photo  of the bath outside - so this shows he did see it. But 
the surveyor also took photos of the area where  the bath was to show the damage as he 
described. The surveyor said that Mr and Mrs G would  have  been  aware  of the damage as 
the laminate flooring was moving, rising and broken  up in different locations.
The surveyor noticed wallpaper had been  peeled from the hallway and behind it was heavy 
mould  possibly showing evidence of water  damage.  He said the builder at the time of his 
inspection hadnt  identified the source  of the leak.
The surveyor reported that it was unlikely that Mrs and Mrs G were  unaware of any issues 
prior to the ceiling collapsing. This was because of the movement and visible damage to the 
bathroom floor, and the amount of visible staining  to the ceiling and wall area in the living  
room.
He concluded  that the extent of damage suggested the leak was there for some  time.
Mrs G said the water  tide marks  on the walls were not there before the ceiling collapsed  
they appeared after. Mrs G said because esure wouldnt  send  out an assessor  to their home 
when she reported  the damage, this meant  the surveyor didnt inspect their home until 
several weeks after the incident. Mrs G said black mould was only visible after the ceiling 
collapsed. She said it was vinyl flooring in the bathroom and its condition  was due to the 
floorboards underneath being uneven. She disagreed that damage was caused  due to a lack 
of sealant. She said they replaced the sealant regularly. The wallpaper  in the hallway was 
stripped to help identify  the cause of the leak. It was thick wallpaper and there was no sign of 
damage before it was peeled back. 
When Mrs G reported  the incident,  I think esure clearly explained that if the damage was 
caused by an escape of water, the policy didnt cover the repairs to the leak.  esure  said 
Mrs G would need to arrange for a builder to find a leak if there  was one  and to fix it first. 
Then Mrs G should contact esure and it would send a surveyor  out. 
Six weeks passed until Mrs G contacted esure  with the outcome from the builder. I cant  hold 
esure response for any delay here. The surveyor visited Mrs Gs home two days  later on 16 
November 2018  and reported  his findings promptly. esure informed Mr and Mrs G of its 
decision on 19 November 2018. So I think if Mrs G had been in a position to confirm  the 
outcome sooner to esure, I think it would have acted as promptly  as it did here. I appreciate  
Mrs G believes  the process is wrong. But as the policy doesnt cover  the costs  to repair the 
leak  and it wasnt established if a leak was the cause of the damage  then I think esure 
acted correctly.
After the surveyors visit, Mrs G said the builder discovered the source of the leak to be from 
a water supply pipe when more of the ceiling was removed for remedial work. However, 
esure maintained that it had made the right decision. It said there was evidence of water  
marks that had dried out on the wall in the living room  and in the hall wall adjoining the 
bathroom above. Even if the black mould wasnt visible before the ceiling collapsed, esure 
was of the view there were other  visible signs of damage.
I know Mr and Mrs G dont agree with the surveyors findings.  And I understand how strongly  
they feel that there were no visible signs of damage to alert them  to any issues  before the 
incident happened. But I havent seen anything to persuade me that the surveyors opinion 
was wrong  and so I think it was reasonable for esure to rely on it. 
Ref: DRN82113083This means  I think  esures  decision to reject Mr and Mrs Gs claim was reached  reasonably  
and in line with the policy. So Im not asking it to do any more. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 June  2020.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8211308