K820x#14Complaint
Miss C complains that Barclays owed her a duty of care and should have intervened when  
she made an increasing number of cash withdrawals.  
Background
Miss Cs complaint has been  brought to this service  by a representative, Mr T. Mr T says 
that after implementing an Enduring Power of Attorney (EPA)  he reviewed Miss Cs 
statements in March/April 2018. Mr T noted a significant number  of payments and large  cash 
withdrawals and asked  Barclays to provide information to look in to them.  Mr T expressed  
concern that a church minister Ill refer to as X had taken advantage of Miss C to gain 
access to her funds. Mr T said Barclays had a responsibility to protect Miss C and owed her 
a duty of care. As a result, he felt Barclays should have taken further  action before releasing 
funds to Miss C. Between 2012 and 2016 Mr T estimates Miss C withdrew around £150,000. 
Some example of payments made are as follows (not an exhaustive list and cash includes 
cashed cheques):
Date Amount Notes
18/04/12 £1,000 Cash
26/04/12 £3,000 Cash
26/02/13 £2,000 Cash
07/05/13 £12,000 Transfer to Xs joint account
28/05/13 £7,000 Transfer to Xs joint account
25/06/13 £1,000 Cash
10/07/13 £2,000 Cash
23/07/13 £8,000 Cash
29/07/13 1,000 Cash
14/08/13 £10,000 Cash
26/09/13 £5,000 Cash
04/12/13 £3,004.33 Cheque payment to church
27/02/14 £1,500 Cash
22/07/14 £1,100 Cash
31/07/14 £1,100 Cash
23/09/14 £1,500 Cash
03/10/14 £5,000 Cash
09/10/14 £5,000 Cash
21/10/14 £5,200 Cash
30/10/14 £5,000 Cash
16/03/15 £7,000 Cash
27/05/15 £10,000 Cash
11/06/15 £5,100 Cash
27/08/15 £6,000 Cash
06/11/15 £4,300 Cash
06/01/16 £1,000 Cash
16/06/16 £2,500 Cash
What Barclays say
Ref: DRN86719952Barclays obtained a statement  from the branch manager of the two branches  Miss C 
withdrew money from. The branch manager  confirmed Miss C was a regular visitor to 
branch, that relevant questions were  asked when Miss C withdrew funds and plausible  
answers given, and that she was offered alternative  facilities to transfer money. Miss C was 
insistent on having  cash and that she could  do what she wanted with her money.  She told 
staff she wanted  to reduce her balance and distribute funds to avoid  paying  inheritance  tax. 
The withdrawals made by Miss C were  frequent and therefore not unusual and there was no 
evidence at the time she lacked capacity as the enduring power  of attorney was only 
accepted by it in November  2017.  Barclays also noted Miss C had never  disputed  a 
transaction, so it wasnt on notice  of any potential issues  with the account. Finally, Barclays 
said it was possible Miss C had used the funds  for her own benefit.  
Our investigation so far
The investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He noted that although it appears Miss C was 
manipulated, he could only consider whether Barclays acted  reasonably. Barclays followed 
Miss Cs instructions in making the payments  and was not made aware  of the EPA until 
2017. Until then it wasnt aware Miss C was vulnerable or that she was represented. The 
investigator considered  whether further  intervention  from Barclays  would have made  a 
difference and concluded  it wouldnt.  Miss C was adamant the payments to X were  a gift and 
she was not a victim of financial abuse,  so wouldnt have told Barclays  she was under 
pressure to make the payments if questioned further. Finally,  the investigator  noted that as it 
wasnt possible to trace where the payments went it was possible Miss C had also benefited 
from some  or all of them. 
Mr T, on behalf  of Miss C, didnt agree. He said:
-Barclays had a duty to ensure Miss C wasnt under  undue  pressure when she made 
the payments.  As an example of undue pressure  Mr T referred  to when Miss C made 
a £6,000 payment the day after being discharged from hospital.
-The large cash withdrawals were unusual, and Barclays should have spotted them as 
Miss C had banked with it for a long time. 
-This services update  letter  captured the essence of the complaint when we said 
banks shouldnt always take a customers instructions at face value. Instead banks 
should look at the wider  circumstances when making a payment. 
-Statements obtained from the police  show cash withdrawn  by Miss C was paid in to a 
specified joint account of X and another. 
-Miss C was initially protective of X during the police investigation, as she thought  X 
was her friend and trusted her as a minister of the church.  She now openly talks to 
visitors about how X took her money and has asked Mr T to recover  it.
-Mr T disagrees  with the investigators statement that being old doesnt on its own 
mean Miss C was vulnerable. The loss of family members and her deteriorating  
health meant Miss C was vulnerable  to persuasion.  
-Barclays should have  known something was wrong when Miss C wrote a lot of 
cheques to claim prizes from scam  letters.
-Barclays should have  contacted family members given Miss Cs age and health  and 
they could have stopped the payments. 
-Mr T referred  to a code  for ministers and the amount they could  accept as gifts. He 
went on to say the church was taking the matter very seriously.  
-Family and friends  of Miss C are willing to testify that her relationship with X was 
abusive.
Ref: DRN86719953My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering  whats fair and reasonable I am required to take into account; relevant law
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance  and standards; codes of practice; and where
appropriate what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. Having
done so Ive come to the same outcome as the investigator for largely the same reasons. Ill 
explain why.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected  to process  transactions
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make, in accordance  with the Payment
Services Regulations and terms and conditions of the customers account. And I have taken
that into account when deciding whats fair and reasonable in this case.
Based on everything  Ive seen Im satisfied Miss C made and authorised these transactions. 
Whilst Mr T now says she was under  pressure  to make them,  I havent  seen any evidence of 
this. Ive carefully considered the evidence  from the police which  refers  to the Crown 
Prosecution Services (CPS) decision not to charge X. It says,  When she [Miss  C] has been 
spoken to, she has indicated that she voluntarily  gave money to [X]. The CPS did think  X 
had abused her position  as a minister  of the church  and in doing so had acquired  a 
considerable amount of money from Miss C. But this complaint is about Barclays  actions, 
not Xs.
Although Mr T tells me Miss C now openly talks about how X took her money  and that shes 
asked Mr T to get it back for her, the other available evidence doesnt suggest Miss C has 
been the victim of a scam or financial abuse or that she has disputed  any of the transactions 
she made. On balance I consider Miss C willingly  gave money to X as a gift. 
Ive also considered Mr Ts comments about  Miss Cs vulnerability. I can understand shed 
have felt alone in 2012 when Mr T says one of her sisters died and another  went  in to care  
and that at the time she was 90 years  old. But Barclays werent informed of any vulnerability, 
and the evidence of branch staff in the statements Ill refer to later say Miss C remembered 
previous transactions when asked. At the time Miss C made the transactions she had 
capacity to do so.
Mr T feels strongly  that the spending on Miss Cs account from 2012  was so out of character  
that Barclays ought to have  spotted it and taken further action. He says Barclays should 
have contacted family members so they could speak to Miss C and prevent further loss. But 
the EPA wasnt accepted by Barclays until late 2017, and the payments being  considered  
here were made before that, so Barclays couldnt  contact  family members at the relevant 
time. Also, as Ive said above, Miss C had capacity at the relevant time.
Miss C did increase the frequency  and value of the transactions she made, particularly from 
2013 onwards.  Barclays asked  her questions about the reasons  for this, as Id expect, and 
Miss C gave plausible answers. Barclays has provided statements from branch staff to 
demonstrate this, which Ive set out below.
Statement 1
Miss [C] would often come  in to cash cheques. When we noticed  that the amounts were  
increasing we would always question this with her. She was asked questions around what  
Ref: DRN86719954the funds were needed for and we would always offer alternative methods e.g. funds transfer 
as we were concerned for her safety, carrying around large  sums  on her person.
She was always very certain that she wanted to take cash  and was insistent that it was her 
money to do with it as she wished.  She was always very honest with us around the needs  for 
the cash, stating  that it was to distribute to her family  to avoid inheritance tax.
As a branch  we always continued  to question the withdrawals which  sometimes angered  
Miss [C] and once she became quite aggressive,  again stating  that it was her money to do 
what she liked with it. We would always explain that we were  just trying  to ensure her safety. 
We had also questioned her around the previous transactions  to ensure she could 
remember that she had already had funds withdrawn to which  she could clearly recall the 
transaction amounts. It was a transaction for £7000 that I particularly remember  her being 
able to recall clearly.
Statement 2
I had served Mrs [C] on numerous occasions where she would predominately cash a 
cheque. The last time I remember  serving her for a larger  amount than normal  she wanted  
cash for her sisters funeral. I asked  her what she needed the funds for and offered 
alternatives instead of her carrying large  amounts of cash. She insisted she wanted the cash 
and stated it was her money and she could do what she wanted with it.
In my opinion Mrs [C] would always come in and give specific instructions about  what  she 
required and was always asked what the funds were  for and an alternative method.
I have known Mrs [C] to be forceful when questioned around her withdrawals.
Given that the transactions occurred over a period of 4/5 years  I wouldnt expect  branch  staff 
to remember the reason  given on each occasion  or exactly what  was said.  Overall,  Im 
satisfied Miss C was asked questions when she withdrew large  sums of money,  and that she 
provided plausible reasons for the withdrawals. 
Ive gone on to consider whether asking any further questions would have made a difference  
to whether Miss C continued to withdraw large sums of cash. I dont believe they would. As 
Ive said above,  Miss C seems not to consider herself to be a victim of financial abuse or to 
have been under any undue pressure, she had plausible explanations for the withdrawals 
and believed  she could  spend her money as she wished to. In the circumstances, I dont 
consider any further questioning would have prevented the payments from being made. 
Mr T has referred  to this services update  letter to him of 4 July 2019, and in particular the 
following paragraph, 
There are, however, some situations  where  we believe that banks, taking into account
relevant rules, codes  and good practice standards, should not have  taken their
customers authorisation instruction at face value  or should have looked at the wider
circumstances surrounding  the transaction before making the payment.
He says this is the crux of this complaint. 
The paragraphs before  the one quoted said its important to determine  who authorised the 
payment  in this case Miss C. The letter went on to say the starting position is that banks 
should follow their customers  instructions. And Ive taken in to account  the wider  
circumstances of the case and decided that at the time the payments were made Miss C 
wouldnt have said she was the victim of a scam  or that she was under pressure to give 
money to anyone.
Ref: DRN86719955Mr T says the fact Miss C wrote a lot of cheques to claim prizes should have alerted 
Barclays to the fact there was a problem with Miss Cs use of her account. I dont agree. 
Cheques for relatively  small  amounts are not unusual and I wouldnt expect Barclays to 
question them. 
I note Mr T has referred to a code for ministers,  but this is not something I can consider as 
part of this complaint against Barclays. 
I understand the strength  of Mr Ts feelings and his belief Miss C has been  the victim of 
financial abuse, but cant conclude Barclays should have done more for Miss C. And as this 
service is an informal  dispute  resolution service,  I cant  ask family members  to testify as Mr T 
suggests. I also cant undertake a criminal  investigation and look at Xs statements, which Mr 
T says show  where much of the cash Miss C withdrew went. But even if I could, the 
evidence Ive seen  leads me to conclude Miss C intended to gift money to X. And I can only 
consider Miss Cs relationship with Barclays here. Having done so, Im not persuaded it is 
responsible for the losses Mr T has described.
My final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 July 2020.
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8671995