K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a regular premium  payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken 
out with a credit card in June 2006.  Mr C says HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold him the PPI.
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in June 2006.  The policy was 
added to Mr Cs credit card account  when  he applied for the card in person. The policy cost 
79p per £100 of the outstanding card balance and following  a successful claim, it would 
repay 10% of the outstanding balance at the point of claim,  for up to twelve  months.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr C disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint  comes  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Cs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
The PPI was sold many  years ago when Mr C took out a credit  card.  Given  the amount  
of time that has passed  since it was sold, its understandable that HSBC can no longer  
provide documents  now from the time of the sale. I appreciate what Mr C says,  but 
without more evidence, I cant  say its more likely that HSBC didnt make it clear  that he 
didnt have to take out PPI or that Mr C didnt choose  to take it out. And from what  I 
know about HSBCs sales processes at the time,  the policy  wouldve been presented as 
optional.
Moreover, the premiums  for the policy wouldve  appeared  on his monthly credit card 
statements - so if he hadnt agreed to the policy, or it had been added  to his account  
without either his knowledge or his consent,  I think its reasonable to say he wouldve 
queried the premiums  shortly after the policy was added in June 2006.  So taking all this 
into consideration, I think Mr C knew the policy was optional and chose to purchase  it 
because he saw some  value in it in 2006.
HSBC recommended the PPI to Mr C so it had to check  that the PPI was right for him  
and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time, I think that it was. For 
example, he wasnt  affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  and 
he seems to have  had a need for the cover  he told us he had no work benefits and no 
savings. So I think Mr C couldve benefitted from the cover and peace  of mind the policy 
provided.
Its possible  the information HSBC gave Mr C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover.  
And it seems like it wouldve  been useful for him if something  went  wrong. It also looks 
like it was affordable. So I dont think better information  about the PPI would have put 
him off taking out the cover. 
Ref: DRN89181302Which means HSBC doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr C.
But HSBC  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr C because: 
HSBC got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr C about that. Because  HSBC didnt tell Mr C, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, HSBC has paid back the amount of commission  and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr C has said - but these  points  dont change  my decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so HSBC  UK Bank Plc does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr C.
But HSBC  UK Bank Plc does have to pay back to Mr C any commission  and profit share  it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2019.
Andrew Macnamara
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8918130