K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) closed his account. He would like it re-
instated and to be compensated for the upset and distress caused. 
background
The investigators background summary covered all the relevant facts and is known to both 
Mr A and HSBC so I wont repeat it in any great detail. Therefore,  if Ive not mentioned  
something its not because Ive ignored it, but because I dont think  its relevant  to the issues. 
However in summary  it is this; 
In November 2018 Mr A rang HSBC to discuss some transactions  on his account. Towards 
the end of the call Mr A became personally abusive  to HSBCs call handler as a result of 
which the call was ended.
On the 7 December HSBC  then gave Mr A notice  that they were going to close his account 
with immediate effect; that he should  make alternative banking arrangements;  that his 
overdraft facility had been withdrawn; his account suspended pending closure, and that they 
would not pay any further amounts from his account.
Mr A complained that HSBC were acting unfairly  but HSBC  relied  upon  the terms and 
conditions (TCs) of the account to justify their actions. They did not feel they had acted 
unfairly.
Mr A was unhappy with HSBCs response  and so the investigator looked into the complaint  
but didnt think  HSBC had acted unfairly. As Mr A didnt agree, the complaint has been  
passed to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  The role of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service is to resolve individual complaints and to award redress  where  it is appropriate so to 
do. 
I need to consider whether HSBC  acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings  with Mr A. I take 
into account both their view and that of Mr A. My aim is not to address every single point 
which might  be raised, rather to reach a fair and reasonable decision based on the evidence 
before me. Where that evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, then I have to 
come to a decision on the balance of probabilities   in other words,  I consider what is more 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances of 
the case. 
So, I think we have  an unfortunate situation here. Ive looked at the TCs governing this 
account. 
The TCs of Mr As account allow HSBC  to close the account immediately  and without notice 
in certain circumstances but there  is no obligation  on HSBC  to give reasons  for an account  
closure.
Ref: DRN82782652Ive listened to the call recording Mr A had with HSBC and it is very clear  he was abusive 
and offensive  to the call handler.  As such that in itself gives HSBC  the right to terminate the 
agreement and close his account. 
Para 27 of the TCs states;
We can end the agreement and close your accounts  immediately  and without notice 
if;
You
Acted abusively, offensively or violently towards staff
So, I know Mr A will be disappointed with my decision  but I have come  to the same 
conclusion as the investigator and for similar  reasons. 
HSBC have acted  in accordance with the TCs, and given the abusive comments  Mr A made 
I cannot say that they have acted unreasonably. So Im not upholding this complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I do not uphold the complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2020.
Jonathan Willis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8278265