K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains about the value of his personal  pension plan. He says Legal and General 
Assurance Society (Legal and General) promised  he would receive a certain level of pension 
income at his selected retirement age. He complains his recent statement gives a much 
lower projected income. 
Mr B says if he were to retire  at his selected retirement age that level of income would leave  
him financially insecure.
background
Mr B met with a representative of Legal and General and took out a personal pension plan in 
1995. He made regular  contributions to his plan. The plan was set up with a selected 
retirement age of 55. 
In 2019 Mr B complained to Legal  and General about the value of his plan and in particular 
the estimated  income. Legal and General  didnt  uphold his complaint.  It said the illustration 
provided to Mr B at the point of sale made it clear that the outcome of the plan wasnt  
guaranteed and was dependent on investment growth rates. It said growth rates hadnt been 
as high as those projected  in 1995.  Legal  and General also said interest  rates were much  
lower now than had been expected at the time of sale.  But it said this didnt mean the plan 
had been mis-sold. 
Mr B didnt agree and referred his complaint  to our service. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She didnt think  the plan was unsuitable  for
Mr B taking into account his circumstances  and objectives at the point of sale.  The 
investigator didnt  consider Mr B has been misled  about the return  he would receive on his 
pension plan. She thought  the illustration  explained clearly that the figures provided were 
projections and not guaranteed. 
Mr B disagreed. He said his annual statements showed he was going  to receive a low level 
of income and he didnt feel he had received a return on his plan. As no agreement could be 
reached the complaint has been referred  to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B took out a personal pension  plan in 1995. At the time he was in his late twenties and 
self-employed working in transportation.  Mr B had a partner and a dependent  child.  He was 
recommended a personal pension plan funded by regular contributions with automatic 
increases to those  contributions. His plan was invested in the with-profits  fund.
 
I can see it was noted on the point of sale documentation that this was a long term 
investment and that the penalties for early exit from the plan had been  explained to Mr B. It 
is also recorded that the potential for a market value adjuster  to be applied  to the plan was 
explained to Mr B. 
Ref: DRN81385512Mr B signed  the financial review form and confirmed there that he had received a key 
features document and the contents  of that document had been explained to him by the 
representative. That document would  explain in general terms how the plan worked and set 
out any key risks. 
Mr B was self employed so he didnt have access to an employers occupational pension 
scheme. The financial review also recorded  that he didnt  have  an existing pension. His 
personal pension  plan was set up so Mr B would make regular contributions as a way of 
saving for retirement  and providing a retirement income. As Mr B wanted to save  for 
retirement and wasnt able to join an employee  scheme, I dont think a personal pension  plan 
was unsuitable.  
The financial  review records that Mr B had disposable income  and could afford £50 a month. 
Mr B appears to have  been able to afford the regular contributions as he has paid into the 
plan for a number  of years. 
The adviser concluded that Mr B had a cautious risk profile. There is nothing  recorded 
indicating he had significant investment experience  or considerable available  capital or 
income. There is nothing  in his circumstances generally at that time to indicate he wanted to 
take a higher level of risk with his pension plan.
The plan was invested in the with-profits fund, which at that time was generally considered to 
be a relatively low risk fund. Unfortunately, over recent years with-profits funds have not 
performed as well as in previous years, which has resulted in lower  returns than anticipated. 
But that doesnt mean the with-profit fund was an unsuitable fund for Mr B.
Waiver of premium was also recommended on the plan,  which  doesnt seem  unreasonable  
given Mr Bs employment status- as its purpose was to pay the contributions in the event of 
long term sickness or injury.
So overall Im not persuaded on balance  that the recommended  plan was unsuitable for Mr 
B taking  into account  his circumstances and objectives. 
However Mr Bs complaint is largely  about  what he says he was told by Legal and General 
when the pension plan was sold to him about  the income this plan would provide. 
Mr B was provided with a illustration at the point of sale which  set out projections of what the 
fund might be worth at his selected retirement age and what income that might  provide. The 
projections were given using three rates. The lower projection assumed an investment return  
of 6% per year, the mid rate assumed an investment return  of 9% and the higher rate 
assumed an investment return of 12%. 
I am satisfied these figures  were based on certain  assumptions as to how investments would 
perform in the future,  which may or may not turn to be correct. And I dont think  there was 
any misrepresentation that a particular level of growth was guaranteed.
In support of that observation, there  were  also a number of warnings in the illustration 
including specific warnings that the amounts werent guaranteed and were  based on 
investment growth.  It said: 
These figures  are only examples and are not guaranteed - they are not minimum or 
maximum amounts. What is payable depends  on how your investments grow.
Ref: DRN81385513You could get more  or less than this.
All insurance  companies use the same  rates of growth for illustrations but their charges 
vary. They also use the same rates to illustrate  how funds may be converted into pension 
income
Do not forget that inflation would reduce what you could buy in the future  with the amounts 
shown
 Your pension income will depend  on how your investments grow and interest rates at the 
time you retire.
Unfortunately, those growth rates have not materialised  over the years  since the plan was 
taken out which has affected the value of Mr Bs plan His annual statements show his total 
fund at his selected retirement  age will be less than was predicted  at the lower rate of 
assumed growth  on the illustration.
I think the estimated  pension income  has also been  affected by the fact annuity  rates  have 
fallen to low levels in recent years. That means the value of the plan has to be higher than 
previously to provide  the same level of pension  income.
The point of sale illustration gave a projected  pension fund of around  £61,700  at the lower  
growth rate, which it said could provide  an annual  income of around  £4,500. The more 
recent estimates in Mr Bs annual statement show an estimated pension  pot of around 
£53,000. But Legal and General has said the estimated  annual  income for his pension pot is 
less than £1,000. 
So not only is Mr Bs pension pot smaller than projected using the assumed growth  rates but 
annuity rates   which determine the amount  of annual  income  for life that can be bought  with 
that pot - have  also decreased. 
In summary,  I can certainly see why Mr B is very disappointed with the annual income he is 
likely to receive from his pension plan. But I have to look at whether Legal and General has 
actually done  anything wrong.  The income  Mr B will receive is dependent  on the 
performance of his plan and the annuity rates  applicable at the relevant time. The 
performance of his plan is dependent on investment performance over the term of the plan. 
In addition, annuity rates have reduced  over recent years. 
But I dont consider that Legal and General gave Mr B any guarantees about the income  he 
would receive at his selected retirement  date.  So, while I do feel a great  deal of sympathy  for 
Mr Bs position, I cant conclude that Legal and General has done  anything wrong here.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint against  Legal and General 
Assurance Society Limited  for the reasons outlined in my decision.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 March  2020.
Julia Chittenden
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN8138551