K821x#15complaint
Mr Bs complaint is that Affinity Financial Awareness  didnt provide the agreed ongoing 
service which  he had paid for.
background
In October  2015 Mr B agreed  to receive  initial and ongoing advice from Affinity.  The client 
declaration agreement stated: 
Charges associated with the initial advice and on-going review  service we agree to provide 
will be subject  to confirmation within the advice report we issue to you prior to implementing  
any products or service.
The recommendation letter confirmed an ongoing  service would be provided at a yearly cost 
of 1% of the value  of Mr Bs pension.
Affinitys ongoing service  included, amongst other  services:
an annual financial review
annual portfolio updating  including  a rebalancing service.
Mr Bs new retirement account  started in November 2015.
In September  2016 Affinity wrote to Mr B to say that it wasnt able to provide a rebalancing 
service. This was due to a number of property  funds being closed to redemptions. They said 
an attempt to rebalance investors portfolios at that time wouldnt  provide an accurate 
outcome. Their expectation was the restrictions on the property funds were likely to be 
removed in the near term.
An Affinity  adviser  met with Mr B in November 2016  and issued  a pension strategy report in 
December 2016.  The annual portfolio updating report  was sent to Mr B in February 2017.
In July 2017 Affinity asked Mr B if he wanted to arrange a follow up meeting and he 
requested to be contacted again  in December 2017.
In February 2018  Mr B complained to Affinity that he hadnt received the agreed level of 
service; in particular the annual  rebalancing report.
An adjudicator reviewed Mr Bs complaint. He sent his assessment of the complaint to 
Affinity on 10 April 2019. He thought that the complaint should be upheld.  In summary, he 
said:
Mr Bs new pension  began in November 2015.  The first review meeting took place in 
November 2016, and the report was subsequently issued
Affinity had made a commercial decision to postpone the portfolio rebalancing. So it 
completed the portfolio review in February  2017
He thought that up to February  2017  Affinity had provided a reasonable level of 
service
Ref: DRN84822462It appeared reasonable for Mr B, in July 2017, to ask for a further review in 
December 2017 as his portfolio had not long been amended.  There was no evidence 
that Affinity had attempted  to arrange the review meeting  in December 2017
Affinity had explained to Mr B that they typically completed the portfolio rebalancing 
reviews in October of each year. By the time of Mr Bs complaint  in February 2018, 
no rebalancing had been completed.  And no reason  had been  given  such  as the 
notification in the previous year
So from 1 March  2017, Mr B had been  paying for an agreed  service which hadnt 
been provided. The adjudicator thought  he should be compensated accordingly.
Affinity didnt  reply  to the adjudicators assessment. The adjudicator contacted  the firm on 
several occasions through April and May 2019 asking for any further  submissions that it 
wanted to make. This was by letter, e-mail  and telephone. He explained that the complaint  
would be passed  to an ombudsman for a final decision. However no further  evidence  or 
arguments were received.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
adjudicator that the complaint should  be upheld, and largely for the same reasons.
Its clear that Mr B had a number of concerns about  the level of service  that had been  
provided and over a period of time. He had raised  the matter  on earlier occasions. The firm 
said the decision to delay the first re-alignment  was because of the suspension of some  of 
the property funds held in Mr Bs portfolio. Its said the particular structure of the platform  
meant the logistics of any re-adjustments would incur unnecessary costs. And that any re-
alignment would not be a true representation  of the most up to date portfolio  weightings. 
Mr B has said his property funds only made up a small proportion of the overall  portfolio. And 
thinks the firm should  have re-aligned the remaining  funds which made  up about 88% of his 
overall portfolio.
However, I think irrespective of whether the delay  was necessary, its clear the alignment 
took place a short time later. And I dont think this delay  caused any significant  adverse 
impact on the portfolio.  
However, when Mr B contacted the firm to express  concerns in early 2018,  particularly  about  
the delay in providing the October/November 2017 portfolio rebalancing review which he 
hadnt received,  he asked  for an immediate review  and that the firm suspend taking its 1% 
charge until it had been provided. Whilst I accept it may not have been administratively 
straightforward, I think it was a reasonable suggestion in the circumstances.
However the firm said it wasnt able to provide the portfolio rebalancing review  at that time. 
But that it would do so within a few weeks. It also said that the management fees for the 
service couldnt be suspended  and the only way to stop the fees was for Mr B to remove  the 
firm as his financial adviser. Mr B subsequently ended his relationship  with the firm and the 
portfolio rebalancing review wasnt carried out. 
Ref: DRN84822463So I think given the firm didnt provide  an appropriate level of service,  and I think  it had the 
opportunity to resolve the matter in a reasonable manner when Mr B complained in early 
2018, that its fair and fair and reasonable for it to refund the relevant  fees for the period from 
1 March 2017.
final decision
Accordingly, my final decision is that I uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
fair compensation
In assessing what would  be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr B as close as
possible to the position he would probably now be in if he hadnt been  charged for an
ongoing service  by Affinity from 1 March 2017.
what should  you do?
To compensate Mr B, I order that Affinity Financial  Awareness Limited:
Compare the performance of Mr B's investment  (actual value) with the (fair value) of his 
pension had it been invested but without the deduction of ongoing adviser charges from 1 
March 2017 to the cancellation of his servicing agreement in February  2018.
If there is a loss (the fair value is higher than the actual value),  Affinity  Financial Awareness 
Limited should pay the difference  into Mr B's pension  plan, to increase its value by the 
amount of the compensation and any interest. The payment should allow for the effect  of 
charges and any available tax relief.  However  it shouldnt pay the compensation into the 
pension plan if it would conflict  with any existing protection or allowance.
If its not possible to pay the compensation into Mr B's pension plan it should be paid directly 
to him. But had it been possible  to pay into the plan, it would have provided a taxable 
income. Therefore,  the compensation should be reduced  to notionally allow for any income 
tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr B's actual or expected  marginal rate 
of tax at his selected retirement age. If Mr B is likely to be a basic  rate taxpayer at his 
selected retirement age, the reduction would  equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if 
Mr B would be able to take a tax-free  lump  sum,  the reduction should be applied to 75% of 
the compensation.
In addition, Affinity Financial Awareness  Limited should also:
pay Mr B £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused by the matter
Provide  details of the calculation to Mr B in a clear, simple format.
If compensation is not paid within 56 days of the business  being notified of acceptance of 
this final decision,  Affinity Financial Awareness Limited should also pay interest at the rate of 
8% simple  per year to the compensation calculated above from the date of this final decision 
to the date of settlement.
Ref: DRN84822464Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 February  2020
David Ashley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8482246