K820x#14complaint
Mr V is unhappy that  after Barclays  Bank  UK PLC (Barclays) corrected an error on his 
account  hes no longer  receiving pre-approved loan offers.
background
Around March  2018, Mr V says Barclays removed a marker on his current account,  after 
they realised it had been added in error. They  said they couldnt tell how the error  had been 
made  but Mr V suspected it might be linked to the fact hed previously received mail for 
another Barclays customer at his home  address in 2015.
He also noticed  that he wasnt getting pre-approved loan offers anymore and says Barclays  
explained that it might take between 6 to 12 months to update their system  and for him to 
receive pre-approved loans again. Barclays offered Mr V £350  compensation  for their error 
and its impact on Mr V, which he accepted.
But Mr V says he still isnt receiving pre-approved loan offers  and really  needs  a loan due 
to his personal situation.
In their final response to Mr V, Barclays said their previous errors hadnt  affected  his ability 
to borrow from them. They also added that the pre-approved  loan offers he received werent 
a guarantee that hed be accepted if he applied for one  and said they werent  obliged  to 
offer them in the future either.
Unhappy with this response,  Mr V brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt  think Barclays needed to do anything different. She explained that the 
pre-approved loan offers Mr V was previously receiving werent a guarantee that hed get a 
loan. She also saw that from March 2019 a marker  was held with CIFAS linked to Mr Vs 
existing relationship with Barclays. This was to prevent  him from identity  fraud. And Barclays  
concluded this might be why he wasnt receiving the pre-approved loan offers  at present.
Mr V didnt agree with this answer  so the complaint has been  passed to me to make a final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done that, Ive also decided 
not to uphold Mr Vs complaint.
Its clear to me that Mr V is not in good health  and feels very strongly about his complaint. 
So, I know hes likely to be disappointed by my decision. But Ive explained below why I think 
this is a fair answer   given all the circumstances.
Impact of not receiving pre-approved loan offers
As Mr V has already accepted compensation for Barclays initial  errors  relating to his 
account, Im not going to focus too much  on what  happened.  But he did so expecting to get 
back the pre-approved loan offers he received  before   so Ive considered what  Barclays 
said to him at the time about this.
Ref: DRN85182762Ive listened to several calls where  Mr V rang Barclays  to ask about  his account  and its 
clear hes unwell and in need  of a loan to make  adjustments to his house for health  reasons.  
Its also clear  from these  calls that having access to the pre-approved loans is important to 
him  and he wants his lending  to be on the more favourable  interest rate like the one hes 
previously been  offered.
I also note that in one call, Barclays suggest  that  after the marker error had been rectified 
 it might still take some months for these offers to reappear on his account. 
So its clear Mr V was expecting his pre-approved loan offers  to return  after a while, given  
what hed been  told by Barclays. And I can understand  why he was unhappy when this 
hadnt happened a year later. I can also see why he might  be upset when Barclays  told him 
they werent obliged to give him access to those  offers anymore.
However  during their calls with Mr V  Barclays do say, even  if he does get the pre-
approved loan offers again,  theres no guarantee the interest rate will be the low rate hed 
seen before. And Mr V has said the low interest rate previously  offered  was one of the 
reasons he wanted  access  to those offers again.
Barclays have also said these pre-approved loans  werent guaranteed  they are merely 
offers for Mr V to apply  for loans. And they are still subject  to the usual  credit  scoring checks 
that Barclays would carry out on any loan application. So although they are called pre-
approved loans, it doesnt mean Mr V has actually  been accepted for them.
Barclays have also said Mr Vs ability to borrow from them  hasnt been affected  by their 
previous errors  and Ive seen nothing  to show otherwise. So, he could still have applied for 
a loan with them if he wanted  and I think they made this clear when they spoke to him and 
in their final response letter to him. And I cant see that Mr V has applied  for any loans with 
them.
So looking  at everything here, I cant see that Barclays have done anything  wrong.
Impact of adding CIFAS marker
Barclays have also suggested  to us that Mr Vs CIFAS marker might  be one of the reasons 
the pre-approved loan offers are no longer being  made. This was added in March  2019  12 
months after Barclays removed the marker  from his account and around the time Barclays  
estimated he might  start seeing  the offers again.
Under the terms and conditions  for Mr Vs account, it does say that Barclays receive and 
share information with fraud prevention agencies  and this information can lead to certain  
services being refused.  In this instance,  Barclays have confirmed they think  Mr Vs protective 
registration CIFAS marker is contributing to him not receiving pre-approved loan offers.
But I dont think this means Barclays have done  anything wrong here,  as this marker wasnt  
added due to any error  by Barclays   it was something Mr V says he actively added  in order  
to help protect himself  against identity fraud after he had some concerns about  it.
Does Barclays have to provide Mr V with pre-approved  loan offers?
Ref: DRN85182763Barclays have said theyre  not obliged to give Mr V the offers he used to receive.  Ive looked 
through the terms  and conditions of his account  and I cant  see anything  that says they are 
obliged to do this. So, if theyre not offering them  now, I think that is Barclays  decision to 
make.
Barclays have also confirmed that the type of current account Mr Vs has isnt one that 
wouldve got him preferential rates. But as hes a member of staff,  he would get a staff rate. 
So this does  suggest a favourable rate might be available with Barclays.
And they also said that these offers are often made available for a while  but then drop off at 
some point. Theyve said there isnt a way of checking this, as they dont keep a historical 
record of such offers. But I dont think that makes much of a difference  here  even if Mr V 
didnt get any offers on his account, I still dont  think Barclays need to do anything different, 
for the reasons Ive already given.
 
In making this decision, I have taken into consideration all of Mr Vs personal  circumstances  
 and I can see this has been a very difficult time for him. But taking  everything  into account, 
I dont think Barclays actions have  stopped  Mr V applying  for a loan with them at an interest  
rate he found  acceptable. And I think theyve  been  clear enough about what his options are 
if hed wanted  to go ahead and apply  for a loan.
my final decision
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Vs complaint against  Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 September  2019.
Guy Johnson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8518276