K821x#15complaint
Mrs Z complains that American  Express Services  Europe Limiteds debt collection agents 
contacted her at work after shed asked it not to use that number to contact her.
background
Mrs Z is unhappy  that American  Express agents  rang her at work and spoke to her 
colleague. She says its harassed,  humiliated  and ashamed her. And shes now 
uncomfortable at work.  She wants compensation. Shes also unhappy she didnt receive a 
final response from American Express.
American Express says Mrs Z gave it her mobile and business phone  numbers.  When she 
fell into arrears it used both to try to contact her. But it wouldnt  have  given any information, 
including about  the debt,  except to her after its security checks  had been successfully 
completed. When Mrs Z asked it not to contact  her on her business  number it was 
invalidated from its automatic dialler system.  But it didnt totally remove it from its system. 
When the account was passed to its debt collection agents all available information  was 
passed on to give them every opportunity to collect what  was owed. It followed its internal 
policies. Despite promises to make a payment the sum of £150.62 remains outstanding from 
Mrs Z.
Our adjudicator felt this complaint should be upheld. He said:
Both parties agree Mrs Z asked American  Express not to call her on her business  
number. That request was made on 12 April 2018 and as a result American Express 
marked her number  as invalidated on its system and it didnt call her on it again.
When Mrs Zs account was passed to the debt collection agents her work  number 
was passed on too. This is apparently standard practice even when the number is 
marked as invalidated. As a result Mrs Z was called  by the agents  at work contrary  to 
her previous instruction.
It appears the final response  letter was sent to Mrs Zs old address but before  she 
told American Express shed  moved.
The request  not to be called on a specific number is essentially a request to delete  
that number. Theres  no reason  for American  Express to keep record of a number if 
its not going to use. In addition if American  Express keeps a number its no longer 
authorised to call and this number  is passed  onto an agent, its reasonable to expect  
it to pass on the invalidated status  too. Here  this was either not the case or the agent 
ignored the instruction not to call the number. Both are the liability of 
American Express. It hasnt acted  fairly.
Mrs Z has experienced distress and inconvenience and suffered at work as a 
consequence. And total redress of £200 is fair and reasonable.
American Express doesnt agree and has asked for an ombudsman review. It says Mrs Z 
has already been  provided with a goodwill gesture. Thats fair. It doesnt agree another  £200  
should be paid.  It says at no point did the debt collectors say to Mrs Zs colleague who they 
were or the purpose of the call. It cant therefore  see how Mrs Zs been caused  any 
embarrassment. Being asked to not contact  someone on a specific  number isnt the same as 
Ref: DRN87252772a request for it to be removed from the system.  Once an account is passed on because 
money is owed for more  than 90 days all available contact  details  are also passed  on. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Z provided American Express with her business and mobile  numbers and it was entitled 
to use them  to contact  her. But after some  communications she asked  it not to contact  her in 
the future  on her business number. 
That was a simple  and clear request. And American  Express responded to it reasonably. It 
says it invalidated  her business  number on its system and didnt use it again.
Mrs Z didnt  specifically ask for her business  number to be removed from American Express 
system or records. So, I think, on balance, it was reasonable for it leave  Mrs Zs business 
number on its system and later to communicate  it onto its debt collection agents when her 
account was passed to them to collect what was by then outstanding.
But what  wasnt fair or reasonable was for the debt collection agents to then use the 
business number  to contact Mrs Z. They were  acting as American Express  agents and as 
such I consider they shouldve  respected Mrs Zs previous instruction not to call her on her 
business number.  And American Express shouldve taken adequate  steps  to ensure its debt 
collection agents were  aware of the situation,  properly  understood the implications of a 
number being  invalidated and respected Mrs Zs contact  wishes.
Unfortunately the debt collection  agents  rang Mrs Z at work and initially spoke to one of her 
colleagues on reception. Having listened to that call I think that contact was short  and 
limited. I accept, as American  Express says,  that its agent only asked the receptionist if she 
could speak to Mrs Z. The agent  didnt tell the receptionist who she was or what the call was 
about. 
The agent  was connected to Mrs Z who was obviously immediately quite  angry that shed 
been contacted on her business number. She repeatedly questioned why her professional 
number had been used. She also asked if the agent had spoken to the receptionist and was 
simply told that she had. Mrs Z also mentioned that she was in an open space.
Overall Mrs Z was clearly very upset her professional  number had been  used.  She wasnt at 
that time in a position to know, for example, exactly what had or hadnt been  said by the 
agent to the receptionist.  And I think on balance its also reasonable to assume  Mrs Z was 
concerned the conversation she was having mightve been overheard by other people 
around her in the open office.  And although security wasnt completed there were references  
in the conversation to her being  repeatedly  contacted. Mrs Zs upset at being called against 
her previous  instruction was very apparent throughout the call. I can understand how as a 
result of all this Mrs Z mightve been  feeling embarrassment in her own mind,  both during 
and after the call, by anticipating  and imaging what others around her mightve heard, 
implied or thought.  
Taking everything into account  I think American Express  shouldve  done more to ensure its 
agents respected Mrs Zs previous  instruction  not to use her business  number.  And the 
Ref: DRN87252773agents shouldnt  have called her at work.  I also accept when the call was made Mrs Z was 
caused some distress,  upset and likely some embarrassment. 
I think this warrants a payment of some compensation.  Taking everything into account, 
including the level of awards we make, I think a total payment of £200 for this is fair and 
reasonable. That includes the goodwill payment American Express  has already made  
although it isnt clear to me if this was £20 or £25 as its referred to both amounts.
I also dont think American  Express did anything wrong sending out the final response letter 
to Mrs Zs old address as it seems  likely this was done before she told it of her change of 
address.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  To put things  right I require American Express Services Europe 
Limited to pay Mrs Z, if it hasnt already done so, a total of £200 compensation.
American Express must pay the compensation within 28 days  of the date on which  we tell it 
Mrs Z accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
If American Express considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to withhold 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs Z how much its taken off. It should also give 
her a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs Z to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8725277