K820x#14complaint
Mrs P complains about the way American Express  Payment Services Limited  (Amex) dealt 
with the renewal of her credit card.
background
Mrs P had an Amex credit  card which  was due to expire at the end of April 2018. She 
received two emails  from Amex about  it  one in January and one in March  2018. When  Mrs 
P read the March email,  she thought it meant her new card should  already have arrived.  But 
she hadnt received  it so she called Amex, thinking  the card must  have  gone  missing.
The card arrived the next day, but Mrs P destroyed it because she says that Amex had told 
her on the phone that a replacement would be sent,  to arrive between  16 and 23 April.  She 
also destroyed her old card. But no replacement card arrived, meaning that Mrs P was 
without a credit card altogether. She called Amex again in mid-May and they sent a 
replacement card to her the next day. During  that second phone  call, Mrs P says Amex  told 
her that no replacement card had been  ordered  after she spoke to them in April.
Mrs P complained to Amex. She was unhappy that an email  was sent to her in January 
about a renewal card which wasnt dispatched  until April.  She says that their emails were 
misleading, causing her to make an unnecessary phone call to tell them  she hadnt received 
the renewal card when,  in fact, it hadnt been dispatched. She says she didnt have a credit 
card to use for several  weeks and incurred additional costs  on a foreign  transaction. She 
asked them to compensate her for the time,  cost and inconvenience which the situation 
caused her.
Amex didnt uphold  the complaint. They said its their policy  to send an email  up to 90 days 
before the end of the card expiry month and that they do this to make sure they hold the 
correct information  before they issue a new card. They confirmed that the renewal card had 
been dispatched to Mrs P on 3 April 2018  and that a replacement  was dispatched on 15 May 
2018.
Mrs P wasnt  happy with Amexs response  or the way they investigated  and handled her 
complaint. Our adjudicator looked into it and thought Amex  had acted fairly, but Mrs P didnt 
agree. She says that Amex made  errors which caused her inconvenience,  time and cost. So 
she asked for her complaint to be reviewed  by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im bound by the rules  of the Financial  Ombudsman Service  which say we can only look at 
complaints about  certain activities carried out by financial businesses.  Complaint handling  
isnt a regulated  activity  and its not one of the things  this service can look into. So I cant  
make a decision on the concerns Mrs P has raised about the way Amex  handled her 
complaint. But I can consider the other aspects of this complaint and Ive set out my findings  
on those below.
I appreciate Mrs P feels very strongly about her complaint  and has raised a number of points 
she wanted us to look into. I can assure her that Ive considered all of them  but for the 
Ref: DRN85291902purposes of this decision I will focus  on what I consider to be the main  ones.  Ive set out a 
chronology of the key events below. Where  the parties disagree about the exact date 
something happened, Ive used the date which I find most likely to be correct, having looked  
at all the available information. 
For clarity,  Ive referred to the new card which was automatically issued ahead  of expiry of 
the old one as the renewal card. Ive called the other new cards,  which were requested by 
Mrs P over the phone, the replacement  cards.
30 January 2018  first email  from Amex
28 March 2018 second  email  from Amex
3 April 2018 renewal card dispatched
11 April 2018 first phone  call from Mrs P to Amex
12 April 2018 Mrs P received renewal card
16 April 2018  date Mrs P says she suffered a loss as she had no credit card
15 May 2018  second  phone  call from Mrs P to Amex, replacement  card dispatched
16 May 2018  Mrs P received replacement card
Mrs P says that Amexs  first email was misleading because it said the renewal card would be 
sent shortly . She says that implies a short  timeframe,  not a period  of more than two 
months. I can understand her point of view, but in this context  I dont think  the wording  is 
misleading or the timescale unreasonable. The email confirmed that Mrs Ps old card would  
expire at the end of April and could be used up until the expiry  date. So I think  its fair to say 
she could expect to receive the renewal card some  time before that. Amex give their 
customers notice before sending a new card and theyve explained their reasons for doing  
this. Im satisfied that they followed their procedures here and I dont think  that doing so had 
an unfair impact on Mrs P.
Mrs P says that the second email  from Amex is at the heart  of her complaint. It reminded her 
to update her new card details at her favourite online retailers  and activate her new card. 
Mrs P says it must  be wrong for Amex to send an email telling her to do these things before 
the renewal card had actually been sent.  I can see that it could cause confusion  for some 
customers to receive this before they receive  their new card. But I dont think that in itself the 
email caused Mrs P any detriment. In order to clear up any confusion, it was open  to Mrs P 
to contact Amex, which  she did on 11 April. 
Given the length of time which has passed,  the recording of that call is no longer available. 
But Ive seen Amexs  notes from listening to the call previously.  These say that the agent 
told Mrs P that a card had been issued and that she would receive it by the third week of the 
month her card was due to expire.  The notes say that Amex  advised her to call back in a 
week if she still hasnt received the card.  
Mrs P says it was agreed on the call that Amex would send a replacement  card which would 
arrive between 16 and 23 April. But no replacement card was ordered at this stage.
In light of everything Ive seen, I think the discrepancy on this point may be down to 
confusion over the terminology used in the phone call. I believe Mrs P distinguishes between 
renewal card and replacement card in the way Ive done in writing this decision. But, 
based on the notes Ive seen, I think the call handler  may have used the term replacement 
card when talking  about  the renewal card. Mrs P expected a replacement  between 16 and 
23 April. That was the third week of the month her old card was due to expire, which  is when 
the call handler  told her it would arrive.  But I think its likely that, when the call handler said 
Ref: DRN85291903the replacement  would  arrive in that timescale, (s)he meant the renewal card.  This would 
explain why no replacement card was ordered  following  that call.
In fact the renewal  card arrived in the post the following day. Unfortunately,  Mrs P destroyed 
it thinking that another card was on its way to her. Whilst I understand her reasons for doing  
this, it appears this was her own decision and not something Amex had told her to do. Mrs P 
complains that Amex didnt tell her during the April phone call that the renewal  card had only 
recently been dispatched. But their notes say they did tell her to call back if it hadnt arrived 
in a week, indicating  that they thought  it could  still be in the postal system. 
Mrs P says she was without a credit  card for several weeks and that she lost an opportunity 
because of this. Her old card was still valid until the end of April and she received the 
renewal card on 12 April. She could  have used either of those on 16 April, but Mrs P has 
explained that she destroyed them both following the April phone call. I havent seen 
anything which indicates that Amex told her to do this. And, although there was clearly some  
confusion following the phone call, I dont think it was foreseeable that Mrs P would destroy 
both the cards. So I dont think Amex are responsible  for Mrs P being  without a card and 
then needing to contact them again  in May 2018.
I realise that my decision will be disappointing to Mrs P, but I havent seen anything which 
makes me think Amex have acted  unfairly here. So Im not going to ask them  to do anything.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 July 2019.  
Katy Kidd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8529190