K820x#14Complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a credit 
card in 2004. Mr S says Capital One (Europe)  Plc mis-sold him the PPI.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ss case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Mr S says that he doesnt recall ever asking  for, or agreeing to take PPI. But I think  that 
Capital One made it clear  that Mr S didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it 
out  although I can understand why he cant  remember this as it was so long ago.
Mr S applied for his card and PPI policy through the post. Capital One has provided a copy  
of his application  on this I can see that the PPI is presented as an optional  product,  and 
has been selected. Mr S has then signed  the application, agreeing to the information on it. 
Mrs S says that he didnt  tick to select the PPI  but I havent  seen anything  to suggest  that 
the PPI was selected by anyone else. 
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Mr S so it didnt have to check  if it was right for 
him. But it did have  to make sure Mr S got the information he needed to decide  if it was right 
for him. 
Its possible the information Capital One gave Mr S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But he chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. Based  on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for him if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont  think  
better information about the PPI would  have put him off taking out the cover.  
This means  Capital One doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr S.
But Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr S because: 
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr S about that. Because  Capital One didnt tell Mr S, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Capital One has paid back  the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr S has said - but these points dont change my decision, and 
for the reasons set out above,  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.
My final decision
Ref: DRN88551672The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) Plc does  not have to pay back  all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr S.
But Capital One (Europe) Plc does  have to pay back to Mr S any commission  and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 31 August 2019. 
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8855167