K821x#15complaint
Mr J complained that esure Insurance Limited didnt  pay him enough for his car when he 
claimed under his motor insurance policy.
background
Mr Js car was damaged  in an accident and esure decided that it wasnt economical to 
repair. They  offered him its market  value. But Mr J didnt  think  that was enough and he 
complained to esure. They  wouldnt  change  their decision so he brought  his complaint to us.
The adjudicator didnt recommend that his complaint  about  the valuation  should be upheld. 
He thought that it was reasonable. But he thought  that esure should increase  that valuation  
to take account  of Mr Js cars entertainment  system.  
Neither Mr J nor esure  agreed and so his case has been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr J was entitled to the market value of his car. This is an amount that reflects the cars  
value immediately before  it was damaged.  It takes  into account a number of factors including  
the cars  age, condition,  mileage and specification. 
The adjudicator explained to Mr J our approach regarding complaints about  car valuations. 
We dont decide  what the market value  of a car is; we merely consider whether or not the 
insurer has reached a fair and reasonable amount  having regard to the valuations in the 
motor trade  guides.  We think these  guides are a reliable  indication as to value as theyre 
based on nationwide research of likely car selling prices, not advertised prices,  which  may 
be higher.
Esure looked at three  trade guides to value Mr Js car. They  then discounted the highest of 
those three  valuations as they felt that it was out of line with the other valuations. So they 
offered Mr J £2,663. This was the average of the remaining two trade guide values. 
But Mr J wasnt  happy with this. He felt that they should pay him the average of all three 
guide values,  which would  be about  £2,842. And he said that he couldnt find a replacement  
car similar to his car for what esure  had offered.
The adjudicator checked the guides  and thought that esures  settlement offer wasnt unfair.  
As he explained to Mr J, we dont  think its unreasonable for an insurer  to discount  an out of 
line valuation. And I think  that the highest valuation was out of line, considering that it was 
about £465 higher than the middle valuation, whereas  the difference between the middle  
and lowest valuations was only about £144. I do sympathise that Mr Js car has been written 
off through  no fault of his own,  and he wants to get what he thinks  that its worth.  But I agree 
with the adjudicator that it wasnt unfair for esure to discount the guide with the highest  
valuation and instead to base their valuation on only the remaining two guides.  
However the adjudicator noted  that Mr Js car had an upgraded entertainment system, which 
esure hadnt taken  into account in their valuation.  Esures engineer said that they didnt 
Ref: DRN83205872usually consider such systems to add value to older cars and the guide that theyd 
discounted for being out of line didnt include anything for an entertainment system. The 
adjudicator didnt think it was reasonable for esure  to rely for that purpose on the guide 
theyd discounted.  As he said, one of the remaining two guides  did increase the cars market 
value for the entertainment system,  and averaging  those two guides  gave a value of £2,709. 
So he thought that esure should  increase their valuation to that amount.
I agree  that it wasnt fair or reasonable in the circumstances for esure to omit adding  value  
for Mr Js cars extra feature, and so I think that esure should increase their settlement  offer 
in line with the adjudicators recommendation.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, its my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I 
require esure Insurance Limited to do the following: 
increase their valuation of Mr Js car to £2,709
pay Mr J 8% simple  annual interest on the difference between that amount and the  
valuation they offered,  calculated from the date of their initial  offer until the date this 
complaint is settled.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 September  2019.
Rosslyn Scott
ombudsman
If esure  consider that they are required by HM Revenue & Customs  to withhold income tax 
from that interest, they should tell Mr J how much they have taken off, and give Mr J a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN8320587