K820x#14complaint
Mr S has complained Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, wont  refund him £200 when 
he wasnt successful getting cash out of a cash machine.
background
In June 2018 Mr S used  a cash machine. He tried to withdraw £200. He didnt  get any 
money out and found that his account had been debited. He asked Halifax  to sort this out.
Halifax investigated what happened.  This included asking the bank   where the cash  
machine was located  for their evidence. They found thered been no discrepancy with the 
machine itself. They gave Mr S £30 for the service hed received but they wouldnt refund 
£200.
Mr S was unhappy with this outcome.  He brought his complaint to the ombudsman  service.
Our investigator reviewed  the evidence. This included information from the cash machine 
owning bank. This all backed up Halifaxs conclusion. Our investigator told Mr S he didnt 
think Halifax had done anything wrong.
Mr S continued to disagree. Hes asked  an ombudsman to consider  his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached roughly the 
same conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain why.
The Payment Services Regulations primarily  require banks to refund customers if they didnt 
make or authorise payments themselves. Certain  other circumstances do apply  specifically 
whether the customer  was grossly negligent when  looking  after their card and PIN but 
nothing that Ive seen here has an impact on how Im considering this case. So when  we 
look at whether a bank  has acted fairly  in rejecting  someones fraud complaint, one of the 
things we consider  is whether the customer made  the transactions  themselves or allowed 
them to be made.  If they did, then we generally wouldnt ask the bank to refund them.
To help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the evidence  of the cash machine 
transaction. This evidence has shown:
Mr S made a cash  machine withdrawal using  his own card at 14:12 on 25 June 2018;
There were  transactions  before and after him at the same machine.  The one before 
him happened three minutes before and the one after was at 14:17;
No faults were reported  by other  cash machine users with this machine;
There were  notes  that had been  purged (or rejected) from the machine.  These  were  
notes that had been rejected before they were dispensed for mostly quality reasons. 
But the banks  figures for this period was no different  in quantity than general;
When the machine  was refilled  three days after Mr Ss withdrawal, all the records 
show it balanced;
Mr S had thought  this cash machine  was seen locally as one where people often had 
problems. The bank,  who owned the machine, has since  removed this machine. 
Theyve denied  this was for any reason that would match  Mr Ss allegation;
Ref: DRN87962902The bank  confirmed  theyd not received any other claim for money being dispensed 
wrongly at this machine around this period.
All this evidence shows there was nothing wrong  with the cash machine. Overall  I believe 
the cash was dispensed.  Two possible things happened. Mr S took the money or he didnt.
Unfortunately if the cash was dispensed, as I think it was here as the result of a genuine 
transaction, and Mr S just walked away without taking it, then it wouldnt be appropriate to 
refund him. Someone  did use this machine within five minutes of Mr S. Theres no way of 
knowing but they may have benefitted  from an unexpected windfall. I know Mr S will think 
this is harsh  but unfortunately I cant blame Halifax for this happening.
Alternatively Mr S may have taken the money  himself and submitted a false claim. Ive 
reviewed Mr Ss history with Halifax. I note his account with them  has since  been  closed. In 
October 2014 Mr S was refunded  £350 after a disputed cash machine transaction. Mr S had 
other fraud claims  around this time too. Mr S lost five cards  in just one year shortly after this. 
There were also further card losses in 2017  and 2018. Specifically I can see Mr S reported  
the card used for this disputed cash machine withdrawal as lost in August  2018.
Its not my role to decide whether Mr S took the money or not because  Ive already decided  
that the money was dispensed  and available for Mr S to take. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Ss complaint against the 
Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2020.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8796290