K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that Close Brothers  Limited  mis-sold payment  protection insurance (PPI) 
with a car finance  agreement.
background
Briefly:
In 2005 Mr S took out PPI around  the same time as he took out finance to buy a vehicle.  
Close Brothers isnt certain  how the sale came about  it says it couldve happened  during a 
meeting, by telephone or by post. But most recently  it says it thinks PPI was sold by phone.
The policy was designed to protect  Mr S finance  payments  in the event  he couldnt work 
because of accident, sickness and unemployment. It also provided life and critical illness 
cover  known as Gold cover. It cost a little under £60 a month.
At the time Mr S says he was a self-employed taxi driver  and he was in good health at the 
time. He says he had a partner he couldve relied on to make his finance  payments and he 
had a part-time driver who wouldve helped  him out.
Mr S finance agreement ended in 2008.
The adjudicator recommended the complaint should be upheld.  They  said the limited 
available evidence from the time didnt  show that Close  Brothers had presented the PPI as 
being optional  or that Mr S chose to take it out. They also said the policy wasnt  suitable  for 
Mr S because the policy limited his ability to make an unemployment claim, but this wasnt 
pointed out to him at the time. They recommend Mr S be compensated.
Close Brothers disagrees. In summary it believes the policy  wouldve benefitted Mr S, so the 
complaint comes to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
PPI complaints on our website and Ive taken into account whats  relevant here in deciding 
Mr S complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint and for broadly the same  reasons as 
the adjudicator.  Ive set out my reasons below.
how did the sale come about?
I indicated above  that Close Brothers  cant say for certain how the sale of PPI came about. 
At different times its given us three  possible ways things happened based on the different 
sales channels it employed  at the same time during the meeting at the car dealership 
when Mr S bought  his vehicle, later on by post or later on by phone. 
Most recently it says the sale happened during a phone call. And based on what Ive seen, I 
think, more likely than not, this is how Mr S came to take out PPI. I say this because the start 
date of the PPI is a few days after Mr S credit agreement started. 
Ref: DRN81928382And a letter Mr S received at the time confirming  his policy had started, referred to him 
confirming his direct debit details by telephone. So, on balance I think this was a sale by 
phone.
did Close Brother advise Mr S?
Close Brothers said this was an advised  sale where  it recommended PPI to Mr S. And based  
on the example  call script it has provided,  which it says shows  how a sale like Mr S wouldve 
taken place, I think it likely recommend PPI to Mr S. 
This means  Close Brothers had to ensure PPI was suitable for Mr S based  on his demands 
and needs at the time. And it had to give him enough clear and timely information  about the 
recommended policy  so he could decide whether  to go ahead  or not.
the advice  was PPI suitable for Mr S?
Looking at the call script  I can see that the representative was prompted  to give a customer  
a broad description of the PPI and then they asked several questions  including whether the 
customer was on a fixed term employment  contract and whether they had any existing 
medical conditions.  After asking a further  question about whether the customer had any 
existing similar insurance cover, the representative moved on to give the policys cost 
information; they confirmed eligibility;  and then they gave some exclusions of the cover  for 
both the accident and unemployment elements of the cover.
After telling a customer  that there were other exclusions, which  could be found in the policy 
document which would be sent out afterwards, the representative proceeded to recommend 
the cover  and asked  for the business.
However, one of the significant exclusions/limitations on cover  relevant to Mr S policy  
relates to self-employed persons. I feel its important to highlight  here that the most recent 
policy document Close Brothers has sent us isnt relevant to Mr S because  it post-dates  his 
policy sale by many years. So, Ive not considered this document   Ive used the document  
is previously provided which is from the time in question. 
For people who were  self-employed  the relevant policy says:
Please note that if you are self employed you will not be able to claim benefit under the 
involuntary unemployment section of the policy unless your business is insolvent. See 
section 6 of the policy  for more details.
Involuntary unemployment was defined in the policy as:
a. termination of Your Permanent Employment with or without notice; or
b. the declared  bankruptcy or insolvency or the liquidation of Your own business
Section 6 of the policy referred to earlier says:
If You are Self Employed  We will not pay Monthly  Benefit  until We have received proof
of Your Involuntary  Unemployment from Your  accountant and the Inland Revenue.
I think this was a significant limitation  of cover and is an onerous term. I say this because a 
self-employed person would have to do considerably more than an employed person to be 
Ref: DRN81928383able to successfully  claim on the involuntary  unemployment element of the policy. They 
would have to demonstrate bankruptcy,  insolvency  or liquidation of their business.
Mr S was self-employed, so this was relevant  to him. But on the basis that the call script 
provided reflects broadly what  happened  during  the telephone call Close  Brothers had with 
Mr S when he bought  PPI, I dont think the representative would have understood that Mr S 
was self-employed   they werent  prompted to find this out. And nowhere in the script would 
they have then been prompted to consider Mr S self-employment status  and how this might 
impact the suitability of the policy to him in light of the significant limitation of cover  for self-
employed persons  claiming unemployment benefit. 
Close Brothers should not in my view have recommended PPI to Mr S without  highlighting 
that not all his demands and needs  were  met by the policy because of the significant limits to 
the cover  that were  relevant  to him in his circumstances.  So, I dont think it was a suitable 
recommendation to have  made.
Notwithstanding the above, I think in any event there was an information failing here - the 
representative wasnt prompted when talking about  the policys  exclusions to highlight  to Mr 
S during the call - and before his decision to buy - this significant  limitation  of cover.  It would 
have been for Mr S to have discovered  it for himself  in the policy document sent out after 
hed agreed to take out PPI. 
Because of this I dont think Close Brothers acted  fairly and reasonably  towards Mr S when it 
advised him to take out PPI.
has Mr S lost out as a result?
I think Mr S has lost out here. I say this because  if things  had happened as they should have 
and Close  Brothers had properly advised and informed Mr S and considered  and told him 
about the significant limitation on the cover for the self-employed, Im not persuaded Mr S 
wouldve agreed to still go ahead.  I dont  think that, given the nature of Mr S self-
employment, his expectations about  what hed have to do to be able to successfully claim for 
unemployment were  the same as the policy required, so I think this term wouldve mattered 
to him.
Given this and being mindful that the policys  monthly  cost was not insignificant, Im not 
persuaded that, in weighing up the cost and benefit  proposition and whether it still worked for 
him, Mr S wouldve decided to go ahead  anyway. 
So, in Mr Ss individual circumstances, I think more likely than not hed have  decided  not to 
take the policy out. This means  I find Mr S has suffered  loss as a result of the things Close  
Brothers did wrong.
what Close Brothers needs to do to put things right 
Close Brothers should put Mr S in the position  hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI. I 
understand the policy has ended,  so Close  Brothers should:
Pay Mr S the amount  he paid each month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when he paid it until he gets it back. The rate 
of interest is 8% a year
Ref: DRN81928384If Mr S made a successful claim under  the PPI policy, Close Brothers can take off what  
he got for the claim from the amount it owes him.  
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Close Brothers  to take off tax from this interest. Close 
Brothers must give Mr S a certificate  showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, Ive decided to uphold this complaint and I make an award in favour 
of Mr S. So Close Brothers Limited  should pay Mr S compensation as Ive detailed above.  I 
make no other award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 February  2020.  
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8192838