K820x#14complaint
Mr T has complained that Lloyds Bank  PLC misrepresented  the terms of a loan which was 
inappropriate to meet his needs and didnt allow him to cancel it.
background
The background to this complaint, and my provisional findings,  were set out in my 
provisional decision dated 18 December 2019. A copy of this is attached  and forms part of 
this final decision.  In my provisional decision I invited  both parties to let me have any further 
comments and evidence.
Mr T didnt  agree with my provisional decision but he didnt add anything to the comments 
and evidence Id already  seen.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done this, I dont intend to change 
my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  in my provisional decision,  my final decision is I dont uphold this 
complaint. I make no award  against Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2020.
Charles Bacon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN83162012Copy of provisional  decision
background
In May 2018  Mr T took out a loan with Lloyds to consolidate existing loans. He already had a loan, a 
credit card and an overdraft with Lloyds  as well as a credit card with another bank. The loan was 
arranged at a Lloyds branch  and Mr T signed the loan agreement  at the branch. The amount he 
borrowed under the new loan was sufficient to enable  him to repay  his existing debts.
Mr T says he then read the agreement and realised the interest rate on the new loan was 
considerably higher than hed been paying on his existing loan. He says he telephoned the branch to 
try to cancel the agreement  but promises made by the branch  staff to call him back werent kept and 
other calls were unanswered. Eventually he was told the agreement couldnt be cancelled because  
the loan had been used  to pay off his existing debts.
Mr T complained to Lloyds but it didnt uphold  his complaint. It said the agreement  stated that if he 
cancelled the loan it wouldnt  cancel his repayment of the other debts and hed have to repay the full 
loan amount  including the amount used to repay other debts.
Mr T wasnt happy with Lloyds response and referred his complaint to this service.
our initial conclusions
Our investigator didnt think the loan had been mis-sold and it was affordable. But they thought the 
customer service  Lloyds  had provided  to Mr T when  he wanted  to cancel the loan was poor and had 
caused him a lot of distress. They thought Lloyds should  pay him £200 compensation for this.
Mr T didnt respond  to our investigators recommendation. 
Lloyds didnt agree with the recommendation that it should pay Mr T £200 compensation. It says 
failure on the part of its branch staff to return Mr Ts calls, which it denies, wouldnt have had a 
material impact on the outcome.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
The agreement that Mr T signed clearly shows the amount he was borrowing, the interest hed be 
charged and the payments hed have  to make. Im therefore satisfied he would have been aware of 
the terms of the loan,  including the interest rate hed have to pay, when he signed the agreement.
Mr T is correct when he says the interest rate on his new loan is considerably higher than the interest 
payable on his previous loan. But the amount required to repay  the previous loan was only part of the 
amount he borrowed on the new loan. The interest rates payable on his Lloyds credit card and 
overdraft were both higher than the interest rate on the new loan. 
Lloyds carried out an affordability assessment before  it gave Mr T the new loan. This showed  his 
monthly income and committed expenditure. On the basis of the information  contained  in the 
assessment, Im satisfied  Mr T could afford to make the payments under  the new loan agreement.
The agreement sets out Mr Ts right to withdraw within  fourteen days. In the right to withdraw section 
it says:
If you use this loan to repay other  debts your withdrawal from this loan will not cancel your 
repayments of the other debts and you must  repay the full loan amount including any funds  that you 
use to repay  other  debts.
Ref: DRN83162013Im satisfied the meaning of the above  term is clear. Mr T was aware  of the right to withdraw so I think 
he would also have been aware of the above term when he signed  the agreement.
Ive considered Mr Ts comments  about his attempts to contact the branch to cancel  the agreement. 
The right to withdraw section of the agreement contains an address  and telephone number for the 
personal loans service centre hed need  to contact in order to provide Lloyds with notification  if he 
wanted to withdraw. Lloyds says Mr T didnt contact the branch until after the fourteen day 
cancellation period had expired.
I think  Mr T should have known hed need to contact the personal loans service centre  rather than the 
branch if he wanted to cancel  the agreement. I havent seen any evidence that he would  have been 
able to repay  the loan in full within the fourteen day period. Im not persuaded that a failure on the part 
of the branch staff to return his calls would  have  caused  him significant  trouble  and upset.
Given all of the above,  Im not currently  persuaded the loan was misrepresented. Im also not 
persuaded that the customer service Mr T received  in relation to his attempts to cancel the loan would 
justify an award  of compensation.
my provisional  decision
Subject to any additional comments and evidence I get from the parties  my provisional decision is I 
dont uphold  this complaint.
Ref: DRN8316201