K822xcomplaint
Mr D complains Barclays Bank UK PLC trading  as Barclaycard wont  refund a payment
made on his credit card to a secondary ticket selling website (the Website) for concert
tickets.
background 
In February 2018,  Mr D bought four concert tickets  which took place in August 2018, on his
Barclaycard credit card. In total, he paid £437.06.
Mr D complains that he was overcharged for the tickets - he said the Website  showed  hed
be charged £80 per ticket,  meaning  an overall total of £320. However, after entering  his card
details, the Website  showed a total price of £437.06 for the tickets. Mr D says he never
would have paid this amount had it been  shown  before he entered his card details. Mr D
says he went to the concert.
Barclaycard looked  into Mr Ds concerns, but they didnt think they could help. They said
they didnt feel they had grounds to raise  a chargeback claim because they didnt have a
reasonable prospect of success. Barclaycard also thought  a claim under Section 75 of the
Consumer Credit Act 1974  (CCA) should be unsuccessful. They  said as the goods and
services had been provided,  they were unable  to prove a breach of contract.
Barclaycard say they blocked Mr Ds card when he first contacted  them to complain about
the payment hed made to the Website. They  then sent him a replacement card. However,
Barclaycard acknowledged it wasnt necessary to do this. They said no fraud had been
committed and that blocking his account wouldnt have stopped  the payment, from the
Website, being debited from his account as this had already happened. To say sorry for this,
they gave Mr D £25 compensation. As a gesture of goodwill, Barclaycard offered to credit
Mr Ds account with a further £50, but Mr D didnt accept this.
Barclaycard let Mr D know there  was an outstanding  balance  on his credit card and that in
line with the accounts terms and conditions,  he needed to make the monthly minimum
repayment. As Mr D didnt make the repayments  required, Barclaycard defaulted  the 
account on 27 June  2019. Mr D has told us the account is now closed and the debt has been 
sold to a third-party debt collector.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ds concerns. In summary, he acknowledged that whilst the
total price wasnt shown at the start of the process,  by the time a buyer is asked to input their
payment details, the full price is shown at this point. And that it would have also been shown
on the final page before a buyer completes  the transaction.  So, he wasnt persuaded that the
Website had misrepresented the price. Or that there  had been a breach of contract in Mr Ds
case.
In relation to the default, our investigator  said he didnt have information to show Barclaycard
had agreed with Mr D to put the payment to the Website on hold. And that Barclaycard  made
clear in their final response to Mr D that payments would still need  to be made  to his
account. Therefore,  as Mr D had missed a number of payments, he didnt think Barclaycard
had done anything wrong in defaulting  the account.
Mr D disagreed. He reiterated that additional  charges  were  added to the overall total after
hed bought the tickets. Mr D said other witnesses were present at the time he purchased
Ref: DRN89799972the tickets and he provided  us with a statement from two witnesses to corroborate everything
hed said about  the additional charges.  Mr D said he wasnt given the opportunity to cancel
the tickets and remained of the opinion that had the Website  shown the true total cost of the
tickets before he completed the purchase, he never would have bought them. So, the
complaint has been passed to me.
I issued my provisional findings on this complaint, setting out the below:
This complaint is about Barclaycard, as Mr Ds credit card account  provider.  Its not about
the Website, which isnt a financial service  provider and so doesnt  fall within  my remit. Im
only considering  whether  Mr D authorised Barclaycard to debit the account with the value of
the payment,  and whether  they should have  helped with the dispute with the Website  in any
other way.
Mr D says he made the transaction for these tickets - he entered his card details on the
Website and agreed to enter into a transaction with them. Mr D is disputing the amount he
paid for the tickets  as he says the Website didnt display the full total of the tickets  as
£437.06 until after hed bought them.
I understand Mr Ds strength of feeling  on this point, especially as hes been consistent  in
telling us he never would have bought the tickets had he known the true cost of the tickets.
Ive seen the steps someone needed  to follow to buy tickets  on the Website  in October 2017 
- which I think  is more  than likely  the same steps Mr D followed when he purchased the
tickets four months later.  I can see from this information the total  price is displayed  on the
final page before the buyer  is asked  to enter their card details. On balance,  I think  it more
likely than not the total cost of £437.06 was displayed  before Mr D consented and authorised
the payment.
Having considered everything  Mr D has told us (including that he made this purchase  and
paid for the tickets) and the evidence provided  by Barclaycard, Im satisfied  the transaction
was properly authorised and correctly  applied to Mr Ds credit card account with Barclaycard.
I understand Barclaycard have acknowledged  they blocked Mr Ds credit card in error. And
to say sorry, they gave  him £25 as compensation. As a gesture of goodwill, Barclaycard
offered to credit Mr Ds account  with a further £50 which Mr D declined.  Barclaycard have
since confirmed the offer of £50 is still available to Mr D. Although Barclaycard told us they
sent Mr D another  card out, I think having  a block on his card would have caused him
inconvenience. With this in mind, I think the additional offer of £50 is fair in the
circumstances of this complaint. Additionally,  whilst Barclaycard have  acknowledged  that
something went wrong, I dont think this error  had a material impact  on the outcome of Mr
Ds payment dispute with the Website.
could Barclaycard challenge the transaction through a chargeback?
In certain circumstances, when a cardholder has a dispute with a merchant  (as Mr D does
here), the card issuer (Barclaycard)  can attempt a chargeback. Generally, we say its fair for
a card issuer  to attempt  a chargeback - or to challenge a payment - if theres  a reasonable
prospect of success,  for example where goods  or services arent received, or it appears that
the payment wasnt properly authorised  by the cardholder.
Indeed, were aware of cases, with some similar features  to this one, where a chargeback
has been successful.  But I dont think Barclaycard could  have  challenged the payment on
Ref: DRN89799973the basis Mr D didnt  properly authorise the transaction, given the conclusions Ive already
set out.
The crux of Mr Ds complaint is that he was overcharged for the tickets  - he thought  they
were going  to cost a total of £320. And it wasnt  until he bought the tickets, he realised  he
was charged £437.06  for them. Mr D says the additional charges werent  added  on until after
hed purchased the tickets.
Barclaycard say in cases where a customer has claimed that theyve been overcharged,
they require documentary evidence to support what the cost of the item should have been.
However, in Mr Ds case, the additional amount he was charged was in relation to fees
which were visible on the final screen, before Mr D authorised the transaction.  Therefore,
Barclaycard say they didnt consider this to be an overcharge claim and didnt think there
was a reasonable prospect of success in pursuing  a chargeback claim with the Website.
Having thought about what  both parties have said, alongside the information available  to me,
I dont think Barclaycard acted unfairly. Mr D told us he received the tickets in time for the
concert and was able to attend. Therefore, I dont think Barclaycard could challenge the
Website on the basis that Mr D didnt get what he ordered. Or that he wasnt  able to use the
tickets to gain entry  to the event.
how about Section  75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974?
As the payment was made using a credit  card, I have also taken  into account how Section
75 applies  to the transaction. In certain circumstances, Mr D has an equal right to claim
against Barclaycard  as he does against  the supplier (the Website) if theres been a breach of
contract or misrepresentation by the supplier if certain conditions are met.
My role isnt to decide Barclaycards liability under Section 75. Instead,  as statute requires
me to, I need to decide whats fair and reasonable, taking into account  any relevant law.
such as the Consumer Credit Act 1974.  For a valid claim under Section 75 there must  be a
debtor-creditor-supplier arrangement in place.  The Websites  terms and conditions  in this
case say:
1.2 Ticketing Exchange.  [Websites  name] provides a service that allows  members who
want to buy tickets ("Buyers") to find members who want to sell tickets ("Sellers"). [Website's
name] does not take title to the underlying ticket and the actual transactions are between the
Buyers and Sellers."
This satisfies me that the tickets arent  supplied by the Website. But that the Website  does
provide a service.  And for this they charge buyers  a fee. In regard to the fee, the Website
says they:
.. .charge a service fee on top of the ticket price. This fee is displayed  in the check-out
process and covers the cost of maintaining the [Website's  name]  platform, guaranteeing
tickets and providing customer service.
In effect then, there is a debtor-creditor-supplier  arrangement between Mr D, Barclaycard
and the Website,  albeit  not for the direct  provision of the tickets  themselves. Instead, the
Website provides a service. The service  consists of two main  things - the platform and the
guarantee.
Ref: DRN89799974So, I think the Website is responsible for how ticket information (such  as venue, date, time,
and the asking price) is displayed to buyers. And I think, under the guarantee, theyre
responsible for providing replacement tickets or a refund  if the seller  doesnt fulfil their
obligations around supplying the tickets.
Another condition  necessary for a valid claim under Section 75 is that the service provided
by the Website must have  a cash price of more  than £100 but less than £30,000. In this
case, I havent seen a breakdown of the amount Mr D paid. But I can see from his credit
card statement that he was charged a total of £437.06. From our research,  weve found that
the Websites fee makes  up about a third of the total cost. One third of £437.06 is around
£146. So, I think its more  likely than not the Websites fee for their service in this case  was
more than £100 and less than £30,000.  This means  I think Mr D could have a valid claim
under Section 75.
So, Ive established  that the necessary  arrangements exist for a claim under Section 75
about the service  the Website provided, and that the cash  price of that service is sufficient
for Section 75 to apply. Next, I need  to consider whether theres been a breach  of contract or
misrepresentation on the part of the Website.
As Ive explained. Ive seen the steps someone  needed to follow to buy tickets on the
Website in October 2017 - and Ive already explained I think  these are more  likely than not,
the same  steps  Mr D followed when he purchased the tickets.  Having  looked  at this
information, I can see the Website displays the total price of the tickets  before Mr D needed
to enter  in his card details. So, because he entered his details and authorised the
transaction, the purchase was completed.  I appreciate Mr D has reiterated several times that
the total amount wasnt shown until he bought the tickets. But I havent  seen  anything  to
suggest this. I also havent  seen anything  to suggest  the Website misled Mr D or that they
told him anything untrue  about the price which materially persuaded him to buy the tickets  he
otherwise wouldnt  have. Additionally, the Website facilitated Mr D in finding a seller of the
tickets he wanted.  And the seller provided the tickets and in time for the concert,  which he 
was able to attend. So, the Websites guarantee about providing replacement  tickets or a
refund wasnt necessary.  Therefore,  the Website didnt fail to fulfil its part of the contract  or
indeed breach it.
I note Mr D has provided us with a statement from two witnesses to corroborate what hes
told us about the price  of the tickets  changing  after the purchase was complete. Ive thought
about the fact that these witness statements were provided over a year after Mr D made the
transaction in February 2018. Therefore, Im not entirely persuaded by their recollection of
what happened. And Im more persuaded by the evidence Ive seen from October  2017.  So,
I dont think there was a misrepresentation here.
Having carefully thought  about everything. Im satisfied the Website  provided a service  (as
Ive described) and I am not persuaded they have breached  the contract. Nor have they
misrepresented that service to Mr D to my mind.  It follows that I currently  think  Barclaycard
acted fairly  in the handling of Mr Ds Section 75 claim.
was there  anything else within the Consumer  Credit Act 1974 that Barclaycard should have
considered?
Even though  Ive made the finding  that I dont think there is a valid claim under Section 75, I
think Section 56 of the CCA could be of particular relevance to this complaint.
Ref: DRN89799975In summary.  Section 56 has the effect of making the Website  the agent of Barclaycard
during the antecedent  negotiations leading  up to Mr D entering into a transaction with
them. So essentially, this means Barclaycard are responsible  for the acts or omissions of the
Website and what was said or done  before the transaction was entered  in to and conducted
by the Website.  In other words,  Barclaycard  have  to stand behind  the things  the Website
said, did, didnt say, or didnt do during the sales process.
For a valid claim  under  Section 56, there  has to be a valid debtor-creditor-supplier
arrangement in place - which  is satisfied for reasons Ive already explained. However,  unlike
Section 75, there are no monetary limits attached to Section 56. So, I can consider the
impact of Section  56 and whether  Barclaycard  ought  to have considered  this in Mr Ds case
With this in mind. Ive thought about  whether the Website misrepresented the information, or
the tickets Mr D purchased. As Ive explained,  Mr D has been consistent in telling us the
Website never displayed  the true total cost of the tickets until the end of the purchase
process and that he never knew the total amount was £437.06. Instead, he thought he was
paying a total of £320 for the tickets. As explained, from the information Ive seen  Im
satisfied the full price  of the tickets were  made  clear  to Mr D at the time of purchase.  And Mr
D completed the transaction, therefore,  agreeing  to this price. So, I dont think  the Website
misrepresented this information  or that they misled  him.
The default
I note Barclaycard defaulted  Mr Ds account  in June 2019 - they say this was because Mr D
didnt make the minimum monthly  payments towards the account for at least six months.
Barclaycard say they sent Mr D letters each month until June 2019 where they let him know
he needed to make a payment towards the account.
Barclaycard have told us the credit card agreement Mr D entered  into explains where there
is an outstanding  balance, Mr D is required  to pay a minimum payment. And failing to do so
will be reported to credit reference agencies.
Barclaycard have provided us with copies of letters  from June 2018 to June 2019 where they
wrote to Mr D letting  him know that payment was due on his account. It looks like from the
information supplied  by Mr D of his credit file that one payment was made to his account in
November 2018.  But from there  on, it looks like there  were  no payments made until the
account was defaulted in June 2019. Barclaycard also wrote to Mr D in April 2019  letting him
know he had 28 days to fully clear any outstanding arrears. And if he didnt do this, a default
would be registered.
Having considered all of this information,  I think Barclaycard gave Mr D enough notice  that
payment was due on his account. Theres also nothing to suggest  Barclaycard had agreed to
put the payment to the Website on hold. Or that there were any payments made  to the
account for at least the six months  prior to it being  defaulted in June 2019. As Barclaycard
didnt receive any payment and as there were arrears on the account for at least  six months
before the default was registered,  I dont think Barclaycard have acted unfairly here.
Barclaycard didnt respond to my provisional  decision. Mr D responded and said the two 
witnesses who provided a statement can remember the exact details  of the purchase 
process. And that the reason these statements were  provided so long after the event was 
because Mr D didnt realise  hed had to supply  evidence when making a claim to his bank.
Ref: DRN89799976my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to reassure Mr D that Im not downgrading  the evidence hes supplied  us with and Ive 
considered all the evidence carefully.  However,  as explained  in my provisional decision, Ive 
seen the steps  someone needed  to follow  to buy the tickets on the Website  in October 2017 
 which  I think were  likely the steps  Mr D followed when he bought the tickets in February  
2018. And I find this evidence to be more persuasive. To reiterate, I havent seen anything to 
suggest the full price  of the tickets  werent displayed before Mr D needed to enter in his card 
details to authorise the transaction.  Nor have  I seen anything from this information  to 
suggest the total price of the tickets wouldve changed after Mr D entered his card details.
I appreciate Mr D feels let down by Barclaycard and I understand my final decision will come  
as a disappointment  to him. But I dont think Barclaycard  acted unfairly in the handling of Mr 
Ds claim.
Barclaycard have already made  an offer of £50 in recognition of incorrectly blocking Mr Ds 
card. And for the same reasons I provided in my provisional decision, I still think this offer is 
fair.
my final decision
My decision  is that Barclays Bank  UK PLC trading as Barclaycard should pay Mr D £50.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 October  2021.
Leanne McEvoy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8979997