K821x#15complaint
Ms C complains Erudio Student Loans  Limited failed to defer her loan causing her account 
to fall into arrears and resulting in her being  refused further student  funding.
background
Ms C had a student  loan,  on which shed successfully deferred repayments  each  year. 
In 2013, shortly before Erudio took over the loan from the Student Loans Company (SLC), 
Ms C completed a further deferral form. But this wasnt  accepted, on the basis  that Ms C 
had provided handwritten  payslips.
After Erudio took over the loan Ms C provided it with further evidence  to support deferment. 
Erudio accepts it did not action this, and because the deferment  wasnt  accepted payments 
fell due, subsequently developing arrears.  Over  time, communication  between  the parties  
became confused; although Ms C was sending further information to Erudio, this wasnt 
always matched with other correspondence. As a result, Erudio continued to seek payment 
and eventually recorded the loan as being in default.
After a significant amount of time, Erudio accepted Ms Cs deferment request. But by then, 
the account had a large arrears balance.  Ms C had decided to return to study on a new 
course but found her funding request rejected. She was told this was because of the arrears  
on her existing account.
Ms C complained to Erudio, who accepted  it could  have  handled  the situation better. It said 
its communication could  have been  clearer and it could have provided more support to Ms C 
earlier. Erudio said it would clear  the arrears back  to 2013, and offered to pay Ms C £150 to 
compensate her for her distress and inconvenience. Ms C didnt accept this proposal.
Our investigator agreed that Erudio could have done  more  at an earlier  stage to resolve the 
issues regarding the deferment and arrears.  The investigator thought it was right that Erudio 
clear the arrears and backdate the deferment. But he felt the £150 offered by Erudio wasnt  
suitable compensation. Noting the difficulties Ms C had been  caused, and the overall  impact  
on her situation  including her medical condition  the investigator  recommended  this to be 
increased to £1,750.
Erudio responded to say that it thought the steps  it had proposed were sufficient. It asked for 
the complaint  to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
Although I generally  agreed with our investigators outcome, I wanted to explain my reasons  
in a bit more detail, so I decided to issue a provisional decision before I made  my final 
decision. This allowed both parties to comment on my thinking  before I made  my final 
decision  which is the Financial Ombudsmans Services last word on the case.
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I said:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN82105722Erudio has accepted it could have provided more support to Ms C in her 
deferment process, and that if its communication had been clearer it would have  
been able to help Ms C defer her account  sooner. Im aware that Ms C was able 
to defer  her repayments  successfully year on year until 2013. Ive seen nothing 
that leads me to think the position  would have been any different from that date 
on. So the proposal to backdate  the deferment seems  to me to be the correct 
one, provided that Erudio  is also treating each  subsequent year as deferred. 
Ms C will need  to continue to submit evidence  and complete a request each year 
that she continues  to qualify for deferment.
Those past deferments  have the effect of making no payments due on Ms Cs 
loan. So it couldnt  have been in arrears. Therefore any arrears that developed as 
a result of non-payment should be removed, along with any adverse credit 
information Erudio  has recorded  such as (but not limited to) the default.
Ive thought carefully about the situation with Ms Cs later studies and her 
rejected finance  application. Ms C has described  how she instead had to borrow  
the money from family to enable her to maintain her studies. It is apparent that 
Ms Cs application was declined because of the student loan arrears  she has a 
letter to this effect from SLC. As these arrears should not have existed, the 
reason for the decline falls away. But Ms Cs position is now different. She now 
has a loan from her family,  as opposed  to a further student loan. And neither I nor 
Erudio is able to replace  the former with the latter.
The fact that Ms C would  have been  able to take out a further  student  loan 
doesnt mean she would never have been required  to repay  it. But its entirely 
possible she might  have  been able to defer repayment  this is contingent on her 
future income, which is at this stage unknown. Her arrangements  with her family,  
on the other hand, suggest that she would need to repay them   and probably 
over a much shorter period.
It wouldnt be right to describe the money Ms C has to repay to her family as a 
loss, because if she had been able to obtain the SLC funding, the money would 
still have represented  a contingent liability. But it was no doubt embarrassing and 
the source of much  concern  for Ms C that it was necessary  for her to approach 
her family for funding in the first place. So Im currently minded to propose that 
Erudio should  factor this in to the redress it pays Ms C as compensation.
Im further minded  to say that the £150 Erudio has offered is in any event 
insufficient to address  the problems that arose  from it not communicating  clearly 
with Ms C to help her deal with the deferment. Early on, Ms C contacted Erudio  to 
say she was finding it difficult to deal with the deferment and arrears process  
she said she felt extremely anxious  when receiving Erudios letters and she was 
afraid to open  them.  
Erudio sent a further notice of default in April 2017 as it had been  unable to get 
the information it wanted regarding the deferment  or arrears. Ms C told Erudio  of 
her disability and difficulties and had asked  for correspondence to be sent by 
post. But despite those requests, Erudio continued to contact  her by phone  about  
the arrears and deferment.
Ref: DRN82105723I find that Erudios  actions are likely to have caused Ms C a significant degree  of 
distress and inconvenience. Given her medical condition,  the impact  on her was 
substantial. This was exacerbated by her difficult financial  situation  and the 
embarrassment and concern  of having to approach  her family for money  or risk 
her ability to continue  with her studies.  So taking  all of this into account, I 
consider it would be fair that Erudio pay Ms C £1,500  inclusive of the £150 
previously offered.
On that basis, I was minded to uphold Ms Cs complaint.
the responses to my provisional  decision 
Ms C accepted my provisional decision.
Erudio confirmed they received my provisional  decision and requested  further time to 
respond to it  so I gave  them  until 30 January 2020 to respond.  But to date Erudio still 
hasnt responded  or provided  any further  information for me to consider. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ive thought again about the conclusions  I came to in my provisional decision. Having 
done so, Ive reached the same conclusions  as set out in my provisional  decision and for 
the same  reasons.
my final decision
For the reason  mentioned above,  I uphold this complaint. To settle  it, Erudio Student Loans 
Limited should:
backdate deferment of Ms Cs student  loan to 2013
treat each subsequent year up to the current year as if Ms C had successfully 
deferred repayment
ensure Ms Cs account is not in arrears and that the default  and any other 
adverse payment  information is removed from her record
pay Ms C £1,500  in recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused to her. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 March 2020.
Jag Dhuphar
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8210572