K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains that Everyday Lending Limited  (ELL) lent to him in an irresponsible  
manner.
background
Mr H was given a single loan by ELL. He borrowed £2,000 in April 2018 and agreed to repay 
the loan in 12 monthly instalments. Mr H appears to have faced problems making the 
scheduled repayments on the loan and a balance remained outstanding at the time he made 
his complaint.
Since making his complaint Mr H has told us about some further issues that have arisen. He 
says ELL has sent a letter referencing another customer to his parents address.  And it has 
also left a record of a credit search  on Mr Hs credit file following a search he says it didnt 
have his permission  to make. But those matters did not form part of Mr Hs original complaint 
so it isnt appropriate for me to deal with them here.  In this decision  I will only with what  
happened when  ELL gave  the loan to Mr H in April 2018.
Mr Hs complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. She thought that the 
checks ELL had done before agreeing the loan had been proportionate. But she thought 
those checks suggested that Mr H wouldnt be able to sustainably  afford  his repayments on 
the loan. So she didnt think ELL should have agreed to lend to Mr H and she asked the 
lender to pay Mr H some  compensation.
ELL didnt  agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt  been  resolved informally, 
it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our process. If 
Mr H accepts my decision it is legally binding  on both parties.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our approach  to 
unaffordable/irresponsible lending  complaints  on our website and Ive kept this in mind while 
deciding Mr Hs complaint.
The rules  and regulations at the time ELL gave this loan to Mr H required  it to carry out a 
reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether he could afford to repay what he owed 
in a sustainable manner. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability 
assessment or affordability  check.
The checks  had to be borrower focused   so ELL had to think about whether repaying the 
credit sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr H. In practice this 
meant that ELL had to ensure that making the repayments wouldnt cause Mr H undue  
difficulty or adverse  consequences.  In other  words,  it wasnt enough for ELL to simply think  
about the likelihood of it getting its money  back,  it had to consider the impact of any 
repayments on Mr H. 
Ref: DRN87713142Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes  a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon  a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking.  
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have  
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any repayments to credit from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet higher repayments from a particular  level of income); 
the longer  the period  of time a borrower  will be indebted for (reflecting  the fact 
that the total cost of the credit  is likely to be greater and the customer is required 
to make repayments for an extended  period). 
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed  a proportionate check 
shouldve been  for a given application  including  (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of 
this in mind when thinking about  whether ELL did what it needed to before  agreeing  to lend 
to Mr H.
ELL gathered some information from Mr H before it agreed the loan.  It asked him for details 
of his income, and his normal rent or mortgage costs.  It then used some  statistical data to 
estimate Mr Hs remaining expenditure. And it checked his credit file to assess  how much he 
was repaying to other creditors. ELL also asked Mr H for a copy of his payslips and a recent 
bank statement that it used to verify his income and check  any unusual  items of expenditure.
Mr H was entering into a significant  commitment  with ELL. He would need to make monthly 
repayments for a period of a year. So I would expect that ELL would want  to gather, and 
independently check, some detailed  information  about Mr Hs financial circumstances before 
it agreed to lend to him. I think that the checks ELL did here achieved  that aim. So I think 
that the checks ELL did were proportionate.
But simply performing proportionate checks isnt enough. A lender also needs to react  
appropriately to the information shown by those checks. So Ive looked carefully at the 
information Mr H provided to ELL, and what its other  checks  uncovered.
Mr H provided  ELL with a copy of his bank statement  covering  mid-February  to mid-March. 
So it represented the period immediately before the loan was agreed. That bank statement 
showed that Mr H was overdrawn for the whole of the period  and even the receipt of his 
monthly salary didnt return his account to credit. Mr H was generally at the very limits  of his 
agreed overdraft  and on four occasions  in the month his bank returned a direct  debit 
unpaid as Mr H didnt  have sufficient headroom in his overdraft for the payment to be made.
Ref: DRN87713143ELL has pointed out that it isnt unusual for a consumer to be making use of an overdraft. 
And I would agree with that comment.  But it is concerning when a consumer both fails to 
make any progress in reducing  the size of their overdrawn balance  and sees a number of 
payments failing due to insufficient funds. And the credit check  that ELL performed indicated  
that Mr H was also overdrawn  with another bank. That to me suggests a consumer that is 
facing serious problems managing their money.
When looking at Mr Hs bank account  ELL made some notes that identified Mr H was 
making payments  each  month to his wife, both to cover his household  bills, and to repay the 
costs of their recent wedding. I havent  seen anything that would make  me think ELL had 
any reason to think that expenditure would reduce in the near future. Taking that expenditure 
into account, and the other regular expenditure showing on Mr Hs bank statement I dont 
think it was reasonable  for ELL to conclude that Mr H would be able to sustainably afford any 
further credit  repayments. So I dont think  ELL should have agreed to give this loan to Mr H.
putting things right
Although I dont think ELL should have given  this loan to Mr H, he has had the benefit of the 
principal amount that he borrowed. I think it is fair and reasonable for me to expect Mr H to 
repay that principal amount to ELL if he hasnt already done so. To put things right ELL 
should;
remove any interest and charges still outstanding on the loan and treat all the 
payments Mr H made towards this loan as payments towards the capital
if reworking Mr Hs loan account  as Ive directed results in him effectively having  
made payments  above the original  capital borrowed, then ELL should  refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments,  from the date 
the overpayments would have arisen,  to the date of settlement. 
If reworking Mr Hs loan account  leaves an amount of capital  still to be paid, then 
I remind ELL that it should take a sympathetic view when seeking  to agree an 
affordable repayment plan for the remaining capital with Mr H.
remove any adverse information  recorded  on Mr Hs credit file in relation to the loan.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires ELL to take off tax from this interest. ELL must give 
Mr H a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Hs complaint and direct Everyday Lending Limited to 
put things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 October  2020.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN87713144
Ref: DRN8771314