K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) policy  taken out in 
1992. Ms B says Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc (BoI)  mis-sold her the MPPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Ms B case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why. 
Ms B says that it was implied that she had to take out the MPPI. Due to the time thats 
passed, theres not much information  available  from BoI and Ms B hasnt provided much  
detail either. But I dont find this unusual  businesses arent required to keep records 
indefinitely, and I wouldnt expect  Ms B to remember everything about  something that 
happened in 1992.  But because of the lack of information, I dont have enough to say 
that Ms B wasnt  given a choice by BoI in taking the MPPI  and I cant uphold  this 
complaint for this reason
BoI didnt  recommend the MPPI to Ms B so it didnt have to check  if it was right for her. 
But it did have to make  sure Ms B got the information she needed to decide  if it was right 
for her. 
Its possible the information BoI gave Ms B about the MPPI  wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But based on what Ive seen of her circumstances  at the time it doesnt 
look like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the MPPI  cover - so it 
would have been useful for her if something  went wrong. It also looks like the MPPI was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about the MPPI  would have  put her off 
taking out the cover.  
This means BoI doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the MPPI to Ms B.
But BoI will pay back some  of the cost of the MPPI to Ms B because: 
BoI got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the MPPI 
premium) - so it should have told Ms B about that. Because BoI didnt tell Ms B, that was 
unfair. 
To put that right, BoI has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the MPPI premium - and I think  that offer is fair in this 
case.
Ive thought about everything Ms B has said - but these points dont change my decision, 
and for the reasons set out above, I dont think the MPPI was mis-sold.
what the business needs  to do
Ref: DRN83910072BoI has to pay back to Ms B any commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% 
of the MPPI premium. BoI should  also pay back to Ms B any extra  interest she paid because  
of that.
BoI should  pay back to Ms B the extra she paid each month  because  the commission  and 
profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of MPPI. BoI should also pay Ms B 8%* 
simple interest on each payment (15% on payments before April 1993).
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Ms B can claim back  the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The MPPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank  of Ireland (UK) Plc does not have to pay back  all 
of the cost of the MPPI to Ms B.
But Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc does have to pay back to Ms B any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the MPPI  premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 March  2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8391007