K821x#15complaint
Miss H complains about a car finance agreement  she took out through Decidebloom  Limited 
T/A: Stoneacre Scunthorpe  (Stoneacre Scunthorpe). She says that certain features or 
details of the finance agreement werent  made clear to her when she took the finance out 
and she believed she was getting the same type of finance that shed already had in place. 
In particular, Miss H says she wasnt told she had a mileage cap of 5,000  per year, that the 
finance was different to the hire purchase  agreement she previously had or that she had a 
balloon payment of £4,099 at the end of the agreement.
background
The circumstances surrounding  this complaint and my initial findings were  set out in my 
provisional decision of 20 February 2019. A copy of that provisional decision is attached 
here and forms part of this final decision.  
In my provisional decision I set out why I was minded  to uphold this complaint. I invited  
further comments from both parties, before I would reconsider the complaint again and issue 
my final decision.
Both parties  responded to my provisional decision. Miss H said that she incurred £4,000  
negative equity when  selling her car and asked if the £500 award was therefore  fair. 
Stoneacre Scunthorpe said it has nothing to add apart from reiterating that Miss H did accept 
a full and clear explanation of the terms, conditions and content of the finance agreement  
and understood  that it contained  a final payment  and mileage stipulation. It again  believes 
the mileage was probably low to keep the payments within Miss H's budget.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have come  to the same 
overall conclusions  for the same reasons as set out in my provisional decision.  
Im still not persuaded that Miss H was correctly and fully informed about the new finance  
agreement when it was taken out and I dont think she would have proceeded with it had the 
full details, including negative equity, been  explained in full to her.
Stoneacre Scunthorpe believes the mileage was probably kept low to keep the payments 
within Miss Hs budget. I accept the mileage was likely to have been kept low to keep the 
repayments as low as possible. But this is likely to have been to make  it appear more 
attractive to Miss H at the time to secure to new car purchase. The monthly repayments are 
of course one factor but they are not the sole deciding factor  and the other features of the 
finance, such as the balloon  payment, mileage  limitations and negative equity should have 
been made clear. 
Miss H says that she incurred £4,000 of negative  equity  when she replaced the car recently 
and asks whether  the £500  is therefore  fair. As Ive explained in my provisional  decision, it is 
very difficult to establish exactly what loss Miss H has suffered as a result of Stoneacre  
Scunthorpes failings.  I also think it would be unreasonable to expect Stoneacre  Scunthorpe 
to reimburse Miss H for all of the £4,000 negative equity she says she incurred as this could 
Ref: DRN86582192have been avoided had Miss H kept the car. Had Miss H kept the car then I could have 
instructed Stoneacre Scunthorpe to take ownership of the car, amongst other things, and 
this would have  avoided the negative  equity. 
Having reconsidered  the amount of award  I think is appropriate in this instance I still 
consider £500  to be reasonable. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss Hs complaint and direct  Decidebloom  Limited 
(Trading as Stoneacre Scunthorpe) to pay Miss H £500 to settle  this complaint. 
If settlement  is not made within 28 days of Miss H accepting  this final decision interest  at 8% 
simple per year should be applied  to the £500  from the date of this decision until the date of 
settlement. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 April 2019.
Mark Hollands
ombudsman
Ref: DRN86582193copy - provisional  decision
complaint
Miss H complains  about a car finance agreement she took out through  Decidebloom Limited  T/A: 
Stoneacre Scunthorpe (Stoneacre Scunthorpe). She says that certain features  or details  of the 
finance agreement werent made clear  to her when she took the finance out and she believed she 
was getting the same  type of finance  that shed  already had in place. In particular, Miss H says she 
wasnt told she had a mileage cap of 5,000 per year, that the finance was different to the hire 
purchase agreement she previously had or that she had a balloon payment of £4,099 at the end of 
the agreement.
background
Around June 2014 Miss H took out a hire purchase agreement to fund the cost of a car. The car was 
almost 2 years old and had travelled around 30,000 miles  when she got it. The hire purchase 
agreement was to be repaid  over 60 months.  Regular  payments of £188.58 were followed  by 1 final 
payment of £587.58.  Being a hire purchase agreement, it included a voluntary termination  clause, 
allowing Miss H to return the car and limit her liability to half of the total amount payable.  
Miss H says she was called by Stoneacre Scunthorpe around a year later about a new deal for a 
replacement car. Miss H said she visited the showroom and agreed to purchase a similar model  car to 
the one she had. The replacement  car was almost new and a different colour. Miss H says that she 
understood she would pay around £25 per month more for this but that she understood everything 
else was the same  as her previous finance agreement. 
The finance  agreement for the replacement car was not a hire purchase but was a loan agreement, 
with an option for the finance  company to buy the car from Miss Hs at the end of the term if she didnt 
want to make the final payment. Being a loan, and unlike the hire purchase agreement, the 
agreement didnt have  a voluntary termination clause. The new agreement also had an annual 
mileage cap of 5,000  which meant that for Miss H to qualify for the buyback option she could not 
exceed 5,000  miles  per year. The new agreement also had a final balloon payment of £4,099,  unlike 
the £587.58 payment on the previous agreement. 
Miss H complained  to Stoneacre Scunthorpe as she believed she wasnt correctly or fully informed 
about the new finance  agreement she took out. Stoneacre Scunthorpe didnt uphold her complaint 
and referred  to the paperwork shed  signed when taking out the new finance agreement. It referred  to 
various parts  of the paperwork that pointed to specifics, like the annual mileage  allowance  and 
amounts payable, including the final payment of £4,099. 
Unhappy with Stoneacre  Scunthorpes response Miss H referred her complaint to our service where it 
was considered by one of our investigators. The investigator didnt uphold the complaint and as Miss 
H didnt accept  the investigators conclusions the complaint has now been referred to me for a final 
decision. 
Miss H has recently told us that she has now part exchanged the car and paid off the outstanding 
finance as she didnt want to be left with the balloon payment. She would however  still like to continue  
with her complaint. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, Im minded  to uphold Miss Hs complaint and Ill 
explain here why. 
Ref: DRN86582194In June 2015  Miss H was around a year into her 5 year hire purchase agreement. She was paying  
£188 per month  and the car she had was at that point approaching 3 years old and 40,000 miles. She 
says she was persuaded to visit the dealership after being contacted  and was told she could get a 
new car and a new deal. The new car was the same make and model  but I understand different 
specification/colour. Miss H says that she knew she was to pay more as she was getting a car that 
was almost new (it was pre-registered  with 11 miles)  and a different colour. But she understood that 
everything else would be the same as the hire purchase agreement she already  had for the first car. 
Miss H says that the fact that the finance was not a hire purchase agreement, had a mileage cap of 
5,000, a final balloon payment of £4,099 and it could  not be terminated after she had reached the 
halfway point  were not explained to her. 
Stoneacre Scunthorpe is regulated by the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA) and its therefore  
required to treat Miss H fairly. The FCAs handbook refers to whats expected of a business  when 
arranging a regulated credit  agreement. It says:
CONC 4.2.5R 
(1) Before  making  a regulated credit  agreement the firm must:
(a) provide the customer with an adequate explanation  of the matters referred  to in (2) in 
order to place  the customer in a position  to assess whether the agreement  is adapted to 
the customer's needs and financial situation
 (2) The matters referred to in (1)(a) are:
(a) the features of the agreement which may make the credit to be provided under the 
agreement unsuitable for particular types of use;
(b) how much the customer will have to pay periodically and, where the amount can be 
determined, in total under  the agreement;
(c) the features of the agreement which  may operate in a manner which  would have a 
significant adverse effect on the customer in a way which the customer is unlikely to 
foresee
Stoneacre Scunthorpe has provided  various  documents from the time of the sale and I accept  that the 
documents do refer to the specific features  of the agreement. And that the finance agreement  is 
entitled fixed  sum loan agreement,  rather than hire purchase,  and the final balloon payment  of 
£4,099 and mileage cap of 5,000 are also set out on the finance agreement. Some of the documents  
also state that Miss H intends to drive the car 5,000 miles  per year. 
Miss H has signed numerous  documents, seven in total,  and I accept  this would therefore suggest  
that the various features were brought to Miss Hs attention through  the numerous documents.
But Miss H says that certain key features  werent  however explained to her at the time and although 
she knew she would be paying around £25 more each month for the newer car, she was led to 
Ref: DRN86582195believe this was all that had changed. She says she didnt  know the agreement  was now a fixed  sum 
loan, the balloon payment was now £4,099  and she had a mileage cap of 5,000.  
At the time in June 2015 Miss H was I understand  happy with the car she got only one year ago. She 
only visited Stoneacre Scunthorpe again after she was contacted  about some new deals. When  
exchanging her existing car in June 2015 the mileage  was recorded as 39,253.  When the car was 
supplied around a year earlier, the mileage was recorded as 30,789.  Miss H had therefore travelled 
8,464 miles over that year. 
I accept, as Stoneacre Scunthorpe argues, that someones mileage may change  from year to year but 
I dont believe Miss Hs circumstances had changed  significantly or were  due to change significantly 
over the foreseeable  future in June  2015.  A mileage  cap within an agreement  is in my view significant  
as for this type of agreement it means that Miss H needs to keep below the cap if she doesnt  want to 
make the final balloon payment. I again accept the mileage limit is referred to in certain documents  
but I see no reason why Miss H would have agreed to limit her mileage to 5,000  each year when she 
would have already known that she was likely to exceed that. 
From the evidence  presented so far I dont believe that the mileage  cap was actually made  clear  to 
Miss H at the time and had she been told about it and the consequences of exceeding it, I dont think  
she would have agreed to take out the new agreement. 
The new finance agreement was not a hire purchase agreement like the agreement Miss H had for 
the first car and as Stoneacre Scunthorpe should know there are certain key features of a hire 
purchase agreement that differ from a fixed sum loan agreement.  One difference  is that in a hire 
purchase agreement the finance company owns the car until all repayments are made  in full. 
Whereas a car under a fixed sum loan agreement is owned by the consumer, in this case Miss H. A 
hire purchase agreement has a voluntary termination requirement within  it, which  means  that a 
consumer can terminate  the agreement and hand back the car. If they do this their liability under  the 
agreement will generally be limited to half of the total amount payable. A consumer can also usually  
hand back the car at the end of the agreement  without making the final payment. A fixed  sum loan 
agreement doesnt have a voluntary termination clause and consumers arent therefore  able to easily 
come out of the agreement early if, for example, they experience financial hardship. The fixed  sum 
loan agreement Miss H has includes a sale option whereby  the finance  company agrees to buy back  
the car from her, subject to certain conditions including  the 5,000 mile per year cap. 
There are significant differences between the hire purchase  agreement  Miss H had and the fixed  sum 
loan agreement she was sold. Miss H says that she was not told about these  differences  and I think  
these are things that should be explained  when  providing  the finance agreement. Miss H says she 
was led to believe the agreements were the same and this is clearly not the case. From what Ive 
been provided  with in this case Im not satisfied Miss H was sufficiently informed about the key 
differences between the old and new finance agreements. 
The repayments on the new agreement were  around £25 each  month more  than what  Miss H had 
been paying and Miss H accepts she was aware  of this. She says that she understood this was 
because she was getting a newer car. The new agreement  includes a £4,099 final balloon payment,  
which is substantially more  than the £587.58 final payment on the hire purchase agreement. Miss H 
says she wasnt told about this and shes concerned as she says she wouldnt be able to afford to 
make this payment when it was due in June 2019. 
The final payment is a significant  sum and Stoneacre Scunthorpe should ensure that Miss H is aware 
of this. I accept it is set out in the documentation Miss H signed but Im not persuaded  this was 
actually explained to her when signing the documents. Miss H signed seven documents at the time 
and was therefore presented with a large amount of documents and information  to read and digest. 
Miss H says she signed the documents thinking again that only the monthly  repayments had changed  
and I can understand her surprise when realising more than £4,000  needed to be paid at the end of 
the agreement. 
Ref: DRN86582196Being unaware of the mileage cap and that Miss H was likely to exceed the cap meant she would  
therefore not qualify for the sale option at the end of the agreement. This would  leave Miss H in a 
difficult position and perhaps having to find over £4,000. Miss H might have been able to part 
exchange the car for a different  one and take out a new finance agreement but theres  no guarantee 
that the car will be worth  more than the £4,000 and she will therefore  have an additional  sum to add to 
any new finance agreement.  Miss H has told us that she has in fact had to carry over some negative  
equity to the new agreement she now has after recently part exchanging  the car. 
 
Having looked at the documents  from 2015 I also note that when taking out the new fixed  sum loan 
agreement an additional  sum of negative equity was added  to the new finance.  The finance proposal  
form shows the part exchange value of Miss Hs car as £5,000 and the settlement (of the existing 
finance agreement) was £7,132.  This therefore left a shortfall of £2,132.  There is a deposit payment  
of £1,000  shown and this will reduce the negative equity. But this still leaves £1,132 that was added  to 
the purchase price  of the new car and included  in the new finance agreement. 
Miss H says that she knew nothing  about  this and wasnt aware of the negative  equity sum or that it 
was carried over to the new agreement. She also says that she didnt make the deposit payment of 
£1,000. So I assume therefore this was a dealer contribution to reduce  the size of the negative  equity 
and give the impression Miss H had in fact paid a deposit  for the new car. 
Having very carefully considered all that the parties have said and provided in this case  I think  that 
Stoneacre Scunthorpe didnt ensure  that Miss H was made  fully aware of all the features and costs  
associated with the new finance  agreement for the new car. Miss H accepts  that she was required  to 
pay more each month as she was getting a new car but I dont think the mileage  cap, the absence  of 
voluntary termination rights, the large  balloon  payment or negative  equity were set out or explained to 
her clearly at the time. 
Even accepting the higher monthly repayments, Miss H was required to pay an additional  £1,132 of 
(net) negative equity and a further £4,099 balloon payment to keep the car at the end of the 
agreement. 
Miss H says she would have  stayed with the car and finance agreement she took out a year before if 
this was all made clear  to her and she only agreed to proceed as she was led to believe the only 
difference between the new and old agreements was the monthly repayments.  
I again note that the documents  do refer to these points and that Miss H has signed  those documents. 
I dont however think that should mean that I should disregard  Miss Hs testimony or the wider 
circumstances of the complaint. Miss H has signed seven different documents and I think  its unlikely 
she would have signed them had she been  correctly informed about  the differences in agreements  
and the significantly  increased overall  cost.   
It is ultimately for these  reasons that I think Miss Hs complaint should  succeed and I have therefore 
considered what would be a fair remedy  in the circumstances. 
Miss H has now part exchanged the car and settled the finance so theres  no requirement for 
Stoneacre Scunthorpe to take back the car or pay anything towards Miss Hs finance agreement. But, 
I do think that Miss H has suffered financially  and she says that she has incurred  negative equity 
when part exchanging the car. 
Im unaware  of the specific details of Miss Hs new car and/or finance agreement  and I dont know 
whether or not the part exchange value of the car was a fair price for the car. Had Miss H kept her old 
car (from 2014)  she would  of course have paid less overall up to the point she part exchanged it. That 
car would however have been worth  less as it was older  and had higher mileage. This would therefore 
mean that Miss H would have needed to perhaps pay a higher  deposit towards the new car (in 2018), 
which may or may not have  been similar to or the same as the negative  equity amount she actually 
incurred. 
Ref: DRN86582197In settling the 2015 finance agreement that included the £1,132 negative equity from the 2014 
car/agreement Miss H would again have paid more to that agreement  because  of the negative equity. 
Miss H did however receive the benefit from the higher value of the 2015 car when it was part 
exchanged recently.  
I think  Miss H has paid more than she would have liked and what she intended but she has had the 
benefit of driving the newer and presumably  therefore  nicer  car. The newer car would  have achieved 
a higher value when part exchanged recently and this may also have benefitted Miss H as she might 
have needed to pay more in a deposit if she still had her older car. While Im satisfied Miss H wouldnt 
have taken out the new finance agreement in 2015 if she had been correctly  informed, I cannot be 
certain what financial  loss Miss H has possibly now incurred.  
I do however think that Miss H has been caused some  trouble and upset by Stoneacre Scunthorpes 
actions and this did cause her worry about what she was going  to do when faced with the £4,099 
balloon payment  she couldnt afford, and when  she realised she had exceeded  the mileage  cap. 
Considering the distress and inconvenience and that Miss H has likely suffered  some financial loss, I 
think that Stoneacre Scunthorpe should pay Miss H £500 in recognition  of this to settle her complaint.  
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I uphold Miss Hs complaint. Subject to any further submissions from 
the parties here Im minded  to direct Decidebloom Limited T/A: Stoneacre  Scunthorpe to pay Miss H 
£500 to settle the complaint.  
I now invite  any further  submissions  from the parties before 6 March 2019, after which  time Ill 
reconsider the complaint and issue my final decision. 
Mark Hollands
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8658219