K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains on behalf of his mother,  Mrs M, that AIB Group (UK) Plc blocked access to 
her account,  and about some related issues.
background
Mrs M is an elderly lady in her eighties. She lives in Northern Ireland with some of her adult 
children. In 2016 she executed an enduring power  of attorney (EPA) in which  she named 
two of her children as her attorneys (neither of them was Mr M).
In May 2017  an application was made to the Office  of Care and Protection (OCP) (which  is 
part of the High Court of Northern  Ireland)  to register the EPA. This was contested by Mr M 
and another of Mrs Ms children.  As a result  of discussions  held in the course  of the hearing,  
the application was withdrawn, and the EPA was cancelled. Since then there  has not been  
another power of attorney or controllership  order.
Also in May,  Mrs M visited a branch  of AIB to make  a large withdrawal. Mr M says that 
during the visit, and another visit in June, she was seen by members of AIB staff who were  
satisfied that she had mental  capacity. In the June visit, Mrs M gave written authority for 
Mr M and another  of her sons (one of the former attorneys) to have third party access to 
operate her account for her.
Four and a half months  later, in October  2017,  a solicitors firm obtained a court order  from 
the OCP  authorising AIB to pay its costs for the May hearing from Mrs Ms bank account. 
The result was that AIB immediately  blocked  Mrs Ms account. This automatically  terminated 
the third party  mandate. Mrs M did not discover  that her account had been blocked until two 
days later,  when she tried to use her bank card and it did not work.  Mr M complains on her 
behalf that AIB did not notify  Mrs M that the account  had been  blocked.
In November AIB, having  taken advice  from its legal department, paid the solicitors firm, but 
decided not to lift the block on the account  until it was provided with a letter from Mrs Ms 
doctor verifying that she still had mental  capacity. AIB told one of her sons  (not Mr M but the 
other person named  on the third party mandate), who in turn told the solicitor. The solicitor 
asked AIB to unblock  the account, and emphasised  that there was no EPA in place,  but AIB 
said that the doctors letter  was still required.
In December, Mr M complained to AIB. AIB still insisted on seeing a doctors letter before it 
would unblock  the account, but offered to allow Mr M to withdraw  £200  from the account  to 
meet Mrs Ms reasonable living expenses (if he provided a letter  signed  by her requesting 
this). Mr M declined that offer, which he describes as patronising and pathetic, and in May 
2018 he brought this complaint to our Service. Mrs M has signed our complaint  form 
nominating Mr M as her representative.
As well as complaining  that AIB didnt notify Mrs M about the block, Mr M argues the 
following points:
AIB had no reason  to doubt Mrs Ms capacity, since  it had already seen her in May 
and June and not raised any concerns at the time. He said her capacity had never 
been in issue  during  the court proceedings. There was no longer an EPA in place.
Mrs Ms doctor was not willing  to write  a letter  about Mrs Ms capacity, as Mr M says 
this is not the role of a doctor.  AIB was therefore  asking the impossible. But even if 
Ref: DRN82679632the doctor could provide the letter, Mrs M was not willing to obtain it because  she 
feels that she shouldnt  have to jump through  hoops  to access  her own money.
A member of AIB staff was rude to Mr M in a phone  call on 14 December 2017.
AIB says that it was concerned about  Mrs Ms capacity because it is not necessary to obtain 
a court  order  to cancel  an EPA  they can be cancelled at will. Instead, someone had spent 
over £700  on instructing  solicitors to appear at a court  hearing  about the EPA.  It was AIBs 
policy in such circumstances to ask for a doctors  letter to confirm  whether a customer  has 
capacity or not, and to block their account in the meantime. It has offered to pay for the cost 
of getting a letter. It said it had communicated with Mrs Ms family and their solicitor about 
the block in November and December 2017.  Its staff member denied  that she had been rude 
to Mr M on the phone,  but she offered her apologies, personally and on behalf of AIB, if she 
had said anything to upset Mr M.
Our adjudicator did not uphold this complaint. He thought there was nothing with AIB asking 
for a doctors letter, as it was only doing  so in order to protect a vulnerable customer.  The 
inconvenience to Mrs M was mitigated by AIBs offer to let her have £200 at a time to meet 
her living expenses. The bank had discussed the block  with the familys solicitors  in 
November 2017,  and had tried to contact Mrs M directly in December (but had not heard 
back from her in person). No recording of the phone call was available, but other  members  
of staff had overheard the call and hadnt thought their colleague had been rude.
Mr M did not accept that decision, and he asked for this complaint to be reconsidered by an 
ombudsman. The case was initially assigned to another  ombudsman, who wrote a 
provisional decision upholding this complaint. She thought that AIB had never had 
reasonable grounds for suspecting that Mrs M lacked capacity, since there was nothing  in 
the court order from May 2017  to suggest anything of the sort. The EPA had been ended on 
the day of the court  hearing in May, and had not replaced it with a new order.  AIB hadnt 
even known there ever was an EPA until October,  long after it was cancelled,  when there  
was no longer any reason to think capacity was an issue.  So she said she was minded to 
order AIB to allow Mrs M, and also Mr M on her behalf, to have access  to her account. She 
did not have power  to award compensation to Mr M (because he was only Mrs Ms 
representative, not an eligible complainant in his own right), but she was minded to award 
compensation to Mrs M, and she invited submissions about how much this should  be.
Because her opinion  was different to the adjudicators, the ombudsman  wrote  a provisional 
decision, in line with our normal practice. (Both parties made  further submissions, but I have 
already summarised  them above,  rather than describing everything in strict chronological  
order.) In June 2019, due to the long time that this case  had been  with our Service and 
having regard  to Mrs Ms advanced age, this case was re-assigned to me (with the original 
ombudsmans consent) so I could write  a final decision without further delay. I have read the 
full case file, and I also discussed this case with the original ombudsman, but the 
responsibility for this final decision  is entirely mine.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I only uphold the 
complaint about  AIB failing to notify  Mrs M that it had blocked her account.  I do not uphold 
the rest of this complaint.  I will explain why.
Ref: DRN82679633I will deal first with the part I am upholding. The account was blocked in October; Mrs M 
found out two days  later when she tried to use her card; and the email  exchange  AIB seeks  
to rely on in its defence happened  in November. That was too late, and so were  AIBs 
attempts to contact  Mrs M directly in December.  Mr Ms point is that his mother   or at least  
her sons  who were  named on the third party mandate   should have been told about the 
block on the same day, precisely to avoid her finding  out the hard way, and I agree with him. 
That caused  her some inconvenience and it no doubt was annoying, and I think an apology  
would not be enough in this instance. I think that some financial  compensation is warranted, 
and that £50 is fair.
I can deal with the phone call briefly. The call recording is no longer available  (they are not 
kept indefinitely), and so the only evidence is, on one hand,  what Mr M has told us, and on 
the other hand,  what the AIB staff members have told us. I have no reason to think  that 
either side is lying, and it is more likely that each side is telling us their honest recollection of 
what was said and how they perceived the call. When one side says that a call was rude and 
sarcastic, and the other denies it, only one can be correct, but I do not think  I have enough 
evidence to fairly arrive at a conclusion about  which side that is. So I make no finding about 
this issue either way. It must follow that, by default, I cannot uphold  that complaint.
But the crux of this complaint is the block on the account, and AIBs continued insistence, to 
this day, on a doctors letter  to confirm Mrs Ms mental capacity.
Since there is so much overlap between these two issues,  I have considered them  together. 
But I have considered them from two angles: firstly, was AIBs  original decision to block  the 
account and ask for a letter in October  2017 reasonable? And secondly, is it reasonable of 
AIB to maintain  this position now? That second question  doesnt just mean is it still 
reasonable? (if it was reasonable in the first place),  but also  if it wasnt reasonable to 
begin with  has anything happened since  then to make it evolve into a reasonable stance to 
take later on?
I have had regard  to the principles in section 1 of the Mental Capacity (Northern Ireland) Act 
2016,1 in particular  the principle that Mrs M must be assumed to have capacity unless it is 
established that she does not. But balanced against  that is AIBs duty of care to its 
customers, especially  vulnerable customers, and to protect their accounts.  While the 
statutory principle clearly  must carry great weight, I think  it is fair and reasonable to find that 
AIBs duty to keep  its customers accounts safe and secure is paramount   especially at a 
time when  fraud against bank accounts is increasing.
The dangers AIB is trying to guard against, in cases where capacity is in question, are:
To protect  Mrs M from herself,
To protect  her from fraudsters who might try to take advantage of her,
To ensure that she is still willing to allow her sons to operate  her account under a 
third party  mandate.
These are reasonable and important goals.  I have upheld complaints in the past from 
customers who alleged that their banks did not take enough precautions to protect their 
money  including complaints which involved money being withdrawn by the customers  own 
1 Actually that law isnt in force yet. But I still think it is fair and reasonable to have regard to what it 
says, since  it reflects the latest thinking of the Northern  Ireland Assembly,  and also because  similar 
principles were enacted by Parliament in section 1 of the Mental  Capacity Act 2005 (which is in force, 
albeit only in England and Wales).
Ref: DRN82679634children. So it is only fair that I should  not interfere with a banks efforts  to protect an account 
except in a case  where  this is quite obviously unnecessary.  Therefore I have started  from 
the position that whatever  a bank does to safeguard an account  is reasonable unless and 
until I am satisfied that it has gone much too far. I think a bank should be permitted 
considerable latitude in exercising its discretion in such  a case.
The first thing to think about  is what first caused AIB to suspect that Mrs Ms capacity might 
be in doubt. It is not in dispute that this was the court order in October 2017 authorising 
payment of the solicitors. I have read it. The preamble  recites that an EPA was executed by 
Mrs M in 2016 and cancelled in May 2017. It does not say anything  else of relevance  to her 
capacity. In particular,  it is silent about whether she has capacity or not, and it does not say 
why the EPA was cancelled, or whether it was cancelled  by the court  or by Mrs M, or what 
was said at the hearing, or why there was a hearing.  So I agree with my fellow ombudsmans  
view that there is no direct  evidence calling Mrs Ms capacity into question.
However, the mere  fact that there was a court hearing about the EPA at all seems  to me to 
be a reasonable  basis  for AIB drawing an inference  that somebody, at some time,  thought  
that Mrs M was or might be losing mental capacity. That is because,  according to the 
website of the Northern Ireland Department of Justice, You  can cancel or amend  the 
Enduring Power of Attorney at any time while  you are mentally  capable.2 It goes on to say:
If your attorney(s)  have reason in the future to believe that you are becoming 
mentally incapable  of managing your affairs they will have to apply to the High Court 
(Office of Care and Protection) for registration of this power. 2
So if Mrs M had only wanted  to cancel her EPA,  she could have done so without the need  
for a court hearing,  and without anyone spending  over £700 on lawyers.  The fact that there 
was an OCP  hearing implies that there was a question about her capacity, since  the usual 
reason for such a hearing is to register  an EPA, which becomes necessary  and is only 
necessary  when  capacity is lost.
I am reinforced in that opinion by the fact that Mr M has told us that the purpose  of the 
hearing was indeed to register the EPA.
Registration was contested between Mrs Ms children. This suggests  that there was, at least  
at the time, a dispute between them about whether she had capacity  or not. Mr M insists that 
this was never an issue, but AIB has no way of verifying that, and neither do I. It might  well 
be the case that the court was satisfied that she did have capacity, but I have not seen 
anything to confirm  that that is the case, and neither has AIB. All that we know  is that the 
EPA was cancelled on the day of the hearing.  But we do not know  if that happened as the 
result of the court making any findings  of fact about  Mrs Ms capacity, or if it was just a 
consent order made after the children  all agreed on an informal  way forward, or if the court 
made any formal order at all at the time.
Given those circumstances, I think AIB was entitled to be concerned.  I dont think  it matters 
that AIBs branch staff had no concerns about  her capacity when she visited in May and 
June, because AIB didnt know about  the OCP proceedings at the time, and also because 
capacity can come and go. A person can be lucid one day and not the next. (This is 
recognised in the legislation I have mentioned above.3)
2 See https://www.justice-ni.gov.uk/articles/information-enduring-powers-attorney-epa
3 Section 2(2) of the 2005  Act and section  3(2) of the 2016 Act.
Ref: DRN82679635The next question  is what should AIB have  done about it? AIBs process is to ask for a 
doctors letter about the customers capacity,  and to block  their accounts until it gets one. 
AIB followed its process,  and that would normally be enough  for me to reject a complaint, but 
not this time, because  Mr M has argued that getting a doctor to write a letter  about  a 
patients capacity  is impossible. He says it is not part of a doctors  role to do that. It cannot  
be a defence to a complaint for a bank to follow a procedure that demands that its customers  
do the impossible. So I have had to consider Mr Ms argument.
The website of the Medical  Defence  Union says: Assessing capacity is part and parcel of 
being a doctor.4 So I am not persuaded that getting a doctors letter was impossible, or that 
it was an unreasonable thing to ask. Until that was done,  AIB was entitled  to block the 
account.
But even if I had taken  a different view about AIBs actions in 2017, I think that events since  
then have only reinforced the grounds  for AIBs prudence. I think  that for a number of 
reasons.
Firstly, AIB offered to allow Mr M to withdraw  £200  to meet Mrs Ms living expenses.  (Mr M 
recalls this slightly differently: he says it was for Christmas. But AIBs final response letter  in 
December 2017  clearly states that the initial offer,  and its repeated  offer made again  in the 
letter, was £200  for her reasonable living expenses.) Mr M declined that offer,  for reasons 
of principle which no doubt make sense to him. But while  that offer has always  remained 
open, Mr M has continued to refuse it, and to insist  that the account be unblocked without 
any evidence of his mothers capacity, for over a year and a half. By evidence  of capacity, 
I mean  either a doctors letter as requested or, if he believed that it was not possible to 
obtain one, then evidence of any finding  of capacity made by the OCP in May 2017,  or 
arranging a home visit by the OCP.  None  of these things has ever been provided  and not 
even a satisfactory phone  call between AIB and Mrs M, which  brings me to my second point.
Mrs M never  spoke to AIB on the phone herself after the account  was blocked, until 2019, 
more than a year after the block.  She may well have  her own reasons for this, as Mr M has 
told us, and those  reasons  might seem like perfectly good reasons  to her. But the longer AIB 
went without hearing from her directly, the more suspicious it seemed,  and I can easily  
understand why. If an elderly customers son seeks to take control of her account without her 
knowledge or consent  I am not suggesting  that Mr M has sought to do that (and neither 
has AIB),  but it is something  that sometimes happens, particularly to the elderly   then they 
are naturally  reluctant to allow direct  communication between  the customer  and the bank. 
AIB is right to be vigilant for that sort of behaviour. It may not be any of Mr Ms doing and 
may be entirely his mothers  choice,  but AIB has no way of knowing that, and neither do I.
When AIB finally did speak to Mr M on the phone on 30 January 2019,  the call was not 
satisfactory. The member  of staff who spoke to her recalls that Mrs M asked her why she 
was calling, and when the staff member explained  that it was about  a complaint to do with 
her account,  Mrs M said I dont  understand it. After that she returned the phone to her son. 
There might  well have been an entirely  innocent explanation for that, but if there  was, it was 
not explained to AIB. So I cant  blame AIB for persisting in its stance. I expect Mr M might 
feel that that is unduly risk-averse of AIB, but as I have explained already, banks are entitled  
to be cautious  about the security of their customers accounts, including when they are 
approached by a customers  close relative.
4 See https://www.themdu.com/guidance-and-advice/guides/assessing-capacity?Region=NI
Ref: DRN82679636I cant dismiss AIBs  concern about that matter,  mainly  because it is founded on good  
grounds, but also because no-one  at the Financial Ombudsman Service  has spoken with 
Mrs M either.  The only contact weve had from her at all is her signature on our complaint 
form. Of course, that might  be entirely her own choice and nothing to do with Mr M, but still.
So rather  than standing  on principle  and refusing to budge, I strongly  recommend that Mr M 
and Mrs M obtain the evidence AIB requires, and that in the meantime they avail themselves 
of AIBs offer to allow  them  to withdraw £200 a month for her living  expenses.
Before I conclude, I will address one final point: my jurisdiction to consider  this complaint. 
Under the rules, only Mrs M is eligible  to bring this complaint. Mr M is representing her with 
her authority, given  by her signature on our complaint form. Since doubt has been expressed 
about her mental  capacity, I am obliged to consider whether she had capacity, at the time of 
signing our complaint form, to authorise her son to represent  her and to bring this complaint 
on her behalf.
For the purposes of deciding this question, I think the applicable law is the English law, the 
Mental Capacity Act 2005, since the Financial  Ombudsman Service is based in England.  
Section 1(2) says A person must be assumed to have capacity unless it is established  that 
he lacks capacity. I have not seen enough evidence to displace the statutory presumption  of 
capacity, and so I find that Mrs Ms signature on our complaint form is effective. I therefore 
find that she intended to bring  this complaint and to permit her son to do so for her. So 
I have power to consider this complaint.
To be clear, that is not the same thing as saying  that AIB should have reached the same 
conclusion. AIB has not made a finding  about  Mrs Ms capacity either way, and nor should  it 
be expected to. That is why it has asked for a doctor to do that. The conclusion  I have  
reached about AIB was that it had, and still has, sufficient reason to question Mrs Ms 
capacity and to ask for a doctors letter, and to suspend her account  in the meantime.
my final decision
So my decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I order  AIB Group  (UK) Plc to pay 
Mrs M £50 as compensation  for not telling her it had blocked her account  until well after it 
happened. I do not uphold  the rest of this complaint, and I make no other  orders.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 July 2019.  Mr M may do so on her behalf.
If she does not accept it, then the parties  will not be bound by it. If we do not hear from either 
of them,  then we will presume that she rejects it.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8267963