K822xcomplaint
Mrs O complains about a car supplied  to her through a hire purchase agreement with 
Mercedes-Benz Financial  Services UK Limited  (MBFS).
Mrs O is represented by her partner but to keep things simple Ill refer to both their actions 
as Mrs Os.
background 
In January 2018 Mrs O went to a car dealership  and decided  on the make and model of a 
car she wanted. It wasnt available at the dealership she visited,  but one was located 
elsewhere. Mrs O paid a £500  deposit  and the dealership arranged for the car to be 
transferred to it. 
A week or so later Mrs O inspected the car and wanted a different style console.  The 
dealership agreed  to replace it for her at no cost to her. Mrs O also says during  a test drive  
there was a banging noise which the dealership said it would  fix. Mrs O decided to acquire 
the car and it was delivered to her a few days later. The car cost about £32,000 and was 
financed through  a hire purchase agreement  with MBFS.
In March 2018 Mrs O told MBFS she was unhappy. Following contact from Mrs O in 
April 2018 our service made  MBFS aware  of her complaint. Mrs O complained  that the 
console hadnt been replaced as agreed, there was a banging noise, she hadnt  been 
supplied with a handbook  (to explain how the car worked)  and hadnt  been given a branded 
jacket and umbrella (which shed been promised).
MBFS investigated. In June 2018  it issued  its final response to the complaint. It accepted the 
console hadnt been replaced. It said the parts were  in stock and ready  to be fitted. To make  
up for the delay it offered her £500 compensation and said the dealership would offer a free 
service. MBFS  said the banging  noise would  need  to be investigated and asked Mrs O to 
take the car to the dealership. Mrs O didnt think MBFS had resolved her complaint 
satisfactorily as she wanted to reject the car, so she asked our service to investigate. 
In July 2018 MBFS repossessed the car because repayments hadnt been  made  in April, 
May or June 2018. It sold the car at auction.  This left a shortfall of about £5,500  which MBFS 
asked Mrs O to pay. 
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should be upheld because  he thought that 
Mrs O had been supplied  with a car which wasnt of satisfactory quality. Mrs O accepted  his 
recommendation. MBFS didnt as it wasnt persuaded  there  was a fault with the car. As an 
agreement couldnt  be reached the complaint was passed to me to decide. 
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I didnt  think the complaint should be upheld. I 
said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law 
and regulations, regulators rules, guidance  and standards, codes of practice and 
Ref: DRN87716262(where appropriate)  what I consider to have been good  industry practice at the 
relevant time. 
The agreement in this case is a regulated consumer credit agreement   so I can 
consider a complaint relating to it. MBFS is also the supplier of the goods under  this 
type of agreement, and is responsible for a complaint about the sale and about  the 
quality. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015  is relevant to this complaint. It says that under a 
contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods  is 
satisfactory. 
To be considered satisfactory, the goods would need to meet the standard that a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory  taking into account any description  
of the goods, the price and all the other  relevant circumstances. So it seems  likely 
that in a case involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take 
into account might include  things like the age and mileage  at the time of sale and the 
vehicles history. 
MBFS supplied Mrs O with a car that was about  two years old and had travelled 
about 12,000 miles.  The price of the car was lower than it would have been if it had 
been supplied  new. So I think  its fair to say that a reasonable  person would expect 
that parts of the car might  have already suffered wear and tear. And theres a greater 
risk this car might need repair and/or maintenance sooner than a car which wasnt  as 
road-worn when it was supplied. 
the console
The car didnt  have the style of console  Mrs O wanted. The dealership  agreed  to 
replace it for her at no cost. Mrs O accepted this and proceeded with the sale.
I understand that Mrs O was disappointed with the delays in replacing  the console.  
Ive seen evidence  to show that the dealership ordered the required parts,  but one 
was damaged so needed  ordering again,  which caused a delay.  Im also aware that 
there was a breakdown in communication between Mrs O and the dealership which 
caused a further delay.  
The dealership - when it had the parts it needed - was willing to change the console. 
This was confirmed in MBFS final response  letter, together  with an offer of £500  
compensation and a free service from the dealership.  
I accept there was a delay  in replacing the console. But I dont think  MBFS breached  
its agreement with Mrs O as I dont think the delay was unreasonably long, especially 
as the replacement of the console was cosmetic  and didnt have an impact on 
Mrs Os ability to use the car. And even if I thought it had breached its agreement 
with Mrs O, when MBFS was made  aware  of the issue it offered to complete the job, 
pay compensation and provide a free service  (as offered by the dealership),  which I 
think was a reasonable remedy. 
the banging noise
Ref: DRN87716263Mrs O says there was a banging noise which suggested there was a problem with 
the suspension. She says this came to light during  the test drive  and she was 
assured it would be fixed. The dealership refutes this, saying the banging noise 
wasnt mentioned  until sometime after the car had been delivered. Im not persuaded 
it makes a material difference  either  way. Ill explain  why. 
A comprehensive check of the car in November 2017 didnt identify any issues  with a 
banging noise  or with the suspension. Nor did a pre-sale check by the dealership in 
January 2018.  Mrs O hasnt provided any independent evidence  to show  there  was a 
fault with the car. The dealership didnt have an opportunity to investigate  the matter 
post-delivery, even  after MBFS  asked Mrs O to arrange this in its final response 
letter. The car has since been repossessed and sold, so an inspection  cant  now be 
completed. Im not aware of any issues with a banging noise or with the suspension 
found during the collection or sale process.  An MOT was passed with no advisories 
in early September 2018.
Given the price of the car (almost £32,000)  I think a banging noise and a potential 
suspension issue would have been  a significant concern to most  prospective buyers. 
But based  on Mrs Os testimony  she went ahead with the sale based on an 
assurance and doesnt  seem  to have questioned what repairs had been completed  
before she accepted delivery of the car. Nor have I seen anything  to suggest she 
raised a banging noise  as a concern straight  away. 
Under the Consumer  Rights Act 2015  MBFS was entitled to the opportunity to 
identify and then repair a fault (if found) given the point into the contract the issue 
was raised. MBFS asked for this opportunity when it asked Mrs O to book the car into 
the dealership  for an inspection. Mrs O didnt book the car in and so didnt give 
MBFS this opportunity.
Overall, Im not satisfied  that there was a fault with the car. It follows that I dont think  
I can fairly conclude that:
-if an issue was raised  pre-delivery, it wasnt fixed, meaning there was a breach of 
contract; or
-if an issue was raised  post-delivery,  it meant the car supplied to Mrs O wasnt  of 
satisfactory quality.
the handbook
The car was delivered  without the handbook. The vehicle  handover  check  sheet (the 
form completed on delivery of the car, signed by Mrs O on 26 January 2018) says its 
to follow from Bradford . From this Im satisfied Mrs O accepted the car knowing the 
handbook wasnt  with the car but would be provided  later. As I understand it, the 
dealership later had the handbook and planned  on giving it to Mrs O when she 
brought the car in for the console replacement. Mrs O didnt attend the dealership,  so 
she didnt get it. 
I think if the handbook was important  to her - as Mrs O says it was - although  I note 
she did drive the car for several weeks and travelled over 3,000 miles, meaning  it 
didnt impact her ability to use the car - she ought  reasonably to have collected  it. 
Ref: DRN87716264In any case, it was available to Mrs O, so I dont think her not having it is a breach of 
contract or could reasonably be considered to mean the car supplied  to her wasnt  of 
satisfactory quality. 
the branded jacket  and umbrella
Mrs O says she didnt get the branded jacket and umbrella she was promised. The 
dealership says she did. But as I understand it, these were offered to Mrs O by the 
dealership because she was a valued  customer.  So I think  they were a gift rather  
than something financed by MBFS, or material to the transaction. It follows that if 
Mrs O didnt get them, I dont think I can fairly  ask MBFS to give her a branded  jacket 
and umbrella.
my provisional decision
Im currently  inclined to say Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited dealt with 
Mrs Os complaint fairly and that to resolve  this complaint it should pay her the £500 
compensation it offered in its final response letter (or, if it prefers,  deduct  this amount 
from what Mrs O owes  it).
MBFS responded to say it accepted  my provisional  decision  and had nothing  further  to add. 
Mrs O responded to say she didnt  accept my provisional decision, but didnt provide any 
further submissions.  
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As no further  submission  have been  made, I see no reason to change my mind. 
my final decision
Mercedes-Benz Financial  Services UK Limited  dealt with Mrs Os complaint fairly. To resolve 
this complaint it should pay her the £500  compensation  it offered in its final response  letter  
(or, if it prefers, deduct this amount from what Mrs O owes it).
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 October  2020.
James Langford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8771626