K820x#14complaint
Mrs F complains that PSA Finance UK Limited  incorrectly recorded the hire purchase  
agreement she had for a car as voluntarily terminated on her credit file. Mrs F also says that 
PSA Finance UK limited  overcharged her when  she made her final payment and provided a 
poor service when dealing  with her complaint. 
background 
In May 2012  Mrs F entered  into a 3 year hire purchase agreement for a new car with PSA.  In 
both 2013 and 2014 Mrs F made  enquiries  about the cost of settling the finance but didnt 
proceed to do so. 
In May 2015  Mrs F says she was looking at offers that were  available  on new cars and so 
made contact with PSA about voluntary terminating (VT) the agreement. PSA sent her a 
VT letter setting out that as she had paid more than half of the total amount of credit 
borrowed under  the agreement  there would be nothing further to pay for the car. But the 
letter set out that a payment of £224  was required to clear  the balance  of the funded  
insurance that had been taken out at the same  time and included  in the credit agreement. 
Three days after receiving the VT letter Mrs F signed it and returned  it with a cheque  for the 
required amount. Around  the middle of June 2015  the car was collected. Mrs F says that 
subsequently she has had credit restricted due to the VT marker on her credit file. She 
complained to PSA that it had overcharged her with the final payment shed made and 
wrongly marked her credit  file as VT. PSA didnt deal with Mrs Fs complaint for sometime 
leading to her having  to further complain about  how it had treated her. 
PSA partially upheld  Mrs Fs complaint. It said that the final charge paid by Mrs F was the 
correct amount as it was in respect  of the outstanding balance  of a funded  insurance  policy. 
It said the agreement  and the VT letter  provided details of this insurance and there  was no 
entitlement to end the insurance  early unlike the finance agreement. 
PSA said that Mrs F had signed  the VT letter and her intention had been to VT the 
agreement. The record of this on her credit  file was accurate.  
However, PSA agreed there had been  delay  in dealing with Mrs Fs complaint and offered 
her £50 compensation for the distress and inconvenience this had caused. 
Mrs F was unhappy at PSAs response  and complained to this service. Our investigator  
didnt recommend that her complaint should  be upheld. She said she thought PSA had acted 
fairly and reasonably.
Our investigator said that the VT letter had set out that there  was nothing further to pay 
under the finance for the car but the agreement had also included  an element of funded  
insurance. The right to VT didnt apply  to the insurance which  was a type of GAP insurance.  
The VT letter  had said that £224  was required to clear the outstanding  balance  for the 
insurance policy.
Our investigator said the hire purchase agreement set out that 37 monthly payments were 
due under the agreement.  The first payment  was for £258  which  was for the car and £12 for 
Ref: DRN86171272the insurance followed by a further  35 payments of £188 which  included  £8.00 for the 
insurance. The 37th payment  was for £4,378 for the car and £216 for the insurance.
Our investigator said Mrs F had paid 35 monthly  payments  and not 36. She had requested to 
VT the agreement  and so PSA hadnt recorded  anything inaccurate on her credit file. She 
also said a VT marker  wasnt detrimental  information and this wasnt adverse  marker. Any 
restrictions in lending  experienced  by Mrs F would be due to individual lenders policies.
Our investigator also said that complaint  handling wasnt a regulated activity so she wasnt 
able to recommend  compensation  for this as this service didnt have a remit to investigate  
this. But she had seen  PSA had acknowledged poor service and she thought this had been  
fair.
Mrs F disagreed with the view of our investigator. She said she accepted she had taken out 
the insurance policy when she had taken  the hire purchase agreement for the car but this 
cost should have been met by the returning  of the car. 
Mrs F also said that this agreement hadnt been  genuinely terminated  as the final payment 
under the agreement had been  due only three days after the VT form had been returned.  
And she had made the final payment one day later. She said the detrimental marker  
shouldnt have been added to her credit file.
Mrs F said she thought that complaint handling  was an ancillary  activity to the regulated 
activity of lending  money  by PSA.  She said that meant this service did have a remit to 
investigate this part of her complaint.
As the parties couldnt  agree the complaint  was passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs F accepts that included in the credit agreement was the funded insurance. Looking  at 
the agreement  I can see that there are two sets of figures. One set is for the vehicle which  
shows the monthly costs  for the life of the agreement and another  is for the insurance.  
The cash  price for the insurance was £399 but with the added interest the total amount to 
pay was £515.  And to clear the insurance  costs under the agreement there was one 
payment of £12.00, followed by 35 payments of £8.00 and the 37th payment was for £216. 
So the payment  of £224 that Mrs F had to pay when she ended  the agreement  was to clear 
the outstanding balance  for the insurance  policy. This payment wasnt  towards  the finance 
agreement for the car. This means  that Mrs F didnt pay all the monthly instalments for the 
car.
Unlike the finance agreement for the car, which allows for VT once at least  half the amount 
of credit has been repaid without further payment  falling due, the insurance policy cost has 
to be paid in full. Ive not seen a copy of the policy so I dont know how long it covered the 
vehicle for, though I think it would be likely  to end at the end of the agreement. However,  if 
the policy cover was cut short then Mrs F may be able to contact the insurer  to seek  a 
refund. But it isnt PSAs responsibility to cover this cost and handing the car back  doesnt  
end Mrs Fs liability  to pay for the policy.
Ref: DRN86171273Mrs F says that the agreement was so close to the end that it wasnt really  terminated  early. 
But I cant reasonably  say that PSA recorded  something that was inaccurate on her credit 
file. She signed  the form requesting VT and sent it back in the required time frame. She 
made no further payments towards  the car after that (although I accept  there was only one 
payment due). So the agreement ended early.
Recording an agreement  as VT is not a detrimental marker as it isnt the same as recording 
a default or late payment. I also dont think its that unusual. There  may be a number of 
reasons why Mrs F has been  given limited access to credit after this agreement has ended. 
However, different  lenders operate their own policies on what  they accept and what  they 
dont but generally  they look at the history of payments made under an agreement. So I cant  
reasonably say this marker should be removed  because  its detrimental in nature.
Mrs F complained about how PSA dealt with her complaint. It accepted there  was undue 
delay in its response and that this would have caused Mrs F distress and inconvenience. As 
explained by our investigator  this service cant investigate every  complaint made  to us. Our 
remit is to investigate regulated activities which would include the provision of credit 
agreements. Complaint handling  by businesses isnt a regulated activity. However, Mrs F 
says she thinks that it would fall under ancillary activity as set out in DISP 2.3 which are the 
rules published  by the FCA and set out this services remit. She says complaint handling is a 
part of PSA providing credit.
But I disagree with Mrs Fs view. Her complaint isnt about how the credit agreement  was set 
up or handled but about how PSA later investigated  the issues she raised with it after the 
agreement had ended. I dont think this is ancillary  to the provision  of the credit  to Mrs F but 
is a separate activity.  So I dont think this service can investigate  or tell PSA to pay Mrs F 
compensation. However, Ive seen that PSA has accepted it didnt provide the appropriate 
service and offered  £50 compensation to Mrs F for the inconvenience and distress caused.  
So if Im wrong in my interpretation of DISP2.3, Im satisfied that PSA has acted fairly in the 
circumstances and I wouldnt have  required  it to do more.
So for the reasons given above  Im not upholding Mrs Fs complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above Im not upholding Mrs Fs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 February  2020.
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8617127