K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold payment  
protection insurance (PPI) to Miss M. FICL  didnt  actually  sell the policy,  but it has taken 
responsibility for the sale. So Ill refer to it as the seller. 
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out in 1999 alongside a store credit account. 
Miss M was sold the policy at the same  time that she applied for the account in the shop.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  be upheld. Miss M disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive considered what Miss M has said, but Ive decided  not to uphold her complaint.  This is 
because:
 Miss M says she wasnt told what the insurance was for. But the form does set out 
reasonably prominently  the purpose  of what it calls account cover saying, it also 
protects your Account payments if you are unable  to work due to sickness accident 
unemployment
 The form does set out the PPI as a choice,  which you make  by signing your name  
and I can see that Miss M did sign the PPI section.  
 It doesnt seem that FICL recommended the PPI as being particularly suitable for 
Miss Ms individual needs. This means it didnt have to check if the PPI fitted her 
circumstances. It would  have  been for Miss M to decide whether it was suitable.
 However FICL did need  to give Miss M clear and fair information, so she could make 
an informed choice.  And I dont have clear  evidence it did do this properly  at least the 
information on the form itself wasnt full enough,  and I dont know what other 
information was given to Miss M. Mis M says it was very little. So Ive thought about 
whether better information is likely to have made a difference. But, although I obviously 
cant be sure, even if shed been  given all the necessary  information,  I dont think  its 
likely to have made  a difference to her decision. I say this because its fairly likely the 
PPI could have  paid out for longer than her full employer sick pay lasted. And it would 
have been in addition to any employer  sick pay or redundancy pay. Also it would mean 
she could keep  in reserve any savings she had for longer. Also it doesnt look like 
shed have been affected by any of the significant  exclusions in the policy. So, overall,  
the PPI is likely still to have seemed potentially useful.
Ref: DRN83261252my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding Miss Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 November  2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8326125