K820x#14complaint
T, a limited company complains that World  First UK Limited closed its business account 
without giving a reason  and then returned  payments made by customers for services 
provided by T.
background
In June 2018, T opened an account with World  First so that its customers could make 
payments for online services. A customer of T recalled a payment it had made.  World  First 
then decided to close Ts account and refund payments to Ts customers
Mr T, on behalf  of T told this service that it was unfair of World First to return the payments 
as the services had already been  delivered to Ts customers. Mr T says that T lost around 
£40,000 as a result of World Firsts actions.
The adjudicator didnt recommend that Ts complaint  be upheld.  She said that World Pay 
didnt have to give reasons why it closed the account. And the adjudicator was satisfied that 
World Pay was entitled  to return  money to Ts customers.
Mr T was unhappy with the adjudicators  recommendation,  so the complaint has come to me 
for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr Ts frustration with World Firsts decision to close  Ts account. Businesses 
sometimes end their relationship with customers.  This can be due to several reasons and 
World First isnt obliged to give a reason to T. 
Based on the evidence  Ive seen, I cant reasonably find that World  First was wrong  to 
terminate Ts account in line with its terms and conditions.  This service doesnt usually 
intervene in a businesss commercial discretion. World First exercised its right to end its 
business relationship with T and Im satisfied  with its reasons why. Im sorry that I cant 
share those  reasons with T directly,  but Ive seen  nothing  to suggest that World Firsts 
decision was unfair. 
I understand that Mr T is concerned about the loss of money which he says customers paid 
to T. Although Mr T says that customers paid for services that T provided, he hasnt given 
this service evidence  to support this. 
I appreciate that Mr T says he cant retrieve any documentation  relating to the transactions 
due to a computer crash. Mr T says that he gave this service  documentation when he 
originally brought  his complaint to us, but we dont have any record  of receiving this. Without 
further information about the disputed transactions or evidence of what refunds were  made,  
I cant determine, what, if any money  T lost out on. I also dont know  whether T was then 
able to recover payments  from its customers.  So even if I was minded to require World First 
to refund any money to T, I wouldnt know much  this should be.  
Ref: DRN84081422Overall, I dont  find that World First has done anything wrong, so I dont uphold  Ts 
complaint.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 August 2021.
Gemma Bowen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8408142