K820x#14complaint
Ms C complains that MBNA Limited  blocked  her credit card account after it had potentially  
been compromised. And that she couldnt  view her statements online to show the police. 
She says this caused her inconvenience  and she wants MBNA to pay her compensation.  
background
In July 2018, MBNA became concerned about the security of Ms Cs account.  It suspected  
that there  may have been fraudulent activity  on the account. So, it blocked Ms Cs account to 
prevent any further  transactions and to protect  her funds. 
Ms C says MBNA didnt  let her know it had blocked  her account and hasnt explained why it 
did so. Shes  also unhappy that she couldnt  access her online statements after her account 
was blocked. She says this caused  her a great deal of stress and inconvenience because  
she wanted to provide  her statements to the police. Shes also upset that when she asked 
MBNA to send her statements to her by email  or courier, MBNA said it couldnt. 
MBNA said it had acted in line with the terms and conditions of the account when it blocked 
Ms Cs account. It said it had information  that Ms Cs credit  card number had been obtained 
fraudulently by a third party.  So, it blocked her account and issued Ms C with a new credit  
card to protect her from potential fraud.  MBNA apologised for any inconvenience that its 
actions may have caused Ms C. And it explained  that access to online statements is 
restricted as a security measure in order to limit any potentially fraudulent activity.
One of our investigators  looked into Ms Cs complaint. She said MBNA hadnt made an error 
in blocking Ms Cs account. And that MBNA had let Ms C know  about the block  via a text 
message. She also thought MBNA had offered Ms C reasonable options to receive her 
statements via recorded delivery. And it had given Ms C all the information it could about 
what led to the account being  blocked.  
Ms C didnt agree. She said she didnt recognise  the text from MBNA as it was from an 
unknown number. And she refused MBNAs offer to send  out her statements by recorded 
delivery as it wouldve  taken too long to collect because shes at work when her post arrives 
at her home. Ms C says MBNA  had no right to block her account and stop her accessing her 
statements. As no agreement could be reached the matter has come  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I recognise Ms Cs frustration here. Her account was closed suddenly,  and she was worried  
shed been the victim of fraud.  So, I can understand why she wanted to see her statements 
and to know exactly what led MBNA to block her account. Whilst I appreciate Ms Cs 
frustration, its important  to point out that the only thing  in question here is whether MBNA 
has done what it should have done.  And I think it has. Ill explain why.
Banks have a duty to have robust strategies to safeguard customer accounts from potentially  
fraudulent transactions. Where a bank suspects fraud it must take positive action on a 
customers behalf. Preventing fraud  is as important for the bank as it is for its customers. To 
Ref: DRN88131142do so a bank may block an account  and prohibit transactions if it thinks someone has 
attempted to gain access without the account holders permission.
I understand that when MBNA  blocked Ms Cs account it was an inconvenient and frustrating 
experience  especially given that Ms C couldnt  see her account statements online to see 
what (if anything) had happened. But, having looked at the evidence,  I think MBNA had 
reason to suspect  that Ms Cs account might be subject to fraudulent activity. It had been 
contacted by another business  to say Ms Cs card number had been  obtained  fraudulently 
by a third party.  So, I think, on this basis, it had cause for concern about  the security  of her 
account. And, Im persuaded  that it acted fairly in blocking Ms Cs account and prohibiting 
transactions. This was just as much for her protection as it was for MBNAs.
I know Ms Cs upset  that she couldnt  see her statements on line, but I think, overall, it was 
reasonable for MBNA  to respond in the way it did to ensure  it was acting in Ms Cs best 
interests. I believe  MBNA was simply trying to safeguard Ms Cs account  from potential fraud 
and unauthorised access. And Im satisfied that the blocks to her online statements were 
added appropriately  and in good  faith in the interests of protecting the security of Ms Cs 
account. It follows that I cant fairly conclude that MBNA made an error when it blocked 
Ms Cs access  to her online statements.
I understand Ms C wants more information about the reasons behind MBNAs  actions.  But 
MBNA doesnt have  to provide this information  to Ms C. So, I cant say MBNA has done 
anything wrong  by not giving this to her. However, I can see MBNA did give Ms C as much 
as information  as it was able to for its actions  when it wrote to her on 15 August 2018. I can 
also see that MBNA apologised for any inconvenience caused by the account  block and 
subsequently provided Ms C a copy of her statements via secure email. So, Im not going  to 
ask MBNA to do anything  more.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 November  2019.
Sharon Kerrison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8813114