K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W have  complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) mis-sold them a fee-
paying Advance account.
They say they were talked into agreeing to the account when they were on the phone to 
HSBC discussing a fraud that happened  on their credit card.
background
Mr and Mrs W held a fee-free account with HSBC. Their account  was upgraded to an 
Advance account during  a telephone  call in July 2010 and remained as such  until they 
downgraded their account to a fee-free account  in April 2015.
One of our adjudicators assessed  their complaint and didnt think that HSBC had mis-sold 
the Advance account. Mr and Mrs W disagreed  and asked  for their complaint to be reviewed 
further, so it has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help decide what  to do about Mr and Mrs Ws complaint.
Having done so, I dont think the packaged  bank account was mis-sold to Mr and Mrs W. I 
know this will come as a disappointment to them,  but Id like to assure them that I have 
considered everything  they have provided  and said.
Mr and Mrs W have  questioned why HSBC doesnt have details of the sale on file and 
question whether HSBC  was required  to retain  information for a period of time. HSBC has 
been able to provide some information from around  the time of the sale.  But as the sale 
happened over 8 years ago, this is generally longer than wed reasonably expect a financial 
business to retain such information - especially a call recording of a packaged account sale. 
Having said that, I think it might be helpful to explain that where matters are either unclear or 
in dispute, as they are here,  I need to decide  what I think  is most likely to have happened,  
based on the evidence that is available. This includes the evidence that both parties have 
provided, and not just Mr and Mrs Ws recollections of the events on their own.
Ive started by considering whether or not Mr and Mrs W were given a fair choice  in 
upgrading their account.
Before their account was upgraded to an Advance account Mr and Mrs W held a fee-free 
account. And based on Mr and Mrs Ws recollections, it seems that HSBC essentially 
persuaded them into agreeing to upgrade to the Advance account. Therefore I think  Mr and 
Mrs W agreed to the upgrade on the basis that they knew it was optional  and that they could 
have kept their account as a fee-free account instead. I say this particularly as they later 
downgraded their account back to a fee-free account in 2015.  So Im satisfied that Mr and 
Mrs W were given a fair choice in deciding  whether  to upgrade to the Advance  account  or 
not.
Ref: DRN89544602Based on what Mr and Mrs W have  said,  and what we know about HSBCs sales processes  
at the time, I think the Advance account was likely  to have been sold on an advised basis.  
Mr and Mrs W appear to be under the impression that the Advance account  was mis-sold 
because HSBC recommended  it to them.  But HSBC  was able to recommend it, provided it 
made sure the account as a whole  was a good  fit for their circumstances.
At the time the Advance account was sold it cost £12.95  a month  and provided  worldwide  
family travel insurance; roadside assistance; £3,000  life cover; and £3,000  of accidental 
death benefit. It also provided banking benefits such as preferential interest rates  on savings 
accounts, overdrafts  and preferential terms on mortgages, as well as a 10% repayment 
reward on personal loans  - amongst other  benefits.
HSBC says that on 24 June 2010,  i.e. prior to the account  being upgraded, Mr and Mrs W 
had discussed  re-mortgaging  with HSBC. And shortly after they upgraded their account, I 
understand Mr and Mrs W did take out a mortgage  with HSBC. And given that they were 
discussing a mortgage  with HSBC around  that time, I think that the preferential terms on 
mortgages (for example  having the Advance account meant that you could save  £200  on the 
mortgage booking  fee) mayve been the main reason why HSBC  recommended the Advance 
account to them.
Mr and Mrs W have  also said that they occasionally travelled, they already had a savings 
account with HSBC and that they drove. So I think they couldve made use of the travel  
insurance and also benefited from the slightly better  interest rate on their savings account  as 
well. 
I understand that Mr and Mrs W say they already had life insurance, accidental  death cover 
and breakdown cover. However, the life and accidental death benefit  wouldve paid out in 
addition to any existing  policies that they had  so I dont think  the existence  of prior cover 
means that these benefits were unsuitable  for Mr and Mrs W. With regards to the breakdown  
cover, I accept that they didnt have  a particular need for this benefit as they say they had 
cover as part of a package with their car, which they say was new at the time.
As the Advance  account was sold as a package,  Mr and Mrs W couldnt pick and choose 
what it came  with. Therefore, I dont think it means  it was mis-sold if they didnt have a need 
for some of the benefits it provided, such as the breakdown cover. And whilst they said they 
had existing travel cover  that offered better  levels of cover,  Ive not seen anything  to say that 
the worldwide family travel cover that came with the Advance account was necessarily 
unsuitable for them.
Overall, at the point  the Advance account was sold to them, it seems that Mr and Mrs W 
could potentially have  benefited from savings on a mortgage (which they went  on to take 
out), a better  rate of interest on their savings account and the travel,  life and accidental 
death cover.  So taking  all of these  factors into account, I dont think recommending Mr and 
Mrs W upgrade  to the Advance account  was necessarily unreasonable  in the circumstances, 
even if its the case  that, with the benefit of hindsight, Mr and Mrs W now regret doing so.
Ref: DRN89544603HSBC had to give Mr and Mrs W all of the important information about  the Advance  account 
so that they could make an informed decision whether to agree to it. As a call recording of 
the sale is not available, I accept that HSBC may not have given Mr and Mrs W all of the 
information it shouldve  when it sold the account. 
But Mr and Mrs Ws recollections of the sale suggest that they were persuaded to upgrade  to 
it after HSBC had told them (albeit  briefly) what it came  with. And based on their 
circumstances at the time, I cant see anything that makes me think  they wouldve been put 
off from agreeing to the account,  had they been given further information about it. For 
example, Mr and Mrs W have said that HSBC didnt  tell them  that they could cancel  it. But 
given that they knew  fee-free accounts were available (as they had one) and that they did 
later downgrade the account  in 2015, Im not persuaded that telling them that they could 
cancel it wouldve put them  off agreeing to it in 2010, as ultimately  I think they were  already 
aware of this. 
Mr and Mrs W have  said that they werent  told they had to register  for products. But, as far 
as I am aware, none of the products on the account at the time required  registration. So 
there was no reason  why HSBC wouldve been  required to mention registering for benefits  
during the sale.
Mr and Mrs W have  also said that during the same call, they were mis-sold a card protection 
policy alongside the Advance account. They say that HSBC  took advantage of them as they 
had recently been  the victims of fraud on a credit  card. However, just because  another  
product had been mis-sold doesnt  automatically mean that the Advance account  was. And 
given that one of the features of the Advance  account was that it provided identity theft 
assistance and theyd recently been the victims of fraud, this mayve been  another reason 
why HSBC recommended the account  to them.  So I dont think  it was inappropriate for 
HSBC to have  recommended the Advance account  to them when  it did.
Mr and Mrs W have  said that they later received a 10% repayment reward  after repaying  a 
loan - after theyd  downgraded their account to a fee-free account.  So they say that it was 
therefore not a benefit that was exclusive to the Advance account. But I understand that 
HSBC has periodically  offered  such a benefit  to fee-free  account holders as well as Advance  
account holders.  And it doesnt  look as though  Mr and Mrs W agreed to the Advance 
account for this benefit alone,  so I dont think knowing that it mightve been occasionally 
available to fee-free  account holders as well wouldve affected their decision to upgrade.  
So taking everything into account, I dont think that HSBC mis-sold the Advance  account  to 
Mr and Mrs W. 
I appreciate that with the benefit  of hindsight, and also based on what  they mayve read 
recently about packaged bank accounts, Mr and Mrs W may now think that the Advance  
account was mis-sold.  But having  considered everything they have said,  alongside  what I 
know about their circumstances at the time and what  HSBC has been able to provided, Im 
satisfied that it wasnt  mis-sold. 
I understand that this may come as a disappointment  to Mr and Mrs W, but I hope  I have 
been able to explain why I havent upheld their complaint.
Ref: DRN89544604my final decision
Because of the reasons  given above, I dont  think that the Advance account was mis-sold. 
So I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 July 2019.
Thomas White
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8954460