K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs S have  complained about Millennium Insurance Company Limited in respect of 
claim they made to it following a water leak.
background
Mr and Mrs S went away for Christmas 2016. They returned home  on 26 December to find 
water coming through their kitchen  and lounge ceilings, and pooling on the floor. They 
contacted a plumber who initially turned off the water but he then reinstated it once hed 
found the leak and isolated  the pipe. The leak was coming from the bath/shower supply 
pipe at the back of the bath. The plumber said that, to fix it, the bath would have to come  
out (along with other fixtures to facilitate  that).
On 28 December 2016 Mr and Mrs S contacted Millennium to make a claim. They  told it the 
water came through the kitchen and lounge ceilings, that the fridge and oven were not 
working, that some audio-visual equipment in the lounge  had been  damaged,  but not the 
television.
Mr and Mrs S appointed a loss assessor to act for them.  Millennium appointed a loss 
adjuster to handle  the claim for it and he visited the property to assess  the damage in early  
January 2017.  He noted, amongst other things, that the kitchen ceiling would need to be 
taken down and replaced, and that the kitchen cupboards were affected too. He thought the 
oven would need testing. He issued  a report which didnt  contain any photos.  He told the 
loss assessor that all electrical  items  would have  to be pat tested.
The assessor arranged  testing and Mr and Mrs S told the adjuster that some items couldnt  
be tested  they werent working and/or were part made of plastic. The adjuster said hed 
only consider items that had failed a pat test to be part of the claim. The assessor told the 
adjuster that the oven (which couldnt be pat tested  because  it was hardwired) could be 
tested in a different way but the adjuster said it was now too long after the incident.
The adjuster  made  an offer to the assessor to settle  the whole claim. The assessor  asked if 
this could be increased to a sensible  figure of around £12,000, as that might be enough to 
allow him to persuade Mr and Mrs S to settle the claim. The assessor  provided  some more 
evidence regarding replacement  costs  for some  items  hed also provided various estimates 
for reinstatement  of the property (most of which the adjuster  viewed as excessive).
As the adjuster felt the assessors repair estimates were excessive he asked a contractor to 
compile a repair  scope. This was done  in July 2017.  The scope did include taking the bath 
out to fix the pipe but didnt detail any repair or replacement of kitchen units.
After reviewing everything the adjuster  said the final offer to settle the claim was £14,182.09 
(net of the policy excess). A breakdown for this sum was provided. This offer was made on 
13 April 2018 and paid shortly thereafter.  The adjuster said VAT should be deducted from 
this but the amount would  be paid net on this occasion.
Ref: DRN81788282At the end of May the assessor wrote  to the adjuster. He said that Mr and Mrs S were  
happy with that figure as far as it went for the items the adjuster had said it was being paid 
against. But he said it missed out many  items.  He asked that the adjuster pay the amount  
as an interim payment whilst  anything  outstanding  was disputed. The assessor complained 
to Millennium about damaged kitchen units not being settled and 10 electrical  items  
(including the oven and a TV) that also hadnt  been  settled.  Millennium  merely said its 
adjusters offer had been fair. The assessor made  a complaint  to us.
We began  investigating  Mr and Mrs Ss complaint, and they told us they were no longer 
working with the assessor. We began dealing directly with Mr and Mrs S.
Our investigator felt that Millennium should  have tested the oven, and as it hadnt it should  
pay for the oven to be repaired or replaced.  In a further view he noted a further electrical 
report Mr and Mrs S had provided, which showed  6 electrical items were water  damaged,  
so he said Millennium should  repair these items. In another view he noted  a report
Mr and Mrs S had obtained in May 2018 regarding  the damage to their kitchen. He noted 
the adjuster had seen damage during his first visit, but as its contractor hadnt included  
repair or replacement  of units in its scope, he concluded the damage  mustnt  have been 
lasting. He didnt  think the recent report made  any difference in this respect as it had been 
compiled a long time after the event.
Millennium said it would  agree to the findings  because our investigator  hadnt suggested it 
pay any interest or compensation. Mr and Mrs S were  disappointed. They  explained that 
after they got their report in 2018,  and with Millennium  still refusing  to do anything  regarding 
the kitchen cupboards, theyd had the kitchen replaced  the units  werent just warped but 
smelly and mouldy too. They failed to see, with so much water having  come down, how it 
could be felt the units werent  damaged.  Their  kitchen  report  also evidenced  that the 
dishwasher, extractor, oven and hob were water damaged too.
I considered the complaint for decision. In short  I felt Millennium had failed Mr and Mrs S; it 
had handled  the claim poorly and its final settlement offer of £14,182.09  didnt go far 
enough to put Mr and Mrs S back into the position they were before the incident occurred. 
I said it should make a number of payments  in addition  to the £14,182.09 I thought it had 
paid in April/May 2018. My provisional findings were:
kitchen  I think units were likely damaged by this event. The adjuster noted  they were  
affected  I dont know why the contractor the adjuster appointed didnt include anything 
regarding the units in its reinstatement  scope. But then I dont know  what instructions the 
contractor received from the adjuster.  The emails  Ive seen suggest they spoke about the 
property at length and I wasnt privy to those conversations. But I do know that water  
damage doesnt just right itself  so if the adjuster noted the units  were affected in 
January 2017,  they werent going to be suddenly unaffected  when Millenniums contractor 
completed its scope in July 2017. I think its more likely the contractor either  missed  the 
damage or was told to ignore it.
I think Millennium should have made an offer to reinstate the kitchen. As Mr and Mrs S 
have since replaced  it, I need to decide  what Millennium fairly and reasonably  needs  to pay.
Ref: DRN81788283I know from Mr and Mrs Ss report on the kitchen that not all the units were  showing sign of 
water damage in 2018. But it seems the only unit that was noted as being salvageable at 
that time was the one around/under the sink. Whilst I also note from the report that a match 
for the undamaged unit couldnt be found,  I wouldnt usually  make an insurer pay for the 
entire cost of an undamaged, matching unit. But here Im not going to make a deduction 
from Mr and Mrs Ss outlay.
Mr and Mrs S have  shown me that they bought  an ex-display kitchen and paid a contractor 
to fit it. The ex-display kitchen cost £17,500 (inc VAT). Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs S 
could have saved  on that by not purchasing a sink unit and living with any mis-match.
Further because the unit was ex-display, Im not persuaded they could have bought  it minus  
the sink unit. And Mr and Mrs S have mitigated  their situation, and Millenniums outlay, by 
purchasing an ex-display model.  All in all I think its fair to say Millennium should reimburse 
the £17,500 (inc VAT), plus interest* from the date this was paid until it provides settlement.
The labour  cost for fitting the kitchen was £2,400. What Ive said above about not making 
any deduction in respect of the undamaged unit stands. But even  if I were  to change my 
mind on that, Im not persuaded that fitting  one unit more or less would likely have impacted 
the labour costs Mr and Mrs S incurred. The costs, to me, dont seem unreasonable. I think 
Millennium should pay the £2,400  plus interest* from the date Mr and Mrs S paid it until 
settlement is made.
bathroom (not including flooring)  Millenniums settlement included  £2,200  for reinstating 
the bathroom. Im not sure if Mr and Mrs S have done any work in the bathroom yet.
I havent seen  anything that makes  me think Millenniums cost paid in this respect is unfair.  
Although I note the assessor did initially ask for about £800 more, he didnt continue to 
challenge this aspect of the settlement after acceptance in part was given in 2018. Im not 
going to ask Millennium to do or pay anything  more in respect of the bathroom 
reinstatement (but I have commented  separately  below on the bathroom flooring).
stairs and landing(flooring)   The assessor submitted a cost of £681.70 for carpeting the 
stairs and landing. Millennium agreed  to pay this, and included the figure  in its 2018 
settlement. The assessor later asked for a further £40 or so. It isnt clear why/on what basis.  
Because it isnt clear  Im not satisfied that Millennium has underpaid this element of the 
claim. Im not going to ask it to pay anything more.
kitchen and bathroom (flooring)  These  were  damaged and estimates  for replacement 
were provided by the assessor (£311.65 and £544.50).  The adjusters contractor quoting for 
reinstating these rooms, included the flooring within  its price.  But the adjuster didnt specify  
what price was being allocated for flooring in its breakdown of the 2018  settlement offer 
(which included £11,040 to reinstate the ground floor). But as the adjuster had accepted  
the estimate for the stairs and landing, allowing the full price of that within its settlement 
offer, I think its likely the full cost for replacing the kitchen and bathroom flooring was 
allowed for as well. I cant be sure on this issue  but Ive certainly seen nothing that makes 
me think these costs, or any part of them are likely outstanding. Which means I cant 
reasonably ask Millennium  to pay anything more.
Ref: DRN81788284lounge (flooring)   The flooring here was wood, it was damaged by the leak and it ran 
continuously into the hall, dining room and downstairs toilet. The assessor asked for £3,333.62. 
The adjuster  allowed  a sum of £3,156.40  for this within the settlement. It seems the difference  
was the cost of replacing the flooring in the downstairs toilet. In agreeing to pay for the rest of the 
wooden flooring the adjuster seems  to have accepted the assessors argument that there were 
no door bars separating  the rooms and the doors were glass panelled. I think  the toilet is unlikely 
to have glass panes in its door and toilet doors, in my experience, are rarely left open. So the 
flooring matching, or breaking (with  a door bar) as it goes into the cloakroom doesnt really create 
an issue as it would  in respect of other  rooms. The room is also likely to be small so the price  
deduction doesnt seem  unreasonable. Im not going  to make Millennium pay anything more.
bedroom (flooring) - The assessor asked for the flooring in the bedrooms to be replaced. 
Millennium didnt include a cost for this within its settlement. Ive no idea why this was 
requested. The bedrooms werent ever noted as being affected  by the leak.  I can only 
assume this was an error on the part of the assessor.
damaged electrical  items  The adjuster, in my view, failed Mr and Mrs S. Theyd had a 
water leak and they advised when notifying their claim what  items they felt were damaged. 
That was sufficient, on the face of it, for the ball to pass to the adjuster. If, when he visited, 
he had reasonable doubts about damage having  been caused, he could reasonably have 
asked Mr and Mrs S to provide further  evidence, such  as having the equipment  tested. But 
otherwise the items should  either have been accepted or the adjuster should have arranged 
for testing  if he felt such was necessary.
I also think the adjuster  was remiss when he refused to acknowledge that some items 
couldnt be pat tested as hed asked for. To merely dismiss these items out of hand was 
unreasonable in my view.
There are eight electrical items  which, across two reports, Mr and Mrs S have shown were  
water damaged (two other  items from the ten listed as outstanding by the assessor werent 
shown to be damaged, see below). Whilst Mr and Mrs S initially  felt the TV wasnt affected, 
their electrical report shows that it was. Their reports also show that the kitchen  extractor, 
oven, hob, light and dishwasher were damaged, as well as a games  console and speakers. 
Their report  also refers  to various leads being  water damaged and Mr and Mrs S did claim 
for some speaker  wiring  and HDMI cables. I think its fair to say these two items are 
covered by the reports reference to various damaged leads.
Mr and Mrs S have  provided proof of replacement costs for all items barring the kitchen 
light, speakers, wiring and cables.  I think Millennium should pay for all the items that have 
been replaced in line with the payment amount evidenced, the total being £6,587.98. Plus 
interest* on each amount  that makes up this sum, from the date the respective item was 
paid for until settlement is made.
The assessor had provided provisional  costs for replacing the light,  speakers, wiring and 
cables. I note the costs  Mr and Mrs S paid for the items they replaced were, in the main, 
roughly similar to the figures  claimed  by the loss assessor. So I dont think I can reasonably 
conclude his costs  are likely unreliable  indicators of the probable cost Mr and Mrs S will 
have to pay to replace  these items.  Im going  to require  Millennium  to settle  for these  items  
in line with sums requested by the assessor, that total being  £2,597.45. Plus interest* on 
each amount that makes up this sum from the date of loss until settlement is made. 
Applying interest from the date of loss should  make up for any cost difference that may now 
occur due to the time that has passed since these sums were requested.
Ref: DRN81788285The two items the assessor asked for settlement for that havent been shown to be 
damaged are a TV programme box and an external storage device. As Ive not seen any 
evidence in any of the reports that Mr and Mrs S have provided that these items were 
damaged, Im not going to suggest Millennium  pays anything  for them.
There was a fridge, an amp and a DVD  player also damaged.  Millennium included  costs  for 
these items within its settlement. As far as Im aware theres  no dispute over these costs, so 
Im not going  to make any finding  about  the settlement  made for them.
reports  I know Millennium included a figure of £72.00 within  its settlement to allow  for the 
cost of an electrical test. If Mr and Mrs S had any cost beyond  this for obtaining electrical 
reports and/or testing, and they can show this cost, Ill likely make Millennium reimburse 
that, plus interest*  from the date it was paid until settlement is made.
Millennium hasnt, to date,  as far as Im aware, reimbursed any cost Mr and Mrs S had for 
obtaining the report on the kitchen  damage. Im going to require Millennium to reimburse 
any outlay they had in this respect,  upon  sight or proof, plus interest* from the date it was 
paid until settlement is made.
disturbance allowance  Im also mindful  that, from the outset, Mr and Mrs S had no fridge, 
for storing  food, and no cooker, on which to cook  food. So I think  they likely  had additional 
costs associated with eating right from the outset. And because Millennium delayed  making  
any settlement, it was August and September 2018  before these items were replaced and 
the new kitchen  fitted.
Its fairly  standard  practice for insurers to deal with such extra costs by provision of a 
disturbance allowance. And such is often paid at a rate of £10 per adult and £5 per child per 
day. Unless Millennium can convince me that it would  be unfair or unreasonable to do so, 
Ill likely  make it pay an allowance at the normal rate to Mr and Mrs H, from the date of loss 
until their kitchen was replaced.
claim handling and compensation   I think Millennium handled this claim badly. Whilst
Mr and Mrs S had a loss assessor  acting for them,  I think Millenniums  poor handling of the 
claim still affected them. They were  left without any settlement  for any items for an inordinate 
amount of time, and monies for drying the property  werent even forthcoming  initially.
Millennium also refused  to cover the cost of the damaged kitchen units and Mr and Mrs S 
had to front the cost of replacing these themselves, as well as obtaining a report. They also 
had to live in a damaged,  damp and smelly house  for a long time. In my view,  if Millennium  
had assessed  and recorded  the claim more accurately,  they wouldnt have needed to do 
any of this. Im going to require Millennium  to pay Mr and Mrs S £1,000 compensation, 
I think thats fair and reasonable  in the circumstances.
Mr and Mrs S said they were happy with the additional payments suggested. But they said 
Millennium had never paid them the previously offered  sum of £14,182.09.
Millennium confirmed it had never paid the previous offer.  It said this was because it hadnt 
been accepted in full and final settlement. Millennium said it disagreed with my findings 
which seemed poles  apart from the provisional decision. 
Ref: DRN81788286Regarding the kitchen  Millennium said there had initially  been slight  signs  of water affected  
units but the units were  later inspected by its contractor  and no signs of damage was 
detected. It was felt theyd  dried with no lasting  damage having occurred. As such the 
kitchen didnt feature  in the substantive repair quote  the contractor compiled.
Turning to the electrical items Millennium  said that in general it is for the policyholder to 
demonstrate damage   it isnt up to the insurer to do so. Specifically Millennium noted that 
the dishwasher, extractor and hob were never part of the claim and were never PAT tested.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Millennium hasnt  paid the £14,182.09  even  though it was satisfied that this equated to 
a fair settlement  for the claim  and in line with this services usual approach  to delayed 
payments, it will have  to do so now, plus interest* from the 30 April 2018  until settlement is 
made. As of 13 April 2018 Millennium was satisfied that paying this sum equated  to it fairly 
and reasonably settling the claim.  Whist Ive now found it was wrong in that respect,  it was 
satisfied of that at that time  so it should  have paid it. But that would reasonably have 
taken a few days,  which  is why my interest award  will apply from 30 April 2018. 
My provisional decision was the only provisional decision issued on this case. Prior to my 
decision our investigator issued his view. That was not a provisional  decision. Because  
agreement on that view couldnt be reached the complaint came to me for review. An 
ombudsman reviews any complaint afresh and reaches their own decision about what the 
outcome should  be. Because my thoughts on the case were different to those of the 
investigator, I issued  a provisional decision.
I hear Millenniums detail  regarding the kitchen  but note that no attempt  was made to 
gather that evidence  at the time and include it any report, or even a simple email.  What 
Millennium now tells me happened then doesnt persuade me my provisional findings 
regarding the kitchen were wrong. Therefore, Im not going to change  or move away from 
my provisional findings.
As I said provisionally, Mr and Mrs S had satisfied, on the face of it, that they had damage 
covered by the policy. Having done that it was up to Millennium to show  either that wasnt  
the case or that sufficient valid concerns existed to justify requiring Mr and Mrs S to provide 
further evidence.  I remain of the view that the way Millennium handled this was 
unreasonable. It is true that Mr and Mrs S didnt list the dishwasher, extractor and hob as 
being damaged when  they first made the claim.  But policyholders arent always  initially 
aware of the extent  of damage. What we do know  is that water came  in through  the kitchen 
ceiling and this was so badly damaged it had to be replaced. Millennium passed the 
responsibility for testing  of items  to Mr and Mrs S, and their electrical  reports show  these 
items were water damaged. In short, Millennium hasnt persuaded me that settlement for 
these items,  as I set out provisionally, shouldnt  be paid.
Whist Ive considered Milllenniums  response to my provisional decision,  it hasnt  changed 
my view on the findings I set out. Those  findings  now form part of this my final decision.
Ref: DRN81788287my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require Millennium  Insurance Company Limited to pay 
Mr and Mrs S:
£14,182.90 as offered,  and according  to the breakdown issued, in April 2018, plus 
interest* from 30 April 2018  until settlement is made.
£17,500 as reimbursement for the replacement kitchen, plus interest* from the date the 
amount was paid until settlement is made.
£2,400 as reimbursement for the fitting cost for the kitchen, plus interest* from the date 
the amount was paid until settlement is made.
£6,587.98 as reimbursement for the cost of replacement electrical items, plus interest* on 
each sum that makes  up this total from the date each  was paid until settlement is made.
£2,597.45 as payment to allow replacement of the kitchen light,  speakers, wiring and 
cables, plus interest*  on this total amount from the date of loss until settlement is made.
An amount to reimburse costs incurred for obtaining electrical reports, testing and the 
report on the kitchen  damage,  over and above the amount  of £72.00  which has already  
been paid, plus interest* from the date any report or testing  was paid for until 
settlement is made.
An amount equivalent to £10 per adult and £5 per child (normally living  in the 
household) per day from the date of loss until the replacement kitchen was fitted.
£1,000 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 June  2020.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid as specified above. If Millennium Insurance 
Company Limited considers that its required  by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
any interest due to Mr and Mrs S, it should tell them how much its taken  off. It should also give Mr 
and Mrs S a certificate  showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue 
& Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN8178828