K821x#15complaint
Ms A complains  that Great Lakes Insurance SE (Great Lakes) mishandled  her legal 
expenses insurance  claim.
Great Lakes use intermediaries to help manage  their claims and administer their insurance 
policies. So any reference to the insurer within this decision should be taken  as including 
such intermediaries.
background
Ms A holds buildings  and contents insurance  which shed taken out through Paymentshield, 
the policy administrator. Her policy also included cover for legal  expenses, which is 
administered by Property Guard (a trading name of Motorplus Limited), and is underwritten 
by UK General  Insurance  Limited on behalf  of Great Lakes Insurance  SE.
Ms A contacted Paymentshield  in July 2017  to make  a claim on her legal expenses  policy,  
as she wished to take legal action  against her property manager due to the poor service 
shed received. Paymentshield referred  the matter to Great  Lakes, but Ms A says she then 
didnt hear anything further.
Ms A says she chased  her claim with the insurer on 2 August 2017 and spoke to one of their 
agents. She asked  the agent if Great Lakes could liaise directly with her solicitor due to her 
ill health, and emailed a signed  letter of authority enabling the solicitor  to act on her behalf. 
But Ms A had to chase  Great  Lakes again  a couple of days later when her solicitor  had still 
not received a response.
Ms A says she later received a call regarding  the claim, but asked that they deal directly with 
her solicitor  as initially requested. But following  this point, neither the solicitor nor Ms A 
received any further contact regarding the claim.
Ms A subsequently got back in contact  with Paymentshield in January 2018  as she wanted  
to make a complaint  about her claim being ignored by the insurer and felt she was being 
treated unfairly.  Paymentshield contacted the insurer, and say they were  informed that the 
claim had been  declined.
Unhappy with the service  she received, Ms A brought her complaint to this service. She says 
that the insurers lack of response and co-operation  meant that she was unable to pursue 
her legal claim against the property managers,  which has resulted in losses  of around 
£40,000  which she feels the insurer should compensate her for. But Great  Lakes dispute  
that theyd ever received any claims documentation from Ms A or her solicitor,  so they hadnt 
even assessed  the claim,  let alone  rejected  it.
Our investigator looked into the matter and established that Great  Lakes had incorrectly  sent 
the claims paperwork to an invalid email address, meaning the documentation was never  
received by Ms As solicitor. So he accepted it was unlikely that Great Lakes wouldve 
declined the claim, and asked that they now look to assess  it. As a result, the investigator  
didnt think it would  be reasonable to ask the insurer to cover any of Ms As losses,  but he 
did recommend that they pay £250 in compensation for the delays caused by their mistake.  
Ms A disagreed, as she does not feel that £250  is adequate compensation given the extent 
of her losses. Great Lakes also disagreed,  as they felt Ms A was equally responsible  for the 
Ref: DRN83004632delays because she failed  to follow up with them when she didnt receive a response.  They  
disagreed with the level of compensation, as they felt the investigator was attributing  
responsibility for all the issues caused by all parties  involved  to the insurer alone, and said 
that theyd be willing to pay £30 compensation for their failing. As neither party was willing to 
accept the investigators  view, the matter has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided to uphold  it 
for the same reasons  as the investigator, as I consider £250  to be fair compensation in the 
circumstances.
Ms A says that Paymentshield were  informed by Great Lakes that her claim had been 
rejected. But I think there has been  some confusion here  which given the amount of 
intermediaries involved in this dispute  is not surprising  as I find it highly unlikely that the 
insurer couldve rejected  a claim in which theyd not received any paperwork back, given that 
it had been sent to the wrong  email address. I dont doubt that Ms A was told this 
information, but it appears the information was incorrect, or may have possibly been  in 
relation to another claim  with a separate insurer.
Given that Great Lakes  hasnt actually assessed  the claim,  I will not be commenting on any 
matters relating to whether there is cover provided under the policy  for Ms As dispute with 
her property managers, as this will be for the insurer to assess in line with the policy  terms 
and conditions. So it follows  that I will not be able to consider  if the insurer is liable for any 
losses as a result of a claim  being  incorrectly declined   although Ms A may be able to raise 
such a complaint with the insurer if her claim is ultimately declined and she disagrees  with 
the reasoning  behind  that decision. 
But what  I can consider  at this stage is the impact the insurers  error has had on Ms A. She 
says that the insurers  lack of response  and co-operation meant that she was unable  to 
pursue her legal claim against the property  managers, which has resulted  in losses  of 
around £40,000. But even if the claim was dealt with swiftly, there  is no guarantee that it 
wouldve met all the requirements  for cover under the policy  terms and conditions, such  as 
the requirement for the legal claim to enjoy sufficient prospects of success. And even if the 
claim was covered, Ms As calculations regarding her losses assumes that her legal claim 
wouldve been successful  (whether in or out of court), of which there is little evidence  to 
suggest it wouldve  been. So even though there  were delays and inaction  on the part of the 
insurer, I cant say this has been  the primary  cause of Ms As losses,  so I will not be asking 
Great Lakes to reimburse her for this.
However, it is clear that the service Ms A has received  from the insurer  has been poor, so I 
do think an award of compensation is due in recognition  of the distress and inconvenience 
caused. The investigator recommended an amount of £250, which  Great Lakes felt was 
unfair as other intermediaries had also contributed to the poor service Ms A received  such 
as Paymentshield  incorrectly  telling Ms A that the claim had been declined.  Great  Lakes say 
they should not be held responsible for the failings of other parties  such  as Paymentshield, 
and that Ms A should  raise a direct complaint against them. But any party  acting on behalf of 
an insurer would be deemed  to be its agent. And as the principal,  the insurer is still ultimately  
responsible for any acts or omissions  of their agents. 
Ref: DRN83004633In the circumstances, it would appear that Paymentshield were acting on behalf  of the 
insurer in these circumstances  insofar  as they were overseeing  the administration of the 
policy as well as assisting  with the insurance  claim.  So I consider that Great Lakes are 
responsible for the failings attributable to Paymentshield as well in this case. But irrespective 
of the other intermediaries actions, its clear that Great Lakes  has been the main cause of 
the distress and inconvenience  suffered by Ms A, as theyve been generally unresponsive 
and failed to ensure that Ms As solicitor received the paperwork necessary to proceed with 
the claim.  So even if Great Lakes were  not responsible  for the actions of the other 
intermediaries involved, I dont consider it would make a difference  in these circumstances.
Great Lakes feel that the compensation should  be reduced because  Ms A failed to follow the 
matter up when she didnt  hear anything. I do not agree, as Ms A did everything she ought  to 
in terms of raising the claim with the insurer. She firstly informed Paymentshield that she 
wanted to raise a claim. She further chased the matter up twice with the insurer  in August 
after not hearing anything,  and then had to complain about the matter around  five months 
later. So I do not think its reasonable for Great Lakes to say that she ought  to bear any 
responsibility for the delays, given that it was the insurer  who ultimately caused them  by 
sending documentation  to an invalid email address, despite having  been  provided with the 
correct details. 
Ive considered what level of compensation would be appropriate in these circumstances. 
The power to make  such an award  is provided for in DISP Rule 3.7.2 of the Financial 
Conduct Authority  Handbook, which sets out that I can award  fair compensation for distress 
or inconvenience experienced by a customer. But such an award  must be a proportionate 
reflection of the impact that a businesss actions (or inactions) have had. So its important in 
that regard to look at the specific impact the poor service has had on Ms A in particular.
Based on Ms As submissions, its clear that the poor service  and delays shes  experienced 
has caused her distress and inconvenience.  But Ms A has also described how the 
experience has had a terrible toll on her health.  And I can see that Ms A informed the insurer  
from the outset that she was suffering  from ill health,  which  is why she asked that they liaise 
directly with her solicitor. But instead of the matter  being taken forwards,  it resulted in delays 
and Ms A having  to chase the insurer when she was unwell. So, having considered the 
individual impact  the poor service had on Ms A, I consider a total award of £250 to be fair in 
the circumstances. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I direct Great Lakes Insurance  SE to pay a total of £250 
compensation within 28 days of being notified  by us of Ms As acceptance  of this decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 April 2019.
Jack Ferris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8300463