K820x#14complaint
Mr Ls complaint is about the service he received from Phoenix Life Limited  leading  up to 
taking his annuities.  
background
Mr L had two with-profits pension policies with Phoenix Life. The first was set up on 23 
August 1977 and the second on 1 July 1980.  Both provided a guaranteed minimum annual  
annuity at retirement.  Mr Ls intended retirement date was 28 December  2018.
Phoenix Life issued  retirement packs and quotes in July 2018. Mr L wasnt happy that the 
information was accurate.  In particular he wanted to know  why his policies werent eligible 
for the 42% final bonus hed seen  on Phoenix Lifes website.
There was correspondence between Phoenix Life and Mr L. But he didnt think  Phoenix Life 
had answered  his specific concerns. 
Mr Ls annuities didnt  begin on his retirement date. Phoenix Life later agreed to backdate  
payments and paid £400  compensation to Mr L. 
Mr L remained dissatisfied.  Amongst  other  things he still didnt accept that his policies 
werent eligible  for a final bonus. He was also concerned that the late payment meant hed 
pay more tax than hed have done if the payments had been made earlier  and in that tax 
year. 
One of our investigators  looked into Mr Ls complaint. He issued his view on 17 December 
2019. In summary  he said:
Phoenix Life had said the 42% bonus as only payable on policies taken  out after 1981. Mr 
Ls annual statements  showed that a final bonus may be added but the amount wasnt 
guaranteed. The final bonuses had been checked by Phoenix Lifes actuaries and with-
profits team.  Any final bonus wasnt guaranteed. 
Mr L had said hed paid a higher rate of tax. The annuity payments which  shouldve  been 
paid between December  2018 and March  2019 werent paid until June 2019. That had 
pushed Mr Ls income into the higher rate tax bracket. Phoenix Life thought  a tax refund of 
about £700 that Mr L had got in August  2019  had corrected the position. But it wouldnt be 
possible to say with certainty, how much, if any, extra tax Mr L had paid until the end of the 
tax year.  Phoenix  Life had offered to write to HMRC to confirm that the payments made  in 
June 2019 should have  been paid between December 2018 and March 2019.  
Phoenix Life had taken too long to sort things out for Mr L. That was poor customer service 
rather than any deliberate attempt to make  Mr L accept the quotes that hed received. 
The £400  Phoenix Life had paid and its offer to write  to HMRC was a fair and reasonable 
solution. If it later turned  out that Mr L had paid too much tax, Phoenix  Life should review  
that. 
In response Mr L referred to the guide  Simplifying  our Business on Phoenix Lifes website 
which he said was clear  and unambiguous  and says,  if theres  a surplus,  his policies are 
entitled to a share. He also referred  to an update  for with-profits customers  issued in July 
Ref: DRN817597222018 and which said that it was fairest to policyholders to concentrate on final bonuses.  But 
hed got no final bonus  his policies had been  excluded because  of the guarantees. If hed 
been told that hed have  been able to review  if it was worth continuing to pay in or if he 
should move  his funds  elsewhere. He also said Phoenix Life had failed to make  it clear that 
some policyholders but not others would benefit  from final bonuses.  
Phoenix Life replied saying that the guaranteed benefits under Mr Ls policies at retirement 
were higher  than the investment return hed have got had the guarantee not been  in place. 
His fund value is higher than his fair asset share of the fund, over the term of his policy,  so 
he wont get a final bonus. Phoenix Life said it was explained in detail in the PPFM. Phoenix 
Life referred to principles 14.4, 14.5 and 14.6 which said:
14.6 Final Bonus  Rates
Subject to the guiding principles set out in section 5, final bonus may be added to policies 
when they terminate or when benefits are encashed for other purposes,  with the aim of 
ensuring, if they do not already do so, that benefits reflect fairly a share in the profits (and 
losses) which  have  been generated within the with-profits fund whilst the policy  has been in 
force. We apply separate final bonus  rates to different policy  classes to reflect the different 
aspects of the products, including tax treatment,  country of issue, form of benefit and extent 
of guaranteed benefit (although not the presence  or absence of guaranteed  annuity options 
except in respect of policies subject to the 2009  PALAL Scheme).  For most policy classes, 
we also differentiate between different dates of issue  and different periods in force. On death 
and on early termination, the final bonus  added may be higher or lower than indicated  
above, for reasons explained  in our Practices.
The investigator shared  that with Mr L. He remained unhappy. He didnt  think hed had 
answers to the points  hed made.  He raised  three main queries:
Phoenix Life needed to explain how Principle 14.6 took into account  the decision  in 
the Equitable  Life case. In Mr Ls view the decision not to pay part of the profits to 
those with guarantees was a clear contravention of the decision  a final bonus must 
be distributed fairly amongst all beneficiaries  of the fund. The guarantees are an 
existing contractual  obligation and those who have  them cant  be penalised by 
negating any share of profits in the fund. 
Principle 14.6 expressly states that the policy is designed to procure a fair allocation 
of the profits. But he hadnt received that. All the publicity  hed referred to said that 
the fund had plenty of cash  and that the concentration  would  be on final bonuses. 
He queried what  profits had been earned in the fund since policies  such  as his 
(formerly with Sun Alliance) had been taken into it. The guarantees were a 
contractual term. Those and the reversionary  bonuses accrued by the date of the 
transfer have  been  funded out of profits earned  by the date of the transfer. 
Reversionary bonuses arent declared  unless funds are in hand to pay them  they 
represent a share of existing profits. He is entitled to a share  of what  has accrued 
since then as it is out of those  new final bonuses  are calculated. Final bonuses  have 
to be shared fairly. Some policyholders  cant be deprived to benefit others. 
The investigator understood Mr Ls concerns  but he didnt think  much  would be gained  by 
pressing Phoenix  Life further to deal with Mr Ls queries. The investigator suggested the 
complaint was referred to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
In response Mr L repeated that it was clear  from the Equitable Life decision that guarantees 
had to be excluded  and providers couldnt seek  to lessen returns  on those grounds. Other 
Ref: DRN81759723policyholders would get a final bonus  and Phoenix  Lifes policy was unfair  only those  
policyholders with guarantees were punished. All policyholders in the fund are entitled  and 
should share. Hed purchased guarantees on commercial terms. He set out his 
understanding of how retained  and newly earned profits should be distributed. 
More recently Mr L provided  evidence  to show that he had suffered extra  tax because of the 
late payments. 
Phoenix accepted  that and made a payment of £939.86 to be paid direct to Mr Ls bank 
account. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered all the evidence and arguments that have been provided from the 
outset by Mr L and Phoenix  Life. But Ive necessarily summarised whats  been said in this 
decision. And Ive concentrated  on what I see as the main issues.  
Phoenix Life has explained why Mr Ls policies dont  qualify for any final bonuses. Mr L 
doesnt accept  that. Hes suggested that Phoenix Life should  answer  his queries but, 
although weve shared Mr Ls points with Phoenix Life, it hasnt provided  any further 
comments. 
I havent pressed  Phoenix Life further because  I dont think its going to change  the outcome. 
Im satisfied, from what Ive seen, that I can fairly  decide Mr Ls complaint. And, as Ive said 
below, I think Phoenix  Lifes final response letter did explain things for Mr L, including  how 
final bonuses for policyholders  such as him are worked out.  
More generally Id say that the application  or otherwise of any bonus is a commercial  
decision for the product provider. We deal with individual  complaints. A commercial decision 
made by a financial business may have wider  implications and affect how the business 
operates and groups of customers  or policyholders more generally.  We wont usually 
interfere in that sort of commercial decision. 
With-profits funds have  attracted  criticism  for their complexity and lack of transparency.  It 
can be difficult for policyholders to satisfy themselves that they are receiving what  they are 
entitled to under the terms of their policies, including whether  any final bonus has been  
calculated correctly.
The industry regulator, previously the Financial Services  Authority  (FSA) and now the 
Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA), recognises that firms have a considerable amount  of 
discretion about  how they operate their with-profits funds. 
The regulators Principle 6 requires that firms must pay due regard  to the interests  of its 
customers and treat them fairly. And the Conduct of Business Sourcebook  (COBS) 2 gives 
specific and detailed rules  and guidance for firms on the operation  of their with-profits  funds, 
including the following  (see 20.2.1G): 
(1) With-profits business, by virtue of its nature  and the extent of discretion applied 
by firms in its operation, involves numerous potential conflicts  of interest that might give rise 
Ref: DRN81759724to the unfair treatment  of policyholders . Potential conflicts of interest may arise between  
shareholders and with-profits policyholders, between with-profits policyholders  and non-
profit policyholders within the same fund,  between with-profits  policyholders  and the 
members of mutually-owned firms, between with-profits policyholders and management,  and 
between different classes of with-profits policyholders, for example those with and without 
guarantees.
Phoenix Life is accountable to the FCA for the way in which  it operates  its with-profits  fund 
(in accordance with its PPFM). The regulator monitors the management of with-profits  funds. 
Businesses are required to appoint a with-profits  actuary and the FCA provides rules and 
guidance on their duties. Phoenix  Life also has an independent  With-Profits  Committee 
whose remit is to protect the interests  of the with-profits policyholders and ensure that they 
are treated  fairly. The FCA monitors Phoenix Lifes management of its with-profits fund. Im 
not aware that it has any concerns about  it or about how certain policyholders may have 
been treated.  Matters  such as that can be reported  to the FCA. 
Mr L may feel that the regulators view is of little consequence  he says that what Equitable  
Life did may not have  raised concerns with the regulator but the court disagreed. And thats 
Mr Ls central point  that Phoenix Lifes decision not to award  a final bonus if the policy has 
guarantees is contrary to the courts decision in the Equitable Life case. 
But I dont think the situation is the same. Phoenix  Life is saying that no final bonus was due 
as the guaranteed benefits  exceeded  the fair asset share. Thats  different to the Equitable  
Life situation where a final bonus  was due, but Equitable Life operated  a differential final 
bonus policy and reduced the amount of the final bonus if the policyholder used the 
guaranteed annuity rate. Phoenix Life hasnt applied  a different final bonus but has 
calculated the final bonus due to Mr L, which is nil. 
So I dont  think Phoenix Life is discriminating against policyholders such as Mr L or treating 
them unfairly. Its simply the case that the guarantees on their policies exceed their fair share 
of the assets and so no final bonus  is due.  I  think  the way Phoenix Life explained  things in 
its final response letter dated 2 July 2019  and why Mr Ls policies didnt attract  a final bonus 
was reasonable.  
Im sorry  if Mr L feels he was misled and that, based  on what  he saw on Phoenix Lifes 
website and other information, he was entitled to expect a substantial final bonus.  But, as he 
accepts, there was never any guarantee that a final bonus would be paid. I dont think  
Phoenix Life needs to compensate him for any loss of expectation.  
I note what Mr L has said about  not being  in a position to make a properly informed decision 
but the guarantees were  valuable and I dont think Mr L would have wanted  to give those up. 
Phoenix Life accepts that it didnt  deal with Mr Ls concerns properly  and, in particular, failed 
for some time to provide  the level of detail  that Mr L was seeking in response  to his queries. 
Im sorry  hes still unhappy with the answers hes received but I dont think Phoenix Life 
needs to do any more. Its now paid the extra tax that Mr L incurred because of the delay in 
his annuities being paid so that aspect of the matter has been cleared up too. 
I dont expect Mr L to agree with what Ive said. But I dont think Phoenix Life has done 
anything wrong  in how its calculated the final bonuses for Mr Ls policies. 
Ref: DRN81759725my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint and Im not making  any award.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 December  2020.
Lesley Stead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8175972