K820x#14complaint
M, a limited company, complains that Metro Bank PLC didnt  process a chargeback  
correctly. M is represented by its director, who Ill refer to as Mrs B. Mrs B would like the 
payment returned.
background
M made a payment to a third party  which Ill refer to as L. Mrs B asked Metro  Bank  to 
attempt a chargeback as she says L didnt provide the service  paid for. Mrs B isnt satisfied 
that Metro Bank did enough to try and get Ms money back.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He said Metro Bank 
investigated and confirmed that L wanted to defend the chargeback.  L said it provided the 
service paid for and provided evidence to support this. While Mrs B says L is a fraudulent  
company it was difficult to verify this. Our investigator said,  based on the available evidence, 
he couldnt require  Metro Bank  to process the chargeback.
Mrs B says the service  she was promised by L was very different from the service it told 
Metro Bank  it had provided. She says other  high street  banks have processed charge backs 
for their customers in relation to L. She set out a list of reasons why she believes L is acting 
fraudulently. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
Mrs B has explained why she believes the money  she paid to L should be refunded. She 
provided copies  of her emails to L asking for the money to be returned.  
Chargeback is a process provided by the card scheme. It allows customers  to ask for a 
payment to be reversed  if theres a problem with the goods or services  they paid for. But 
customers dont have  an automatic right to insist on a chargeback  and chargeback isnt a 
guaranteed method of getting their money refunded. 
In late 2016 M made a card payment to L. Mrs B contacted Metro Bank about the payment in 
March 2017. She asked  Metro Bank  to help get the payment back. 
Metro Bank  provided  an upfront refund and raised  a chargeback. L defended the chargeback  
saying it had provided the service to M. Metro Bank  re-debited the payment.  Metro Bank 
says Mrs B didnt provide  further evidence to counter Ls position, so it cant do any more  to 
help her.
Chargebacks are decided  on the basis of the card scheme rules   not the merits of the 
dispute between  the cardholder and merchant. Metro Banks role was to raise the 
chargeback and consider whether any defence  raised by the merchant was within  the 
chargeback rules. I think it did this. 
Ref: DRN86759312Mrs B feels  strongly that L acted wrongly.  She says the service L claims to have  provided  
when it defended the chargeback isnt what M had paid for. Mrs B says L didnt  provide  a 
contract and it made changes to its website  this has made it difficult  for her to provide 
evidence to support  what she says.  While  Mrs B says L is a fraudulent company, she hasnt 
provided suitable evidence to support this.
I sympathise with Mrs B. I dont know if shell be able to get Ms money back by a different 
route. But I dont think Metro Bank made  an error here. It raised  the chargeback correctly. I 
cant reasonably  require it to do more. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8675931