K821x#15complaint
Mr R complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited (Admiral) has unfairly declined his 
motor insurance claim and avoided his policy.
Mr R is being represented in this complaint by a third party.  But for the purposes of the 
decision I will only refer to Mr R throughout.
background
In August  2018  Mr R took out a motor insurance policy  with Admiral through  an aggregator 
website. The following month, he made  a claim  under the policy  after an incident involving 
his insured vehicle.
Admiral declined the claim because it found that when applying for the policy, Mr R had 
failed to disclose  a motoring conviction  hed received in the last five years before he applied  
for the policy. It said if it had been told about the conviction during the sale it wouldnt have 
offered him cover. So it also avoided the policy and said Mr R had to pay it the outstanding 
premiums.
Mr R disagreed with Admirals decision and made a complaint. He said the application  had 
been completed by his son. And that when it came  to the question about previous motoring 
convictions, his son had asked him if he had any endorsements, and believing that 
endorsements only stay on a licence for three  years, Mr R says he answered  no. So thats  
what his son submitted on the application  form. 
Mr R said this showed it was an innocent mistake and that hed answered the question to the 
best of his knowledge and in good faith.  He also said that Admiral has access to DVLA 
records, so could have  found this information  itself before the policy  started. He thought  
Admiral should reinstate  his policy and pay the claim. He also didnt think  it was fair he 
should pay any premiums  if his policy was being avoided.
Admiral considered Mr Rs complaint. It said Mr R had been misinformed when he was told 
hed need to pay the outstanding policy premiums. It retained the first payment of £77.18 
that Mr R made towards the policy, but confirmed  no further payments would be due and 
apologised for this mistake. But it maintained its position on the claim and avoiding the policy  
for the reasons itd already explained.  So Mr R brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator looked into the complaint, but she concluded that Admiral had acted fairly 
and so didnt uphold it. Mr R disagreed,  saying  he still believed  Admiral shouldnt have 
avoided his policy. So the complaint was passed  to me to make  a decision.
I issued a provisional decision on this case in April 2020. In it I said:
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Based on what Ive seen so far, I 
intend to partially  uphold  Mr Rs complaint and Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN89073982When considering  this complaint, I need to take into account relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Relevant law for this complaint is the Consumer  Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). Under this, a consumer has a duty to take 
reasonable care not to make  a misrepresentation. An insurer  can take certain action, 
like avoiding  a policy, if a qualifying  misrepresentation has been made. For there  to 
be one an insurer needs to show certain  things  happened. 
Firstly it needs to show Mr R failed to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation. When looking at that I need to consider all the relevant 
circumstances. CIDRA  lists examples of things that may need  to be taken into 
account, including how clear and specific the insurers questions  were. 
Its not in dispute  that Mr R did in fact have a motoring conviction in 2015. But Mr R 
says he didnt disclose  it because it happened  more than three  years  before he 
applied for the policy. So Ill start by looking at the question  he was asked in relation 
to this. The question  says; 'Have you had any driving related convictions,  
endorsements, penalties,  disqualifications or bans  in the past 5 years?'
Im satisfied this question is clear and specific. And it evidently requires information 
from the past five years   not three. Mr R said no when  the correct  answer  was yes 
because he did in fact have a conviction  within the last five years.  So the information 
he gave was incorrect. 
Ive no reason to doubt Mr Rs version of events   that he answered the question his 
son put to him in good faith. But the fact of the matter is, the question his son asked 
him wasnt worded  exactly  as it was written on Admirals application. And as a result, 
the answer Mr R provided on the application  was wrong. Admiral  isnt responsible for 
the answers given  during the application process   Mr R is. Mr R or his son, on his 
behalf, failed to read and consider the question properly. So Im satisfied  he failed to 
take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation. 
For it to be a qualifying misrepresentation  the insurer must also show  that had the 
correct information  been provided it wouldnt have offered cover or would only have 
done so on different terms. Admiral has provided  us with details of its underwriting 
criteria. And this shows that it doesnt provide cover for drivers who have the type of 
motoring conviction  Mr R has. Therefore, had Mr R answered the above question  
correctly, Admiral wouldnt have  offered him a policy. So Im persuaded by the 
evidence that a qualifying misrepresentation was made in this case.  
The action Admiral  can take when a qualifying  misrepresentation occurs can differ  
depending on whether its deliberate (or reckless), or careless. But in its initial  file 
submission to this Service  Admiral didnt  set out which  type of misrepresentation it 
thought Mr R had made.  
Its for the insurer to show that a qualifying misrepresentation is deliberate  or 
reckless. And under CIDRA,  a qualifying misrepresentation will be deliberate or 
reckless if the consumer:
Ref: DRN89073983knew the information they provided  was untrue or misleading or did not care 
whether it was untrue or misleading; and
knew that the matter  to which the misrepresentation related was relevant to 
the insurer, or did not care whether or not it was relevant  to the insurer
If its not deliberate  or reckless a qualifying misrepresentation  will be taken to be 
careless.
Admiral has accepted that Mr Rs son completed  the application on his behalf. And in 
the final response letter its states that it accepts Mr Rs son had no knowledge of the 
conviction. In order for the misrepresentation to potentially be deliberate or reckless 
in this case, at the very least, Mr Rs son wouldve had to have known about the 
information that was being  misrepresented.  Its been  accepted that he didnt know 
this. And on balance, Im persuaded its more  likely  than not he failed to read Mr R 
the full content  of the question which resulted in an incorrect answer being given. 
And I think this was therefore a careless  misrepresentation.
CIDRA sets out the remedies that Admiral can apply in this instance when a claim 
has been made. Where  Admiral wouldnt have entered into the insurance contract 
with Mr R, it may avoid the policy and refuse  the claim, but it must return  the 
premiums paid. 
Admiral has said the total premium for Mr Rs policy was £2,226.75 and that Mr R 
paid a total amount of £77.18 towards that premium before the policy  was avoided. 
Its gone on to say that regardless  of whether it considered Mr Rs misrepresentation 
careless, reckless or deliberate, no refund would be due to Mr R as an £80.00  
intermediary charge would apply.  Its said that as the £80.00 is an intermediary 
charge and not a premium, this is not applicable under  CIDRA,  as CIDRA makes 
reference to the policy  premium.  Therefore,  it thinks that under CIDRA Mr R wouldnt 
be due a refund of any kind as the intermediary  fee is more than the premium he 
paid.
As far as I can see, CIDRA doesnt  make  an allowance  for insurers  to offset  
intermediary charges against premiums paid. The fact remains, based on what Ive 
seen so far, Im satisfied  Mr R made  a careless  misrepresentation.  And in this 
circumstance, Admiral  must refund any premiums paid as set out above. Mr R has 
paid £77.18 in premiums,  so Admiral should refund  this amount to him. Any other 
fees outside of the premiums paid under Mr Rs policy arent  relevant to the issue Im 
deciding on in this case.
Ive considered all of Mr Rs comments including what hes said about it being an 
innocent mistake and the various references  to legislation hes pointed to which he 
believes support  his view that Admiral  shouldnt have avoided his policy.  But Im 
satisfied Admirals decision  to avoid the policy was fair and reasonable and in line 
with CIDRA as set out above.  So these  points dont change my provisional 
conclusion on this matter.
Ref: DRN89073984my provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I intend to uphold this complaint in part.
I plan to direct Admiral Insurance Company Limited to refund the premiums  Mr R 
paid towards the policy at an amount  of £77.18  plus 8% simple interest on that 
amount, from the date the policy was avoided  to the date Admiral Insurance 
Company Limited  sends  the refund. 
I asked both parties to send me any other information theyd like me to look at before I 
issued my final decision. But neither Mr R nor Admiral sent me anything  else to consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has given  me any further information  to consider for this decision,  so I see no 
reason to set out my findings again, as they remain unchanged. 
It follows that for the same reasons as set out in my provisional decision  above,  I uphold this 
complaint in part.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. Admiral Insurance Company Limited  
must refund the premiums  Mr R paid towards  the policy at an amount of £77.18 plus 8% 
simple interest on that amount, from the date the policy was avoided to the date 
Admiral Insurance  Company Limited  sends the refund. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 June  2020.
Rosie Osuji
Ombudsman
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Admiral Insurance Company Limited to take off tax from 
this interest. Admiral Insurance Company Limited  must give Mr R a certificate showing how 
much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN8907398