K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Nationwide Building  Society has said it will not refund any of the 
commission it received from the premiums  they paid for the payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy they took out in 1991  with a mortgage.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs H still feel strongly that their PPI policy was mis-sold to them.  But to 
be clear,  my decision  only deals with their complaint about the commission  they paid on their 
PPI policy. This is because their complaint about being mis-sold  their policy  has already 
been decided  upon by an ombudsman in April 2019. In that decision, the ombudsman  said 
we couldnt consider the mis-sale complaint. That was because Mr and Mrs H made their 
complaint outside  of the time limits which this service is required to apply. 
So I wont  be commenting on the sale of the PPI in this decision. All Ive considered  is 
whether Mr and Mrs H should be refunded any of the commission they paid on their PPI 
policy. Having done so, Im not upholding their complaint for reasons that Ill now explain.
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA), 
issued some rules about how businesses should deal with complaints about  the 
non-disclosure of commission where PPI was sold. 
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit share  from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium  and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties.  So to put that right, the FCA said that 
businesses should  pay back  the amount of commission and profit share  that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium.
But these  rules and the Supreme Court judgment relate to the unfair relationship  provisions 
in the Consumer Credit  Act 1974. The unfair relationship provisions  which  were  added to 
the Consumer  Credit Act in 2006  came into force on 6 April 2007. The changes  made in 
2006 explained that the unfair relationship  provisions would only apply to credit  agreements 
taken out on or after 6 April 2007, or agreements taken out before then which were still 
running on 6 April 2008. 
Nationwide has given  me information  that shows Mr and Mrs Hs mortgage was taken out in 
1991 and ended in 2007. So based on what Ive said above, I dont think the unfair 
relationship provisions in the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment,  or the 
rules and guidance made by the FCA in relation  to the non-disclosure of commission, apply 
here.
So Nationwide doesnt need to refund any of the commission Mr and Mrs H paid for the PPI 
they had with their mortgage.
Ref: DRN86150272my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  I dont  uphold this complaint against 
Nationwide Building  Society.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 August 2019. 
Simon Furse
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8615027