K820x#14complaint
Mr H and Mrs H complained that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) shouldnt have settled a claim 
against Mr Hs motor  insurance policy on a split liability basis.   
background 
Mr H was in a car accident and felt that the other driver was completely to blame.  So he 
complained when UKI settled the accident  claim on a split liability  basis. He didnt want  to 
have a fault claim on his driving record, he wanted UKI to refund the policy excess,  and he 
was also unhappy  about the courtesy  car hed been  given.  
The investigator didnt  recommend that his complaint should be upheld. She thought  that 
UKI had acted in line with their policy conditions and hadnt  been unreasonable. Mr H didnt 
agree and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We dont decide  who is at fault for causing an accident, as this is the role of the courts.  
Instead, our role in complaints of this kind is simply to investigate whether an insurer has 
acted fairly  and reasonably, and in line with their policys terms and conditions  when they 
made their decision as regards who was responsible. For that reason, I dont intend to 
answer Mr Hs list of detailed questions about liability.  
Mr Hs policy  says on page  26 that UKI may take over and carry out the negotiation, 
defence or settlement of any claim  in your name, or in the name of any other person covered 
by this policy.
This is a common term in motor insurance policies, and it allows  UKI to settle any claim 
against Mr Hs policy as they see fit, whether Mr H agrees with it or not. Insurers are entitled 
to make a commercial decision about  whether  its reasonable for them to contest a claim or 
better for them to settle it without going  to court. 
Mr H said that the accident was entirely the other  drivers fault as they were  on the wrong 
side of the road and collided with Mr Hs car. He gave UKI his account  of events, a sketch, 
and road measurements. He also gave them photographs of the aftermath of the accident 
scene, and of the damage to his car. However  the other drivers insurer  didnt accept liability  
and were prepared  to go to court about  it. 
UKI said that both cars had been  moving,  and that there had been snow on the road,  so it 
wasnt clear who was to blame for the accident. They thought  that, because there were no 
independent witnesses or objective evidence such as CCTV footage, it was essentially one 
persons word against another and so they couldnt  be confident of being successful if it 
were to go to court. So they settled the claim on a 50/50 liability  basis.  But Mr H had wanted  
UKI to defend  him. He felt that UKI hadnt  represented him properly. He said that his photos 
proved that he wasnt in any way to blame, but UKI didnt send his photos  to the other  
insurer until he prompted them. I can see that he felt very strongly that his evidence proves 
that he wasnt responsible. But photos taken after an accident dont prove what happened  
Ref: DRN85510272during the accident. And once UKI did send the photos it didnt change  the other insurers  
position on liability.
Mr H also thought that UKI had sided with the other  drivers  insurer  and bowed to their threat  
of legal proceedings. But Ive seen nothing to support that. Insurers  face threats of court  
proceedings as a matter of course and we think that theyre entitled  to weigh up their 
prospects of success against the costs and risks involved. Its a commercial judgment 
theyre entitled to make.  
I see that before settling  the claim, UKI allowed Mr H to fully explain his account of events. 
They reviewed his other evidence such as photographs and they also considered the view 
from the other drivers insurer. So I think that they did consider the evidence overall. Given  
that there  were conflicting accounts  of events, I dont think  it was unreasonable  for UKI to 
decide that they couldnt be confident of winning in court,  and they explained this to Mr H. In 
the end, his policy allowed UKI to settle as they wanted, and I dont think  that they were 
being unreasonable to do so.
As the investigator  also explained, a policy excess is always  payable  by the policyholder, 
regardless of fault, so UKI arent  obliged to refund that. Mr H was also unhappy with the hire 
car UKI provided. He said it wasnt as good  a car as his own car and it was embarrassing for 
him in his line of work. He also said UKI didnt allow him to keep  the car for long enough. 
But his policy says that UKI will provide a small hatchback  or similar  that is supplied  to you 
by the hire car company  on a temporary  basis. This car should keep you mobile but may not 
be the same  as your car in terms of size, type,  value  or status  
Also, as UKI had decided that his car was uneconomical to repair,  his policy only entitled  him 
to a hire car for up to 21 days in a row; or up to 7 days after the first or only payment has 
been issued ..in settlement of your claim  whichever is shortest.
I think that the policy wording was clear and, as UKI did comply with the policy, I think that 
theyve done what they should  have in that respect.    
I do see that Mr H feels  very strongly about UKIs liability  decision, and I can see that its 
frustrating for him as hes adamant  that the accident  wasnt his fault. But I think that UKI 
acted fairly  and reasonably in settling the case as they did on the evidence they had, and so 
I dont think they did anything wrong. 
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  its my final decision  that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 July 2019
Rosslyn Scott
ombudsman
Ref: DRN85510273
Ref: DRN8551027