K820x#14complaint
Miss G complains  about the early repayment  charge (ERC) Clydesdale Bank  Plc (trading as 
Yorkshire Bank) charged her when  she redeemed her mortgage.
background
Miss G had a fixed term repayment mortgage with Yorkshire Bank. The fixed rate was due to 
end in October 2018. Miss G told us she knew there was a 2% ERC, but in July 2018  she 
received a letter from Yorkshire  Bank  telling her that her fixed  rate was coming to an end. 
The letter didnt mention the ERC but gave her the impression  that if she moved her 
mortgage before 15 October 2018, the ERC wouldnt apply.
Miss G says the letter prompted  her to look at the range of mortgage  products on the 
market. She didnt think Yorkshire Bank  was competitive, so she moved to another  provider. 
When she was sent her redemption statement, Miss G was surprised to see a 2% fee on it. 
So she called Yorkshire Bank and was told the fee would  only have been waived if shed 
taken out another mortgage  with it before15  October 2018.
Miss G feels  she was misled by the letter, so she wants  to be reimbursed for the ERC.
Our investigator didnt  think the letter Yorkshire Bank sent was misleading. He thought the 
letter was clearly a marketing letter that sought to encourage Miss G to take out a new 
Yorkshire Bank product. He said that the terms of Miss Gs mortgage were  clear that the 
ERC would need  to be repaid if she repaid her mortgage  early. And he could also see that 
Miss Gs mortgage statements were clear about the ERC. Miss Gs June 2018 statement 
said that:
"If you repay  this mortgage before 31 Oct 2018  you will be subject to an Early  Repayment 
Charge".
Miss G also complained that the ERC was too high given  that it equated to nearly five 
monthly repayments. Our investigator understood where Miss G was coming from. But he 
said that the terms and conditions  of Miss Gs mortgage were clear that the ERC was 2% of 
the outstanding amount borrowed at the time of repayment. So he thought Yorkshire  Bank 
was entitled to apply the charge.
Miss G told us shed used a financial advisor  to help her switch  her mortgage, and that shed 
told the adviser she was re-mortgaging  to get a better rate. Our investigator thought the ERC 
was something Miss G couldve discussed  with her advisor. And he noted  that the letter she 
has complained  about said that if she was about unsure about what  it said, she could phone 
Yorkshire Banks mortgage  team for more information.
Miss G didnt  agree with our investigator  and asked for her complaint to be reviewed. She 
said that:
Yorkshire Banks offer to waive the ERC  shouldve been applied  across the board to 
all customers   not just those that choose to stay with it. 
she felt the letter  pressurised her into getting  a new mortgage as the letter  was sent 
twice.
Ref: DRN89069562After this our investigator emailed Miss G giving her more  information about how ERCs are 
calculated and why he thought that meant that Yorkshire Bank  was entitled to charge the 
ERC it did.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  it would be 
fair and reasonable for me to require  Yorkshire  Bank to reimburse Miss G for the ERC. Ill 
explain why.
the July 2018 letter
Theres no dispute that Miss G knew that an ERC  would be applied  if she moved her 
mortgage before 31 October 2018. However,  she has told us that the July 2018  letter  led her 
to believe that the ERC would be waived, even if she moved  her mortgage to a third party 
provider before 31 October 2018.
Ive considered the letter Miss G was sent, and Im conscious that it didnt mention the ERC. 
It simply told Miss G that her fixed rate was coming  to an end, and when Yorkshires variable 
interest rate would apply. The letter went on to say how Miss G could switch to another rate 
with Yorkshire. And it said that if she was unsure about anything, or wanted more  
information, she could  phone Yorkshire Banks  mortgage team  for more  information. 
So I dont  think the letter was unclear or misleading. And I think  that if Miss G wasnt clear  
about whether  the ERC would apply when she moved her mortgage to another provider,  she 
couldve phoned Yorkshire Banks  mortgage  team. Alternatively she couldve asked the 
financial adviser she got to help her switch her mortgage whether the ERC  would  apply. 
Having considered whats been  provided  there isnt anything to suggest  that she did either of 
these things. 
I appreciate that when  Miss G called Yorkshire  Bank  after she was sent her redemption 
statement she was told the fee wouldve been  waived if shed taken out another mortgage 
with it before15 October 2018. But I dont think that means the letter was unclear or 
misleading. Miss G has argued that Yorkshire shouldve  waived the ERC for all its customers  
 not just those  that choose  to take out a new product with it. But ERC took a commercial  
decision to only waive the ERC  for customers that took out a new product with it. It isnt for 
me to comment on Yorkshire  Banks commercial decisions. 
the amount of the ERC
Miss G has also complained about  the about  the amount she was charged  given that the 
ERG amounted to around  five monthly  repayments.  
Our rules require me to take into account  various things in deciding  whats  fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances  including the regulators  rules, which set out how 
ERCs are to be calculated.
When a lender offers a fixed rate, both the lender and borrower  are tied in to the fixed rate 
for the duration  of the fixed term. Theres  a cost to the lender in raising  the money to lend, 
which it recovers in interest payments. If the product ends early, theres a risk the lender 
Ref: DRN89069563wont recover its costs. So theres  a clause in the mortgage agreement  which  allows the 
borrower to exit the mortgage early  in return for paying an ERC.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) sets the rules of mortgage regulation. The rules  say 
that a lender can set an ERC  thats  a reasonable pre-estimate of the cost of ending the 
mortgage early.
In practice, it cant be known whether an individual borrower will or will not end their fixed  
rate early, and if so when. So a lender cant estimate in advance the costs of ending  the 
particular mortgage  early. But the lender can estimate how many borrowers, on average, will 
do so  and apply those costs across  a group of mortgages. The price  of the mortgage, both 
the interest rate and the ERC,  are set at a level that allows the lender to recover its costs.
I appreciate that Miss G says that the ERC amounted to around five monthly  repayments,  
when she had less than five months  to go on her fixed term mortgage when she took out a 
new product with another provider. However, as Ive explained above, thats not relevant 
here  because the ERC doesnt  reflect the loss of ending her mortgage  early; it reflects a 
pre-estimate of loss across a group of mortgages. Thats within  the rules, and I dont think it 
was unfair  for Yorkshire Bank to charge Miss G the ERC on this basis.
other issues
Miss G says she felt pressurised into moving  her mortgage after she received the letter  on 
more than one occasion. She told us that if she hadnt received  the letter, she wouldnt have 
looked to move her mortgage until the fixed rate period had ended.  She felt she needed to 
act to ensure  that she didnt move onto a variable rate. I understand the points Miss G has 
made, and I dont underestimate her strength of feeling. But I think the letter simply told 
Miss G that her fixed  rate was coming to an end, and what  she could do to get another 
product with Yorkshire Bank. I dont  think the language used suggested that Miss G needed 
to move her mortgage.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 May 2019.
Laura Forster
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8906956