K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that after he made a claim on his motor insurance policy esure  Insurance 
Limited sold his car for salvage in error.  He also says it didnt pay him enough  for it.
 
background
Mr Bs car was damaged in an accident in June 2018. esure  accepts that he said from the 
start he wanted to retain it. When the car was written-off, esure  put a safeguard on it, so the 
salvage agent wouldnt sell it. esure  paid Mr B what it said was the cars market  value - 
£1,384  minus  a deduction of £384 for some  of the pre-existing  damage on the car. As Mr B 
was retaining the car, it issued a cheque  deducting £350 for the salvage. But the safeguard  
was then removed  in error in January 2019.  The car was sold shortly afterwards.  
Mr B was very upset  to lose the car, which he believes is rare and worth  at least  £4,500  and 
was increasing in value. He said hed spent a lot of money on it and wanted esure to get the 
car back.  esure  wasnt  able to do that, given that it had been sold on. It offered Mr B £250,  
then £350, to compensate him for its error. It also offered to waive  £100 of the deduction for 
pre-existing damage, plus refund £60 for a part hed bought recently.  It also paid Mr B £350  
for the salvage  deduction that had been made earlier. 
Mr B said he didnt  accept esures  valuation,  but that the major issue  was that he was the 
cars legal owner,  so esure had stolen  it from him. He said the police agreed, but thought  it 
was a civil matter. He set out at length how much hed spent on the car and provided some  
invoices. He said hed still prefer to have the car returned to him, as he wouldnt be able to 
replace it with a similar one for the sum esure  had paid. He said as the car had specialist 
appeal, the trade guides esure  used  to reach  a valuation  werent  appropriate.  
One of our investigators  considered Mr Bs complaint. She thought  esure had offered to 
compensate Mr B adequately for its error  in allowing the car to be sold. She thought £350 
compensation (plus  waiving £100  for previous  damage and refunding  £60) was fair.   She  
said it was standard  industry practice to use the national trade  guides  to assess a cars 
market value. She checked the trade guides and found that the sum esure  had offered Mr B 
was fair. She noted that he hadnt provided anything to show that the car was worth more.  
Mr B said the money spent on the car hadnt  been  considered. And he said there should be 
punitive damages as esure had stolen it. The complaint was passed  to me for review.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I dont think it should be upheld.
First of all, I recognise how strongly Mr B feels about  what  has happened, and I understand 
why. But I dont agree that esure  stole his car. I think its intention was to retain it for him, but 
it made a serious  error. Mr B says he hasnt been compensated for the fact that the car was 
sold against his wishes. But the £350 esure  offered is meant to reflect the distress  and 
inconvenience hes faced  because of that. esure  also offered  to waive  £100  of the deduction 
it was entitled  to make for pre-existing damage. And it offered to refund a further  £60. So in 
total, the compensation offered to Mr B by esure amounts to £510. 
 
Mr B thinks  we should award  punitive damages against esure. But it isnt our role to punish 
businesses. We award  compensation for distress  and inconvenience  that has been caused  
Ref: DRN81056812by a businesss actions  if we think it hasnt already done that adequately. In this case, I think 
esure has made a reasonable  attempt  to compensate Mr B fairly. Had it not done  so Id have 
required it to pay him a sum in compensation thats similar  to the sum esure has offered. 
Mr B thinks  the car is rare, but esures senior engineer  considered that point and didnt 
agree. We think the trade guide  valuations  are the best way to establish  a cars retail market  
value, as theyre based on likely  selling prices  nationwide. The guides  dont quote for some 
cars, but they all quoted for Mr Bs vehicle. The figures we found in two of the trade guides 
were very similar to the ones esure found.  We looked  at a third guide where the figure 
quoted was higher than the rest by several hundred pounds. But it still wasnt anywhere  near 
the valuation Mr B puts on his car. And we normally discount a figure thats  out of line with 
those in the other guides anyway. 
Mr B says hes seen similar cars to his advertised  from £5,500  to £7,500. We dont generally 
give much  weight to adverts, as they reflect asking prices and are usually inflated. Its also 
the case that small differences between cars can affect their value.  So cars that may seem 
similar may not be. The investigator asked Mr B to provide  evidence  to support his view that 
his car is worth  the sum hes quoted. I think its for Mr B to show  that his view is valid,  but he 
hasnt provided  anything for me to take into account. Without  any evidence to the contrary,  I 
think esure acted reasonably in basing  its offer for the car on the trade guide prices.   
I appreciate that Mr B spent a lot of money on his car and kept it in good working order.  But 
its a requirement that cars should be roadworthy,  and the car would be worth less had it 
been in poor repair. The three receipts he provided  for 2017 and 2018 amount to over 
£2,000, but it looks  as though all the items Mr B bought were  required to maintain the car. 
He may also have spent  money upgrading it, although he hasnt provided any evidence  of 
that. But in any event, upgrades dont necessarily add value to a vehicle.
Taking everything into account,  I think esure  has acted reasonably, so I cant  uphold Mr Bs 
complaint.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules  of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or reject  my decision 
before 11 March 2020.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8105681