K822xcomplaint
Mrs R complains that MYJAR Limited (MYJAR) lent to her in an irresponsible manner.
background
Mrs R took three instalment loans from MYJAR between  January 2018 and August 2018. 
Details of the 3 loans are as follows:
Loan Date taken Amount Monthly instalments
Highest repayment
Date repaid
1 17/01/2018 £1000 12 £157.66 24/05/2018
2 25/05/2018 £1200 12 £185.39 09/08/2018
3 09/08/2018 £900 12 £133.48 outstanding
Mrs Rs complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. She sent a letter to both 
parties where she didnt  uphold Mrs Rs complaint. She concluded  that MYJAR didnt need  
to carry out any further checks at the time it granted the three loans to Mrs R and didnt do 
anything wrong. Our adjudicator did think that MYJAR should have not applied interest and 
charges to loan 3 after 23 October 2018,  when it found out Mrs R was in financial difficulty. 
MYJAR has offered  to remove interest  and charges  from 23 October 2018.
Mrs R didnt agree with our adjudicator. She said MYJAR was irresponsible to lend to her. 
Although she has agreed with the business offer to remove  interest  and charges after 
23/10/2018. She still thinks  it was irresponsible to lend to her.
So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved informally,  it has been passed  to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mrs R could repay the loan in a sustainable  manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
Mrs Rs income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that MYJAR should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These  factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
Ref: DRN85949992the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
MYJAR did a number of checks before it lent to Mrs R. It asked her for details of her income 
and her normal expenditure.  It gathered  data from credit reference  agencies. And it then 
used this information to calculate how much disposable income Mrs R had left over each 
month. MYJAR also used  the credit reference  agency checks  to gather some more  
information about Mrs Rs financial situation  at that time.
I have seen results from the credit  checks that MYJAR carried  out at the time. These checks 
failed to show any information that might  have suggested Mrs R was having  problems  
managing his money. The checks  didnt show any concerning information  such  as a reliance 
on other short term loans,  or delinquent or defaulted accounts.
Mrs R first approach MYJAR in January 2018 for her first instalment loan. The repayments 
that Mrs R had agreed to make on this loan were relatively modest compared to the income 
that shed declared  to MYJAR. This was the first time Mrs R had approached MYJAR for a 
loan from what I have  seen, I dont think there was any reason for MYJAR  to doubt the 
information Mrs R had provided about  her income  and expenditure.
I have also seen results from the credit  checks that MYJAR carried  out at the time.  These  
checks failed to show any information that might  have suggested Mrs R was having 
problems managing her money. The checks didnt show any concerning  information such  as 
a reliance on other short term loans, or delinquent or defaulted accounts.
Mrs R then took out a further loan shortly after she repaid  her first loan and this was 
affordable based  on what  she had told them as well. She then requested a third loan, after 
she had repaid loan 2. I think it is fair and reasonable  for MYJAR  at this stage to consider 
Mrs R had not become  reliant on its loans based  on what  she was telling it, its credit  check  
data and her short  lending history with it.
I acknowledge Mrs Rs comments about  her finances at the time the loans were granted. But 
that wasnt something she told MYJAR  when he asked for the loans, nor do I think  it is 
something MYJAR should have discovered from proportionate checks. I think it was 
reasonable here for MYJAR to rely on the information that Mrs R provided  about her 
finances when  assessing the affordability  of the loans. I dont think  it would be proportionate 
to expect MYJAR to have  gone further  and sought to independently verify what Mrs R had 
said. And as the information Mrs R provided  suggested that the loans were affordable for her 
I dont think that MYJAR did anything  wrong when it agreed to lend.
Finally, Mrs R contacted MYJAR on 23 October  2018 and informed it that she was having 
financial problems and wouldnt be able to meet the agreed repayments. The two parties 
agreed a repayment  plan but Mrs R was unable to keep to this. Mrs R told our service  that 
she was unable to afford  it. 
Ref: DRN85949993MYJAR continued to apply interest and charges to what  Mrs R owed after the date that she 
had contacted it about her financial difficulties. I would have expected  MYJAR  to ensure that 
it treated Mrs R positively and sympathetically  from this point and one of the ways it could 
have done this, would have been  to not charge  any interest or fees after it had been  
established that she was in difficulty.  I think it would be fair and reasonable for it to do this 
now.
In conclusion, I dont  think MYJAR  did anything wrong when it agreed to lend to Mrs R. But it 
does need to put things  right with regards  loan 3 and the amount that remains  outstanding 
for the reasons I have  given  above.
Putting things  right
MYJAR should look to:
Remove interest and charges that it has applied to loan 3 after 23 October  2018.  
Mrs R still has an outstanding balance  to repay  (after MYJAR removes  interest and charges) 
and Id remind MYJAR about its responsibility  to treat Mrs R positively and sympathetically 
when both parties discuss a repayment  plan.
my final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold  Mrs Rs complaint and would ask MYJAR Limited 
to now put things right as described above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 February  2020.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8594999