K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that Santander UK Plc didnt give him enough notice before it removed his 
account facilities and overdraft. 
background
Mr A had a Santander current  account  with an overdraft. Due to financial difficulties he 
entered into a debt management plan (DMP) via a debt advisory service. The debt advisory  
service wrote to Santander and gave details of the DMP. 
Mr A sent a secure message to Santander explaining the situation  and asking  for his 
overdraft to be separated  from his account or a basic account to be opened. Santander tried 
to call Mr A two days later but wasnt able to get through so sent him a letter  asking for him 
to make contact to discuss his account. 
On 29 September  2018 Santander  wrote  to Mr A explaining that it was going to remove  his 
account facilities and that he wouldnt be able to use it any longer. Mr A didnt get the letter 
before he went abroad so wasnt aware his banking  facilities werent working any longer. 
On 3 October 2018 Mr A called Santander while abroad as he wasnt  able to access any of 
the funds he thought were available. Santander  explained what  had happened  and Mr A 
complained. Santander was ultimately  able to release around £400 to a family member  on 
Mr As behalf after he wasnt  able to use a cash machine  to withdraw  it. 
Santander responded to Mr As complaint on 4 October 2018 and advised that its policy  is to 
remove facilities for all accounts  included in a DMP quickly to prevent them  accruing further 
debt. However, Santander accepted it didnt leave Mr A with enough time to arrange  
alternative banking  facilities so it paid him £100 to apologise. 
Mr A referred his complaint to this service and an adjudicator looked at what had happened.  
They thought Santander had dealt  with Mr As complaint fairly so didnt  ask it to do anything 
else. Mr A asked  for his complaint to be appealed  so its been  passed to me to make a 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A has raised several issues  surrounding what happened so Ill look at each in turn. Im 
going to start by looking at the main  issue Mr A has complained about  the level of notice 
provided by Santander when it closed  his account. 
Santanders explained that its policy is to quickly remove facilities from an account  so that it 
doesnt accrue any additional  debt.  As a result,  it only gave three  days notice before taking 
that step. I appreciate this wasnt convenient  for Mr A as he was abroad when he found out. 
But I dont think the decision  to remove account facilities at short  notice was unreasonable.  
Ultimately once Santanders told a DMP is in place  it looks  to ensure the level of debt 
doesnt increase  further. Given a DMP is arranged when someones  in financial difficulties I 
think Santanders approach is reasonable. 
Ref: DRN86591022But I can see that in this case it caused additional  inconvenience to Mr A whilst he was 
abroad. I think Santanders  offer of £100 fairly reflects the impact  on Mr A. 
Mr A sent Santander a secure message asking for his account to be changed to a basic 
account on 11 September 2018. Santanders provided systems evidence  to show it called 
Mr A on 13 September  2018 but wasnt able to get through.  It followed the call up with a 
letter asking Mr A to make  contact to discuss his account. 
During his call with Santander  on 3 October 2018 Mr A confirmed hed received Santanders 
letter but hadnt been able to follow it up. Im satisfied from what Ive seen that Santander  did 
try to contact Mr A to discuss  his options  and was waiting  for him to respond before  taking  
further steps. Santanders also confirmed  that it cant open a basic  current account on the 
basis of a secure message so needed to discuss what would  happen with Mr A. I think thats 
reasonable. 
While Mr A was abroad he called Santander and it was able to release funds after he 
complained. Mr A says he wasnt able to take the funds out when he tried to use a cash 
machine. But two of the withdrawals were declined  because he was trying to take out more  
than the daily limit allowed. The third transaction was declined because  Mr A used the wrong 
PIN. I havent found that Santander made  an error by declining  any of the transactions Mr A 
attempted. 
Mr A says the call handlers  he spoke  with were rude but Ive listened to all the calls supplied 
and I thought the people  he spoke with were polite  and helpful. I appreciate  the information 
being provided was sensitive but I thought the calls were handled professionally.  
I understand Mr A tried to complete an account  switch shortly after his return to the UK but it 
didnt go through.  But as his account  was subject  to a DMP Santanders explained its not 
suitable for an account switch. Santanders  also told us customers cant  complete an 
account switch  if their accounts being  handled  by collections. As a result, I havent found  
Santander made an error when it didnt proceed with the account  switch. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr A but, for the reasons Ive given above, Im satisfied Santander  
has dealt with his complaint  fairly.  Santander paid Mr A £100 and I think thats  fair in all the 
circumstances. As a result, Im not telling Santander to increase its offer or take any further  
action to resolve this complaint. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 March  2019.
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8659102