K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Allianz Insurance Plc unfairly declined  their home insurance 
claim for subsidence damage to their drive  and garage.  They  are also unhappy with the 
service they received during the claim.
background
Mr and Mrs Ws land is on higher  ground  than their neighbours. Mr and Mrs Ws driveway is 
between the properties, and it leads  to a garage at the rear. The material  beneath  their drive 
and garage is supported  by a retaining  wall, to prevent it from slipping onto their neighbours 
plot below.
Mr and Mrs Ws drive originally had a tarmac finish, but at some  point,  concrete was laid on 
the drive,  and a garage was built at the end. The concrete drive becomes the concrete floor 
of the garage. The concrete and garage  were  added before Mr and Mrs W bought  the 
property in 1989.
Mr and Mrs W made a claim on their home  insurance policy  for subsidence to their driveway  
and garage due to cracking in the concrete.  The drive had also sunk below its original line.
Prior to making their claim,  Mr and Mrs W had a report  completed  by a chartered  surveyor. 
The report  included extensive photos, and made the following observations:
-The front part of the driveway has a form of ash type material as a sub-base, beneath  
the original tarmac drive.  Further  towards  the mid-section of the driveway theres a 
concrete base with brickwork above which retains the middle  part of the drive. The 
concrete beneath  the brickwork  runs into the ash type material.
-The neighbour has previously removed significant amounts of soil from their side of 
the retaining wall. The colouring of the ash type material suggests that part of it was 
previously covered by soil whereas the upper parts were exposed. Its thought the 
concrete base beneath the brickwork would have also been covered, but not the 
brickwork.
-The brickwork  which retains the middle  part of the drive is in poor condition.  The 
bricks are spalling and perishing  due to frost and this will not be related  to any 
removal of material by the neighbour.
-There are voids in some areas  beneath  the ash and the brickwork.  This is where  the 
soil level has been lowered by the neighbour thereby  undermining the support to the 
ash and brickwork. It appears that some of the concrete was also damaged  during  
the neighbours excavations as some of the concrete is broken.
-A manhole cover has been subject to alteration on the neighbours side of the wall, 
though its not clear  what alterations  took place.
-The brick retaining wall to the rear part of the drive, near to the garage, is pulling 
away from the driveway.  
Ref: DRN89941032-The damage to the driveway and garage  floor is as a result of the poor condition of 
the brickwork which retains the drive  and no obvious tie between  the brickwork  and 
the sub-structure behind. However, the removal of soil on the neighbours side has 
undermined the foundation of the drive,  and on the balance  of probabilities, this is 
likely to have been a contributory  factor to the movement in the drive and garage.
-It isnt possible to determine how much of the cracking has occurred as a result of the 
defective brickwork, and general  wear and tear of the driveway; and how much is 
related to the removal of the soil from the neighbours land.
Allianz appointed a business to assess the claim,  and a building surveyor attended. His 
report contained the following observations:
-The damage to the driveway appears to have occurred due to a lack of compaction  
to the sub-base  material, and the tarmac has suffered  some  slight  consolidation. 
-The removal of land adjacent  to the property  hasnt  influenced  the damage noted  to 
the driveway. 
-The main building  was inspected and there was no subsidence  related damage  or 
movement found.
Allianz subsequently declined the claim on the basis that the damage hadnt  been caused by 
something that was covered by the policy. Mr and Mrs W were unhappy, so they contacted 
our service.  Allianz maintained its position. It said Mr and Mrs Ws report indicated that the 
damage has been ongoing, and there  are several  issues that will have been  evident for 
some time and will have contributed to the damage.  It provided satellite images which 
showed the driveway had cracks  it in from at least 2012.
Mr and Mrs W then provided us with a second report, this time from a structural  engineer. 
His report contained the following observations:
-The retaining wall was constructed on concrete footing which  has been exposed on 
the neighbours side by their previous excavations.  The natural ground  strata  below 
the concrete footing is weathered, loose and has dislodged in places. The concrete 
foundation was also found to be weathered  and in a generally poor condition.  
-A relatively recent  manhole cover  had been  installed  on the neighbours land,  
positioned in part, below the retaining  wall foundation.
-The face of the retaining  wall was found  to be in a poor weathered  condition,  with 
many loose  or missing  bricks, soft mortar joints, and spalled brick faces. 
-At the time of construction, the wall would  have been adequate to retain the height of 
the original driveway, relative to the adjacent properties ground level.  The concrete 
foundation to the wall has been fully exposed by the neighbour thus reducing the 
stability of the retained arrangement even further. The formation below the strip 
foundation is deteriorating, and its not suitable to accommodate  the additional 
ground bearing pressure  caused  by the retention arrangement.
Ref: DRN89941033-Various cracks are present to the upper driveway slab,  and theres  an enlarged joint 
(part filled) visible between the concrete slab and brick wall. The joint varies  in width  
due to movement  of the brick  wall. The driveway has displaced  vertically in places.
-The cracking and movement to the upper driveway slab reflects the forces  applied  to 
the wall and foundation, which has been further impacted by the lowering of the 
adjacent ground.  Advanced weathering of areas of the retaining wall face has 
exacerbated the weakening of the wall.
One of our investigators  considered the complaint, but she didnt think  it should be upheld. In 
summary, she thought  the claim had been fairly  declined. Because Mr and Mrs W remained 
unhappy, their complaint  has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where evidence  is inconclusive or 
incomplete, I have reached  my decision on the balance of probabilities  this means
I have determined what I consider is more likely  to have happened, based on all the 
evidence that is available  and the wider surrounding  circumstances.
Mr and Mrs W have  raised multiple points and questions throughout their submissions  to us. 
However, its not our role to answer every question or to comment on every  point made.  Its 
for me to determine what I consider to be the crux of a complaint, and to address  the issues  
I consider relevant to its outcome. Ive carefully  considered Mr and Mrs Ws submissions, 
and where I havent  directly commented  on the points  or questions they have raised, this 
isnt intended  as a discourtesy to them, but rather,  this reflects  the informal  nature of our 
service, its remit,  and my role in it.
This complaint is also against Allianz; the underwriter of Mr and Mrs Ws buildings  cover.  As 
the underwriter,  Allianz is responsible for the drive and garage  claim  decision,  and for how 
the claim was handled  by the third parties acting on its behalf   these are the matters Im 
considering here. However, Mr and Mrs W have  also raised other issues  that Allianz isnt 
responsible for, such as the sale and renewal  of their policy which  was arranged by the 
broker, and the decisions of the legal  cover underwriter for a legal claim they wanted to 
make against their neighbour. Because Allianz isnt responsible for those matters, I am 
unable to consider  them  as part of this complaint
If Mr and Mrs W want to pursue complaints  about the policy  sale or renewals, or about  their 
legal claim,  they need to make separate  complaints  to the businesses  responsible.  If they 
remain unhappy after they receive  a response, they can then refer separate  complaints to 
us. I acknowledge  they addressed their complaint to the broker in the first instance, which  
I understand was passed on to the business  assessing the claim and Allianz. However, if 
they didnt receive  a response from the broker about  their sale or renewal concerns, they 
need to inform the broker they intend  to pursue those  matters and ask for a response.
I will now set out my findings that relate  to Allianzs claim decision and the overall  claim 
handling. I will set out my findings under  the following four headings: our approach; 
retaining wall; drive  and garage and claim  handling.  
Ref: DRN89941034our approach
Mr and Mrs Ws policy terms  dont  define  settlement or subsidence,  so in the absence of 
policy definitions, I will outline our approach. 
We generally consider  settlement to be the downward movement of ground  due to it being 
compressed by weight. Most structures  will settle in the years following construction,  and 
most home insurance policy specifically exclude such  damage. 
We generally consider  subsidence to be the downward movement of ground thats being 
caused by the movement  of the site itself, rather than the weight of a structure simply 
compressing ground.
I have kept our approach to settlement and subsidence in mind whilst  considering  the 
information provided to us.
retaining wall
Based on the information I have seen, Im persuaded that the failure  of the retaining  wall has 
caused movement  of the ground it retains, and this is the main cause of the damage  to the 
drive and garage floor which sit upon  the retained  site. I will go on to consider whether the 
damage to the drive  and garage floor ought  to be covered, but before I do, I will set out 
whether I consider the damage to the retaining  wall ought to be covered.
Mr and Mrs Ws two reports  outline several  contributory factors  for the walls  failure   a lack 
of ties between  the retaining brickwork  and the sub-structure, significant deterioration of the 
brickwork due to weathering, and the neighbours excavations which removed  support  and 
exposed previously protected  elements  to weathering. Its evident the retaining wall hasnt 
subsided itself  but rather,  its failed for reasons  that arent  covered by the policy.
.
In terms of the lack of ties, the policy doesnt cover damage due to construction  or design 
issues; and in terms of the deteriorated  brickwork  (and the previously protected  concrete 
foundations and natural  ground  below), theres no cover for gradual damage caused  by 
weathering. 
In terms of damage caused by the neighbours excavations, the only coverage that this could  
reasonably be considered  under  is the accidental damage cover  Mr and Mrs W took out and 
paid extra for; and Ive seen  Allianz  has given this consideration. However, even if I were to 
conclude the excavations were the main reason the retaining wall failed, overall, Im not 
persuaded I can reasonably decide  Allianz needs  to accept  a claim for an incident that 
occurred about  14 years before the claim was made. I accept Mr and Mrs W werent 
immediately aware  of the issues caused  by the neighbours  work, but the gap is too 
significant here. The passage of so much time unfairly prejudices Allianzs ability  to 
determine its liability, and to limit the remedial costs. It has also led to the gradual  
deterioration of previously protected parts, which as above, isnt covered.
So, in conclusion, Im not persuaded I can fairly decide Allianz needs to cover the damage or 
the repairs needed to the retaining wall.
Ref: DRN89941035drive and garage
Allianz concluded that the damage to the drive  is due to settlement, which  is excluded  by the 
policy. On balance, I consider it likely some settlement would have occurred to the drive (and 
garage floor) following  the addition of concrete to the existing materials. However,  having  
considered the information provided by both parties, Im not persuaded theres only 
settlement damage, or that settlement is the main issue here.
Whilst Allianzs report concludes settlement and it dismisses the neighbours excavations,  it 
offers no explanation  or reasoning to support its conclusions. So, Im not persuaded I can 
reasonably rely on this report.
Mr and Mrs W have  provided two reports, and these offer much  more detail than Allianzs 
report. Their two reports point towards  the failure of the retaining wall, which  has caused 
ground beneath the drive and garage to sink; and the concrete drive and garage floor to 
crack. Im more  persuaded  by the reasoning contained in these reports  given they offer 
much more detail (and in my view, provide logical findings) than the short  conclusion  
provided in Allianzs  report.
In my view, the observations in Mr and Mrs Ws reports are consistent with our approach  to 
subsidence, i.e. the damage to the drive and garage  floor is due to a downward movement 
of ground being  caused  by movement of the site itself. Therefore, Im persuaded the drive 
and garage floor damage can reasonably  be considered under the subsidence cover.  
However, although Im persuaded  the drive and garage floor should be considered  to have  
subsided, overall,  Im not persuaded  I can reasonably decide Allianz needs to cover  the 
damage. Ill explain why.
The damage thats been reported is to the drive, that further towards the rear of the property 
forms the floor of the garage.  The policy terms explain that drives,  and solid floors, are only 
covered for subsidence if the foundations beneath  the external  walls of the home  are 
damaged by the same cause, and at the same  time.
Theres been no subsidence damage  reported  to the main building, but under the policy the 
garage forms part of the home. Therefore, if the foundations beneath  the external walls of 
the garage are also being damaged, the drive and garage floor could be considered.  But, 
without damage to the foundations beneath the garage walls, the drive and garage floor 
simply arent  covered  for subsidence.
Based on all the information provided, theres  a question here about whether the foundations 
beneath the garage walls are also damaged.  I say this because theres no damage noted to 
the garage walls in Mr and Mrs Ws two reports.  On balance, if the foundations beneath the 
walls were damaged, I consider it likely  that there would  be damage to the walls,  such as 
cracks, caused by movement. The damage  to the garage floor doesnt necessarily mean 
theres also damage to the foundations beneath  the garage walls.  Its possible the 
foundations are sufficiently constructed as not to be impacted by the issues.
But in any event, Im not persuaded that question really matters.  I say this because, even if 
the foundations beneath the garage  walls  are damaged, which  I do accept is possible; Im 
still not persuaded I could reasonably decide  Allianz needs to accept the claim.  
Ref: DRN89941036Whilst Im persuaded the damage to the drive  and garage floor can reasonably be described 
as subsidence  damage,  the proximate  cause of that damage is the failure of the retaining 
wall, for reasons that arent covered (as explained above). 
I cant reasonably decide  Allianz needs  to cover subsidence damage thats occurred due to 
part of the property gradually failing  over time, for non-insured reasons. The purpose of the 
wall is to retain and support the ground beneath the drive and garage, and in my view,  the 
walls failure  and its required repairs cant reasonably  be separated from the repairs also 
now needed to the drive  and garage as a result of the walls failure. 
Therefore, because Im not persuaded the issues  affecting  the retaining wall are covered by 
the policy, Im not persuaded I can fairly decide  the damage to the drive and garage should  
be covered either.
claim handling
I understand the claim was reported  in June 2018, via the broker, and another  business was 
appointed to assess the claim. This business  received Mr and Mrs Ws report  in July 2018, 
and based on the report, it recommended to Allianz the claim should be declined.  Allianz  
instructed the assessor to visit and assess the damage first, as it thought there might be 
cover due to the potential  issues caused  by the neighbours  excavations.
A visit took place in September  2018, and the assessors report and further  recommendation 
to decline the claim  was passed to Allianz about two weeks later. Allianz  agreed with the 
decision and I understand Mr and Mrs W were informed of the decision soon after.
So, overall, the claim took about three months.  Ive seen  there  were  some delays during this 
time, which were mainly caused  by the communication  between  Allianz,  the broker, and the 
business assessing the claim. I can understand Mr and Mrs Ws frustration with the delays 
and the confusion caused by the involvement  of so many parties.  I also understand their 
views on the content of the report  provided  by the assessor, given it doesnt offer much 
reasoning and contains various inaccuracies  in respect of the data captured.
However, although I acknowledge Mr and Mrs Ws frustrations, Im not persuaded Allianzs  
overall decision to decline the claim was unfair; and the delays  during  the claim werent so 
significant that Im persuaded it would  be reasonable to award  compensation for how the 
claim was handled.
my final decision
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr and Mrs W. I appreciate  my decision will have significant financial 
implications for them. But for the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 August 2020.
Vince Martin
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8994103