K821x#15complaint
Miss L complains that MBNA Limited  rejected  her claim under Section 75 Consumer Credit 
Act 1974 in respect of electrical work  in her house.
background
Miss L says that a firm of electrical engineers, which I will call E, incorrectly wired a switch 
which feeds her boiler. This caused the boiler  to break down. I gather E had originally 
rewired the house in 2014 and an engineer attended the property in 2016 and changed a 
switch. Subsequently  a heating engineer identified that this had been  incorrectly  fitted. She 
also says Es work more  generally was of a poor standard and it failed to install a base 
heater as agreed. 
Miss L complained to E and made  a S 75 claim to MBNA.  It rejected  the claim as E was 
seeking legal advice. Es professional indemnity insurer said it wasnt  persuaded  that E had 
been at fault. Miss L brought her complaint to this service where it was considered  by one of 
our adjudicators. MBNA  said that the payment made  by credit  card had been passed via a 
third party and so the required debtor- creditor-supplier link had been  broken. Our 
adjudicator agreed  and so the complaint was closed.
Some time later this service  carried  out a review  and concluded  that this decision  had been  
wrong. Both parties agreed  that the complaint could be reopened. Our investigator  issued 
fresh view which concluded there was no basis to uphold the complaint. He noted Es quote 
didnt include the base heater and there was no reference to making  good  after the work was 
completed. As for the issue with the boiler he didnt consider  there was sufficient evidence  to 
link the rewiring to the failure of the boiler.
Miss L supplied further detail explaining what had happened. She said the boiler had been 
regularly serviced  and was working  well. However,  the work done  by E was to the zone 
valve motor which had been noisy. After the work  the RCD tripped and couldnt be reset.  
The heating engineer noted the switch fitted  by E hadnt been  up to the latest standards and 
the wrong fuse had been fitted. She also said she had an email from E confirming the base 
heater was included in the quote.
Our investigator reviewed  the latest  evidence and issued third view.  He said that the base 
heater wasnt included in the contract itself but E emailed Miss L separately to confirm some 
additional items that would be included. The email said:
The quote does include the electric  hob supply, the base heater and the circuit to the 
fan but excludes the supply of the actual fan.
Miss L had explained that E later told her the base heater couldnt be fitted because  the 
existing heating system needed  emptying before it could be installed, which would take too 
long. Our investigator  noted the consequence  of this is that Miss L bought a new radiator for 
£360 and paid an additional  £153.90 for it to be installed. He noted MBNA had taken the 
view that it wasnt clear  why the base  heater  couldnt be installed. However he reached a 
different conclusion and recommended that MBNA  cover the cost of installing the 
replacement radiator.
Ref: DRN86804832MBNA didnt  agree  and said the email  mentioning  the base heater was dated  14 October 2014 
the same  date as the original quote. A second  quote was sent on 17 October which  showed a 
price reduced by £200 and no base heater was mentioned. It said E had discounted the final 
bill for items not used  and it would be reasonable to conclude it had discounted for the base 
heater. It also wondered  why Miss L hadnt approached E about  this until 2016.
Miss L said that the new radiator cost £153.90  and the installation  was £360. She also 
explained the discrepancy in the quotes and said that the final one was £3,000  for the house  
rewiring, £400 for the garage and £150 for plastering.  This explained  the £200 reduction.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint has been submitted as a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 
1974. Section  75 offers  protection to customers who use certain  types of credit to make  
purchases of goods or services. Under section 75 the consumer has an equal right to claim 
against the provider of the credit or the retailer  providing the goods or services,  if there  has 
been a misrepresentation or breach of contract on the suppliers part.
For section 75 to apply,  the law effectively says that there has to be a:
Debtor-creditor-supplier chain to an agreement and
A clear  breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier in the chain.
MBNA has said it does not agree a claim should  be made under section 75, as there is not 
enough evidence  to show the merchant  was in breach of contract.
I have some sympathy with MBNAs  position  on this claim, but on balance I have concluded I 
should uphold  this complaint. I agree that the link between the work done by E and the 
failure of the boiler is not sufficiently robust  to allow  me to uphold  that element.  The heating 
engineer has said that it cannot say that the faulty wiring  was the cause of the problem with 
the heating system. And if I did take the alternative view I dont believe that the cost of a new 
and upgraded  boiler should fall to MBNA.
I can see why Miss L had made the link and there may be some  connection  between  the 
rewiring of the socket and the boiler  problem, but in the absence  of clearer  and more 
persuasive evidence  I cannot uphold that part of her complaint.
Nor can I say that MBNA should be held responsible  for the state of the property after the 
work was done.  I have  seen nothing about  E agreeing to make  good and I cannot say how 
the property differed after the rewiring was carried out. So while  I can appreciate  Miss Ls 
argument that the work of E left something to be desired I dont believe that allows  me to 
uphold that part of her complaint.
However, I do believe that she had agreed  to have the base  heater  fitted  and that it was 
included in the total price. This wasnt fitted and I have seen nothing to show  that her bill was 
reduced to allow for that. E has, in other areas, discounted the cost and if it had done  so I 
would have expected to see some  evidence in support  of that. I am satisfied that the email in 
which it was mentioned shows beyond doubt  that E had agreed  to fit the heater.
Ref: DRN86804833It seems  that having been told it would take too long when the rewiring  was done Miss L took 
the opportunity  to have the matter  rectified  in 2016 when she had the boiler replaced. I consider 
that to have been a reasonable response. It could be argued  that redress should be based on 
the cost element of the base heater in 2014, but this is not known and I think  it only reasonable 
to take the cost of installing an alternative  form of heat as the basis for any redress.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct MBNA Limited to pay £513.90 
plus interest at 8% simple  from 17 March  2016  until it is paid. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 December 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8680483