K821x#15complaint
Mrs S complaint is that Swissquote Ltd (SQ) wrongly closed seven of her Forex Contracts 
for Differences (CFD) positions (the positions) on 2 January 2019  (the date) by applying 
non-market prices to them; and that the non-market  prices were the result of a malfunction in 
SQs Liquidity Provider (LP) and pricing  system/feed at the time. To redress  this, she seeks  
reinstatement of her positions or compensation.
background
SQ disputed  the complaint so Mrs S referred  it to this service. In the main,  SQ said:
The positions were  closed at 23:37:45 on the date because  the margin  level in Mrs S 
account fell below the requisite 50% (it fell to 47.21%); the margin  stop out provisions  
for the account  were applied, as prescribed in the terms agreed  for the account; this 
meant the positions were forcibly closed because  of the margin  breach.
The margin level in Mrs S account and open positions based  on the following 
currency pairs   AUD/NZD, AUD/CHF, CAD/JPY  and CAD/CHF (amongst others)  
were impacted by a flash crash  in the forex market at the time, which led to sudden 
price volatility that affected these  pairs; this was outside its control; it had a panel of 
around 15 LPs from which it obtained  its price feed and liquidity; as a result  of the 
flash crash  and volatility all but one of them stopped providing  prices for the affected 
pairs; one continued to provide  prices, albeit  with a larger spread.
Subsequent  to the stop outs of Mrs S positions,  its parent company and its parent 
companys LPs granted it price improvements on currency  pairs affected by the flash  
crash event  and, as a gesture of goodwill, it applied  the improved prices  to the 
positions and passed on the benefit of this to Mrs S in the form of crediting her 
account with 233.25  Euros on 7 January 2019.
One of our investigators  looked into the matter and her initial  view was mainly as follows:
The terms agreed for the account confirm that SQ set its own prices for trades,  
inclusive of a  mark-up or mark-down  on inter-bank dealing  or market rates ; 
and that there was no guarantee it would offer the best price in the market. 
Nevertheless, and in order to be fair to its customers (like Mrs S), this did not mean it 
could set any price. Its prices had to be reflective of the market.
Overall and on balance, and with particular reference to the improvements applied by 
SQ, the prices appear to have  been broadly fair. 
The matter of the margin stop outs applied to close the positions arose, reasonably, 
from the breach  of the margin requirement  within Mrs S account.
Mrs S disagreed and asked for further investigation into the issues,  and the investigator  
performed that. Mrs S remained dissatisfied with the feedback given to her by the 
investigator, so the matter was referred to an ombudsman (me). Mrs S also notified  us of a 
revision to the compensation she seeks in the complaint. Initially  she sought a refund of the 
loss she incurred from the closure of the positions.  She extended that to claim, in addition, 
compensation for the profit (at the rate of 104% and based  on a comparison with what her 
trading robot achieved  elsewhere) she would  have made on that loss amount and 
compensation for the costs she incurred  in consulting a specialist to aid the submissions she 
made in the course of the complaint  the revised  compensation.
Ref: DRN80682772I too investigated further into the relevant issues and reached a preliminary  view on the 
complaint. With the investigators help, this view was shared with both parties. In the main, 
my preliminary view was presented as follows:
Two issues arise   the legitimacy  of the margin call in Ms S account and the legitimacy  of 
the prices applied to her 7 positions in the course  of the margin call.
I agree  with the investigators finding  on the matter of the margin call. I understand Ms S 
point about unreliable (or even absent) prices at the time of the margin  call but, on balance  
and in the context of the flash crash that happened at the time, it is more likely  (than  not) that 
price volatility and the state of margin in her account both caused (or would have caused) 
the margin call  irrespective of SQ struggling  to get a reliable price at the time.
With regards to the prices  applied to her 7 positions, Im persuaded by Ms S argument. It is 
one thing to say the margin call was fair, but the prices at which  the margin  call applied to 
her 7 positions is a distinct matter.  We still need  to be satisfied that those prices were  fair, 
and I can see the investigator already explored this with SQ. SQ concedes  that some  prices 
were revised, it stands by its revised prices and it says it paid Ms S some  compensation 
(based on the revisions) to reduce  the loss she incurred. Im not convinced  it has addressed 
this issue fairly because the revised prices concern me. In forex  trading  terms Ms S is 
correct in her assertions  about the importance  of PIPs and SQ will be fully aware of this. 
Based on the evidence  on file and a spreadsheet summary of the global average prices  
versus SQs revised prices, my calculation of the differences  (in PIPs) in the 4 currency  pairs 
relevant to Ms S 7 positions is as follows  
AUD/NZD  SQs  adjusted price was 178 pips lower than the global average.
AUD/CHF  SQs  adjusted price was 378 pips lower than the global average.
CAD/CHF  SQ did not adjust  this price and its original price was 7 pips higher than 
the global average.
CAD/JPY  SQs  adjusted price was 152 pips lower than the global average.
The price  for the CAD/CHF pair is not a concern,  but the rest suggest prices  notably outlying 
the wider market. I accept  SQ was not obliged to match its competitors prices or even to 
match, precisely, the wider market  price but when  the investigator  questioned SQ about how 
its prices were formulated it expressly  conceded  that the process used  by its parent 
company/liquidity provider includes estimation of the true market  price, reflection of 
market conditions and offering a price that is as good as those available in the external 
market. Whilst I accept  its terms and conditions gave no guarantees in this respect,  the fact 
remains that its pricing was not done  in a bubble and there was a need to have prices  that 
reflected the market   its prices did not have to be an exact match to the average market 
price but they ought to have been  reasonably within or close  to that average or the market 
range. Being  152, 178 and 378 pips beyond the market does not sound  like a reflection of 
the market  plus the flash crash at the time might  not be a viable excuse as my 
understanding of the global average prices  presented as evidence  is that they already take 
the flash crash into account.
For the above reasons Im persuaded to say Ms S should be compensated for the losses  
incurred from the closure  of positions  within the relevant 7  based  on the AUD/NZD, 
AUD/CHF and CAD/JPY currency pairs. I do not suggest that the average market  prices are 
what those positions  should have closed  at, but I am persuaded to use them  as a basis  upon 
which this compensation should be calculated. It is not possible to say, with precision, what  
Ref: DRN80682773revised prices SQ should have used to properly reflect the market and to apply to the 
relevant positions,  so the average  market prices are fair and reasonable alternatives.  
I do not accept Ms S argument  for lost future gains, which she says she would have made 
thereafter on the amount she lost in the margin call. I consider  the argument  based on 
speculation. Instead, I will be persuaded to award  £100 to her for the trouble and upset 
caused by the matter.
If the parties  agree to the above, the matter could be resolved without the need for a 
decision. If either party (or both) disagree  with the above, I welcome their responses 
(including any corrections  of facts) and any relevant evidence they might wish to present. 
Unless, such responses (and evidence) change my mind, the above  is likely to form the 
basis of my decision.
A correction  subsequently  arose  in terms of Mrs S closed positions  being based, only,  on 
the AUD/NZD and AUD/CHF  currency pairs. The investigator then helped  to convey the 
following from me to both parties:
I thank both parties for their responses,  thus far, to my preliminary view and I note that SQ 
will shortly  be confirming to us its final position on that view.  I also note and appreciate both 
parties clarification of the 7 positions  closed  by SQ in the complaint and that they featured 
only the AUD/NZD and AUD/CHF pairs  not the CAD/JPY pair as I previously  mentioned. 
For the sake of transparency, SQ should  be aware that Ms S has presented arguments that 
appear to suggest  the CAD/JPY pair (and positions  related to it) should continue to feature in 
the complaint  and in my treatment of it, because her price inaccuracy allegation affected 
positions (closed and/or opened) in her account  as a whole. For the sake of clarity, I 
disagree. The complaint  is to be addressed  as it was referred and presented  to this service, 
and that featured the 7 positions closed by SQ. My consideration  of the complaint has been  
and will continue to be based on this, and the same will apply to any decision I issue.
In order to draw this matter to a conclusion, I will be grateful if SQ can confirm  its final 
position on my preliminary view without undue delay  and no later than the end of this week.  
Ms S should please take note of what I have clarified above in terms of the scope of the 
complaint. If she wishes, she has the same  time to comment. After  the end of this week, I 
will proceed with a decision and unless either  party presents comments  to alter my 
preliminary view, that view will likely be the basis of the decision.
In response, Mrs S essentially maintained  the argument my message referred to. She took 
the view that out of the 43 open positions  in her account at the relevant time 21 of them  
(including the seven featured  in the complaint (based on the AUD/NZD and AUD/CHF) and 
four based  on the CAD/JPY pair) were  affected  by SQs non-market prices. She said that my 
preliminary finding that SQs prices did not reflect the market cannot be reconciled with the 
notion of not addressing the impact on her CAD/JPY based  positions. SQ has noted that it 
did not close her CAD/JPY based positions. 
Mrs S also says there is a conflict between  my finding that the margin  breach and closures  
of her positions were  caused by the flash crash, and my finding  that SQs  prices (including 
its improved prices) were not reflective of the market. She says the latter  in addition  to 
evidence that, but for the non-market prices  applied to her positions,  fair market reflective 
prices would not have  triggered a margin breach in her account  means I should also find 
that the closures of her seven  positions should  not have happened and that it is SQs 
responsibility that they did.
Ref: DRN80682774Mrs S has also suggested that my preliminary view has been based less on thorough 
consideration of her case and more on my application of a previous decision I made in a 
complaint against  SQ with comparable facts  (including the same flash crash  event and 
comparable margin breach closures of positions). She asserts  that her case  is 
distinguishable from the case I addressed in the previous  decision.
In response to my preliminary view SQ made attempts to settle Mrs S complaint. Up to the 
point of drafting  this decision  it made  a settlement proposal to her based on my preliminary 
findings and with a higher offer of payment for trouble and upset. Mrs S declined its offer and 
maintains her claim for the revised compensation.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Other than the factual correction I noted above,  I do not appear to have received notice of 
any dispute with or objection  to my preliminary  view from SQ, so I can conclude that it has 
said nothing that causes me to reconsider or change  that view.  Mrs S responses, in the 
main, have been summarised above.  Having considered them, and for the reasons I provide 
below, I am not persuaded by her responses  to change my preliminary view. I retain and 
incorporate that view  with the effect  of the factual correction  into this decision. That view 
also serves as the basis upon  which  I uphold Mrs S complaint.
I should address  the previous decision that Mrs S mentioned. Her suggestion  is that it has 
unduly influenced my treatment  of her complaint. That is not the case.  I can confirm that her 
complaint has been given  dedicated consideration, by the investigator and myself, at all 
relevant times. The background summarised  above indicates the extent of engagement that 
has taken place between  both parties,  the investigator and I before reaching the point of 
issuing this decision  and the summary  does not fully reflect  the effort  made by the 
investigator to facilitate that engagement.  None of this would have happened if, as 
suggested, the previous decision was to be applied to Mrs S case in any event. The case in 
the previous decision has many  similarities  to Mrs S  the same respondent, the same  flash 
crash, similar affected currency pairs and similar  submissions by the parties  but her 
complaint has been addressed on its own merits.
I address Mrs S key points as follows:
She will accept that the complaint referred  to us was limited to the issue of the seven 
positions closed  by SQ. The contents  of her complaint form support this and the loss 
she refers to in the form is based  on the seven closed  positions. On the date, SQ 
closed only those  seven positions,  the rest (the other 36 positions) continued to 
remain under Mrs S control and responsibility.  I do not consider  that she has 
established a case for SQ to share or own responsibility for positions it did not close 
 and positions which remained under her control at all relevant times. The flash  
crash was precisely that, a flash event with temporary effects on the market and on 
the pricing for her positions. Once it and its effects  were corrected normal  
circumstances  so to speak  resumed and Mrs S could manage her positions  as 
she wished. Indeed, it is within her statement that hours  after the flash  crash event 
she closed a number  of USD/JPY based positions in her account.
Ref: DRN80682775The conclusion that arises from these facts is that her complaint cannot  reasonably  
be about anything  other than the seven closed positions  and those positions were 
based, only, on the AUD/NZD and AUD/CHF currency pairs.
A similar conclusion applies to the matter of the compensation initially sought by   
Mrs S and the revised compensation she now pursues. Her claims for lost profit  and 
specialist costs  appear to have  been afterthoughts. The former has a completely 
speculative basis and there is a lack of evidence to show  any probability  that the loss 
amount incurred from closure  of the positions would have been used as she claims 
and/or that it would have yielded the profit she claims. There is also a lack of 
evidence to sustain  the claim for costs or to establish that such costs should  be 
recoverable as part of our determination of the complaint. I do not consider that 
redress for Mrs S complaint can reasonably be about anything  other than the 
financial loss she incurred as a result of the prices  at which  her seven  positions  were 
closed (despite SQs revised prices  on 7 January 2019). For reasons given in the 
preliminary view and addressed next, I do not consider  that redress should be about  
the margin breach  closures (as a whole matter), but it is about  the prices  applied to 
the positions.
On balance, I am not persuaded  that the margin breach closures  were  wrongdoings 
that SQ should  be held responsible for  hence the finding  that redress  should  not be 
defined by this. Mrs S has repeatedly made  the assertion that a malfunction within  
SQs LP and pricing system is to blame  for the prices applied to her positions and 
that responsibility for that belongs to SQ. On balance,  I find that there was no such  
malfunction and there is no such responsibility upon SQ.
The flash  crash  and its effects upon  prices  (and high price  volatility) at the relevant 
time in the wider  forex market should not be in dispute. There  is a sizable amount  of 
information about this in the public domain. The high price  volatility  it caused  resulted 
in firms across  the market  particularly  LPs  not being  able to determine and 
provide reliable prices.  What Mrs S refers to as a malfunction was no more than 
around 14 of SQs LPs being in this position  that is, not being able to determine  
and provide reliable  prices, in the market  (or to SQ), for the currency pairs  affected 
by the flash crash  because of the level of volatility the crash had caused. This does 
not amount to a malfunction by SQ or its LPs, instead I consider that it was more  of 
a market event. 
Even if, for the sake of argument,  it is regarded as a malfunction, it was not one that 
SQ or its LPs created or was responsible for and it was not one that was exclusive to 
SQ or its LPs. It affected the wider  forex market. Another argument  that Mrs S has 
made relates to what she considers to be SQs wrongdoing in applying  a single LPs 
prices to her positions given that they were bound  to be unreflective  of the market. 
She has referred to a finding, in another  case,  by the Swiss Ombudsman Service 
which appears to make a similar  point. 
The terms agreed for Mrs S account included the following  
We are free to apply any spreads that we deem  appropriate. Indications  on spreads
published on our website are indicative only and in no way binding. We reserve the 
right to quote different spreads according  to the size of your deposit,  the size of a 
transaction, or for any other reason that we deem  appropriate. Spreads will in 
particular increase in exceptional market conditions, following decisions by central 
Ref: DRN80682776banks, monetary policy decisions, or similar  events. The liquidity and the volatility  in 
any underlying  market may also have an influence on the spreads. [my emphasis]
What I have emphasised in the above quote  arguably gave SQ the discretion  to 
apply the single LPs prices, with the greater  spread, as it did. Nevertheless, I agree 
with Mrs S point to the extent that SQ could have considered that a single price  feed 
from the relevant  LP, amid other  LPs finding prices  unreliable and wider price  
unreliability due to price volatility, was more likely  (than not) to be unreflective  of the 
market. I also consider that, implicitly, SQ might  also agree, given that its revision of 
the prices on 7 January could be viewed as its correction  effort.  
However, the above should be balanced  with consideration  of the risks that could 
have existed  in terms of movement of the seven positions and margin  in Mrs S 
account  if SQ had suspended everything and done nothing  to price the positions 
during the crash. Its responsibility to monitor and react to margin  breaches in trading 
accounts was not suspended by the flash crash event and in order to do that it 
needed to apply prices. I appreciate  that another firm might have taken a different 
approach, but what another  firm would have  done or did is not binding  on SQ. Overall 
and on balance, I am not persuaded  that it was wrong to have applied the price feed 
that was available to it at the time  especially as it subsequently revised prices. 
Unfortunately for Mrs S this meant the closures of her seven positions and the 
subsequent price revisions did not reverse that. I understand  her strength of feeling  
in this respect, but ultimately the closures  happened  because of circumstances 
caused by the flash  crash  event, not because  of a definitive wrongdoing by SQ.
Whilst SQ did the right thing  by attempting to correct the relevant prices in the 
aftermath of the flash crash, the complaint remains upheld  because the revised 
prices it used for the correction were unreflective  of the market and unfair. In this 
respect, I echo what I said in the preliminary  view and do not consider it necessary to 
repeat that.
Overall, on balance and for the reasons given above  I uphold  Mrs S complaint on the terms 
set out in my preliminary view.
what must  SQ do?
As I found  in the preliminary  view and in terms of the price adjustments  applied by SQ to Mrs 
S seven  positions:
AUD/NZD  SQs  adjusted price was 178 pips lower than the global average.
AUD/CHF  SQs  adjusted price was 378 pips lower than the global average.
As I said in the view:
I do not suggest that the average market prices are what those positions should have closed 
at, but I am persuaded to use them as a basis upon which this compensation should be 
calculated. It is not possible to say, with precision, what revised prices SQ should have used 
to properly reflect the market and to apply to the relevant positions,  so the average market 
prices are fair and reasonable  alternatives.
For the positions  within  the relevant seven  held by Mrs S and based on the AUD/NZD 
currency pair, the price adjustment still unfairly deprived her of the value of 178 pips.  SQ 
Ref: DRN80682777must compensate her in the amount  that captures the total value  of 178 pips in these  
positions.
For the positions  within  the relevant seven  held by Mrs S and based on the AUD/CHF 
currency pair, the price adjustment still unfairly deprived her of the value of 378 pips.  SQ 
must compensate her in the amount  that captures the total value  of 378 pips in these  
positions.
SQ must pay Mrs S interest, on the total compensation, at the rate of 8% simple per year 
from the date of this decision  if it does not pay her the total compensation within 28 days of 
being notified that she has accepted this decision.  This provision is to compensate Mrs S for 
any delay caused  by SQ in paying the compensation.
SQ must pay Mrs S £100 for the trouble and upset  the matter  has caused  her.
SQ must provide Mrs S with a calculation of the compensation in a clear  and simple  format.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold Mrs S complaint. I order Swissquote Ltd to 
compensate her as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 January 2021.
Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8068277