K820x#14complaint
V, a company,  through their representative Mr N, complains that Paymentsense Limited did 
not send the information  needed to set up Vs account properly. As a result,  payments 
received from a particular  card company  (which  I will refer to as A), were not credited to V for 
11 months.
background
V wanted to process card payments and entered  into a contract for merchant services with 
Paymentsense in 2016. V also wanted  to take card payments from A, and filled in a separate  
application for this. But Paymentsense  did not give A all the information  they needed  to set V 
up to process the payments. A told Paymentsense of the error. During that period, every 
transaction through A sent an alert to Paymentsense, saying the transaction  was rejected 
because the account had not been  set up yet. The set up with A was finally  completed  18 
months later.
After set up, A processed 180 days  of backdated  payments  at one time. This caused 
customer complaints and 35 chargeback requests. V complained  to A and to Paymentsense.
Paymentsense and A said they were not liable for Vs losses.  As terms and conditions say 
that missing payments must be reported within 90 days. Paymentsenses terms and 
conditions say they cannot be held liable for financial  loss. 
V complained to us because it was unhappy with Paymentsenses response and wanted  to 
recover 11 months of lost payments. 
V said that it was not aware that payments through A werent  being  credited. But when V 
called Paymentsense  six weeks after the contract started, it complained that it hadnt  had 
any payments from A. V was told to contact A to let them know. V also asked about stopping 
taking payments through A, and was told that it could be done  immediately. V decided to 
think about it and call back  later. But V never  called  back to cancel payments, despite 
making other  calls to Paymentsense.
Our investigator looked at the complaint before the phone call came  to light. She thought 
that Paymentsense had made an error  at the start of the contract and had many reminders 
over the course  of 11 months to put it right. The investigator thought  that Paymentsense had 
all the information,  and by not passing  it to V denied it the opportunity to correct the error. 
Therefore Paymentsense  was asked to pay the total amount  of As payments - from April 
2016 until September 2017, plus 8% simple  interest  a year.
When the phone call came to light, it was clear  that V had been aware  it wasnt getting any 
payments from A. And it couldve raised  it. The investigator thought that V did not mitigate its 
loss and the offer from Paymentsense  of six months  rental rebate and £50 compensation 
was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
V disagreed with the investigators view and the matter has come to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN83371772Based on the evidence,  Im satisfied Paymentsense was aware  of the error  in processing the 
contract with A. It was also reminded of that error  with every payment that could not be 
processed over the period of 11 months. I am aware that Paymentsenses  terms and 
conditions say that they are not liable  for any loss of business or damage to goodwill as a 
result of the merchant services agreement.  Despite  this, it is clear that Paymentsenses  
failure to put things  right contributed to Vs losses. If V had not been  aware  of its losses,  I 
would be asking Paymentsense to reimburse V its losses during the 11 month period.
But the call between Paymentsense and V makes it clear that V was aware  that it was not 
being paid for its transactions through  A. Because V was aware, the onus is on it to do 
something to help the situation. Paymentsense  told V to contact A to find out what  was 
happening. V has a duty to take reasonable steps to minimise its losses. I accept that 
starting a new business is hard work  and Vs employees had a lot on their minds, but not 
receiving payments from A was a significant issue which had been noticed.  V could have 
made it a priority to sort out the issue  with A by following Paymentsenses instructions. I 
think that if V had called A, then the losses could have been  largely  prevented. Because  of 
this, I will not be asking  Paymentsense to reimburse V its losses  for that period.
That said,  I think that V didnt get the service  it was entitled to expect from Paymentsense. It 
was not proactive in helping to set up the contract  with A despite knowing  about the problem.  
I thought about  the effect this had on V and I think that the offer to give V six months  rental 
rebate and £50 compensation is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
my final decision
I am aware  that Paymentsense  Limited has made  an offer to pay six months rental rebate 
and £50 compensation. I conclude that such an offer is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. My decision is that Paymentsense  should  pay V six months rental rebate 
and £50 compensation, totalling £272.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 July 2019.
Esperanza Fuentes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8337177