K820x#14complaint
The estate  of Mr T complains about  the way Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) 
dealt with the late Mr Ts account.
background
This complaint is brought by the executors of Mr Ts estate.  Some  of the concerns which Im 
looking at here were initially raised  by Mr Ts widow. But, for ease of reading, Ill refer to all 
submissions as though  theyve  been made by the executors.
Mr T held a number of accounts with Nationwide. Some were held jointly  and others in his 
sole name. This complaint is about an account  which was held in Mr Ts sole name.
Following Mr Ts death, the executors say they were no longer able to view details of the 
account online. They say it should  have remained visible to his next of kin and that Mr Ts 
widow should have  had access to it. The executors say that Nationwide didnt  have any 
record of the account  and didnt let their solicitor  know about it to begin with.
They say that, when Nationwide did refer to the account, they gave wrong information about 
it. Specifically, the executors say that Nationwide incorrectly referred to the account as being  
overdrawn and that the account  balance they provided was incorrect. The executors  say that 
Mr Ts children had been paying  money  into the account, so the balance was higher than 
that stated by Nationwide. And theyre unhappy  that, having  received a message from Mr Ts 
widow complaining  about the situation,  Nationwide responded to one of Mr Ts children.
The executors raised the above  points  with Nationwide and asked what  had happened  to the 
account and the funds  in it. They explained  that they were going  to put the money from the 
account towards the cost of a ceremony  before  the anniversary  of Mr Ts death.  They  said 
the situation with the account  was very distressing and caused a lot of upset for the family. 
They asked Nationwide to re-instate the account and pay them  compensation for the trouble 
and upset which the situation  had caused.
Nationwide said that, because the account was in Mr Ts sole name,  it didnt automatically  
transfer into his wifes name upon his death.  They said that, for a sole account, their normal 
process is to restrict the account and await legal confirmation from the estate as to how it 
should be dealt  with. They said they couldnt provide information about  the account  to other 
family members without legal confirmation  that they were able to do so. 
Nationwide also said that theyd stated the correct account balance.  They  said the lower 
figure was the balance  at the time of Mr Ts death.  And that this had increased by the time 
further letters were  sent about it. They said this was due to the payments which Mr Ts 
children had continued to make  into the account.
So Nationwide didnt uphold the complaint, because they didnt think  theyd done anything 
wrong.
The executors werent happy with Nationwides response, so they brought  the complaint to 
this service. Our investigator didnt think Nationwide had done anything  wrong. But the 
executors didnt agree and asked for the complaint  to be reviewed by an ombudsman.  They  
said they thought Nationwide should  pay some compensation  and that it was only through  
Ref: DRN87846842the initial involvement of their solicitor that they got to the bottom of the issues with the 
account.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  The executors feel strongly about the 
complaint and have  found  the situation very upsetting. So I realise they will find my decision 
disappointing. But I dont  think Nationwide have done anything wrong here, so I cant  fairly 
ask them  to do anything. Ill explain why.
Im satisfied that the account in question  was held in Mr Ts sole name. So its right that it 
couldnt be transferred  automatically into the name of his widow.  As a sole account,  it formed 
part of Mr Ts estate.  So Nationwides approach  of waiting for legal confirmation of what  to 
do with the account was fair and its what Id expect them to do.
The executors say that, even if the account  couldnt be transferred to Mr Ts widow,  they 
thought details of it ought  to remain visible to the family online. Nationwide say that data 
privacy rules  require them  to restrict access to a deceased  customers accounts. And they 
say they couldnt disclose  details about  the account  or provide access  to family members 
until they received  legal confirmation that they could do so. I think thats a reasonable 
approach. I wouldnt  expect Nationwide to provide access to, or details about,  a deceased 
customers account to anyone else (even  family members) until they received official 
confirmation from the estate that they could  do so. 
I can understand that it may have appeared  to the executors  that the account had 
disappeared. But I dont find that Nationwide  had lost their records of the account.  Instead, 
they had restricted  access to it so that it couldnt  be viewed by other people. I think  that was 
a reasonable approach in light of what Ive said above.
As to the existence of the account, Im satisfied that Nationwide told the executors solicitor 
about it. Nationwide wrote to the solicitor in April 2018. They referred  to the account in that 
letter and confirmed  that it was a sole account.  It seems that the solicitor  didnt receive  the 
letter. But Im satisfied  it was sent to the correct address,  so I cant  conclude  that its 
Nationwides fault if it wasnt  received.  In any event, Im satisfied that the letter  was sent 
again in September 2018, so the solicitor had the information at that point.
The letter confirmed the account balance as at the date of Mr Ts death. From the 
information Ive seen, Im satisfied that the balance attached to the letter  was correct as at 
the date of death.
But because payments continued to be made  into the account after Mr Ts death, the 
balance had increased by the time the executors solicitor queried it in December  2018.  The 
payments into the account were Standing Order payments from Mr Ts children. Im satisfied 
that these payments couldnt have been cancelled by Nationwide. They needed to be 
cancelled by Mr Ts children at their own banks.  Nationwides  letter  of April / September  
2018 confirmed  that Direct Debits and Standing Orders from the account had been  
cancelled. But it said that the executors would need to contact  the payers of any automated  
payments coming  into the account  to cancel those. 
The standing orders werent cancelled for several  months. But Im satisfied  that the 
payments continued  to be credited  to Mr Ts account. Thats  why the balance had risen to 
Ref: DRN87846843just over £200 by the time the executors solicitor queried it in December 2018. Nationwide  
confirmed the up to date balance in January  2019.
I havent seen  any reference to the account  being  overdrawn. Im satisfied it was in credit  by 
the amount stated  by Nationwide in January 2019. Nationwides  letter  to the executors 
solicitor in April / September  2018  confirmed that Mr T had held another account which had 
been overdrawn. But Nationwide had written  off the balance on that account.
The executors are unhappy  that, when Mr Ts widow sent a message  to Nationwide to 
complain about  the account, Nationwide responded to one of Mr Ts children. Ive seen the 
messages. The complaint  message  from Mrs T was sent from an email address which I 
understand belongs to one of Mr Ts children. Nationwide replied to the same email  address 
which Mrs T had written  from and I think that was reasonable.
So, whilst I know  the executors will find this disappointing, I dont find that Nationwide  have  
done anything  wrong here. So Im not going  to ask them to do anything.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the estate of Mr T 
to accept or reject my decision before 13 April 2020.
Katy Kidd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8784684