K820x#14Complaint
Its been  agreed in this case  that Allianz  Insurance Plc (Allianz), as the insurer,  should 
accept responsibility  for the complaint. To keep things simple,  Ill refer to Allianz  as the seller 
in my decision.
Mrs H says Allianz mis-sold her a payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy.
Background
This complaint is about a PPI policy Mrs H took out with a charge card in 1995.  It was added 
to her account  when she applied for the card in store.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint.  Mrs H disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Hs case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Hs complaint. Ill explain  why.
Allianz had to make it clear to Mrs H that the policy was optional and get her consent before 
PPI could be applied to the account. Allianz has said the optional nature of the policy  was 
made clear. Ive been given a copy of the application  form completed at the time of the sale 
and I can see that there is a section for the PPI. The box has been ticked  to confirm the 
cover is required and Mrs Hs name and date of birth have been entered in the box to 
confirm she is to be the insured person.  Mrs H has signed the overall application which  
suggests that she agreed with everything  that had been entered. If Mrs H didnt want  to take 
out the PPI, she could have left the box blank when completing her application.
So, on balance, I think Allianz made it clear the policy was optional  and Mrs H chose to take 
it, knowing  she could  refuse it if she wanted  to.
Allianz didnt recommend  the policy to Mrs H. This means it didnt have to check if the policy 
was right for her. But it did have to give her clear  enough information to enable  her to decide  
for herself  if she should take the policy.
Its possible  the information Allianz gave Mrs H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But even if Allianz  had given her better or clearer information, I dont think  it 
would have made a difference.  I still think she would have taken the policy.  I say this 
because Mrs H was eligible for the policy and she wasnt  affected by any of the main  
limitations to the cover, such as having unusual working arrangements  or a medical condition  
of which she was already aware.
Mrs H has told us she was entitled  to six months  full sick pay from her employer if she was 
off sick so she had no need for the cover. But this policy could have paid 15% of the 
outstanding balance until she was able to return to work or until that balance  was cleared  
Ref: DRN83458812whichever came first. And this would be in addition to, and potentially for longer than, her sick 
pay. The policy would also have covered her for the same term if she was to lose her job. 
While Mrs H has told us she had some savings,  by having this policy she could protect 
these funds or use them to pay for other  essential living expenses.  So I still think this policy 
could have provided a useful benefit  to her.
So when taking  everything into consideration, I dont think Mrs H has lost out as a result  of 
anything that Allianz may have done wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons  stated  above, I dont uphold  the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 September 2019.
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8345881