K820x#14complaint
Mrs W is unhappy that her section 75 claim under the Consumer Credit  Act 1974 hasnt 
been upheld  by John Lewis Financial Services Limited.
background
Mrs W was planning a holiday abroad. She paid a sum of money  to a third party  booking  
company, to secure  the hotel.  Upon  considering  further reviews of the hotel Mrs W felt the 
accommodation in question had been  misrepresented. So she decided  to cancel the booking 
and secure alternative  accommodation instead. Although  Mrs W was able to cancel the 
booking, she didnt  get a refund as she was advised  that the booking was non-refundable.  
Mrs W brought a section 75 claim against  John Lewis as shed made the payment for the 
original hotel on her credit  card. But John Lewis didnt uphold  her complaint. They felt the 
creditor, debtor and supplier chain  had been  broken and therefore  a section 75 claim 
couldnt be successful.  Unhappy with this outcome, she referred the complaint to our 
service. 
An adjudicator has already looked at this case.  She also didnt uphold the complaint for 
reasons in line with those  already expressed  by John Lewis. Mrs W remains  unhappy so this 
matter has now been passed to me to look at. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  provides  protection  in the event of financial loss 
suffered by a customer where there has been  a breach of contract or misrepresentation by a 
merchant.
As I understand Mrs W made the payment in question to a third party  booking  company, 
rather than directly to the hotel. Mrs Ws contractual relationship was therefore  with the 
booking company, rather than the hotel itself.
Just like the adjudicator  I believe the creditor, debtor and supplier chain has been  broken. 
Mrs Ws claim isnt upheld under section 75. I therefore wont be asking John Lewis  to do 
anything further.
As has already  been explained, our role is to consider whether the actions of John Lewis  
have been fair and reasonable in not upholding Mrs Ws section  75 claim. I cant  comment  
on the actions  of the third party booking company or the hotel.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Ref: DRN82538122Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 May 2020.
Robyn McNamee
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8253812