K820x#14complaint
Mr T says he was mis-sold an Aviva  Life & Pensions  UK Limited  mortgage  endowment  
policy. He says hed never heard of endowment policies and didnt know he had one until he 
complained. 
The policy provider is now called Aviva  and Ill use that business name throughout this 
document, but it should be taken to refer any predecessor business  names  where 
appropriate.
background and my findings
I issued my provisional decision in October 2019,  a copy of which  is attached and forms part 
of this final decision. In my provisional  decision I explained why I wasnt minded to uphold 
Mr Ts complaint. I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before 
I reached a final decision. 
Neither party added anything new, with Mr T just saying again that he didnt know  what  kind 
of loan package  he had
Ive reviewed everything carefully and considered the case afresh, but my opinion  hasnt  
changed. Ive reached the same findings  and for the same reasons as I set out in my 
provisional decision.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 December  2019.
Julia Meadows
ombudsman
Ref: DRN88745052COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr T says he was mis-sold an Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited mortgage endowment policy. He 
says hed never heard  of endowment policies and didnt know he had one until he complained. 
The policy provider is now called  Aviva and Ill use that business name throughout  this document, but 
it should  be taken to refer any predecessor  business names  where appropriate.
background
Mr Ts unitised with-profits endowment policy started  in June 2000. It had a target amount of £41,900, 
a monthly premium of £93.60 and a 25-year  term. The policy was surrendered in June 2004 for 
£3,466.20.
Mr T complained in 2018 initially about PPI. He said hed had a meeting with his mortgage lender, and 
was accepted for the loan but there was no mention of PPI. He said hed not heard  of PPI until it was 
mentioned on the radio, at which time he approached  his mortgage lender who told him he needed  to 
contact Aviva.
Aviva told Mr T that it was a mortgage endowment  policy  hed taken, not PPI. Although it had been 
surrendered many years  earlier, fortuitously  Aviva still held most  of the documents  from the time of 
the sale.
Our investigator was satisfied that Mr T had applied for the policy and knew he had it as hed written 
to Aviva whilst  it was in force.  Mr T didnt agree - reiterating his argument that he didnt  know what  an 
endowment policy was until we told him - and so its been passed to me to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Given the policy was taken out 19 years ago and was surrendered 15 years ago its understandable 
Mr T doesnt have a perfect recollection of what occurred. Mr T has said hed never heard  of 
mortgage endowment policies and didnt know he had one, but the documentary  evidence indicates to 
the contrary. 
Weve got three  letters on file  relating to the mortgage endowment policy  that were handwritten by 
Mr T. 
The first letter dated 29 January 2001 says:
I am writing in reply to your recent letter of 23rd January 2001, concerning my policy  [policy 
number], to change the date of commencement to August 2000, as your records still show June 
and July premiums outstanding.
Due to our telephone conversation in December  I explained that I didnt move in to my house until 
around the 20th of July so my first payment to [mortgage lenders  name] my mortgage  lenders was 
August 1st 2000.
During our telephone  conversation you asked me to get in touch  with [advisers  name] my 
mortgage advisor, unfortunately he has been off work  sick, I would be very greatful [sic] if you 
could help me sort this out.
Ref: DRN88745053The second  letter is undated  and says:
I [Mr T] now residing at [his address] would like to cancel  and cash in my endowment policy, as I 
have now sold my property at [his previous  address].  My policy no is [policy number], I would  be 
very grateful  if you could send the cheque to the above address.
And the third letter, also undated, says:
Although I have made searches for the original policy, it can not be found and I beleive [sic] it may 
be lost in my possesion  [sic], if found I will return it imediatly [sic]to Norwich Union, I have also 
phoned [mortgage lender]  mortgage centre and they said they will be sending  a letter  stating that 
they are no longer interested in my old property. Hope this letter is satisfactory.
Having considered  all these Im satisfied Mr T knew he had taken out an endowment policy in 2000 
and he actively chose to surrender it in 2004 after hed moved  house. I accept  Mr T has told us what 
he remembers but memories  over such a long period of time are unlikely to be entirely reliable. I cant 
ignore the fact that the evidence doesnt support Mr Ts recollections, so I simply  cant  safely  uphold 
this part of his complaint.
Although Mr T hasnt specifically complained  about whether or not the policy was suitable for him, he 
has indicated he is unhappy the policy  existed, so for completeness Ill cover that here in my decision. 
As this is an area weve  not previously put forward any findings on Im issuing  this provisional decision 
first to give both sides to make any extra submissions they want  to about this element of the 
complaint.
It is not for me to re-advise  Mr T, or substitute what I think would have been best for him in 2000. All 
I can do is look at the evidence and form a view as to whether the sale was suitable  at the time. I 
must also not use hindsight in making a decision.
At the time of the sale Mr T was 38 years  old, employed as a delivery  driver and was buying his first 
home. He had no dependents and didnt anticipate any significant changes  to his circumstances. He 
was only borrowing around 2.5x his annual  income  and theres nothing in his circumstances that 
would indicate he couldnt  take a low level of risk.
The illustration dated 29 May 2000 shows the potential maturity value at three different growth  rates. 
It says:
What you might get back after 25 years:
If investments grew at 4.0% a year you would get back £29,600
If investments grew at 6.0% a year you would get back £41,900
If investments grew at 8.0% a year you would get back £58,300
The illustration shows the rate of return needed to provide sufficient money to repay  the mortgage 
at the end of the term.
The adviser  completed  a fact find, and then sent Mr T a letter that set out their discussions and the 
advice given. That letter  also dated 29 May 2000  says:
We have fully discussed both repayment and interest only methods of mortgage repayment 
and I have issued  a Mortgage Repayment comparison quote  to you. After fully explaining the 
way in which the two methods work  and the difference in the amount  of risk involved, I feel 
that an interest only mortgage  supported by a separate  investment policy is suitable for you.
You are happy to invest a regular  monthly payment into this investment  plan and you are 
willing to accept a level of risk associated with investments of this type.
Ref: DRN88745054However, the proceeds from your policy depend on the investment performance over the term 
of the policy. The amount you get back is not guaranteed  to repay your mortgage in full.
As we discussed there are three growth rates available which offer varying degrees of growth 
potential. This in turn relates to the level of risk in repaying your mortgage at the end of the 
policy term and the associated cost of your policy.
Proceeds  from your policy will depend on investment  performance of stocks and shares and 
other assets that make up the Unitised With Profit fund, over the term of the contract  and the 
amount you get back is not guaranteed to repay your mortgage in full.
If the returns are better than anticipated, there will be a surplus,  but if the returns are worse, 
there will be a shortfall. 
Accordingly, I have explained that it may be necessary for you to take further action in order  
to ensure that the loan is repaid at the end of the term.
Its not possible  for me to know with certainty what was said at the time of the sale.  Its difficult  for me 
to conclude that, on balance,  the policy  was clearly  unsuitable. It is also difficult  to be sure the policy 
was misrepresented  to Mr T such that now, over 19 years later, the business should pay 
compensation.
Ive no doubt the policy was spoken of in very positive terms. Whether that went too far isnt 
something Ive seen  persuasive evidence  of. In any event Id have to take into account that whatever  
was said at the time of the sale, documentation was given to Mr T that would  have shown him there 
was a risk with this policy.
my provisional  decision
Subject to any further submissions from Mr T and Aviva, Im minded to not uphold this complaint.
Julia Meadows
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8874505