K820x#14complaint
Ms Ns complaint is that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) paid compensation for a mis-sold 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy  into an account that her ex-husband had access 
to. Ms Ns ex-husband  has moved  the compensation into a separate  account  in his name 
only. Ms N wants  BoS to re-issue the compensation direct  to her.  
background
In 2018 Ms N complained to BoS about  the sale of a PPI policy  with a credit card. The credit  
card was held in her sole name.
On 14 May 2018 BoS sent Ms N a letter stating that it was upholding her complaint. The 
letter said BoS would pay Ms N the sum of £4,542.88  within the next 28 days. The letter 
went on to say that, This will arrive as a cheque through the post or direct payment into your 
account.
On 21 May 2018 BoS paid the compensation into a joint account Ms N held with her          
ex-husband. And on 23 May 2018 the money  was moved out of that account  and into an 
account in her ex-husbands name only.
On 22 June 2018 Ms N contacted BoS as she had expected to receive a cheque but had not 
yet received it. BoS then told her that it had paid the compensation into the joint account.
Ms N thinks  BoS should not have paid the compensation into the joint account  and wants  
BoS to re-issue  the compensation  to her by cheque.
Our adjudicator thought BoS should  reissue the compensation to Ms N. BoS disagreed  so 
the complaint  was passed to me.
In June 2019 I issued my provisional findings  on this complaint and invited  both parties to 
comment and send  me any additional evidence  they wanted me to think  about.  A copy  of my 
provisional decision is attached and forms part of this final decision.
My provisional findings were that I was not intending  to uphold Ms Ns complaint, my main 
reasons were:
I thought BoS made it clear the compensation may be paid into an account if Ms N 
held one with the bank.
The account into which the compensation was paid was open and was being used. 
Ms N was named  on the account so I couldnt  see any reason  why BoS should 
reasonably have been aware  that Ms N wouldnt want  it paid into the account.
Ms N had said that her ex-husband was supposed to close  the account when they 
were divorced. But although the divorce consent  order said that the account should 
be closed it didnt  specify who was to arrange  to close it. 
In order to uphold  this complaint I said Id need  to be persuaded that BoS should 
have reasonably been aware  there was a dispute between  the two account holders 
and still went ahead  and paid Ms Ns compensation into that account. But I had not 
seen any persuasive evidence that was the case.
Ref: DRN81531562Ms N said that by paying  the compensation into a joint account, BoS made her ex-
husband aware of her financial dealings. But when two people  open a joint bank 
account, it is implicit in my view that they are content that the other individual  would 
be aware of all transactions taking place on that account. 
Finally I said that Ms Ns underlying complaint is that her ex-husband took the 
compensation knowing it didnt belong to him. And I said that Ms N may want  to seek  
professional advice about how to recover the money  from her ex-husband. 
BoS has not replied  with any new information  or points.
Ms N has replied to my provisional findings. Ms N has said that she disagrees with my initial 
findings. She has said it should  not be for the bank to decide which  account  the 
compensation would be paid into and that it should  have  told her the account details it was 
intending to use. Ms N says the process  BoS has in place for paying compensation is 
flawed. Ms N also said that she was not in the position to explore legal avenues for the 
recovery of the compensation 
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about Ms Ns response  to my provisional findings. And I do have sympathy for 
the position she finds herself  in. I agree that if BoS had specified (or asked Ms N to specify) 
the account to be used  then its likely  the situation would not have arisen. But equally if the 
joint account had not been  left open  despite  the consent order  then BoS could not have paid 
the compensation into it.
In order to uphold  the complaint and direct  BoS to reissue all the compensation Id have to 
be persuaded that BoS should have reasonably been aware that Ms N wouldnt have wanted 
the money paid to that account.  But I havent  seen any evidence that it should have. The 
account was open and being used, and Ms N was an account holder.
It remains my view that Ms Ns underlying complaint is that her ex-husband took the 
compensation which was intended  for her. And I dont think it would be fair for me to direct 
BoS to reissue  the compensation because of his actions.  So I am sorry to disappoint  Ms N 
but I dont uphold this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision  I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 September 2019.  
Steve Thomas
Ref: DRN81531563ombudsman
copy of my provisional findings
complaint
Ms Ns complaint is that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) paid compensation  for a mis-sold  payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy into an account that her ex-husband had access to. Ms Ns ex-
husband has moved the compensation into a separate account in his name  only.  Ms N wants BoS to 
re-issue the compensation direct to her.  
Ref: DRN81531564background
In 2018 Ms N complained  to BoS about the sale of a PPI policy with a credit card. The credit  card was 
held in her sole name.
On 14 May 2018 BoS sent Ms N a letter stating that it was upholding her complaint. The letter said 
BoS would pay Ms N the sum of £4,542.88 within the next 28 days. The letter went on to say that, 
This will arrive as a cheque through the post or direct payment into your account.
On 21 May 2018 BoS paid the compensation into a joint account Ms N held with her          ex-
husband. And on 23 May 2018 the money was moved out of that account and into an account in her 
ex-husbands name  only.
On 22 June 2018 Ms N contacted BoS as she had expected to receive a cheque  but had not yet 
received it. BoS then told her that it had paid the compensation  into the joint account.
Ms N thinks BoS should  not have paid the compensation into the joint account and wants BoS to re-
issue the compensation to her by cheque.
Our adjudicator thought BoS should reissue  the compensation to Ms N. BoS disagreed so the 
complaint has been passed  to me.
 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
The letter BoS sent to Ms N on 14 May 2018 said the following:
Well pay you £4,542.88 within  the next 28 days. This will arrive as a cheque  through the post or 
direct into your account.
Ms N has made it clear  to us that she expected a cheque to arrive through  the post as she didnt  
realise she still held an open joint account with the bank. Ms N was divorced from her ex-husband the 
year before, and she told us the terms of the divorce stated that her          ex-husband was to close  
the account.
Ms N says BoS should have made it clear which account it was intending to pay the compensation  
into.
Ive thought about this, but I think the letter made it clear the compensation may be paid into an 
account if Ms N held one with the bank. Ive not seen any evidence to show that BoS could 
reasonably been aware that Ms N and her husband had been divorced. The account  was still open, 
Ive seen evidence that it was still being  used  and Ms Ns name  remained on the account. So I dont 
think BoS had any reason  to think that Ms N wouldnt  be happy for the money to be paid into the 
account.
Ms N has told us that her ex-husband  was supposed to have closed the account. But Ive seen a copy  
of the divorce consent order from 2017.  This states  that:
The parties agree that their joint bank account will be closed forthwith with any balance  being  divided 
equally between  them.   
I cant  see anything on the document to indicate that it was Ms Ns ex-husband that was directed  to 
close the account.  For whatever reason neither partner ever closed the account. And it continued  to 
be used up until Ms N herself closed it shortly  after the compensation  was paid into it and then 
removed by her ex-husband.
Ref: DRN81531565In order  to uphold this complaint Id need to be persuaded that BoS should  have reasonably been 
aware there was a dispute  between the two account holders and still went ahead  and paid Ms Ns 
compensation into that account. But I havent seen any persuasive evidence  that was the case.
Ms N has also complained  that by paying the compensation into a joint account, BoS made  her ex-
husband aware  of her financial dealings.  But when  two people open  a joint bank account, it is implicit 
in my view that they are content that the other individual would  be aware of all transactions taking 
place on that account.  
Taking everything into account I dont think it would be fair for me to direct BoS to reissue the 
compensation to Ms N.
It seems to me that Ms Ns underlying complaint is that her ex-husband took the compensation 
knowing it didnt belong to him. If thats the case Ms N may want  to seek professional advice  about 
how to recover the money from her ex-husband. 
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, but subject to both parties responses to this provisional  decision, Im  
not intending to uphold Ms Ns complaint and Im not intending to make any award against Bank of 
Scotland plc. 
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8153156