K822xcomplaint
Mr H complains on behalf of his mother,  Mrs H, that shes  been charged too much for her 
home insurance (buildings only) by Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc (RSA) over a 
number of years.
background 
In 2015 Mr H discovered that Mrs H had been paying a much higher home insurance 
premium than he had for his own property of a similar value. He went online to find that RSA 
offered a policy through another brand for a significantly lower price - at about  a third of what 
Mrs H had been paying. He arranged to cancel the policy  and moved her home insurance 
elsewhere. He complained to RSA that it had taken advantage of her as an elderly customer. 
He pointed out that Mrs H had assumed that the policy was set at a reasonable price,  having 
had it since 1989.  RSA said that the price was correct and that the other branded policy  
wasnt one that could be offered as an alternative  to the legacy policy.
Our adjudicator reviewed  the matter and thought  that it would be reasonable for RSA to offer 
a repayment of some of the premiums. This was on the basis  that Mrs H had had the policy  
since 1989 and never been  engaged  with the price nor encouraged to believe she should be 
reviewing it. It had gone up in price  significantly  over the years  and he thought Mrs Hs lack 
of engagement,  potential vulnerability  and susceptibility to detriment should have been 
apparent to RSA.  He thought it fair to look at the price she paid in 2005 (£511) and for RSA 
to pay the difference between that price and the price she actually paid from 2006 up until 
2015, with interest.
RSA said there was no pricing error  and it didnt  think it had done anything wrong. However, 
as a gesture of goodwill,  it was prepared to offer £2,495.46 to settle the complaint. Our 
adjudicator recommended  this as a reasonable settlement  to Mr H. But Mr H rejected it on 
behalf of Mrs H, seeking a much  higher  payment.
The matter  has been passed to me for consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs H had had the policy through her Building  Society since 1989. RSA has advised us that 
it hasnt offered any new policies under that brand  since about  1998. I think  its fair to say 
that Mrs H should  be regarded as a vulnerable customer. Ive found that she was unlikely to 
engage with RSA over the price of her policy unless she was encouraged and also given the 
information that she needed  to do so. And whilst  I understand that the policy  was sold non-
advised,  RSA is still obliged to treat customers fairly  under  the insurance  rules. This would 
include it giving information to allow Mrs H to make an informed decision and for that 
information to be clear, fair and not misleading.  
For instance, the 2015 renewal letter says that the policy is due for renewal and all Mrs H 
had to do was check the schedule, read and sign the fixed loan agreement and if any 
changes were needed, to get in touch. But no information was given  about  what to do if she 
was unhappy  with the price. And she wasnt told about any alternative policies that either 
RSA or the Building Society had or given  the opportunity to be quoted for another  policy, 
Ref: DRN84937392perhaps  with more up to date rating  information.  She was effectively confined to her existing 
legacy policy.
RSA may have been bound by its agreement with the Building Society not to offer any of its 
other policies as a direct  alternative. That was a commercial arrangement  between  RSA and 
the Building Society. But both RSA and the Building  Society needed to take into account  the 
needs of the customer and treat her fairly.  RSA had alternative policies available for 
considerably less. The Building Society  may also have had available  alternatives. So I dont 
think it was treating Mrs H fairly  to not at least give her the opportunity to understand that 
she was on an old legacy  policy and may be paying  significantly  more than what RSA could 
offer its other customers. 
Given Mrs Hs vulnerability, I think her ability to learn about available alternatives  and to 
search the market  was limited. So Mrs H was effectively kept on an old expensive  policy  
which RSA hadnt  offered  to new customers for quite some years. She didnt know about this 
- and couldnt have  done  because of RSAs agreement with the Building Society. So she 
didnt have the information that she needed to make an informed decision at each renewal. 
The disparity in knowledge between her and RSA was significant. And unless RSA had 
made an effort to redress  the balance, in continuing to put her price  up each year, this led to 
her unfairly suffering detriment.
Our adjudicator proposed a starting  position  for compensation with reference  to what  Mrs H 
was paying at the 2005 renewal (£511). By then Mrs H had been  with RSA for many years.  
Any new customer discount would have  been recouped and the price had gone  up 
significantly over the years. He was also mindful  of the price an alternative policy  was 
available for. That it may have had a new customer discount included and that whilst RSAs 
view of the risk for Mrs Hs property may have changed over the years,  it was clearly much 
lower now on the alternative  policy than that represented by what she was paying for the 
legacy policy.  So he proposed that the price be reduced back to that premium  from 2006 
until 2015 and RSA should  pay back the difference plus interest.
I appreciate that Mr H would like to go back much  further. But we dont have the premium 
information prior to 1998. And its only in recent  years that insurance  prices have been as 
competitive as the alternatives that Mr H has found.  We also cant say what the various 
changes in risk might  have been over the years and new policies often include significant 
new customer discounts. As our adjudicator advised, calculating compensation is not an 
exact science.  Clearly Mrs H had to pay a reasonable  price for her insurance. And Ive taken 
that into account too.
Since RSAs  offer of £2,495.46 would produce  a roughly similar result to that proposed by 
our adjudicator, it is in my view fair and reasonable.
my final decision
Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance  Plc has already made an offer to resolve  this complaint and 
I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Royal  & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc should pay to Mrs H £2,495.46 in 
resolution of this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H on behalf  of 
Mrs H to accept  or reject  my decision before  17 June 2019. 
Ref: DRN84937393Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8493739