K820x#14complaint
Mr F and Ms G complain about the mis-selling of a caravan and associated  finance 
agreement with Black Horse Limited.
background
In November 2017 Mr F and Ms G were supplied with a used caravan and entered into a 
finance agreement  with Black Horse.
Mr F had owned a caravan at the same site for several years in respect of which there was 
outstanding finance of £4,940.71. During  the sales process, Mr F was told that his 
repayments wouldnt increase if he was to upgrade his caravan and enter  into a new finance 
agreement.
Mr F saw a used caravan  which  he liked which was advertised for sale at £15,800. He was 
asked to pay a deposit of £2900 and was told that the rest of the costs, including a siting fee 
and connection  fee, would  be added  to the finance  agreement.
Mr Fs old caravan was valued  at £3,804.70 in part exchange.
The finance  broker  who arranged  finance  told Mr F that because  of his age, his carer Ms G 
would have to enter  into the finance  agreement.
Mr F and Ms G found that they were  unable to afford the repayments.  Following  a complaint 
to Black Horse it was discovered  that the finance  broker had provided an incorrect gross 
annual income  for Ms G. 
Black Horse  upheld Mr Fs and Ms Gs complaint.  It acknowledged that incorrect  income 
details had been reported and said the loan shouldntve been provided.  Black Horse 
cancelled the agreement,  refunded all payments and offered  £350 compensation. The 
deposit of £2900 was also returned.
Mr F wasnt happy with the response. He said his old caravan had been undervalued for part 
exchange purposes because similar  caravans  were  advertised for £16,000. Mr F was also 
unhappy that he hadnt received a refund  of his siting and connection fees and his pitch  
fees. He also wanted  to claim compensation for loss of enjoyment.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She felt that Black  Horse had rectified the 
matter by putting Mr F and Ms G back in the financial, position as if the agreement  hadnt 
been entered into.
Mr F didnt  agree. He said hed been  left without  the use of a caravan which  he used to enjoy 
every weekend. He didnt think hed been  fairly  compensated. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN88425302Black Horse  relied on the information it was provided with by the broker  about Ms Gs 
income when it provided the loan. It has now accepted that the level of income was 
misrepresented by the agent and has cancelled the agreement.
I understand Mr Fs concern about  affordability checks. Black Horse has said that it was 
advised that Ms Gs annual income was £15,000. I havent been  provided with any 
information about the checks (if any) which Black Horse carried  out. In circumstances where  
a lender fails to carry out adequate affordability  checks, I would expect the business to put 
things right by putting the consumer back in the financial position as if the loan hadnt  been 
provided. This is what Black Horse has done  here, so I think  it has acted fairly.
In relation to Mr Fs concern about  the deposit,  the siting and connection fees and the pitch  
fees, I can see that the deposit has been refunded.  Black Horse has explained that the siting 
fee, the connection fee and the pitch fee wasnt paid by Mr F but was included  in the 
purchase price of the caravan.  Because the agreement has been cancelled,  and because  Mr 
F didnt pay these fees, I cant  see any basis to ask Black Horse to reimburse  him.
Mr F has said that his old caravan was undervalued at part exchange.  I havent  seen  any 
evidence to indicate what the market  value of Mr Fs old caravan was. Hes said that similar 
caravans were advertised at £16,000 but the price at which  something  is advertised isnt 
always indicative of its market value.  Mr F doesnt say where similar caravans were 
advertised so I cant be certain  that this price  didnt include  extras  such  as site fees, 
connection fees and pitch fees.  Ultimately, the part exchange value was agreed  by Mr F at 
the time he entered into the new agreement.  If he wasnt  happy  with the part exchange value 
I think he would have  made this clear  at the time.
The part exchange value  of Mr Fs old caravan was deducted from the purchase price  of the 
new caravan. This had the effect of reducing  the amount of the loan. 
I can see that Mr F had a significant  balance outstanding under his old finance  agreement. 
The agent  settled  this amount on behalf of Mr F. So whilst I appreciate that Mr F has lost out 
on the enjoyment of spending weekends at his old caravan,  he no longer has the balance of 
approximately £4900  to repay. If Mr Fs old caravan were to be returned to him (which I dont 
think would  be possible now due to passage of time),  then the first finance agreement  would 
need to be re-opened.
Based on what Ive seen,  Im satisfied that the agreement was mis-sold. Black  Horse has 
done what I would expect it to do by cancelling  the finance agreement  and refunding  the 
deposit. 
I appreciate that Mr F has been  caused distress  and inconvenience by this experience. I can 
see that Black Horse has already offered £350 compensation. Taking into account the fact 
that  Mr Fs previous finance agreement was settled  for him, I think the compensation offered 
is fair. Because  of this I wont be asking Black  Horse to do anything further.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F and Ms G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 January  2020.
Ref: DRN88425303Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8842530