K820x#14Complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that Allianz  Insurance Plc Allianz has unfairly increased the cost of 
their pet insurance  policy each year.  Theyre also unhappy Allianz has added  exclusions to 
the policy as well as declined a claim they made.  Mr and Mrs R remain  unhappy with the 
overall service they have  received from Allianz.  
Background 
Mr and Mrs R took out a lifetime pet insurance  policy in June 2016  this was in the sole 
name of Mrs R. At this time, Allianz placed  an exclusion on the policy for gastro-intestinal 
and digestive  disorders due to disclosures  Mr and Mrs R had made about the pets medical 
history. Allianz said the earliest this exclusion could be reviewed (and then potentially 
removed) was at first renewal which was June 2017. 
In June 2017, Mr and Mrs R renewed the policy but the premiums for the policy  had gone  up 
by approximately  13%. The pet was treated for dental conditions during 2017 but Mr and 
Mrs R did not submit  a claim at this time. 
In June 2018, Mr and Mrs R received a renewal offer but the premiums had again gone  up. 
At this time, Mr R called Allianz to discuss the renewal and the increase in premiums. 
During the call, it was agreed that Allianz would cancel the existing policy and set up a new 
one in Mr Rs name  with lower premiums.  Allianz  has accepted that although the call handler 
had mentioned that any conditions the pet had prior to the start of this new policy would be 
excluded, it felt they hadnt made it clear enough.  
Mr and Mrs R were unhappy  that the pets pre-existing conditions  would not be covered, so 
Allianz re-instated the policy that had been cancelled  (in Mrs Rs name) and reduced the 
premiums by 10%. At this time, the exclusion for gastro-intestinal and digestive disorders 
was removed, but further exclusions were  added,  backdated to inception (June 2016) for 
mouth and oral disorders,  facia  abscesses  and eye disorders due to notes on the pets 
medical history. 
 
Mr and Mrs R were unhappy  with these additional  exclusions - they felt they were based  on 
altered vet notes  and had been  unfairly applied. Mr and Mrs R also then submitted a claim 
for the dental  treatment their pet had the year earlier. Allianz  refused to consider this claim - 
it explained that as the claim had been submitted  more than 12 months  after the treatment  
date, it didnt have  to consider it in accordance with the policy terms. But Allianz accepted 
the service it provided to Mr and Mrs R overall  couldve been better, so it offered £140 
compensation for the inconvenience it had caused  them.
Our investigator didnt  think the complaint should be upheld. She didnt  think Allianz had 
acted unfairly by increasing the premiums or applying the exclusions. She felt the claim had 
been correctly  declined based  on clear  terms in the policy. She further concluded that, 
although the overall service Mr and Mrs R had received, particularly in June 2018, couldve 
been better,  she felt the compensation offered was fair. 
Mr and Mrs R remained unhappy, so the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision.  
My Findings 
Ref: DRN82421152Increase in premiums
 
In general, the cost of insuring a pet will increase each year as a pet gets older and the
cost of medical treatment  rises. Businesses  are entitled to decide how much  to charge for 
the insurance cover they provide, and I dont have the power to tell a business  what  its 
insurance should cost.  I would  be, in effect,  determining or telling a business  how it should  
operate  and thats not my role. So I cant say the cost of Mr and Mrs Rs policy is too high,  
or that they should have  been charged  less for the policy or that they should be charged less 
in the future.
While I can see that Mr and Mrs Rs premium has seen increases, I havent seen any 
evidence to suggest Allianz has treated them differently to how it would have treated any 
other policyholder in the same position. So I cant tell Allianz to charge them  a lower 
premium going forwards.
Its possible the information Allianz gave  Mr and Mrs R about the long-term  costs  of the 
policy when they first took it out in 2016, wasnt as clear as it should have been. They dont 
seem to have understood that the premium would increase  at each renewal  and are now in a 
position where they arent able to take out a new policy, that will cover their pets previous 
conditions. I think this is likely to be upsetting for them, as its not the position  they expected  
to find themselves in when they took out this Covered For Life policy.  
Allianz has already  discounted the 2018 price by 10% and, in the circumstances  of this 
complaint, I think this fairly compensates Mr and Mrs R for the upset theyve experienced as 
a result of the unexpected premium increases. And now Mr and Mrs R understand how the 
price of this type of policy can change over time, its up to them to decide if they want to 
continue with it. 
Additional exclusions  
Standard pet insurance policies usually wont cover any medical conditions  or symptoms of 
conditions the pet had or had received treatment for when the policy  was taken  out. The 
purpose of insurance  is to provide  cover  for the unexpected  not the foreseeable. Mr and 
Mrs R disclosed  that gastro-intestinal problems their pet had and accepted an exclusion 
because of this when the first policy was set up I dont  think theres anything unusual  or 
unexpected about this. 
I understand they are unhappy with the three additional exclusions  particularly the mouth 
or oral ones, as they dont feel there is enough  medical history to warrant the inclusion of the 
exclusion. But it is for the insurer  to decide what risk theyre prepared to accept and whether  
an exclusion  should or should  not be applied. And then its for the customer  to decide  if 
theyre happy to accept  the terms theyre  being offered.
Im satisfied Allianz applied the exclusion based on the notes its received about Mr and 
Mrs Rs pets medical  history  and its entitled  to do this. If Mr and Mrs R had insured their 
pet elsewhere, they are likely to be in the same position they are now,  as this is standard  
practice in most pet insurance policies. 
Claim
As explained above, the current policy that Mrs and Mrs R have is the reinstated policy  in 
Mrs Rs name. Under this policy, there is an exclusion for mouth and oral disorders 
Ref: DRN82421153backdated to inception (2016), based  on notes from their vets.  As Ive said above, I think  this 
exclusion has been fairly added to the policy. 
Allianz originally declined the claim  Mr and Mrs R submitted from 2017 because  they 
submitted the claim 12 months after their pet was treated. Under the terms of the policy,  any 
claims must  be submitted  within 12 months  of the treatment date. However, it has since also 
clarified that even  if they had submitted the claim  earlier, it would still have been declined.  
This is because of the exclusion  that is on the policy. 
I understand the frustration Mr and Mrs R feel that the claim was declined, but as I think the 
exclusion has been fairly included in the policy, I dont think it would be unfair for Allianz  to 
rely on it to decline the claim. 
Vets notes 
Mr and Mrs Rs pet has been  treated in two different veterinary  practices, one as their main 
vet and one for emergency treatment. Allianz summarised the notes it relied on in its final 
response letter to explain why the exclusions had been  added. Mr and Mrs R feel these 
notes have been altered by Allianz to justify the inclusion of what they feel are unfair 
exclusions. 
I have reviewed the vets notes sent by both the veterinary practices and can see the notes 
Allianz relied on were  sent by them. But I can also see that there  are errors on the final 
response letter Allianz prepared for Mr and Mrs R. Entries  from one vets practice have been 
listed under  the second, so I understand why Mr and Mrs R dont feel they are correct. 
But I can re-assure Mr and Mrs R that the exclusion clauses were  based on their pets actual 
history and not the summary prepared for them as part of Allianzs response to their 
complaint. While I accept an error  has been  made  when the summary was prepared,  I 
havent seen any evidence that Allianz  has fabricated the actual notes to justify  the inclusion  
of the exclusion  clauses. 
Service 
I appreciate the service  Mr and Mrs R have  received  from Allianz  could have been  better   
particularly the confusion caused  during the 2018  renewal. But Allianz has now rectified this 
by reinstating their cancelled policy. As Ive mentioned, its also given  him a discount on the 
price originally quoted  to them in 2018  and offered £140 in compensation for the errors it has 
made. Overall, I think thats  fair in this case and I dont make  any further awards. 
My final decision  
For the reasons  explained, I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 December  2020.
Asma Begum
Ombudsman 
Ref: DRN8242115