K820x#14Complaint
Mrs H says Canada Square  Operations Limited, trading as Egg, mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Background
Mrs H applied for a credit  card with Egg in 2003. At the same time, PPI was added  to the 
credit card, providing  her with cover  in the event  of her death, diagnosis  of a serious illness, 
disability and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Mrs H disagreed,  so the 
complaint was passed to me to review afresh.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding  
Mrs Hs case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Before adding the policy, Egg had to make it clear  to Mrs H that it was optional.  She says it 
didnt do so. Im satisfied Mrs H applied for the credit card online, so Ive looked at the 
screens I believe shed  have seen and completed  during the application process. These 
included a section  on PPI. The section included a box to click on if she wanted PPI, and an 
equally prominent one to click on just below it if she didnt. Eggs  internal  records of the 
application indicate she chose to have  PPI. 
So I think Egg made it clear that it was selling PPI, that it was optional  and that Mrs H 
agreed to have it, knowing she had a choice.  But, given  that was back  in 2003, its 
understandable that she might not remember this now.
I dont think Egg recommended the PPI to Mrs H. This means Egg didnt have to look into 
whether it was right for her. But it should  have  provided enough information about  the PPI for 
Mrs H to make up her own mind as to whether  it was right for her.
From what  Ive seen, I dont think Egg made  all the information  Mrs H needed clear to her. 
But, having  gone on to consider what difference that made  to Mrs H, I dont think better  
information would have stopped her from buying  the PPI. Thats because: 
Based  on what I know of Mrs Hs circumstances at the time, she was eligible for the 
PPI. And while the PPI had certain  exclusions to, or limits on, the cover I cant see 
that she was affected by them.  
Mrs H says shed have received generous sick pay from her employer and so didnt 
need PPI. But she had limited other means  of making her monthly  repayments  if she 
wasnt working. And the PPI benefits   which also covered her for unemployment  
would have paid out on top of her ongoing pay and for up to 12 months per claim. 
Overall, I think Mrs H would have  valued  the extra security the PPI provided.
Ref: DRN80810722Theres nothing to suggest shed have considered the monthly  premium  to be 
unaffordable. And the PPI was flexible enough that Mrs H could  have cancelled  it at 
any time, and at no extra cost, if she no longer wanted it.
Taking everything into account,  I dont believe Mrs H has lost out because of how Egg sold 
her the PPI.
My final decision
For the reasons  given,  Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 January 2020. 
Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8081072