K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that Bank  of Scotland plc (BOS) mis-sold them  a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs L took out a secured loan on their home  with BoS in 1995.  At the same time they 
were sold a PPI policy which wouldve helped cover the repayments on their loan for up to 
12 months at a time if Mr L was made redundant, or for up to the end of the loan term if Mr L 
was too sick to work. It also provided  life cover  for the loan.
Mr and Mrs L say they didnt consent to the PPI being added.
The adjudicator didnt think Mr and Mrs Ls complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs L 
disagree, so the complaint has been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website  and Ive taken 
this into account  when deciding this case.  Having done so, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Ls 
complaint. Ill explain  why Ive reached this decision.
The sale of the loan and PPI took place over 23 years ago. Unsurprisingly, neither party has 
retained any documents from the sale. 
Mr and Mrs L say they didnt give their consent  for the PPI to be added.  They say they never 
took PPI with any financial product. BoS says that the PPI wasnt compulsory  and Mr and 
Mrs L wouldve been given a choice about  buying it. 
In this situation I have  very limited information  on which to make my decision. I can see from 
the policy document that Mr and Mrs L wouldve had to complete a separate  application form 
to take the PPI. I dont think the policy couldve been set up without doing this. I havent seen 
any evidence to suggest BoS didnt  follow their normal sales  practices. 
Ive taken into account that Mr and Mrs L havent  always been certain that they didnt take 
the PPI. In their original  complaint  to BoS they said [Were] not sure we took the option of 
PPI on the account. They also said in their questionnaire to this service, We have no 
details to add because of lack of memory about the loan. 
This is entirely reasonable given the length of time since the sale took place, but I dont think  
I can safely say BoS added the PPI without Mr and Mrs Ls consent on the basis  of their 
testimony alone.  
Mr and Mrs L said in their questionnaire to this service that BoS agree that I did not give 
consent to taking out the policy. However, looking at the response BoS sent Mr and Mrs L 
and BoSs response  to this services  enquiries, I have not seen  any evidence of this 
admission.
Ref: DRN89218662On balance, I think its more likely  Mr and Mrs L bought the PPI knowing they had a choice 
about it.
BoS say its likely it made a personal  recommendation to Mr and Mrs L to buy the policy,  so 
it had an obligation  to take reasonable steps to make sure it was right for them.  
Looking at Mr and Mrs Ls circumstances  at the time of sale,  I think that it was suitable for 
them. I say this because:
Mr L, whom  the policy covered, was eligible for the PPI and wouldnt have been 
affected by any of the terms which mightve  made it more  difficult  for him to make a 
successful claim,  such as those related to self-employment or existing medical  
conditions;
Mr L wouldve received sick pay from his employer, but the policy wouldve paid out 
in addition to this and wouldve been  particularly useful  when  his sick pay reduced  to 
half his pay. The policy wouldve paid out for as long as Mr L was off sick, up to the 
end of the loan term;
Mr L wouldve only received statutory redundancy pay.  Given Mr Ls length of 
service I dont think this wouldve been  very much. The policy  wouldve paid out in 
addition to this and for up to 12 months  at a time. As the loan was secured on Mr and 
Mrs Ls home, it was important that the loan repayments could  be met even if Mr L 
wasnt employed;
The cost of the policy was comparable to other  similar products on the market at the 
same time. It was flexible  as it could be cancelled at any time without a financial 
penalty. And I havent seen anything to suggest the policy  was unaffordable for Mr 
and Mrs L.
BoS also had to provide Mr and Mrs L with enough  information so they could make an 
informed decision about buying the PPI. Its possible Mr and Mrs L didnt get all this 
information. But I dont  think even if theyd had all the information they needed that it 
wouldve made a difference  to their decision to buy it, for the same reasons Ive explained 
that the policy was suitable.
So I dont  think Mr and Mrs L have lost out as a result  of anything BoS mightve done wrong.
my final decision
Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Ls complaint so it follows that Bank  of Scotland  plc doesnt 
have to pay any compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 May 2019.
Sally Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8921866