K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that Vanquis Bank Limited (Vanquis) hasnt agreed to his request for it to 
delete all of the data it holds about  him. 
background
Mr G held a credit card with Vanquis. Vanquis  agreed to accept a partial settlement of the 
balance of Mr Gs card, and the account was closed. 
After the closure  of the account, Mr G contacted Vanquis and asked it to delete all of the 
data it holds about him. He said this was his right in line with Article 17 of the General Data 
Protection Regulation (GDPR)  right to be erasure  otherwise known as the right to be 
forgotten. Vanquis  said it was unable to delete  the data straightaway, so Mr G complained.
Vanquis agreed that Mr G had the right to ask it to delete his data. However, Vanquis said it 
still needed to keep Mr Gs data for a period of time. Vanquis said there were legal 
obligations which prevented it from deleting all of Mr Gs information  straightaway, such  as 
anti-money laundering regulations. It also said it had a legal basis  for continuing to process 
his information   a legitimate interest resulting  from the original credit agreement  between 
Mr G and Vanquis.
Vanquis said it wouldnt hold onto Mr Gs data for any longer than needed,  but it would 
continue to keep  his personal  data in line with legislation and regulations  it must  comply with. 
It said that once an account is closed with a zero balance, it would usually keep the data for 
no more than seven  years.  
Vanquis also told Mr G that it provides updates  of accounts to credit  reference agencies. It 
said the partial settlement of the account  which it had accepted  from Mr G would appear on 
his credit file. And that this would show for six years from the date of the settlement.  
Mr G said Vanquis  are no longer processing  his data in line with its original purpose. He said 
hes no longer  a customer and has withdrawn his consent to data processing. He maintains 
that he has the right to be forgotten and has said that Vanquis continued processing of his 
data is a criminal offence. 
Unhappy with Vanquis response  to his complaint, Mr G contacted  this service. An 
investigator looked into the complaint  and was of the opinion  that Vanquis  hadnt done 
anything wrong. Mr G was dissatisfied  with the outcome, and asked for an Ombudsman to 
review the case.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Firstly, the role of our service  isnt to decide  whether  or not a business has breached  data 
protection laws  thats the role of the Information Commissioners Office (ICO). But, I can 
look at whether a business has treated the consumer fairly and reasonably when applying  
those regulations in their course of business.  If Mr G has concerns over whether or not 
Vanquis has fully complied with GDPR, he can raise these directly with the ICO. I can see 
that the investigator has already provided  Mr G with the ICOs contact details. 
Ref: DRN84427202Mr G told Vanquis  that hed withdrawn his consent  for it to continue to process  his data. Hes 
said that hes no longer a customer  of Vanquis, and believes that his data is now not being  
used for its original purpose. 
Vanquis says it needs to keep information  about  Mr G due to its legal obligations. It says its 
aware that Mr G has withdrawn his consent, but says it still has a legitimate interest resulting 
from the original credit  agreement between it and Mr G.
Vanquis originally recorded  Mr Gs data for the purpose of providing  him with credit. There  
are multiple activities related to providing  credit which Vanquis needs  to carry out. For 
example: providing  statements,  sharing data with credit reference agencies,  conducting anti-
money laundering checks and reporting  to relevant  tax authorities and regulators.  These  
activities are all related to the original credit agreement, and some still apply after an account 
has closed.
As Mr G has pointed  out, the GDPR  sets out the right to be forgotten.  But, the regulations 
also specify that this is not an absolute right, and only applies in certain circumstances. The 
regulations say the right to be forgotten doesnt  apply  if processing  by a business  is 
necessary for several specific reasons, and these include legal obligations. 
In other  words, Vanquis  would be entitled  to continue processing Mr Gs data if it needs to 
do so in order to comply with its legal obligations.  I can see that Vanquis  has considered 
this, and came to the conclusion that it needs to continue to process Mr Gs data.  I dont 
think I can say that Vanquis  acted  unreasonably  or unfairly in coming  to that conclusion.  
I can also see that it followed  its usual  procedures handling data on a closed account. For 
those reasons, I dont  think  it would  be right to uphold this complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, its my final decision that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 August 2019.
Gemma Warner
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN8442720