K820x#14complaint
Ms O complains that U K Insurance Limited  (UKI) cancelled her motor  insurance policy  from 
the start (voided it) because it said she hadnt  told it about previous fault claims. 
background
Ms O took out a policy with UKI through an online comparison site. UKI said she was asked 
about previous  accidents and claims in the past three years. Ms O told it shed had two non-
fault claims in 2014. UKI checked this and found  that the claims were recorded as fault.  So it 
voided Ms Os policy and refunded her premiums. Ms O said she wasnt to blame for the 
accidents and she thought they should  be non-fault. She said her premiums had doubled 
because of the voidance. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. UKI couldnt  provide 
the questions  that Ms O was asked at the time, but it did provide  the Motor  Proposal Form 
sent to Ms O to check for accuracy.  This said that there had been two incidents  in 2014 and 
recoveries had been made  for these. 
The investigator thought Ms O reasonably  knew that recovery  hadnt been made for the 
incidents. And so she thought Ms O should  have known that the information on the Proposal  
was incorrect but she didnt correct this. So the investigator thought UKI had reasonably 
voided the policy and she thought UKI had treated Ms O very fairly by refunding her 
premiums. 
Ms O asked for her complaint to be reviewed, so its come to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Ms O thought the claims were  wrongly recorded  as she said she knew 
she wasnt to blame  for them. But, as the investigator has already explained, a recording  of 
the claims as fault doesnt  mean  that Ms O was to blame for them,  but that the insurer  
didnt recover its outlay.  
I can also see that Ms O has been stressed  by the requests from UKI for further information. 
I can see that shes found this time consuming  to deal with and I can understand that she 
says its interfered  with her family life. But I think Ms O has a responsibility under her policy 
terms and conditions to provide UKI with accurate and correct  information. And I cant  say it 
was wrong for UKI to pursue this. 
UKI said that when  Ms O took out her policy she completed an online questionnaire saying 
that she had two claims in 2014 and recovery had been made.  This would  mean that the 
claims were  non-fault. 
But UKI found that this wasnt how the claims were  recorded on the Claims and Underwriting 
Exchange (CUE). UKI found that Ms Os previous insurer had recorded the claims as fault. I 
think UKI can reasonably  rely on the accuracy of information recorded by other insurers  on 
CUE. 
Ref: DRN80198042I can see that Ms O raised a separate complaint with us about how the previous insurer  
recorded the claims on CUE. So Im not able to comment  further  on that here.  
Where a complaint  arises  from non-disclosure of information important  to an insurer, we look 
to see that it asked a clear question when the policy  was taken out. We check  that the 
information given  would  affect whether a policy  was offered. And we check whether the 
informant has acted  carelessly, recklessly or deliberately in making  the non-disclosure. 
UKI has provided us with screenshots of its records showing what information Ms O entered 
when she applied for the policy.  Its also provided us with The Motor  Proposal Form it sent 
Ms O when she took out the policy. And Ive obtained screenshots  of the questions  currently 
asked about previous claims on the comparison site and shared these with the parties for 
their comments. I think these questions are likely  to be very similar to those  asked of Ms O 
when she took out her policy.  
Ms O was asked whether  in the last five years she had had any accidents, claiMs Or 
damage involving  any motor vehicles, even if no claim  was made and regardless of blame. 
The online screen  provided further  advice  saying that Ms O must declare any accidents,  
claims, losses or damage even where  she wasnt  at fault. She was then warned that the 
insurer may check this on CUE.  
Ms O initially  answered this question by replying yes.  Then  she was provided with another  
screen asking her to provide details of the claim including whether it was fault or not. 
I think this was a clear question. But I dont think Ms O answered  it accurately. On the 
Proposal Form its recorded  that Ms O had two claims when she was hit by another  party 
and recovery had been made.  UKI didnt describe these as fault or non-fault  claims, so I 
cant say that jargon  could have confused Ms O. 
But I think Ms O would have known at this stage that her previous insurer hadnt recovered 
its losses. I can see that it wrote to Ms O to tell her this. So I think Ms O should have known 
that the information she provided to UKI was incorrect. The proposal  asked her to correct  
any wrong information. But Ms O didnt  do this. 
UKI has shown us evidence from its underwriters  that if Ms O had given it the correct  
information about her claims, then it would still have  provided cover but for an increased 
premium. UKI also warned Ms O in the policy terms and conditions  that failing  to provide 
correct information  could invalidate her policy. 
I think Ms O had sufficient information  available to her when she applied for the policy to 
know that her previous  insurer hadnt  recovered  its outlay  for her claims and that the claims 
were recorded as fault. 
I think this means that UKI has justified its decision that Ms Os misrepresentation was 
reckless rather  than careless. In that case,  the relevant legislation  says that UKI is entitled to 
void the policy and retain the premiums. 
I can see that UKI decided to refund  Ms Os premiums, and I think that was very fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. But I cant say that it did anything wrong in voiding the 
policy as I think its followed the relevant  legislation.  
Ref: DRN80198043my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 March  2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8019804