K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that Santander UK Plc didnt do enough to help him when he fell victim to a 
scam. He feels Santander should have acted more quickly to recover  the money from the 
scammer.
background
On 8 February 2018 Mr P made a payment of £1000 from his Santander account to a 
company who had said they could provide him with financial services.
When Mr P didnt  receive the services he was expecting, the company initially  told him they 
would provide him with a refund within 14 days. When  that didnt happen, Mr P spoke to the 
company again,  and on 9 March 2018 they said that if he went to his bank and asked for the 
payment to be recalled  then he would get his money back. Unfortunately,  it appears that this 
company was acting  fraudulently.
Mr P went  to his local Santander  branch that day, to tell them  what  had happened,  and to 
ask them  to recall  the payment. Mr P says Santander initially told him that they would not be 
able to recall the payment. Santander then contacted the scammers bank that same day  9 
March 2018  to see if any of Mr Ps money  could  be retrieved. But the scammers bank 
unfortunately confirmed  that no money remained. It appears that Santander didnt update  
Mr P about  this straight away though,  theyve  said they incorrectly  told him they were  still 
waiting for a response from the receiving bank  when they had actually already received a 
response about what had happened to Mr Ps money. Santander also accepted that it did 
not call Mr P back when it said it would, and so could have provided better  service.  In 
recognition of this, Santander offered Mr P £100 compensation for the poor service received.
Mr P was unhappy with how Santander  handled  things, so he referred his complaint to us. 
One of our adjudicators looked  at what had happened, he explained to Mr P that he felt 
Santander had done all they could  to try and help recover the lost money, so he didnt think 
they needed to do anything more.  Our adjudicator also felt that in the circumstances 
Santanders offer of £100 for poor service  received  on the phone was fair.
Mr P disagreed; he thinks Santander has not done  enough  to try and recover  the money he 
has lost.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules,  guidance  and standards;  
codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  what I consider to have been good  industry  
practice at the time. 
Im sorry  to hear of whats happened to Mr P, and I can understand entirely  why he feels so 
strongly that his money should be returned  to him. But having thought very carefully  about  
Ref: DRN87792862Santanders actions  here, I think they did act fairly and reasonably  in allowing the transfer to 
leave Mr Ps account. And I also think Santander  took appropriate steps to try and recover  
Mr Ps funds  from the beneficiary  bank. So while I appreciate how disappointing this will be 
for Mr P, I dont  think I can fairly say that Santander should reimburse him with the £1000  he 
has unfortunately lost to the scammers. Ill explain why in more detail.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected  to process  payments 
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make, in accordance  with the Payment  
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions  of the customers  account.  When Mr P 
made the payment, he didnt know he was dealing with a scammer,  so he sent the money in 
good faith. This means that  at the time  he wanted the payment to go ahead and 
authorised it to be made.  And I have  taken that into account when deciding what  is fair and 
reasonable in this case.
But thats not the end of the story:
the law recognises  that a bank may be liable  to its customer if it makes a payment in 
circumstances where  it has reasonable grounds  (although not necessarily proof)  for 
believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate  the funds  of 
its customer (known as the Quincecare  duty); and   
regulated firms  like Santander are also required to conduct  their business with due 
skill, care and diligence (FCA  Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to 
the interests of its customers  (Principle 6).
And as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have  taken 
proactive steps  to: 
identify and assist  vulnerable consumers  and consumers in vulnerable  
circumstances, including  those at risk of financial  exploitation (something  recognised  
by the FCA in recent years by the British Bankers Associations February 2016 report 
improving outcomes  for customers in vulnerable circumstances );
look to identify and help prevent transactions - particularly unusual or out of character 
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam (something also 
recognised by the British Standards Institutes October 2017  Protecting Customers 
from Financial  harm  as a result of fraud  or financial abuse  Code of Practice, which 
a number of banks and trade associations were involved in the development of); and
in relation to branch transactions  follow  the Banking Protocol when available.     
This means  that there are circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, where a 
bank should, in my opinion,  fairly and reasonably take additional steps, or make additional 
checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make  a payment 
altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.  
This is particularly so in light of the environment created by the increase in sophisticated  
fraud and scams in recent  years  - which banks are generally more familiar  with than the 
average customer.
Ref: DRN87792863In this case, I need to decide  whether Santander acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings  
with Mr P when he made the payment of £1000, or whether  it should  have done more than it 
did. 
And having carefully considered everything  Mr P and Santander have provided, I dont think 
there was anything suspicious or unusual about  the payment that would have suggested  to 
Santander that Mr P was being scammed. The amount of the payment that Mr P made  
wasnt particularly out of character for him  Mr P had made a number of payments of 
between £500  and £1500 in the months leading  up to the scam, and had made  payments  as 
high as £20000 in the year prior to the scam  payment. So having reviewed Mr Ps account  
activity in the months leading up to the transaction I dont  think it was sufficiently suspicious 
to indicate to Santander that it wasnt legitimate. Which means that, in the circumstances, I 
dont think Santander  did anything wrong by following the instructions Mr P gave and 
sending the money.
When Mr P told Santander that hed been  scammed they acted quickly,  contacting the 
scammers bank  within  half an hour of speaking to Mr P, to see if any of Mr Ps money  was 
still in the receiving account and could be retrieved. Unfortunately, by that time, all of Mr Ps 
money had gone.
Ive listened to all the calls Mr P had with Santander, and I dont think  there was any 
significant delay  in Santander  taking  action to recover Mr Ps money.  The member of staff 
Mr P spoke to at Santanders fraud  department did advise that the payment couldnt  be 
recalled, but went  on to explain  that instead  they would need to contact  the receiving bank to 
explain that the payment had been  made  as part of a scam and to ask for the money to be 
returned. This is the correct procedure for Santander to have followed. And even if a short 
delay had been caused on 9 March 2018 when  Mr P visited  his branch,  the receiving bank 
have confirmed that unfortunately all of Mr Ps money had left the scammers  account before 
the end of the day on 8 February 2018, a month before Mr P told Santander  of his concerns.
I note that Mr P says he was told by the company he had paid that he should be able to 
recall the payment, but I dont  think that anything they said can be relied  on, as their 
intention appears  to have been to scam Mr P out of his money.
Its unfortunate that Mr P has lost out, and I understand that this whole experience will have 
been very upsetting for him. But in the circumstances, I dont think  I can fairly say that 
Santander should have done more to prevent Mr P losing his money. I cant hold Santander 
responsible for Mr P having fallen victim  to a scam, and I think they did all they could to help 
him once  they knew what had happened.  So I dont  think it would be fair to ask Santander  to 
compensate Mr P for his loss. I also think that the £100 Santander has already paid to Mr P 
for any confusion caused by what they told him is appropriate in the circumstances,  I dont 
think Santander needs to pay anything more.
Ref: DRN87792864my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2020.
Sophie Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8779286