K822xComplaint
Mr A complains about the way HSBC UK Bank  Plc handled an overdraft application.  
Background 
On 21 January 2019 Mr A called HSBC and arranged  an appointment at his local branch for 
the following  day so he could apply for an overdraft. But HSBC incorrectly  made the 
appointment at a different  branch. On 22 January  2019 Mr A arrived for his appointment but 
there was no record of it at his local branch.  He was told to apply online instead.  
Mr As online  application  was declined on 23 January 2019. Mr A says he later spoke to 
someone at Lloyds who said it had declined his application because he is a pensioner. Mr A 
complained and Lloyds dealt with his concerns over the phone  on 23 January 2019. Lloyds 
agreed the appointment hadnt been  booked correctly and paid Mr A £50. 
Mr A referred his complaint to our service and it was passed  to an adjudicator. The 
adjudicator said she thought HSBC  had dealt with Mr As complaint fairly and that his 
overdraft application  was declined because of adverse information  held on his credit  file. 
Mr A didnt accept, so the complaint has been  passed to me to make a decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are two issues here in this case. The first relates to the way Mr As appointment was 
arranged. The second is about why his application wasnt  successful.  Ill look at each issue  
in turn. 
I think all parties  agree  that something  went wrong  when  Mr As appointment was made.  
HSBC has said the appointment was made for the agreed date but at the wrong branch. 
That meant the branch Mr A attended  for his appointment wasnt  aware  or able to take him 
through the overdraft application. HSBC  paid Mr A £50 because of the mistake  it made.  I 
think £50 fairly reflects  the impact  of having a wasted visit to Mr As branch and HSBCs offer 
is reasonable. 
Mr A says he was told that his application  was declined due to the receipt of pension  
income. But HSBC  has sent us systems  evidence to show  Mr As overdraft  application was 
declined because it found adverse information  on his credit  file. Im satisfied from what Ive 
seen that the decision  to decline was based  on information held on Mr As credit  file, not 
because of the nature of his income. 
Mr A says he wanted to complete the application in branch  because  hes not a standard  
customer. But I dont  think HSBCs  decision to decline was affected by the way he 
completed the application. Given the reason for the decline was adverse  information  on 
Mr As credit  file, I think the application  would most likely have been declined whether it was 
completed in branch  or online. 
As I havent  found  HSBC made  a mistake when it declined Mr As overdraft  application Im 
not telling  it to take any further action. HSBC  has paid Mr A £50 for the problems he 
experienced arranging an appointment and Im satisfied that fairly reflects the impact of its 
Ref: DRN85412402errors. As Im satisfied HSBC has dealt with Mr As complaint fairly, Im not telling it to take 
any further action.  
My final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 January 2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8541240