K822xcomplaint
Mr F complains about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plcs (RSA) handling of a theft claim
under his home insurance policy.
background 
Mr F had home insurance and made  a claim when items were  stolen  from the boot of his 
company car. He told RSA he was sure the car had been left locked because when the 
vehicle was locked,  the wing mirrors folded  in and the car beeped.  He also told RSA he 
believed the thief had used a signal copying/jamming device to open the car.
RSA declined the claim because, it said, there  was no evidence  that force and violence had 
been used to gain entry to the car. The claim was later settled by Mr Fs wifes insurer,  but 
Mr F remained dissatisfied about the way RSA had handled his claim. He felt that, 
notwithstanding the fact the claim was ultimately paid by a different insurer,  RSAs  decision 
to decline the claim  had been  unfair and this had caused him a lot of unnecessary  distress  
and inconvenience.
RSA maintained the claim had been correctly  declined  and so, with the help of a 
representative, Mr F complained to this service. He believes his car was entered  using an 
electronic cloning  device and that his claim was unfairly declined.  He wants  RSA to 
apologise and to acknowledge the claim could have been handled better.
Hes commented there  have been  a growing number of instances of thieves breaking  into 
cars using  a technique of cloning remote control keyless entry systems and he doesnt 
accept the force and violence exclusion was fairly applied. Hes drawn our attention to one of 
our previous  final decisions in which the ombudsman has upheld a complaint about  a car 
that was broken into using a specialist device. And hes submitted evidence from a local 
neighbourhood watch scheme warning about  reports of cars being  broken into using 
sophisticated keyless entry technology.
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision on 21 August 2019. In it I explained that Mr Fs policy 
excluded theft  from motor vehicles unless at the time of the loss or damagethe motor  
vehicle was securely lockedforce and violence were used to get into the motor vehicle, 
and the items stolen  were out of sight in a locked boot or closed compartment.
Mr Fs representative  had argued  the exclusion wasnt  sufficiently clear, but I was satisfied 
the wording was clear  and unambiguous.  I said it was possible Mr F hadnt properly read the 
policy documents and that he may have  contemplated the possibility of keyless entry  if the 
exclusion had been specifically brought to his attention when he took out the policy. But, 
considering the level of risk, I thought it was unlikely that would have  stopped him from 
leaving his things in the car.
The theft had been reported  to the police,  and even though the CCTV didnt show  what 
happened, there didnt  seem to be any dispute that a theft had taken place. Further,  RSA 
hadnt suggested the items hadnt been  out of sight in a securely locked  boot. Instead,  it had 
said that while the act of opening a car door did constitute force, there  was no damage or 
evidence of violence. Mr F believed this was because the car was broken into using keyless  
entry technology. RSA hadnt disputed this either.  But it didnt accept it constituted  entry by 
Ref: DRN82853962violent means, maintaining the claim was correctly  declined. So, I explained  it was for me to 
consider whether the exclusion was fairly applied in the particular circumstances of this 
case.
I explained that when looking at complaints I had to consider what was fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances of the case. The rules which govern our service require that we, in 
considering what  would  be fair and reasonable, take into account the relevant law, regulatory  
rules, guidance  and standards and, where appropriate, what we consider to have been good  
industry practice at the relevant time.
I said its also reasonable to take into account the intention behind policy exclusions relating 
to forcible and violent  entry. And that some  like the one RSA is relying on to reject Mr Fs 
claim - are used to protect insurers against policyholders  who act negligently or recklessly  in 
some way - for example,  by failing to properly secure their possessions.  I also stated I didnt 
think that was the case here and I was satisfied  Mr F took reasonable steps to secure his 
belongings.
Having considered the circumstances giving rise to the claim,  I didnt  think  it was reasonable 
for RSA to rely on the exclusion  about  forcible  and violent entry to reject Mr Fs claim. I 
explained I thought this because the act of gaining unauthorised entry with improper means 
or for an improper purpose was, in my opinion, forcible and violent in nature, irrespective of 
whether there was physical damage. I therefore thought it was unfair  for Mr Fs apparently 
genuine claim to have been  declined  on the basis of there having been no physical  violence  
as well as force.
developments
Mr Fs representative  has confirmed they have nothing  further  to add. 
RSA responded  to say it didnt accept the findings in my provisional decision,  maintaining  
that violence requires  proof of some physical damage.  The main crux of its argument was 
that force may have  been used, but the use of an electronic  device to gain entry  to a car 
doesnt involve  violence, and therefore  its decision to apply the exclusion was fair. 
I reviewed the complaint  in light of RSAs response. I accepted  the means of gaining  entry  
via the keyless  entry technology might not involve violence, but I explained I remained 
satisfied the decision  to apply the exclusion was unfair. Mr F had done everything  he 
possibly could have  done to look after his belongings in that they were left out of sight  in a 
securely locked boot. And he couldnt have predicted or avoided  the fact that someone  
would use keyless entry technology  to gain entry to the car. 
I had commented  in my provisional decision that the whole point of these exclusions was to 
protect against policyholders  who act negligently  or recklessly in some way. And I wasnt 
persuaded RSA had taken account  of the full circumstances of the theft. I explained  that, 
because of this I didnt think that, in applying the exclusion on the basis  there  was no 
violence or evidence  of damage, it was treating Mr F fairly.  And I felt he should get £100 
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  hed experienced as a result of this.
RSAs responded  to state that the exclusion is clear is included  in the policy  because  it 
doesnt wish to accept  the risk of loss from an unattended vehicle in these circumstances, 
and that the extent of the risk its prepared to take is a commercial decision.  It argues that 
the ability of the policyholder to predict or avoid the loss is irrelevant and that the character 
Ref: DRN82853963of its customers actions  doesnt negate the exclusion, which  may be relied on provided its 
clearly stated. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive already  explained, when looking at complaints, I have to consider what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. The full circumstances of the theft are relevant to the 
issue of whether RSAs  decision  to apply the exclusion was fair and reasonable. And Im not 
satisfied that in applying the exclusion on the basis there was no violence or evidence of 
damage, its decision to apply  the exclusion was fair and reasonable.
Ive considered the additional comments and arguments that RSA has made  and I accept 
the exclusion is clearly  stated. I also accept that the risk insurers are prepared to take is a 
commercial decision.  However,  the Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) 
sets out that an insurer must not unreasonably reject a claim and, having  considered  all of 
the circumstances of the complaint, I dont  think RSA has complied with this. This is 
because, irrespective of its commercial  intention,  RSA should  still consider the basis of the 
exclusion and what sort of claims its intended  to avoid it paying. And in sticking  rigidly to the 
wording of the exclusion when its clear  Mr F couldnt have done anything else to protect his 
belongings, I dont think RSA has acted reasonably in rejecting the claim.
However, the fact remains that, because the claim was settled  by another insurer, Mr F 
didnt suffer any financial loss as a result of RSAs  decision to decline his claim. And I dont 
think there were any undue delays. But I accept Mr F did suffer  some  unnecessary  distress  
and inconvenience  as a result of the claim having  been declined by RSA for which I direct it 
to pay him £100  compensation.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and direct Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc to pay Mr F £100  
compensation. The compensation is to be paid within 28 days of the date on which we tell 
Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance  Plc Finance Mr F accepts my final decision (if he does). If it 
pays later than this then interest* will have to be added to the unpaid amount from the date 
of my final decision until settlement is made.
* HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc to take off tax from 
this interest. Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc must give Mr F a certificate showing how 
much tax its taken off if he asks for one. He may then be able to reclaim the tax from the tax 
authorities if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 October  2019.
Carolyn Bonnell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8285396