K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains about the service he received from British Gas  Insurance Limited  
(BGIL) when it undertook an annual  service  on a gas fire covered  under  a 
HomeCare Four insurance policy.
background
Mr T has a HomeCare Four policy  with BGIL  which provides cover, in certain 
circumstances, for various risks associated with electrical  and gas  appliances,  
amongst other things,  in the home. It includes cover  for an annual service  of two gas 
fires at the insured  property.
An engineer was due to call at the property  to undertake the annual service of one of 
the fires. But despite phoning  ahead and promising Mr T extra  time to get to the 
property, he didnt  turn up. BGIL offered  Mr T £30 to apologise.
BGIL arranged another appointment the following day  a Sunday  for the service to 
be undertaken. When the engineer called, Mr T wasnt happy with the standard  of his 
work or his professionalism and, because  of this, he asked him to leave the property.  
He phoned BGIL a number of times that afternoon to  complain about  this. He also 
asked for another engineer to be sent the same day to finish  the service and  to put 
the fire back together again. Additionally  he asked for a team leader to phone  him 
back as he was increasingly unhappy with how things were  being handled.
BGIL explained that as there was still heating and hot water  at the property, they 
couldnt arrange an engineer  to call the same day but offered an  appointment the 
following afternoon. Mr T only wanted an evening appointment but BGIL  couldnt 
confirm this without first talking to another department and Mr T wasnt  happy to wait 
while this happened.
Mr T phoned back again and BGIL confirmed  it had recorded  a request for a call 
back from a team leader within  48 hours.  Mr T also asked for a weekend 
appointment for another engineer to call but BGIL couldnt arrange this as the 
availability of weekend  appointments  wasnt  known  at that time.  
A little later,  Mr T called back  again as he wasnt happy that he was having  to wait 
for a callback from a team leader.  And he complained again about not being able to 
get a weekend appointment.
A couple of days later, a service  manager  phoned Mr T back and arranged an 
appointment for the following  weekend for another engineer  to call. He also 
confirmed he would be following up Mr Ts complaint about the first engineer and 
would ensure he wasnt sent to the property again. He also offered  a gesture of 
goodwill to apologise for the problems  it had caused. Mr T rejected this offer of £50. 
Following a review by a more senior  manager  BGIL offered a total of £165  for the 
Ref: DRN80177822problems it had caused. Mr T wasnt  happy  with this and brought  the complaint to 
this service.
In summary, our investigator said she thought  this sum fairly reflected the trouble 
and upset Mr T had experienced and she wouldnt  be asking BGIL  to do anymore. 
Mr T thought an additional £210  would  be fair so he asked an ombudsman to make  a 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. And  in doing so Ive reached the 
same conclusion as the investigator and for the same reasons. I know Mr T  will be 
disappointed by this so Id like to explain  my reasoning.
customer service
Mr T has undoubtedly experienced some customer service failings from BGIL. Its 
acknowledged and apologised that the first engineer didnt turn up when  he should 
have done and it offered £30 by way of an apology.  I know Mr T rejected  this offer 
but I think  it was a fair offer in the circumstances. I also note that BGIL arranged for 
an engineer to return the following  day - a Sunday when appointments arent 
normally available - as it recognised it had let Mr T down.
BGIL also apologised  for the service and professionalism of the second  engineer  
and its confirmed it will be following  its internal staff guidelines  to deal with  the issue.  
I know Mr T was unhappy  with the number of calls he  made that  day but I note that 
some of these were made at his own choosing as he thought things should  be 
happening quicker than they were. Im satisfied,  though, that BGIL  was trying  its best 
to help and in a timescale  that I consider  reasonable   and within one  which it 
explained to Mr T in advance.
Mr T says the BGIL engineer told him that previous services  of the fire hadnt been 
undertaken correctly. But theres no evidence of this and nothing  in BGILs notes  
backs up this claim. I note that the engineer who resolved the issues, fully  tested the 
fire and confirmed it was in working order. I dont have enough to conclude though 
that previous services  werent undertaken correctly.
weekend appointments
When BGIL couldnt immediately arrange a weekend appointment, Mr T  said the 
policy been mis-sold as he said hed been  promised weekend appointments when  he 
took it out. As he took the policy out five years  ago, the call in which he  did, is no 
longer available so its not possible to be certain what was said during the call. 
But having read through the terms and conditions of the policy and looked  at the 
other documentation provided I note theres no specific reference to the availability of  
weekend appointments. From BGILs notes,  it seems that generally  weekend 
appointments are available but that it didnt  have any non-emergency weekend 
Ref: DRN80177823appointments available at the time Mr T was phoning. And  as Mr T still had hot water 
and heating in the property, BGIL  didnt  consider Mr Ts situation to be an 
emergency. I dont think this was unreasonable.
I note that the original appointment was on a weekend and  when  Mr T  spoke to a 
manager about his experiences, the manager arranged  the follow  up appointment at 
the weekend too. So overall, Im satisfied that weekend appointments are  available. 
And in the absence  of any evidence to show Mr T was misled, I cant safely  conclude 
the policy was mis-sold  to him.
compensation
BGIL has sent Mr T a cheque £165  for the various issues  he experienced.  I know he 
thinks this isnt enough. But I consider £165 to be a fair and reasonable way to 
reflect the trouble and upset BGIL caused  him for the customer  service failings 
identified above.  I dont  intend to tell BGIL it needs to  do anymore and Ill merely  
leave it to Mr T to decide  whether  he wishes to cash the cheque.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 March 2019.
Paul Phillips
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8017782