K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited  (LV) declined  to pay his 
claim on his motor insurance policy following an accident. He wants  it to pay the £5,000 claim.
background
Mr D said a van hit his car but he was unable to get the vans details at the time.  LV had an 
independent engineer examine Mr Ds car and he thought it more  likely that it was damaged  
by hitting a wall or a post. LVs investigators  tried to speak to Mr D and his passengers to find 
out more about the accident.  But LV said Mr D didnt keep the appointments and neither he 
nor his passengers  contacted the investigators. So it declined the claim because it thought the 
circumstances werent  as Mr D described and it couldnt get more information from him. 
Mr D said LV had told him he should have pursued the van. He said hed washed  his car 
before the engineer inspected it and so removed any paint from the van. He said he couldnt  
keep his appointments for good  reasons  and didnt have the investigators phone  number to 
contact it to rearrange this. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought  LV had 
reasonably investigated the claim.  He thought  it was reasonable for it to ask Mr D and his 
passengers to meet its investigators. He thought the investigators had reasonably  tried to 
contact Mr D, although it didnt have phone records to prove this. So he thought Mr D and 
his passengers hadnt co-operated with LV as required  by the policy. And so he thought  LV 
was entitled to decline the claim. He listened  to the call in question  and he said he didnt 
hear LV tell Mr D that he should have  pursued the car.
Mr D replied that he wanted his complaint reviewed as LV hadnt  shown  that its investigators 
called him. So its come to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
LV said it had declined Mr Ds claim because he hadnt co-operated with its investigation and 
it thought the accident hadnt occurred as hed described it. Our approach in cases  like this 
is to consider whether the insurers acted  in line with the terms and conditions of the policy 
and fairly  and reasonably.
Ive looked at Mr Ds policy  and I can see that on page 19 is a condition  that requires  Mr D to 
co-operate with LV and provide information  to validate and process the claim. So I think its 
reasonable for LV to expect Mr D and his passengers  to provide information to its claims  
investigators. The policy also says on the same page that LV can reject a claim if it is false.
To validate the claim, LV had its engineers examine photographs taken of Mr Ds car. It had 
concerns that these  showed that the claimed damage might  not have occurred as Mr D 
described. So it had independent engineers examine the car. I think this was fair and 
reasonable as its what Id require when there was a disagreement such  as this. 
Ref: DRN86185592The independent engineers concluded  that the damage was more likely to have  been  
caused by contact with an abrasive surface, such as a fence or post. LV discussed this with 
Mr D. But Mr D maintained his version  of events.  He said he had independent reports to 
support his version of events. But I cant see that he provided these for LV to consider. So 
LV decided to ask Mr D and his passengers further questions to validate the claim. I think  
this was reasonable as LV had independent evidence  that cast doubt on Mr Ds account. 
The investigators arranged two appointments with Mr D. He explained why he couldnt 
attend these. But LV said he then didnt contact the investigators to make  a further 
appointment. The investigators  said they called on the passengers home  address  and left 
contact details but no response was forthcoming. 
Mr D said he didnt have the investigators  details to return calls.  But I think  its more likely 
than not that the investigators  had left their contact details with Mr D and his passengers as 
they said they did.
Mr D said the investigators couldnt  show that they had called him and that he hadnt  responded. 
But I think the investigators showed  that they did make appointments with Mr D and did visit his 
passengers. So I think its likely  that they did try to contact Mr D as they said they did. 
So I think LV reasonably  considered the evidence available  and decided  to reject Mr Ds claim 
as the evidence showed that the accident  didnt happen as hed stated. I also think LV was 
entitled to decline  the claim under the policys terms and conditions as Mr D hadnt co-operated 
with its investigation.  So I cant say LV did anything wrong in deciding  to reject the claim.   
Mr D said LV had told him he should have pursued the van at the time to obtain its details. 
But in the call in question,  LVs advisor asked Mr D if he had been able to follow the other  
driver to obtain his registration. Mr D replied that hed hit his head  and the car wouldnt 
move. The questions then moved on. So I dont think the advisor  told Mr D that he should 
have pursued the other driver. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8618559