K820x#14complaint
Mr R says Santander UK Plc mis-sold  him a payment protection insurance  (PPI)  policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr R says he bought  the policy at a meeting. Santander has records showing the policy  
started in 1991.  Mr R says it started with a mortgage in 1985.  Hes told us of having been  
employed as a process operator and being entitled  to no more  than statutory pay for 
sickness and redundancy. He hasnt  told us of having had any health issues  prior to the sale.
The policy provided  cover  for Mr R for accident, sickness and unemployment, subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. Santander  has told us the earliest  records it has of the cost show 
a premium of £20.85  in 1993.  From  what Ive seen, this wouldve secured a monthly  benefit  
of £300 in 1991 in the event of a successful claim, to help Mr R with mortgage  related costs.
Mr R believes  his mortgage  ran from 1985 to 2010  but hasnt sent anything to show it was 
running with Santander (or Abbey National) after 31 October 2004. Santander has sent us 
evidence to show it has no record of a Santander  (or Abbey National) mortgage  for Mr R, so 
it thinks Mr Rs mortgage wasnt running with it (or Abbey National)  in April 2008. Id expect  
Santanders records to show such a mortgage  if it had still been running  in April 2008. With 
all this in mind, if the policy were taken  in connection with a Santander  (or Abbey National) 
mortgage, what I have  makes me think it more likely than not that particular  mortgage  was 
no longer running  in April 2008. Records  show the PPI policy  itself closed in 2007.
Mr Rs representative has made lengthy and substantial representations on his behalf.  Ill not 
restate them all here,  but I have  read and considered them  all carefully.  In summary, Mr Rs 
representative says:
Santander failed  to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should be presumed Mr R wouldnt have taken  the 
policy and the complaint  should  be upheld. Mr Rs representatives believe there to be no 
evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a successful 
claim meant  the policy was of inherently poor value  as shown by the low claims ratio. 
The common law duty of utmost  good faith means  Santander  should  have told Mr R 
about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Santander should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr R and the impact  they 
would have had on his chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is generally 
someones biggest ever long-term  transaction  cover would stop at the time it would be 
most needed; and
Ref: DRN83198312The information Mr R received was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had a chance to 
give their responses to the adjudicators  opinion.  Mr R disagreed  with the adjudicators  
opinion for several  reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been  
passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Rs. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Rs complaint.
This sale took place  before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) published its 
code of practice in June  2000 and before the sale of general insurance  products like this 
became regulated in January 2005.  So, the GISC  Code, the FSAs  (and FCAs) overarching  
Principles for Businesses and insurance  conduct  rules (ICOB and ICOBs) arent applicable  
to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
Im persuaded the credit agreement  in connection  with which  the policy was sold, if with 
Santander (or Abbey National), was no longer running in April 2008. So the unfair 
relationship provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court  
judgment in Plevin  about s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance  made by the FCA 
about the handling of complaints  about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the 
Plevin judgment, arent  applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at the time of sale which  Im satisfied 
are applicable to my consideration  of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct Marketing/ 
Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
Ref: DRN83198313I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Santander at the time. So Im satisfied I should take the ABI Code and 
these other  publications into account when deciding what is, in my opinion,  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Rs case.
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   the Office of the Banking Ombudsman  in this 
case  might have been expected to reach in relation to an equivalent complaint. I note that 
under the Banking Ombudsmans  terms of reference the Ombudsman was required to 
decide complaints  by reference to what was, in his opinion, fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances  and that the Ombudsman was required  to observe any applicable rule of 
law or relevant judicial  authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Santander was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering Mr Rs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Santander gave  advice, whether it advised Mr R with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him, given his needs  and 
circumstances. 
-Whether Santander gave Mr R sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable  
him to make  an informed  choice about  whether to take the policy,  including  drawing to 
his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr R, I must  
then go on to consider  whether  and to what extent Mr R suffered loss or damage  and 
what I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr R and 
Santander, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Rs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Mr R know  he had a choice?
Santander had to make it clear the PPI was optional.  It hasnt  been  able to provide papers 
from Mr Rs sale to show how a choice was given in his case - or papers, like an application 
form, to show  how the PPI was supposed  to be presented at the time. But the sale was more 
Ref: DRN83198314than 15 years before the complaint, so the absence of paperwork  doesnt in itself make me 
think Mr R wasnt  given a choice about the PPI  bearing in mind also Ive nothing  to make 
me think Santander wouldnt normally have given customers  like Mr R a choice about  it.
Mr R has said he had no interest  in PPI and has said it was just included as part of his 
mortgage package. I give Mr Rs recollections  some  weight. But I also bear in mind more 
than 15 years had passed  when Mr R set out those recollections for us - so I wouldnt expect 
him to vividly recall all the details. 
With all this in mind, on balance Mr Rs recollection arent, on their own,  enough to persuade 
me Santander didnt  give him a choice about the PPI. And I havent anything  else to make  
me think this. So, overall, what I have  doesnt persuade me Mr R wasnt  given a choice 
about taking the PPI.
Looking at everything Mr R has told us about  the sale,  Ive nothing to suggest Santander 
pressured him into the PPI either.  Taking  everything  into account, and while theres not 
much to go on, I think its more likely Mr R knew the PPI was optional and agreed to take it 
without undue pressure   although  it would  be understandable if he didnt recall this now.
did Santander provide advice?
Santander says it provided advice during this sale. Mr R says advice wasnt given. But if 
Santander did provide advice, it had to do more. With this in mind, I think  its fair to proceed  
on the basis that Santander  gave  advice. This means Santander had to advise Mr R with 
reasonable care and skill, in particular whether the policy was appropriate or suitable given 
his needs and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps Santander took to establish whether the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr R. There are no papers available from the sale, no record of what 
Santander discussed in relation to the policy and no evidence to show what steps it took to 
establish whether  Mr R would have been caught  by the significant  exclusions and limitations  
which might  have meant the PPI didnt fully meet his needs. For example, theres nothing to 
suggest Santander considered whether Mr R had any pre-existing medical conditions.
Overall, what  I have  doesnt persuade me, on the balance of probabilities,  that Santander did 
all it should have done to determine whether  the policy was suitable for Mr R given his 
circumstances. So Im not persuaded Santander  advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Santander did all it should  have done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr R, I do think its more likely than not the policy  was ultimately suitable for him. 
In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration that, given the likely policy terms:
-Mr R had a need for the policy  it seems likely hed suffer a loss of income if sickness or 
unemployment stopped him working  for a prolonged period  even allowing for any work 
benefits hed have been entitled  to. The PPI benefit wouldve helped  him manage the 
consequences and, by helping him cover mortgage related costs, helped  protect  his 
home at what couldve  been a difficult time if Mr R were unemployed or too sick work.
Ref: DRN83198315-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr R  Ive nothing to 
suggest his employment or occupation wouldve made it difficult for him to claim and he 
didnt have existing  health issues the policy mightve excluded.  Also,  from what  Ive 
seen, there were no additional restrictions  on cover  for mental  health  or back problems.
-Mr R met the eligibility criteria  for the policy and the monthly cost appears to have been 
affordable for him.
-The policy would pay benefits for each claim for up to 12 months for unemployment and 
36 months for disability  and the first eight weeks of any claim wasnt covered. But the 
policy still provided useful  cover  given Mr Rs circumstances and the loss of income  he 
could suffer if he couldnt work  for a prolonged period. Also, as the policy  helped  protect  
mortgage payments  on his home,  I bear in mind the potential consequences  were Mr R 
to have become  unable  to make payments on loans secured against his house. I note 
also that statutory  benefits for redundancy or sickness  couldve provided  some limited, 
short-term help during  the eight-week  qualification period.
the information
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Santander  gave Mr R sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable him to understand what 
Santander was offering  or recommending him and make an informed decision about whether 
to take the policy.
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr R was given a broad description of what the policy 
was intended  to cover (that is, the policy would help cover his mortgage related  costs  were 
he unable to work due to accident, sickness or unemployment) and of the approximate  
costs. Ive reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mr R wouldve taken the PPI 
without any sense of what it was for and of how much the premium might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Santander  gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr R agreed  to take the policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr R, Im not persuaded Santander 
did enough to present  information about  the policy in a way that was fair and reasonable to 
him. Im not persuaded Santander gave Mr R all the information he needed  about  the policy 
to make an informed decision about  whether to take it.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Rs representative has raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Rs. Ive considered  
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have explained 
the low claims  ratio  what Mr Rs representative  considers  to be poor value  and the 
fact much of the premium went to the business rather than the insurer.  
Ref: DRN83198316-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just told 
Mr R about the limitations and exclusions,  it should have gone further and explained  the 
significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Rs representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find this extended to the insurer having to disclose the claims 
ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations and exclusions  in the way 
Mr R has suggested. And, taking into account  the law, industry codes and standards  of good 
industry practice applicable  to this complaint, I dont think its fair and reasonable to conclude 
Santander ought to have  done either. 
what effect did Santanders shortcomings  have on Mr R? To what extent did he suffer  
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found Santander didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy to Mr R. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude he suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether  or not he would have 
still taken the policy,  had Santander done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded Santander took the steps  it should have done to establish  whether 
the policy it recommended was suitable  for Mr R, I have found the policy was ultimately 
suitable for him. In those circumstances it seems  to me that, whether or not Mr R has 
suffered loss or damage in this case primarily depends on whether, if Santander had 
explained things  properly, Mr R would have acted differently or whether he would have taken  
the policy in any event. Mr R says he wouldnt have taken it and believes I should  presume  
this to be the case given the significant  failings identified above. 
Ive considered the representations of both sides and the evidence  relating to this carefully. 
Deciding whether  to take insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a number of factors 
before deciding whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to weigh  up any advice  to 
take the policy, the cost of doing  so given the benefits offered in return and the potential 
consequences they will suffer if they do not have  insurance, should  the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests Mr R had some interest in taking payment protection 
insurance. By this I mean when Santander offered him the PPI or advised him there was a 
suitable product  he could  buy that would help protect  his mortgage payments if he were 
unable to work because of accident, sickness or unemployment, he concluded he wanted  it. 
But he made that decision based on incomplete  information, meaning what  he thought he 
was getting is not exactly  what he got.
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr Rs circumstances that the 
policy was not fundamentally  wrong  or unsuitable  for him. Also I consider it more likely  than 
not he knew he would have to pay something for it. But Ive nothing  to show Santander  told 
him the exact  premium when he applied. That said, I dont think  it likely Mr R wouldve taken 
the PPI without an idea of the approximate cost  and also if when he started to pay it the 
cost had been significantly different, he mightve raised this with Santander at the time or 
reconsidered his decision rather  than paying it for a number of years like he did.
Ref: DRN83198317Overall, Im not persuaded Mr R wouldve found the cost unacceptable if he had been given 
the exact figure during  the meeting in which he agreed to the cover.  
In addition, Ive seen nothing to show that Santander made clear what  Mr R would get if he 
made a successful claim. But Ive seen nothing persuasive to suggest he had expectations  
about the monthly benefit amount that were  significantly different to the actual policy benefit. 
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr R thought he had bought and 
what he actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded the first eight weeks of any disability or unemployment, after which,  
rather than the remaining  mortgage  term, it would help protect mortgage payments for up 
to 12 months for unemployment and up to 36 months for disability;  
The policy limited, and in some situations  excluded, unemployment  cover  if Mr R wasnt  
a permanent employee; and
The policy wouldnt  cover the recurrence  of disability  or illness  for which medical advice 
was sought in the 2 year period immediately before cover  started. 
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Mr R pause for thought   and may well have  caused  him to conclude the policy wasnt  as 
good as he thought and he might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the cover,  
when coupled with the other shortcomings  in this sale,  might have dissuaded some 
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr R from taking the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr Rs circumstances at the time of sale shows the policy  wasnt  
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. He was eligible for its benefits and it provided 
cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proven valuable  to him should  the 
insured risks have  become a reality. Also, I havent  anything to suggest Mr R wouldve been 
caught by any of the significant exclusions  he was in good health  and Ive no suggestion 
he wasnt in permanent employment, for example. So I think  he still had some good reasons 
to take the policy.  
Ive seen nothing  to suggest  the policy excluded back or mental  health  conditions or placed  
any additional restrictions or more onerous  evidential requirements in the event of a claim on 
those grounds than wouldve applied to any other disability claim. And I think its unlikely 
Mr R wouldve expected  to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some 
evidence to support  that claim.  Also, Ive seen nothing persuasive to suggest that to make a 
claim for disability Mr R needed to be anything other  than unable  to do his normal job.
Santander may not have told Mr R that any claim he made would be limited to 12 months  for 
unemployment and 36 months for disability. And it may not have  told him there wasnt  cover  
for the first eight weeks  of any unemployment or disability. All this may have differed from 
what he expected  and mightve  hoped  for. But Ive nothing to suggest Mr R had work 
benefits for sickness or redundancy worth as much  as 12 months pay. 
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr R wouldve still thought a policy that after eight 
weeks paid up to 12 monthly payments for unemployment, or 36 for disability, would benefit 
him and help him manage if he were  unable to work in the circumstances the policy  covered.  
If Mr R were unemployed or too sick to work,  by helping with his mortgage costs  the policy 
benefit couldve helped  reduce the likelihood of his home being  put at risk.
 
Ref: DRN83198318Having considered all the evidence and arguments in this case,  I consider  it more likely than 
not Mr R would still have  taken the policy. It was suitable for him, sufficiently close to what 
its likely  he thought he was getting  and provided  benefits that would  help him manage the 
consequences if he were  made redundant, or unable to work through accident  or sickness.  
In the circumstances, I consider it more likely than not Mr R would have taken the policy in 
any event, notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr Rs representatives say the rules  about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption. 
They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr R would  not have bought the PPI he bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr Rs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  he found  
himself in as a result of the sale was the same position he would have  been  in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr R believes  the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments.  
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr R in the position he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
That is because,  while I accept its possible Mr R wouldnt have taken the PPI, Im satisfied, 
of the two possibilities, its more likely than not he would still have taken the PPI had he been  
given clear, fair and not misleading  information  about the policy  he was buying. So Im not 
persuaded it would be fair and reasonable, in those  circumstances, to conclude Santander 
should pay Mr R compensation, as that would put him in a better position than he would 
have been in if everything had happened as it should have  done.  
Im also aware Mr R thinks Santander misrepresented the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Santanders statements  misrepresented  the contract, in my opinion  the reason  why 
Santander failed  to act fairly and reasonably was not because  of what it did or didnt say in 
the information it provided  but because the overall information Santander gave Mr R, in the 
Ref: DRN83198319way it did, was insufficient to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it 
to have met in 1991 when providing information  about an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Rs representative  says a court might take if it were 
to find Santander  negligently misrepresented the contract  to Mr R and about  the remedy a 
court might award if it were to find Santander  had been in breach of its duty of utmost  good 
faith. But this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what is fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out, I dont think  it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr R in a better position  than if everything had happened  as it should 
have done. 
Im grateful  to Mr R for his courtesy throughout our consideration  of this matter.
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 August 2021.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8319831