K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains Mortgage  Express wont agree to write off the potential  shortfall  on his 
mortgage.
background
Mr W took out an interest only mortgage  for around £130,000 in 2007 for a term of ten years,  
which was secured over his property. When the mortgage ended in September 2017,  Mr W 
continued to make interest payments but was unable to repay the loan at that time.
Mr W was looking  to re-mortgage  on a buy to let basis with another  lender. To do that he first 
needed to repay the Mortgage Express loan so Mortgage Express  would release the charge 
it held over the property.  
The property was valued by independent surveyors. Mr W felt the property had been 
undervalued. The buy to let lender would only offer a mortgage  of around 80% of the value 
of the property, which wasnt enough to repay  Mortgage Express.
Mr W felt Mortgage  Express  should  agree to accept the re-mortgage amount and write off 
the shortfall between  that and what he owed on the existing  mortgage. Mortgage Express 
didnt agree. It thought Mr W could  sell the property and repay its mortgage in full based on 
the valuations.  It said it would look at any proposals Mr W put forward to pay off any shortfall 
if he sold the property.
Our investigator didnt  think Mortgage Express had acted unfairly and didnt uphold Mr Ws 
complaint. Since Mr W didnt accept our investigators view,  Ive reviewed everything afresh 
to come to a final decision.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I cant consider Mr Ws concerns about the valuations. They were carried  out independently 
of Mortgage Express,  so they arent its responsibility. This service doesnt have the power to 
look at complaints about surveyors and our investigator has referred  Mr W to an organisation 
which could help him with that.
Mr W agreed to repay the Mortgage Express loan at the end of the term. The terms and 
conditions of the mortgage say that Mr W has to pay back any shortfall,  with interest,  even 
where Mortgage Express agrees to release its charge over the property. 
I can understand Mr W may feel the amount of interest hes paid over the term is high. But 
the likely  cost of the mortgage was set out in the offer and he agreed to pay the interest 
when he took the mortgage out.
Mortgage Express kept in touch with Mr W about  how he planned  to repay the mortgage,  as 
Id expect. In 2013 said he planned  to sell the property and move abroad. 
When the term ended, Mortgage Express gave Mr W some time to market the property 
allowing him to stay there, and he continued to make  interest  payments. When  Mr W told 
Ref: DRN87006792Mortgage Express in December 2017  he was looking to re-mortgage, it allowed him further 
time to find a new lender. Mortgage  Express decided to begin possession proceedings in 
around October 2018 when it hadnt  heard from Mr W about his repayment  plan.
In January 2019, after solicitors had been  instructed  by Mortgage Express, Mr W said he 
was planning  to sell. Mortgage Express allowed  Mr W more time,  putting the possession 
action on hold. In March 2019,  Mr W told Mortgage  Express hed found a BTL mortgage. 
Mortgage Express said it wouldnt  be able to release the charge over the property if there 
was a shortfall in what he owed.
I dont think its unreasonable for Mortgage  Express to insist  on Mr W repaying  the full 
amount he owes. He agreed  to do so when he took out the mortgage. And the independent 
valuations suggested  hed be able to repay the mortgage from the sale proceeds if he sold 
the property. 
Mortgage Express has said if there is a shortfall  after a sale, it will look into any proposals  
Mr W makes to repay the balance  of the mortgage. I think  Mortgage Express has treated 
Mr W fairly and reasonably. Its allowed him to stay in the property and explore his options 
for repaying  the mortgage for considerable time after the term of the mortgage ended. 
Bearing everything in mind, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint.
 
Under current Financial Conduct  Authority  (FCA)  guidance in light of the coronavirus 
pandemic, Mortgage Express cannot  take any further possession  action against Mr W until 
after 31 October 2020. Mortgage  Express has said it will consider a payment deferral and 
further time for Mr W to repay his mortgage if he lets it know his plans. 
I expect Mortgage  Express  to continue to treat Mr W fairly, in line with the FCA guidance. 
That would include working with Mr W to sell the property and coming to an arrangement for 
payment of any shortfall that might  arise. And Id expect Mr W to keep  in contact with 
Mortgage Express about his plans.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint. Under  the rules  of the Financial  
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or reject my decision before 
21 October 2020
Julia Wilkinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8700679