K821x#15complaint
Mr D complains Shop Direct  Finance Company Limited trading as Very wrongly allocated  his 
payments and as a result hes incurred additional  interest that hed now like removed.
background
Mr D says he bought  an item for £289.99 on Buy Now Pay Later  (BNPL)  terms that required 
him to pay off the balance by 22 December 2017  to avoid paying interest. He says he paid 
£289.99 on 30 November  but then found  that Very had in deducted a delivery charge of 
£3.99 for an item hed bought in October. As a result the BNPL  wasnt  paid in full and hes 
been charged interest of £120.80.
Mr D says if hed known  about the delivery  charge hed have paid it. And he says its obvious 
the £289.99 was for his BNPL account and he feels its unfair of Very not to use it for this 
with the result hes now being asked  to pay so much  more  in interest.
Very says Mr D didnt  allocate the payment for his BNPL  account  so, in line with its terms 
and conditions, it first deducted the delivery  charge. This meant  the BNPL  balance wasnt 
cleared in full by the due date and interest  became due. It says it hasnt  made a mistake.
Our adjudicator said it was clear the payment  of £289.99 was intended to clear  the BNPL 
balance and so avoid any interest becoming due. If he didnt hed have to pay £120.80 
interest. When this was balanced  against the delivery charge  of £3.99, it wasnt reasonable 
to think hed have  knowingly  not paid the £3.99  and as result have to pay an additional 
£120.80. 
Even if the payment had been  allocated in line with the terms and conditions, the adjudicator 
said it appeared the delivery charge had been added  to the account after Mr D made his 
payment. In the circumstances he felt it was clear  what the payment was for and that Very 
could have been more sympathetic and waived the interest, which  was what  he now 
recommended it do.
Very disagreed and said
Customers needed to specifically allocate a payment to BNPL  and they were given 
the option to do so when making payment. Mr D hadnt done so.
Customers were  advised that delivery  charges were not included in the BNPL  
balance and would instead form part of the minimum payment required. It referred to 
another statement sent to Mr D which  made this clear.
Very didnt agree it had made a mistake  or that it now needed to waive the interest on this 
purchase.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this particular complaint. Having done so Ive decided to 
uphold Mr Ds complaint  as Ill now explain.
In this case Mr D had an outstanding BNPL balance of £289.99  that needed to be cleared by 
22 December 2017, failing which hed be charged  £120.80  in interest. Mr D made a payment 
of that precise  amount on 30 November as noted  in his Very account.
Ref: DRN81573932It seems  Mr D didnt  specifically allocate this payment  for his BNPL account. But Ive looked 
at the statement sent on 24 November (statement  138) and I cant  see any mention of any 
other charges due at that time so I think its understandable that he may have overlooked 
this at the time. And while  the delivery  charge is included in the following statement, Mr D 
had already made his payment by that time and hadnt realised  his payment would be split 
and so not pay off the BNPL balance in full as hed thought.
I accept its for the customer  to allocate the payments. But as the adjudicator has said,  its 
simply not possible to come any other view than that Mr D intended the £289.99  to be used 
to pay off the outstanding BNPL balance due at that time. Or that if hed realised  there was 
an outstanding  delivery charge of £3.99 he wouldnt have  paid this rather  than risk incurring 
additional interest of £120.80. For that reason Id have expected  Very to have looked at the 
specific circumstances of this payment and to have viewed Mr Ds situation sympathetically 
and positively. Im not satisfied its done  so.
I have to consider  whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. In this 
case it seems  to me Mr D made a genuine mistake  in allocating his payment. But the 
amount of interest  hes required  to pay as result of this mistake doesnt  seem reasonable 
when set against the £3.99 involved. For that reason, I think it would be fair in this case  for 
Very to allocate the £289.99 towards the BNPL balance as Mr D intended. It should then 
waive the interest added to this purchase  as result of his not clearing the balance  in full by 
the 22 December.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr D;s complaint and require Shop Direct Finance 
CompanyLimited trading as Very to waive the £120.80 interest added to Mr Ds BNPL  
account..
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 February  2019.
Cerys Jones
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8157393