K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2003. Mr S says HSBC  UK Bank Plc (HSBC), trading as First Direct, mis-sold him the PPI.
background
Mr S took out a PPI policy in 2003 to cover  his mortgage. The policy  provided  cover for 
accident, sickness or unemployment. 
He paid a monthly  amount for the PPI. If he had made a successful  claim,  the policy would 
have paid out the repayment benefit for up to 12 months.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint.  Mr S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ss case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
HSBC had to make it clear to Mr S that the policy was optional  and he had to agree  to take it 
out. Mr S has said he was told taking out the PPI would help him to get his mortgage  
application accepted. HSBC has provided  evidence to show  that Mr Ss mortgage  began in 
1994, which was a number of years  prior to the sale of the PPI policy. So it would appear  
that his recollection  of events may have  been affected over time,  which  is understandable, 
but I do need to consider what I think is more likely to have happened, taking into 
consideration all the available  evidence  and information.
Mr S says the policy was taken out during a telephone call and then the paperwork was 
sent to him in the post. HSBC doesnt have  a record of how this policy  was initially  sold but 
says that the application  would have been  sent to Mr S in the post.  HSBC  no longer has 
the actual form that Mr S would have completed  but it has provided a sample which it says 
he would  have had to complete in order for PPI to have been added to his account.
Having looked  at this sample form I can see it asks for details  of the applicants  to be covered  
by the policy  and the amount of monthly benefit that is required. It also states on the form 
that you should complete it if you would like us to arrange cover   this suggests  that there is 
a choice about taking out the policy. The form also includes a direct debit mandate to 
complete in order to give permission to the bank to take the premiums from his bank 
account. If Mr S didnt want to take out the cover he didnt need to complete the form.
So, based  on everything Ive seen and been told, I think HSBC  made  it clear  that the PPI 
policy was optional and that Mr S agreed to take it out, knowing he could refuse it if he didnt 
want it.
Ref: DRN82339532HSBC says it didnt  recommend  the PPI to Mr S but Mr S says he was given advice about 
the policy  although he hasnt provided much detail as to why he thinks  he did receive 
advice. From what weve been told by HSBC, the application form for the PPI would have 
been sent to Mr S for him to complete.  And so I think  its unlikely HSBC  recommended the 
policy to him which means it didnt have to check if it was right for him. But it did have to 
make sure Mr S got the information he needed to decide for himself if it was right for him.
Its possible the information HSBC gave Mr S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  
been. But based on what Ive seen it appears he chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like he 
wanted this type of cover. And taking into account  what Ive been told of his circumstances at 
the time it doesnt  look like he was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover - so it would have  been useful for him if something went  wrong. It also looks like the 
PPI was affordable. So I dont think  better  information about the PPI would have put him off 
taking out the cover.
Which means HSBC doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr S.
But HSBC  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr S because: 
HSBC got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr S about that. Because  HSBC  didnt tell Mr S, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, HSBC has paid back the amount of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr S has said  including what he has said about the sick 
pay he would have  been entitled  to and savings he had and why he thinks  this means  the 
policy shouldnt have  been sold to him. But as Ive mentioned previously, the policy was 
not recommended to him which  means it was for Mr S to make his own decision about  
whether the cover available  was of use to him, taking into account what  he knew  of his 
employee benefits and any savings. 
Mr S has also said that he could have relied on his family for support. While  I appreciate  
that his family would have wanted  to help, such support cant  be relied upon as their 
circumstances can also change, meaning that they are unable to provide financial  
assistance. So these  points dont change my decision.
Ref: DRN82339533my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so HSBC  UK Bank Plc does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr S.
But HSBC  UK Bank Plc does have to pay back to Mr S any commission  and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 May 2019.
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8233953