K821x#15complaint
Mr W complains that a car he was financing  through an agreement with Specialist  Motor 
Finance Limited  (SMF) was not of satisfactory  quality and, when allowing him to reject it, 
SMF havent  provided adequate redress.
background
Mr W took receipt of a new car in February 2019.  He financed the deal through a hire 
purchase agreement  with SMF. But Mr W had problems. Within  a very short time the car 
required a new gearbox and tyre pressure sensors.
He referred his complaint to this service  and in the meantime  SMF  allowed him to reject the 
car. They terminated his finance agreement and repaid the two monthly instalments hed 
made. But they noted hed been  able to travel 1,041 miles so they applied  a mileage charge 
for fair usage  and billed him £260.25.
Mr W didnt think  SMF had been  fair. He explained that he and his family  had to get frequent 
taxis and had difficulty transporting his nan, who was agoraphobic. 
Our adjudicator thought SMF  had been  reasonable when applying  a charge for usage  but 
she thought it was clear  Mr W had also been inconvenienced  by matters. She thought  it 
would have taken  time to report  the issues to the garage and raise  his complaint, and she 
thought the loss of the car clearly had an impact  on his family arrangements.  So she 
decided, in those  circumstances,  it would be reasonable for SMF to also pay him £200 
compensation.
Mr W accepted the investigators view but SMF didnt think  there was justification for so 
much compensation. So the complaint was referred for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators view. I know that will disappoint SMF  so please let me explain 
why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr W acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. The hire purchase agreement is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement  and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.
Ref: DRN85988072There is no longer a dispute about whether this car was of satisfactory quality. SMF 
accepted that in April 2019. They are concerned about the level of compensation  the 
investigator awarded, so Ive looked  at that.
Mr W should not have  had to raise  his complaint to this service and should not have had to 
return the car to the dealership to have his quality  concerns investigated. SMF  have 
accepted it took too long to resolve the issue for him. I can also understand that the 
problems Mr W experienced with the car would have  disturbed his usual family 
arrangements. I think, given that level of disruption, a compensation payment of £200 is 
reasonable.
Ive also considered the charge SMF  have made for use of the car. The relevant legislation  
allows them  to make a deduction for fair usage  and I think  the amount they are charging is 
reasonable in the circumstances. So they may charge £260.25  for fair usage but should pay 
Mr W £200 in compensation.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell Specialist  Motor Finance 
Limited to pay Mr W £200 to compensate him for the trouble and upset hes been caused as 
a result of these issues.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8598807