K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains the cost of a fixed sum loan agreement he arranged through European  AG 
Retail Limited trading  as Zanussi Boilers was misrepresented. He wants the price reduced to 
the amount he says was agreed.
background
Mr C tells us he agreed  to purchase  a replacement central heating  boiler  through Zanussi.  
He says the purchase price was to be financed  through a fixed sum loan agreement  with a 
company Ill call B. Mr C says he didnt receive any paperwork regarding the agreement. 
Mr C says hes now being asked  to pay over £4,500 when he says he negotiated a price of 
just over £3,000.  He feels he should only have to repay  the lower  price.
Zanussi told us the order had been created over the phone  and details of the contract sent to 
the customer. It said the agreement was in the terms agreed with the customer. And these 
had also been  explained and confirmed in a customer care call prior to installation.
Our adjudicator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. She said shed listened  
to recordings of telephone calls with Zanussis agents. And it had not been possible for her 
to confirm that any reduction had been  agreed. And she said that Mr C had signed the 
financial satisfaction note in March 2018 and this had set out the total amount repayable. 
She said that she wasnt going  to recommend Zanussi did anything else.
Mr C didnt agree with this outcome and felt that the adjudicator had sided with the business. 
As its not been  possible to resolve  the complaint an ombudsman has been asked to make 
the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  Mr C has experienced the disappointment and concern after discovering  the cost of 
this purchase was more  than he expected.  And as Mr C feels the finance  agreement was 
misrepresented Ill explain  our approach to such complaints.
A misrepresentation is a false statement of fact which  induces  a customer to act upon it.
And whilst I dont apply the law - directly  - I do take it into account. And under present 
legislation - as the credit  broker for the agreement which was made with B - Zanussi would 
be liable  for any misrepresentation it made  regarding the agreement. 
In trying to resolve complaints, we listen to what the parties tell us, and we look to 
documentary and other evidence to help us reach a decision. This is in line with our fair and 
reasonable remit. And where evidence is incomplete, unclear or contradictory  - as some of it 
is here - Im required to make my decision on the balance  of probabilities. That is I have to 
decide what is the most likely explanation to account  for whats  happened.
Ref: DRN81937842It seems  the original order was arranged  with Mr Cs wife by phone on 22 January 2018  - as 
its her name which appears on the contract  for the boiler purchase. And the basic item price 
stated on that contract is £3,497.14. This initial agreement was made as part of a joint 
household arrangement which was reaffirmed  when Mr C entered into the finance 
agreement to cover the cost. And as the cash price of the item on the contract and on the 
fixed sum loan agreement is the same - I dont think  theres any mistake  regarding the basic  
cost.
 Ive listened to phone call recordings in which the details and terms of the finance 
agreement are discussed with Mr C. In a customer care call - which  I believe was also on 22 
January - the agent  advised the terms of the agreement and repayment  options. At one point 
in the conversation Mr C raises a query  with the agent - as he seems to have mistaken the 
number of monthly payments for the amount he was required to pay each month.  This was 
quickly and amicably  resolved  as the agent  explained the monthly payments were £37.51 
over 119 months with a final payment  of £36.67.
Theres also a brief conversation on or around  24 January between Mr C and an agent  Ill 
refer to as D - in which the details of the package are discussed. The adjudicator  has 
detailed some of the verbatim  quotes  in her view - so Ill not repeat them in full. The agent  
explains that he cant remember  the exact amounts but, in general terms, the package price  
is £3,000 something and the maximum price  if the agreement ran the full ten years would 
be £4,000 something. The agent then says:
youre aiming to pay in the middle which is where you get your saving, thats  where you 
make your difference and thats  where  youre obviously paying less back, thats  the 
difference.
Theres nothing in the conversation that makes  me think any price reduction was negotiated. 
Although there was a brief explanation as to how Mr C would be able to pay less (by making 
the repayments earlier).  And Ive not been  provided  with any other  recordings in which  any 
other alterations in price  have been made.
Im aware Mr C says he didnt receive  a copy of the agreement - but I cant hold Zanussi 
responsible for any failure of a third party to deliver  mail. And I think the phone calls which 
Mr C had were  enough  to ensure he knew, or ought  to have known, the amount he was 
required to pay.
Ive seen a copy  of a handwritten note made by Mr C on which  some figures are written. But 
I dont think this takes the matter any further. Im not disputing  that Mr C thought he was due 
to pay a lesser sum - and presumably the note reflects this - Im simply saying the evidence  
of the available recordings does not support  that view.
When the boiler was installed  it seems  the satisfaction note regarding the installation was 
signed but not the satisfaction  note relating to the finance agreement. But later in March 
2018 Mr C has signed the finance  satisfaction note. And this sets out the total repayment  
due over the ten year period as just over £4,500.  
In summary,  I dont think theres  any persuasive  evidence of any misrepresentation 
regarding this agreement. So I shant be asking Zanussi to do anything.  Im sorry my 
decision will come as a disappointment to Mr C but Im not upholding this complaint.
Ref: DRN81937843my final decision
For the reasons  stated  above my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 June  2019.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8193784