K821x#15complaint
Mr L complains  that a car that was supplied to him under a conditional  sale agreement with 
Vauxhall Finance  plc wasnt of satisfactory  quality.  Hes being  helped with his complaint by 
his mother.
background
A new car was supplied  to Mr L under a conditional  sale agreement that was entered  into in 
the name of GMAC UK plc  which  is now Vauxhall Finance plc - that he signed in 
September 2016. He returned  the car to the dealer in November 2016 because there was an 
issue with the hand brake  not working properly  but no fault was found. Mr L reported an 
issue with the car juddering and a warning light in October 2017 and he again returned the 
car to the dealer.  It replaced the piston  connecting rod and bearing under  warranty.  Mr L 
reported a further issue  with the clutch sticking in September 2018 and the dealer replaced 
the clutch pipe,  elbow  and slave cylinder under  warranty.
Mr L complained to Vauxhall Finance  in October  2018 and said that he wanted  to reject the 
car because  of those  issues.  He wasnt satisfied with its response  so complained to this 
service. Since then hes had further issues with the car and he says that hes unable to drive 
it. 
The adjudicator recommended that this complaint should be upheld. He said that the car 
wasnt of satisfactory quality and he recommend that Vauxhall Finance should: end the 
agreement; collect  the car; refund Mr Ls deposit  of £71.78  (with  interest);  pay him £250 for 
the distress and inconvenience  caused;  refund two monthly instalments (£533.90) for the 
period of time that the car has been in the garage  for repairs; and ensure that the agreement 
is recorded as settled on his credit  file.
Vauxhall Finance  has asked for this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. It says, 
in summary, that:
many  of the issues with Mr Ls car are wear  and tear and general  maintenance;
Mr L reported an alleged fault to the dealer in November 2016  but the fault couldnt 
be found and that issue was never raised  again;
Mr L didnt have  any faults with the car until over twelve months  after it was supplied  
to him and after covering at least 10,000 miles;  
its liability doesnt extend to the full duration of the contract  its at point of sale and if 
the defect is within  the first six months  it would assume that the fault was present at 
the point of sale;
its satisfied that the car was fit for purpose  at the point of sale; and
theres a manufacturing warranty in place  for the first three years to ensure that any 
faults which do arise are covered by the manufacturer.
my provisional findings
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr L 
and to Vauxhall Finance on 22 October  2019.  In my provisional decision I said as follows:
Vauxhall Finance,  as the supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring that the 
car was of satisfactory quality. That will depend  on a number of factors,  including the 
age, and mileage  of the car and the price that was paid for it. The car that was 
supplied to Mr L was a new car and I consider that it was reasonable for him to 
Ref: DRN89422642expect that the car would be free from even minor defects. Satisfactory quality also 
covers durability which means that the components within the car must be durable 
and last a reasonable amount of time  but exactly how long that time is will depend 
on a number of factors. 
The car was supplied to Mr L in September  2016. He returned  the car to the dealer 
about two months  later because he said that there was an issue  with the hand brake 
not working  but the dealer couldnt  find a fault.  
He was then able to use the car without  any reported issues  until October 2017 when 
he took the car back to the dealer because the car was juddering  and there was a 
warning light. The dealer discovered  that one of the pistons was cracked so the fault 
was repaired under warranty. The cars  mileage  at that time was 10,208 miles.
Mr L returned the car to the dealer again  in September 2018  because the clutch 
pedal was sticking.  The dealer confirmed  the fault and replaced the clutch  pipe,  
elbow and slave cylinder under warranty. Mr L then contacted Vauxhall Finance and 
said that he wanted to reject  the car  but it didnt agree. 
But Mr L continued to have issues with the car. He returned the car to the dealer 
again in December 2018 because the engine management warning light was on, the 
car was jerking when  pulling  away  and the clutch pedal was sticking again. The car 
was repaired again under warranty.  But the car had only been driven for 266 miles 
since the September 2018 repair and Mr L says that hes continuing to have issues  
with the car that hes unable to use it. Hes provided evidence  to show that he made  
a statutory off-road  notification for the car in January 2019 and that the cars mileage 
in September  2019 was 17,559 miles  the same as it was in March 2019.
I dont consider it to be reasonable to expect a new car to have problems such as 
these within  the first two years. Those issues include a cracked piston and the clutch  
pedal continuing to stick to the floor despite a repair. I consider those to be significant 
faults - and there  continue to be issues with the car. So I consider it to be more likely 
than not that the car wasnt as durable  as it would be reasonable for Mr L to expect it 
to have been when it was supplied to him in September 2016. And for that reason  I 
consider that the car wasnt  of satisfactory  quality  at that time. So I find that its fair 
and reasonable in these  circumstances for Mr L to reject the car.
So I find that Vauxhall Finance should  end the conditional sale agreement, collect the 
car from Mr L and refund  to him the deposit  that he paid for the car (with interest). 
Mr L made a statutory off-road notification about  the car in January 2019 because  he 
says that he was unable to use it. I consider  that it would be fair and reasonable for 
Vauxhall Finance  to refund to him all of the monthly  payments that hes made  under 
the agreement  since the start of January 2019  (with interest)  and to remove  any 
record of the agreement from his credit  file.
The continuing issues with the car will have caused considerable distress and 
inconvenience for Mr L. And I find that it would be fair and reasonable for Vauxhall 
Finance to pay him £250 to compensate him for that distress  and inconvenience.
So subject to any further representations by Mr L or Vauxhall Finance, my provisional 
decision was that I was minded to uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN89422643Mr L has now appointed  a representative  to respond, on his behalf, to my provisional  
decision. His representative says, that:
the initial complaint  was submitted  to Vauxhall  Finance  in October 2018 so any return 
of payments should be back-dated  to that point; and
the adjudicator  recommended that a payment equal to two months instalments 
should be refunded as no evidence that a courtesy car was provided to keep Mr L 
mobile  and that should be included in the decision; 
and it suggests  an alternative approach which it says would mirror the guidance  set out in 
the legislation and result  in a much fairer resolution to Mr L. It says that he should receive a 
refund of his deposit and all his monthly payments  under  the agreement (all with interest) 
and £250 compensation  from which 18,000  miles of use at 25p a mile should be deducted 
resulted in a payment of £7,025.24 to Mr L (compared with £4,998.27 that it says hed 
receive on the basis of my provisional decision).
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not persuaded that 
I should change  my provisional  decision. 
In his response to the adjudicators recommendation Mr L said that the dealer arranged a 
courtesy car and that he only required that the car be taken away and the finance cancelled. 
Ive taken account of that in my provisional decision which said that Vauxhall Finance should 
end the agreement, collect the car and refund Mr Ls deposit and all of the monthly 
payments that hes made since he made  a statutory off-road notification about  the car (all 
with interest). Ive also said that it should  pay him £250 compensation for the distress  and 
inconvenience that hes been caused and that it should remove any adverse information 
about the agreement from his credit  file. That is significantly more than Mr L said that he 
required and I consider it to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Im not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable for me to require Vauxhall Finance to 
refund the two monthly payments that were recommended by the adjudicator  because  of the 
lack of evidence  about Mr L being  provided with a courtesy car when  Mr L has since  said 
that he was provided  with a courtesy  car. To refund those  monthly  payments would mean 
that he had use of the courtesy car without any cost to him which  wouldnt  be fair or 
reasonable.
Mr L has used the car to drive 17,559 miles and I consider it to be fair and reasonable  for 
Vauxhall Finance  to keep the monthly payments that he made under the agreement from the 
date that the car was supplied to him until he declared it off-road in January 2019  as 
payment for the use that hes had from the car. Mr L continued  to use the car after hed 
complained to Vauxhall Finance so Im not persuaded that the refund of his payments  should 
be back-dated to October 2018. Nor am I persuaded that I should  require Vauxhall Finance 
to refund all of the monthly payments that Mr L has made under the agreement  and then 
charge him 25p for each  mile that hes driven in the car. The parties agreed what  Mr L 
should pay for his monthly use of the car - that is the monthly repayments - and I see no 
reason to depart from the agreement that the parties made on that point.
In response to my provisional decision,  Mr Ls representative has raised  general  points  
about finance agreements for cars.  But Im looking at the individual circumstances of this 
complaint and what is fair and reasonable in that context  - not in relation  to other 
hypothetical agreements  or the operation of the wider market  in relation to car finance. 
Ref: DRN89422644my decision
For the reasons  set out above, my decision is that I uphold Mr Ls complaint in part. And I 
order Vauxhall Finance  plc to:
1.End the conditional  sale agreement  and arrange  for the car to be collected  from Mr L 
 both at no cost to him.
2.Refund to Mr L the deposit of £71.78 that he paid for the car.
3.Refund to Mr L all of the monthly  payments that hes made under the agreement  
since the beginning of January 2019.
4.Pay interest on the amounts at 2 and 3 above at an annual rate of 8% simple  from 
the date of each  payment to the date of settlement.
5.Remove any information about the agreement from Mr Ls credit file.
6.Pay £250 to Mr L to compensate him for the distress  and inconvenience  that hes 
been caused.
HM Revenue & Customs  requires Vauxhall Finance to deduct  tax from the interest  payment 
referred to above.  Vauxhall Finance must  give Mr L a certificate  showing how much tax its 
deducted if he asks it for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 January 2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8942264