K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2009. Mr B says Bank of Scotland plc (BoS)  trading  as Halifax  mis-sold them  the PPI. 
The policy provided  cover  for Mr B only, Mrs B wasnt  covered  by the policy. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Bs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Mr B has said it wasnt made clear to them  that the PPI was optional.  He says that they 
werent told this in the meeting and they signed  the forms as they trusted  BoS. Mr B and 
BoS havent been able to provide much detail about what  was said in this meeting. And 
there isnt much paperwork about  the PPI sale from the time either. Thats  understandable 
given the time that has passed.  But it means  I dont know what was discussed. 
So Ive thought carefully about what Mr B and BoS have said. And Ive also used what I 
know about BoS sales processes to help me make  my decision.  Having done this, I dont 
have enough to say that its likely  BoS told Mr and Mrs B that they needed to buy the PPI 
policy. Overall  I think its more likely  that BoS made it clear that Mr and Mrs B didnt have to 
take out the PPI and they chose to take it out  although I can understand why Mr B may not 
remember this.
BoS recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs B so it had to check  that the PPI was right for 
them. Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage was a significant, long-term, financial commitment. If Mr B 
couldnt work for a long period of time they may have found  this difficult  to pay. As the 
mortgage was secured  on their home,  Mr and Mrs B couldve potentially lost their property if 
they fell into financial  difficulties.
Mr B wasnt  affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover.  The PPI wouldve 
paid Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage repayment if Mr B couldnt work due to illness,  or he lost his 
job. The payment wouldve  been  in addition to any employer, or unemployment benefits, he 
might have received  if this happened. It couldve provided a payment for up to 12 months per 
claim. 
So overall the PPI seems  to have been right for them based  on what Ive seen of their 
circumstances at the time.  
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mr and Mrs B about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But they chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted  this type of cover. 
And it seems like it would  have been useful for them if something went wrong.  It also looks 
like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put them  
off taking out the cover. 
Ref: DRN89701442This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So BoS doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mr and Mrs B paid for it. But BoS has already  offered to give Mr B back  some of the cost of 
the PPI. I dont think it needs  to do anything more. BoS will make arrangements  to pay Mr B 
now Ive issued my final decision.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 February  2019.
Andy Burlinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8970144