K820x#14complaint
Mr P and Miss E are unhappy with the amount St Andrews Insurance plc has paid to settle  
their claim for theft under their buildings and contents insurance policy.
background
Mr P and Miss E had a buildings and contents  insurance policy  with St Andrews. They  made 
a claim on their policy after three  pedal cycles, tools,  a speaker and several  other items of 
contents were stolen from their garage.  
St Andrews  accepted some of the claim.  They said the policy only covered pedal  cycles that 
had been specified on the policy. Mr P and Miss E had specified one at a value of £1,500, so 
St Andrews  paid this amount. Because the other  two hadnt been specified, St Andrews 
didnt pay anything for them. St Andrews also paid £2,000 for contents in the garage and 
£150 for tools in the home as both amounts were the maximum offered under the policy.
Mr P didnt think St Andrews handled the claim fairly. He had understood there was cover  
under the policy  for all pedal cycles, not just those that had been specified. He said hed 
been given conflicting and incorrect information by St Andrews. He thought they had told 
him that some of the contents, including the speaker, wouldnt be subject to the £2,000 limit. 
He also thought they had told him the £150 limit didnt  apply  to power tools.  Mr P felt 
St Andrews  should  settle the claim in line with the advice hed been given by them.
St Andrews  accepted Mr P had been  given conflicting information about the £150 limit. They 
thought the claim  had been settled in line with the policy but acknowledged the conflicting 
information would have caused  him inconvenience. They  offered him £40 compensation.
Our investigator considered the complaint.  She was satisfied St Andrews had settled the 
claim according to the policy terms and conditions. She agreed that St Andrews had given 
Mr P incorrect advice.  But she didnt  think this meant St Andrews had to settle the claim 
according to that incorrect advice.  She said the £40 compensation St Andrews had offered 
was fair to recognise  the loss of expectation  St Andrews had caused.
Mr P felt St Andrews should stand by the advice theyd given him and settle the claim on 
that basis. 
Because Mr P and Miss E didnt agree, its been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I think the offer 
St Andrews  made was fair, so I wont be asking them to do anything further.
The policy provides cover for stolen contents, subject to the policy  limits - £2,000 for 
contents in the garage and, separately, £150 for tools in the home. 
Home is described in the policy  booklet  as The private dwelling and its garages (including 
integral garages),  outbuildings, sheds and greenhouses, all used for domestic and clerical  
purposes only, at the address shown in your policy schedule.
Ref: DRN82652072St Andrews  have paid both amounts.  Under  the policy terms I wouldnt expect them  to do 
more than this. But Mr P says St Andrews gave him the impression he would receive  more  
than this and he would  like them  to stand by that. St Andrews accepts they made a mistake  
when speaking to Mr P.
Where an insurer has given a consumer incorrect information when settling a claim, the fair 
thing to do is to consider  how the claim should  have been settled and ensure the consumer 
is put in that position. I dont think it would be fair to act as if the incorrect  information  were 
correct. Its also fair to consider whether the consumer has been caused any avoidable 
distress or inconvenience as a result of the mistake the insurer  made.
Ill look at each part of the claim separately.
Tools
When Mr P first spoke to St Andrews, he was told the limit for tools was £150.  He said the 
power tools that had been stolen were worth  much more than that. He was told the limit 
applied to all tools.
When Mr P called a second time, he was told the limit applied to hand tools only  not power 
tools. After he sent in a list of the power tools that had been stolen, he spoke to St Andrews 
a third time and was told the £150  limit applied to all tools.
The word  tools isnt defined in the policy, so Im satisfied it includes all tools. St Andrews 
was clear about that the first and third time it spoke to Mr P  but not the second  time. In the 
second call Mr P was clearly pleased to hear the limit didnt apply to power tools. At this 
point he already knew he was losing out on the cost of some of the items that had been 
stolen. So, he was understandably relieved  not to be losing out on the cost of some power 
tools as well. I accept it would have  been disappointing for him to find out the limit did apply, 
especially after his hopes had been  raised.
Overall, I dont  think this mistake had any impact  on the claim settlement though. Mr P and 
Miss E had more than £2,000 of contents  and more  than £150 of tools stolen. So even if the 
£150 limit was only for hand tools, which meant  power tools could be claimed under the 
contents heading, they had already  reached that limit too and couldnt have got a higher  
settlement.
Other contents
In Mr Ps first call with St Andrews they discussed  the various items that had been stolen 
and the two policy limits. Mr P mentioned camping  equipment,  as well as an item, described 
as an awning or a tent, which  St Andrews thought might not be covered as they may see it 
as a caravan accessory rather than contents. Mr P wanted to understand which  items would 
be covered and which of those  would fall under which limits. He asked if his speaker was 
separate. St Andrews agreed  it was and described it as contents of the home. Mr P asked 
what this meant. St Andrews said this was anything thats in your home,  your speaker you 
would use in your home, we would cover camping equipment because  thats  something in 
your home.
Ref: DRN82652073The policy covers contents  in the home, where the meaning of the word  home  includes the 
garage as well as the main house.  So, anything which can be described as contents in the 
home would  be covered,  up to the policy limits.  Anything  else,  such as a caravan accessory, 
wouldnt be covered  at all.
Because this part of the conversation followed directly from the discussion about the awning, 
I think St Andrews were trying  to explain what would be considered  as contents of the 
home, and therefore  be covered up to the policy limits, rather than what  might  not be 
covered at all. Whereas to Mr P, the use of the word separate  and reference  to contents in 
the home indicated  some  items might  not be subject to the £2,000 limit for contents in the 
garage.
St Andrews  didnt go so far as to say the speaker  or any other items  werent subject to 
the limit. And they did advise him to send them a list of the items for them to consider, rather 
than confirming anything  would be covered. So, I dont think Mr P was given the firm 
impression he could  expect to receive  more  than the £2,000 limit.
But I can see how a misunderstanding could  have arisen which left Mr P believing he could 
expect a larger claim settlement than he got. If St Andrews had been clearer,  I think  this 
misunderstanding could  have been  avoided.
Pedal cycles
The policy is split into several  sections. Its clear there is no cover for pedal cycles in the 
main contents section. Theres a separate section  which covers  any items the consumer has 
specifically added to the policy, up to the value the consumer chose when adding it.
Ive checked the policy  documents and the only item specified is the pedal cycle for £1,500.
From the outset St Andrews told Mr P he was only covered for the pedal cycle  he had 
specified and agreed to pay £1,500 for that straightaway.  Although he was disappointed to 
find out he wouldnt receive anything for the other two cycles, the information he was given 
about this part of the claim was correct, clear, and didnt change.
Compensation
When thinking about fair compensation for the avoidable distress and inconvenience caused  
to Mr P and Miss E, I bear in mind that the claim was settled fairly within a couple of weeks 
after the first call. So, St Andrews corrected and clarified things  soon after the mistake was 
made.
As explained above, I dont think the mistake  about the tools limit had any impact  on the 
settlement value. And I dont think Mr P was misled about which  items  of contents were 
subject to the £2,000 limit, albeit an avoidable  misunderstanding did arise.  As a result, Im 
satisfied St Andrews offer of £40 was reasonable.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr P and Miss Es complaint. So, I dont require  
St Andrews  Insurance plc to do anything.
Ref: DRN82652074Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P and Miss E to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 March  2020.
Kevin Parmenter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8265207