K820x#14complaint
Miss H complains that American Express Services Europe Limited didnt raise a chargeback  
for her when she paid for a hotel  booking using her charge card.
background
I set out the background  to Miss Hs complaint in my provisional  decision.  In that decision I 
also explained why I wasnt intending to uphold her complaint. Below, Ill again summarise  
the background to her complaint and my provisional  findings, so that all relevant information 
is in this one decision.
Miss H booked a hotel room overseas through an online hotel  booking agent.  She used her 
Amex charge card to pay for this. She paid for the hotel in February 2018 for an upcoming  
stay in December 2018.
Miss H complained  about the quality of the room  and services and she also complained that 
the hotel room provided wasnt of the size advertised by the hotel booking  agent and it didnt  
have many of the features  as advertised  including daily Wi-Fi, an iPod dock,  daily  
housekeeping  and a fridge.
Miss H complained  to Amex but it didnt uphold her complaint. It said it couldnt  
investigate  issues  about the quality  of services. But it upheld her complaint that it should  
have set better  expectations from the start. So it credited her account  with £50 
compensation as a gesture  of goodwill.
Miss H remained  unhappy with Amexs response because her complaint wasnt just 
about  the quality  of the room and services but also that the size of the room wasnt as 
described  and the services werent  as described either.
Miss H brought her complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt think Miss Hs 
complaint  should be upheld. They thought Amex had acted fairly when it considered  her 
chargeback  request.
Miss H disagreed with the investigators  view. She thinks  Amex advised her to raise  the 
dispute and how much  to dispute.  She thinks there must be call recordings to show this. 
Our investigator asked Amex about  this. Amex confirmed it had no call recordings - 
other than a telephone call when  Miss H made her complaint and it said it had already 
provided copies of Miss Hs webchat conversations.
Our investigator explained to Miss H that their view remained unchanged. Miss H 
disagreed  and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
In my provisional  decision  I said:
Ive considered all the available  evidence and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss H was disappointed that the hotel and services werent as she was expecting. I 
empathise with the situation she found  herself  in. But what I must  consider here is 
whether  Amex treated her fairly  in accordance with its chargeback  rules. Im not 
considering whether  or not the points Miss H has made about the quality  or description  
of the room  and services  she received are substantiated.
Ref: DRN85612262The chargeback  scheme is a voluntary code  and a consumer doesnt have a right to 
bring a claim. Although  theres no obligation on Amex to do a chargeback, we consider it 
good  practice for a business to try to claim if it has good reason to do so. However,  
even if a chargeback is raised, theres no guarantee a consumer will get their money 
back because  it may be defended by the merchant  in line with Amexs card scheme 
rules.
Amexs chargeback rules allow a chargeback  to be made when goods and services are 
"Not as described or defective  merchandise". Amexs rules dont allow it to consider 
disputes  abou t the quality of the services provided.  So although Miss H was 
disappointed with the quality of the room and services she received, I think it acted fairly  
when it rejected  her chargeback about these  issues.
Miss H also thinks Amex  should  have raised a chargeback for her on the basis that the 
hotel  room and services  were not as described. However, where  goods or services 
arent as described,  a chargeback can only be made under Amexs rules where  the 
service is cancelled  or rejected with the merchant. This would have been difficult for 
Miss H to do as she was abroad at the time and she didnt have the funds to book 
elsewhere, but the criteria had to be met to pursue a chargeback through Amex.
I therefore cant  say Amex was wrong  to reject  her chargeback  on the basis that the 
hotel  room and services  werent as described because theres  no suggestion she 
cancelled or rejected her hotel room.  However,  I dont think Amex dealt with this as well 
as it should have  done and I havent seen anything to suggest this was explained to 
Miss H.
However, I dont consider it necessary to make any additional  compensatory  award. I 
say this because  in its final response letter, Amex has already acknowledged  that it 
should have  set better expectations at the start,  it credited her account with £50 and as 
Ive explained  above, Amexs chargeback  rules didnt allow it to consider a chargeback 
in the circumstance s Miss H found herself in.
I think Amex acted fairly in suggesting that Miss H should contact the merchant  directly.  I 
havent seen any documentary evidence to support Miss Hs complaint that Amex  
proactively advised  her to make a chargeback  or advised her on the amount she should  
claim. The information Ive seen shows Miss H was disputing  another transaction at the 
same  time so I think its more likely than not that she was aware of the process for 
making a chargeback.
I invited  both parties to let me have  any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. Amex  replied and it agrees with my provisional decision. Miss H also replied. She 
doesnt understand how all call recordings  and online  chat records  that would prove she 
was told to raise a dispute have conveniently been left out and ignored  therefore  not 
looked into.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN85612263I thank the parties  for their further  comments.  Id like to reassure her that Amex has provided 
details of its online chat records. In terms of telephone  call recordings, we asked Amex to 
provide these but it confirmed it didnt have any - other than the telephone call Miss H 
when she raised  her complaint. Where I dont  have all the information Id ideally like I make  
my decision  based  on the information available but Id like to reassure Miss H that I have 
sufficient information  to enable me to reach a fair outcome.
I explained in my provisional decision  that I hadnt seen any documentary evidence to 
support Miss Hs concerns that Amex  proactively advised her to make a chargeback or 
advised her on the amount she should  claim.  And even if it had advised  her to make  a 
chargeback it wouldnt  affect my decision because I have  no basis to say she lost out 
financially. I say this because Amexs chargeback rules dont allow it to bring a chargeback 
in these circumstances and even if a chargeback is raised, theres no guarantee a 
consumer will get their money back because chargebacks can be defended by merchants.
It follows that I see no reason to depart  from the conclusions set out in my provisional 
decision detailed above.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 April 2020.
Michelle Hayward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8561226