K821x#15complaint
Mr T and Mrs TS have  complained about  delay and poor customer  service by Target 
Servicing Limited in approving a Deed of Postponement (DoP).  They  would like Target to 
compensate them for their financial loss and trouble and upset.
background
The full history of what  led Mr T and Mrs TS to complain to us is set out in detail in the 
adjudicators letter  to Target  dated  20 February  2019. As both parties have had a copy of 
this letter,  I wont repeat the background here.  
The issue  is relatively  straightforward. Mr T and Mrs TS were  arranging  a new mortgage on 
their property. Target administered a second charge loan and was required to approve a 
DoP in order that the new mortgage would have priority. This took much longer than 
anticipated.
After Mr T and Mrs TS complained to us, Target  acknowledged its service had been poor 
and had led to a delay in completion of the new mortgage, which was on a lower  rate of 
interest. It agreed with the adjudicators recommendation  to compensate Mr T and Mrs TS 
for the period of five weeks  during  which they had to pay their previous mortgage on a higher 
rate of interest. This was calculated as follows:
Previous Mortgage  CMI - £962.51 - Weekly  £240.63  = 5 Weeks  £1,203.14
New Mortgage CMI - £735.79 - Weekly £183.95 = 5 Weeks £919.74
Difference £283.40
The adjudicator also asked Target  to pay compensation of £350 for the trouble and upset it 
had caused. Mr T and Mrs TS agreed  with the adjudicator that £350 was fair compensation. 
But Target thought this was too high. It thought  £100 was fairer. So it now falls to me to 
decide what compensation should be paid.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Target doesnt dispute that its service fell 
short of what was expected. Its agreed  to compensate Mr T and Mrs TS for their financial 
losses (as detailed  above). But Target  thinks £100  compensation for trouble and upset is 
sufficient.
Having looked  at what happened, I disagree. A DoP is not a complicated  matter and Im 
satisfied Target  should  have been able to progress  this quickly. But it did not, and this led to 
a delay of five weeks in completing the new mortgage. It was necessary to get an extension 
to the new mortgage offer so it didnt  lapse, and I see that the matter  only progressed  
because Mrs TS was pressing Target to deal with it. Target knew when the mortgage offer 
was going to expire yet still showed  little urgency  in progressing  the DoP.  As a direct  result 
of its poor customer service, Im satisfied Targets actions caused Mr T and Mrs TS stress, 
upset and inconvenience.
In all the circumstances, Im satisfied that £350 is fair and proportionate compensation.
Ref: DRN80132572my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement of this complaint, 
Target Servicing  Limited  must pay Mr T and Mrs TS compensation of £283.40 for their 
financial loss (as detailed above) and £350  compensation for trouble and upset, a total of 
£633.40.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T and Mrs TS 
to accept or reject my decision before 10 May 2019.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8013257