K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited gave him poor service  when he 
made a claim on his motor insurance  policy and his car was written-off
background
Mr Ms car was damaged in an accident, but he didnt accept that it should  be written-off. He 
said Admiral hadnt  communicated  with him properly and hadnt managed his expectations. 
He disputed the cars valuation and thought he hadnt been  put back in the position he was 
in before the accident. And he said the car shouldnt have  been  dropped  off at his home. 
Admiral said its engineers thought it would cost more to repair the car than it was worth.  It 
said Mr M would  be back  to where he was before the accident by being  paid the cars pre-
accident market  value. It said it had tried to contact him unsuccessfully  at times  and had sent 
letters to him with updates. It thought its contact with him was adequate and that it had 
managed his expectations. Admiral said it hadnt sent Mr M a valuation  figure sooner as the 
claim was non-fault  and he said he was discussing repairs with the other drivers insurer.  
Admiral later accepted  that it hadnt  contacted Mr M on one occasion and had also missed  a 
date to contact him. It said it hadnt replied fully to some of the questions in his emails  either.  
Admiral offered Mr M £50 compensation  for distress  and inconvenience, plus £25 for the 
extra calls hed had to make to it. Admiral didnt accept that the cars valuation  was wrong. It 
offered a settlement sum and wanted to dispose  of the car to avoid any further  storage 
charges. But as Mr M didnt agree to that, the car was dropped  off at his home.
One of our investigators  reviewed Mr Ms complaint. He thought Admiral had acted 
reasonably. He said it had used the motor trade guides to establish the cars market value 
and had offered  Mr M the highest  valuation.  He said Admiral had agreed to Mr Ms wishes in 
not scrapping the car and had taken it to his home to avoid further storage charges. He said 
Admiral had tried to contact Mr M before  doing  that, which he thought was reasonable. As 
Mr M didnt  accept the investigators view, his complaint was passed  to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the policy Admiral  has the right to deal with a claim as it sees fit. A consumer cant 
instruct an insurer how to that. We only interfere if we think an insurer has acted 
unreasonably. In this case, the major issue is that Mr M wanted his car to be repaired, but 
Admirals engineer thought the repair costs  would be over £10,000. Admiral thought the cars  
market value was less than that. Many insurers dont repair cars if the repair  costs  are likely 
to exceed 60% of a cars value, so based on the engineers findings, I think Admirals  
decision was reasonable. Admiral told Mr M in the initial  call he made reporting the accident 
that the car was likely to be written-off. So I think it tried to manage his expectations. 
The next issue is whether Mr M was compensated properly  for his car. We think the best 
way to find a cars likely market value  is to check the prices set out in the national  trade 
guides. Those figures are based  on extensive nationwide research of the likely selling prices 
of cars. We checked that Admiral had used  the correct figures,  so I think  it was reasonable 
for Admiral to offer Mr M £8,480. We dont think advertised prices are reliable, as they reflect  
Ref: DRN82369212asking prices and are subject to negotiation.  And small differences between what seem to be 
similar cars can make a big difference to their value.  I dont think  Mr M has been able to 
show that his car was worth more than Admiral  paid him for it. 
I understand why Mr M thinks  he lost out as a result of the other drivers actions. The 
accident wasnt his fault. And it can be hard to find a replacement vehicle that a consumer 
thinks is equivalent to their written-off  car. But the policy only requires Admiral to put Mr M 
back where he was formerly  by paying him the cars market value. As Admiral  did that - in 
line with the approach we think is the best one to take - I dont think  it did anything  wrong.  
Mr M says he only accepted the settlement  sum as an interim payment.  But I think  Admiral 
made it clear  it wasnt going to offer more. That didnt  affect  Mr Ms position, as Admiral  
would have had to offer him a further payment had we thought that was fair and reasonable.   
In my opinion, Admiral couldnt be expected  to pay to store  the car indefinitely, and the file 
notes show that the garage wanted  it to be removed. As Mr M wouldnt agree to the car 
being scrapped, Admiral had to consider another way of dealing with the issue.  Mr M thinks 
the other insurer would  have  picked  up the bill for the storage charges. But all insurers  have 
a duty to mitigate costs. I think the other insurer is very likely to have disputed paying for 
open-ended storage charges. Mr M told Admiral that the other insurer  had told him it would 
collect the car from the garage - but as it didnt  do that, I think  it was fair for Admiral to act.  
Mr M also says he got no notice of the car being  dropped off at his home. Admiral says it 
sent emails to Mr M and gave him seven  days notice, but Mr M says thats  not the case. The 
file shows that Admiral tried to call Mr M unsuccessfully several  times.  He later reminded it 
that hed asked for contact in writing. The file notes show  that Admiral  also sent Mr M a text 
message, a letter and five emails between 21 January 2019 and 12 February 2019 about the 
car having to be removed  from the garage. The last email gave him seven days  notice of it 
being taken to his home.  It seems Mr M then emailed Admiral refusing to agree to salvage.  
But after the car was left at his home on 19 February 2019 he agreed to it. Admiral  paid him 
the settlement  sum the same day, which I think was good service  on its part.   
Mr M complained about several other issues. He said he hadnt wanted Admiral  to deal with 
his claim,  as it was non-fault, and the other drivers insurer should have done so. Admiral 
disputed that, and the initial calls show that Mr M was content  to claim on his policy.  Admiral  
contacted the other insurer in December 2018 after Mr M told it that the other insurer would 
now be dealing with his claim. The other insurer said that wasnt the case,  as it was still 
disputing liability. And there are emails on the file from the other insurer to Mr M that show  it 
was still disputing liability at the end of January  2019. 
The other insurer emailed  Admiral to say it would deal with the claim on 27 February  2019.  
Its engineer also thought  the car was a total loss  so the car would not have been repaired 
by it. And the engineer is very likely to have used the same trade guides used by Admirals  
engineer to value  the car. But by that point Admiral  had already offered Mr M the total loss 
settlement, which he accepted. Admiral told Mr M it would close his claim as soon as it was 
reimbursed by the other insurer, which I think was reasonable  enough.  So I dont think 
Mr Ms been able to show that Admiral acted unreasonably in dealing with his claim as it did.
In Mr Ms view,  the hire car should  have been left in place until hed bought another  car and 
his complaint had been dealt with by us, as in his view the settlement hed accepted  was 
only an interim  one. He said he was misled  by Admirals advisor on this issue.  Mr M said the 
advisor agreed to inform  the hire firm of his wishes  and in his view it should have been 
instructed to leave the hire in place.  But hire usually ends shortly  after a settlement offer is 
Ref: DRN82369213made, so the other insurer would have queried it continuing. I think  its very unlikely  that it 
would have agreed to reimburse further hire charges.  
Admiral didnt provide  a call recording we requested relating to this issue.  In the absence  of 
that, I think its more likely than not that there  was a misunderstanding between the advisor 
and Mr M during the call. It isnt standard practice for hire to continue until a consumer has 
bought another car, so its unlikely the advisor would have said it would. Mr M told us he also 
wants to make a complaint about the hire company, but that isnt something we can look at, 
as it falls outside our remit.  
I cant comment on an issue Mr M raised  about a subject access request (SAR)  he made, 
as Mr M didnt  provide  the clarification we asked  for about the issue. He also wanted us to 
consider a complaint about the other insurer.  But even if that were to fall within our remit, it 
cant be dealt with as part of his complaint about  Admiral. 
Admiral has accepted that it provided  poor service to Mr M at times, and that he had to make  
more calls to it than should have been necessary.  I think the £75 compensation it offered 
him for that was reasonable. I think the file notes show that in general Admiral tried to keep 
Mr M informed and that it made a number of calls to him that didnt connect.   
Taking everything into account,  I dont think Mr M has been able to show that Admiral acted 
unreasonably in relation to any of the issues Ive considered, so I cant uphold his complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 May 2020.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8236921