K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains about excess  mileage  charges when his agreement  with 
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited  ended.
background
In December 2015 Mr H was supplied with a car and entered into a contract hire agreement  
with VWFS. The contractual mileage was 8000 miles per annum and the expected mileage  
at the end of the agreement was 24,394.
At the end of the agreement Mr H opted to purchase the car. VWFS  asked for details  of the 
mileage in order to calculate  the cars value.  Mr H told VWFS that the mileage  was 27,300.
VWFS offered  Mr H a purchase price, which he accepted. 
In January 2019 VWFS wrote to Mr H asking  him to pay excess mileage charges of £209.23.  
Mr H contacted VWFS to dispute  the charges. He said he wasnt  told about excess  mileage 
charges when the agreement ended and feels that these  should have been discussed at the 
point of sale.
In its final response VWFS said the mileage covered at the end of the agreement  had been  
used to calculate the purchase price of the car. It said the mileage charges arose from the 
hire agreement which was separate to the agreement  to purchase the car.
Mr H wasnt happy with VWFSs response. He said that VWFS  had debited  the excess 
mileage charges from his bank account  without permission and had sent him threatening 
letters chasing payment.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She said it was clear from the terms and 
conditions of the agreement that the mileage limit was 24,000 and that Mr H had exceeded 
this. She noted that it wasnt usual practice for a car to be purchased  at the end of a contract 
hire agreement but thought it was reasonable for any charges due under the agreement to 
be settled before a consumer could purchase the car. In terms of the level of charges, the 
investigator said the terms of the agreement set out the charges and it wasnt  the role of this 
service to question the component parts of the excess mileage  charge.  In relation to the 
debiting of the charges from Mr Hs bank account,  the investigator said that VWFS  had 
followed its process to debit end of contract charges via the usual payment method. She 
concluded that VWFS hadnt done anything wrong and that Mr H was liable  for the excess 
mileage charges.
Mr H didnt agree. He accepted that the excess mileage charges  wouldve been payable if 
hed handed  the car back. But he didnt agree that the charges were payable  in 
circumstances where  hed purchased the car. He said VWFS had sold the car to him at an 
agreed price and in knowledge of the excess mileage. Mr H said hed paid for a car with 
24,000 miles on it and that the charges for excess mileage meant that he was effectively 
paying twice.
Mr H remained  unhappy that VWFS had debited his bank  account without authorisation. He 
said his bank had reversed the transaction which showed that VWFs had no legal basis  to 
debit the account.
Ref: DRN85430242my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I need  to explain that the sale of the car is a totally  separate agreement from the 
original hire agreement.  The hire agreement is regulated, whereas the sales agreement isnt. 
Buying the car wasnt something Mr H was entitled to do under the hire agreement  it was a 
separate negotiation.
Mr H says he purchased the car at a price  based  on the car having covered 24,000 miles. 
VWFS disagree. It says the purchase  price  was calculated based  on mileage of 27,300.
I think its more likely that the purchase  price was calculated by reference to the actual  
mileage. Ive noted Mr Hs concerns that hes effectively  being charged twice but I dont 
agree. The higher the mileage on a car, the lower the price,  so I think Mr H was able to 
purchase the car for a lower value due to the higher mileage he had covered. 
The excess  mileage charges arise out of the contract hire agreement. The charges are 
clearly outlined in that agreement. Mr H has signed the agreement so Im satisfied that he 
was aware of the mileage limit and the charges for exceeding the limit.
I appreciate that Mr H feels that he was given a final figure when  he agreed to purchase the 
car and wasnt expecting to pay any further charges. But theres  nothing  to suggest that 
there was any agreement to waive the excess mileage charges if Mr H purchased  the car. 
As Ive already  said, the contract  hire agreement is separate from the agreement  to 
purchase the car, and Im satisfied that the excess mileage  charges are contractually due. 
Because of this I dont think VWFS has acted unfairly in asking Mr H to pay the charges.
With regards to the debiting of the charges from Mr Hs bank account, I understand Mr Hs 
strength of feeling  about this, especially as the charges were in dispute  at the time. VWFS 
could have chosen to delay taking  payment  until Mr H had gone  through the complaints 
process with this service.  But I havent  seen any compelling reasons as to why it should  
have done so.
VWFS has said it wrote  to Mr H about  the excess mileage  charges  and told him it would be 
debiting his account. It has also said that any outstanding balance at the end of the contract 
hire agreement is debited  from a consumers bank account in the same way as the 
payments under the agreement. I dont think VWFS  has acted unreasonably in debiting the 
excess mileage charges because these charges  are a contractual  payment in the same way 
that Mr Hs monthly payments were contractual payments.
Ive noted what  Mr H said about the level of excess mileage  charges and in particular, his 
concerns about  the element of the excess  mileage  charge relating to Maintenance Charge.  
I dont have any specific information on what the maintenance charge element of the excess  
mileage charge relates to. Mr H says hes maintained and serviced the car so I understand 
why hes annoyed.  However, its not my role to question the component  parts of the excess  
mileage charge. My role is to look at whether VWFS  has acted fairly in applying  the excess  
mileage charges. And based on what Ive seen,  Im satisfied that the excess  mileage 
charges have been charged in accordance with the terms  and conditions  of the agreement.
Ref: DRN85430243Ive looked at some of the payment chaser letter  sent to Mr H. Mr H is liable to pay the 
charges so I dont think it was unreasonable of VWFS to send the letters  requesting 
payment. I appreciate  that it can be worrying to receive payment chaser letters  but I havent 
seen anything to suggest that the language was threatening or inappropriate. 
Taking all of the available information  into account,  Im unable  to uphold the complaint. 
VWFS has acted  in line with the terms and conditions  of the hire agreement and the excess 
mileage charges are payable.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 December 2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8543024