K820x#14complaint
Mrs A has complained that Lloyds Bank  PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold her a fee-paying  Premier 
packaged bank  account, which was sold to her in August  2009.
Mrs A says she was led to believe she needed  to upgrade her account to a Premier account 
in case she needed  future overdrafts or loans. She says that she had no need for the 
account benefits and believes that Lloyds shouldve reviewed whether she still needed the 
account.
background
Mrs A held a number of packaged accounts  prior to the sale of the Premier account,  but Mrs 
A has confirmed that this complaint is only about  sale of the Premier account.
One of our adjudicators assessed  the complaint and didnt think  the Premier account  had 
been mis-sold.
Mrs A disagreed with the adjudicators assessment and asked for an ombudsmans  decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained our approach to 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website, and Ive taken that into account  
when considering this complaint.
Mrs A says that Lloyds  led her to believe she needed to upgrade  her account to a Premier 
account in case  she needed future loans or overdrafts. Whereas Lloyds says that the type of 
account held has no bearing on a consumers  ability to obtain borrowing. 
One of the benefits of the Premier account  was a £500 interest-free overdraft facility with 
preferential interest rates  on balances overdrawn by more than this amount. And I think  its 
likely that this wouldve  been mentioned to Mrs A during  the sale - given that its one of the 
main banking benefits provided by the account  and her recollections suggest her overdraft 
was mentioned. And I cant see that Mrs A took out any loans with Lloyds after she upgraded 
either. 
So based  on everything I have seen, I think its more  likely than not that Mrs A was told 
about the overdraft benefits on the Premier account. And she chose to upgrade her account 
because she was interested in the benefits it provided, rather  than because she felt she had 
no choice but to upgrade her account.  
Lloyds recommended the Premier account  to Mrs A. This meant it had to make sure it was 
right for her.
At the time,  the Premier account cost £25 per month and provided,  worldwide  travel  
insurance, breakdown  cover, mobile phone insurance, card protection cover,  Identity theft 
protection and home emergency  cover. It also offered  the above mentioned overdraft 
benefit, alongside a number of other  benefits.
Ref: DRN87136562Mrs A has said that she occasionally travelled and drove a vehicle,  so I think she couldve 
benefited from the travel insurance and breakdown cover. Mrs A says that she didnt  have a 
smart phone,  but her bank statements indicate that she did have a mobile phone at the time. 
And I can see she registered mobile phone handsets on the previous  packaged  accounts  as 
well (which included information about  the model number as well as the telephone  number).  
I understand that she was also a home owner, so I think  she couldve benefited from the 
mobile phone insurance  and home  emergency cover. And I understand that Mrs A also had 
an agreed overdraft limit on her account,  so I think she couldve benefited from the overdraft 
benefit too.
I appreciate there mayve been some  features  that Mrs A didnt need, but as the account 
was sold as a package,  she was unable to pick and choose what  it came with. And looking 
at Mrs As circumstances as a whole,  I dont think that Lloydss recommendation to upgrade 
her account  to the Premier account was unreasonable. 
As well as making sure the account  was right for Mrs A, Lloyds also had to make sure it 
gave Mrs A the important  information about the account. Mrs A says that she was not really  
made aware  of the benefits or the terms and conditions when it was sold to her. However  I 
think its likely that at least some  of them, as well as the cost, were  discussed with Mrs A. 
For example Mrs As recollections indicate  that there  was a discussion about the overdraft  
on her account and Mrs A looks to have been made aware of the account  cost. 
In her response to the adjudicators assessment, Mrs A has said that she held existing 
breakdown cover. However, Lloyds has provided  us with evidence  that Mrs A went  on to use 
the breakdown  cover  provided by the account  a number  of times after the Premier  account 
had been sold to her. And having  shared this evidence with Mrs A, she says that the entries 
look standardised. But Mrs A has not denied that the vehicle was hers or that it wasnt her 
who claimed. So I can only reasonably conclude that its more likely than not that Mrs A was 
aware of the breakdown cover and used it.
Mrs A has disputed  the evidence that Lloyds has provided showing that she had called the 
travel insurer  a number  of times. I accept its possible  that not all of the entries may relate to 
Mrs As account. But there  are a number of entries that look like Mrs A did contact the 
insurer. For example it appears that calls were made to the insurer in September 2012 about  
a family  member of Mrs A and a query about  a medical condition  for Mrs A herself.  So I think 
its more likely than not that Mrs A was aware of the travel insurance provided  by the 
account and was aware how to check the level of cover  provided.
I appreciate that Mrs A may not have been given all of the important information about  the 
account and its associated benefits. But Ive not seen anything  about her circumstances that 
makes me think she wouldve been put off from agreeing to the Premier account, had she 
been given even more information  about it. 
I also appreciate that, with the benefit of hindsight, Mrs A may now think that paying £25 per 
month for the account benefits has been poor value for money.  But that in itself doesnt  
mean it was mis-sold or that Lloyds was wrong to have sold it to her at the time. And based 
on everything I have seen, I dont think I can reasonably conclude that the Premier account 
was mis-sold to Mrs A.
Ref: DRN87136563Finally, Mrs A has also said that Lloyds shouldve  reviewed  whether the account  benefits 
remained suitable for her. But Lloyds was not required  to do this. So it wouldve been  up to 
her, not Lloyds,  to cancel the account  - which  I understand  she did around early 2014  - if she 
thought that it was no longer worth  having.
I appreciate that this decision  will come as a disappointment to Mrs A, but I hope she 
understands the reasons  why I am unable to conclude  that her Premier account was mis-
sold.
my final decision
Because of the reasons  given above, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 April 2020
Thomas White
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8713656