K821x#15complaint
Ms A acquired a flight upgrade in September 2018, using her TSB Bank plc credit  card.  She 
complains that she did not receive significant  elements  of the upgrade.  She wants  TSB to 
refund the costs  charged to her credit card account for this upgrade.
Ms A also acquired entertainment tickets in September  2018, using her TSB credit  card.  She 
complains that, when she received the tickets,  they were for the wrong date. She wants TSB 
to refund the payment  charged to her credit card for these tickets. 
background
The background to this complaint, and my initial conclusions, were set out in my first 
provisional decision dated 6 July 2020   a copy of which is attached  and forms part of this 
final decision. In my first provisional decision,  I explained that I disagreed  with our 
investigators view that the complaint should be upheld. 
TSB did not respond  to my first provisional decision. Ms A did respond, providing new 
evidence that has caused me to change my view. My revised conclusions were set out in my 
second provisional decision dated 14 September, which  is summarised below. My revised  
view was that the complaint should  be upheld in part.
flight upgrade
Ms As flight upgrade cost her a little under £550 (including a credit  card transaction  fee).
Our investigator concluded that Ms A did not get the service she reasonably expected from 
her flight  upgrade, and so TSB should refund the cost to her of this transaction. He also felt 
that TSB should  pay her £100,  in compensation for the distress and inconvenience she had 
experienced, relating to this part of her complaint.
TSB disagreed with our investigator, and so this complaint was referred for review by an 
ombudsman. I concluded in my first provisional  decision, on balance,  that TSB did not act 
unfairly in relation to Ms As flight upgrade.
Ms A had told us that, although  she did receive the seating upgrade, she did not receive 
other significant elements of the upgrade: one element was not available; and, because  her 
dietary requirements could not be catered for, she did not receive another upgraded element 
(the main  meal, on what was a long-haul flight). She had said that these elements were 
important parts of the reason why she acquired  the upgrade.
 
In Ms As response to my first provisional decision, she explained  in more detail those 
foodstuffs to which she is allergic, and those to which she has an intolerance.  
Ms A also explained how, before her flight took off, she was given detailed menu advice by 
the airlines staff.  She was then helped  to select the only meal  on the menu which  did not 
include foodstuffs to which  she is allergic  or intolerant, and to order  this meal.  She was told 
that this meal would  be delivered to her during the flight.
Ref: DRN86391002Ms A further explained that, after take-off,  she was told the flight  did not have  this meal any 
more, and she confirmed  that the available alternatives included foodstuffs to which  she is 
allergic or intolerant.  She said that, as a result, she did not get anything  to eat at all on a 
long-haul flight.
entertainment tickets
Our investigator concluded that TSB had not acted unfairly, in relation to Ms As 
entertainment tickets.  And Ms A accepted our investigators conclusions, with which  I also 
agreed. 
my revised provisional findings
Where evidence is incomplete, inconsistent or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach 
my decision  on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider most likely to 
have happened  in light of the available evidence and wider circumstances.
TSB has a responsibility to ensure that goods  of satisfactory quality, and corresponding to 
their description, have been  supplied. This means that a reasonable person would have 
regarded the goods as satisfactory, taking into account all relevant circumstances.
In my first provisional decision, I agreed  with TSB that the biggest element of a flight  
upgrade is the change  of cabin class. But I said that another very significant element relates 
to catering, particularly on a long-haul  flight.  And Ms A had told us that this element
was an important part of the reason why she acquired the upgrade.
I also said the airline could not be expected  either to know her dislikes, or to cater for her 
allergies without prior notice. But, in the circumstances  as described by Ms A in her 
response to my first provisional decision,  the airline acted as follows: 
It offered  Ms A an upgrade, which she accepted  and paid for 
It then offered a suitable meal to Ms A  a significant element of the upgrade  
It then failed either to deliver this meal,  or to provide a suitable  substitute
TSB referred  to the airlines  General  Conditions  of Carriage. These said (in effect)  that the 
fare paid (including upgrades) was for travel from the specified place of departure  to the 
specified destination, in the specified  cabin class.  TSB argued that this service  had been  
provided to Ms A  and so, in its view, it and the airline were  not liable for a refund of any 
part of her fare.
I acknowledge TSBs  argument.  But the Financial Ombudsman Services role is to offer 
alternative dispute resolution  on a fair and reasonable basis. And I need to consider  whether 
TSBs response in this matter, and that of the airline, were fair and reasonable.
TSB has not provided  a description  of the circumstances  from the airlines perspective, to set 
alongside that now provided  by Ms A  which means the available  information  is incomplete. 
But I think that Ms As evidence is credible enough to proceed with a decision. 
Based on Ms As evidence, I think a reasonable person would feel that she received goods 
(the flight  upgrade) that were not sufficiently  of satisfactory quality and as described.
This means  I find (on the balance of probabilities) that TSB acted  unfairly, when it concurred 
with the airlines  decision  not to uphold Ms As complaint  about  her flight  upgrade.  
Ref: DRN86391003So, I have now come to the same  conclusion as our investigator.  In these circumstances, my 
provisional settlement  recommendations  are the same as those recommended by our 
investigator:
TSB should refund the cost to Ms A of this transaction (as requested by Ms A)
TSB should pay Ms A £100, in compensation for the distress  and inconvenience she 
had experienced,  relating to this part of her complaint.
There are technical notes about  distress and inconvenience on our public website,  in which  
we describe:
how we decide whether to award  compensation for distress, inconvenience,  trouble, 
upset, damage to reputation, pain and suffering
how we decide what to award, where compensation is appropriate
cases where we have awarded  compensation
I feel that compensation of £!00 in this instance  (as recommended by our investigator) is 
appropriate, given  the circumstances of Ms As complaint. It is consistent with our approach  
to awarding compensation, and with those  case descriptions and awards.
 
my second  (revised) provisional  decision
For the reasons  explained above, but subject to any further comments or evidence I receive 
from Ms A or TSB Bank plc by 14 October 2020, my provisional decision is that I uphold this 
complaint in part. My settlement recommendations are that TSB should refund the cost to 
Ms A of her flight  upgrade, and that it should  also pay directly to her compensation of £100.
response to my second provisional decision 
Ms A responded, accepting my decision.  TSB also responded, saying that it was accepting  
my decision  in the interests  of resolving this complaint.  TSB added that it was making a 
payment to Ms A of £100 for distress and inconvenience, and that it was refunding  the cost 
to Ms A (£540.96) of her flight upgrade.   
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In the absence of other  arguments  or 
evidence to the contrary, I continue to think that the conclusions reached  in my second 
provisional decision are correct.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. In 
full and final settlement  of it, I order TSB Bank plc (if it has not already done so):
1.To refund the cost to Ms A (£540.96) of her flight upgrade;
2.To pay compensation of £100  directly  to Ms A.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 December  2020.
Roy Mawford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN86391004COPY OF FIRST  PROVISIONAL DECISION
6 July 2020
complaint
Ms A acquired a flight upgrade in September 2018, using  her TSB Bank plc credit card.  She 
complains that she did not receive significant  elements of the upgrade. She wants  TSB to refund the 
costs charged to her credit card account for this upgrade.
Ms A also acquired entertainment tickets in September 2018, using her TSB credit card.  She 
complains that, when  she received the tickets,  they were  for the wrong  date. She wants  TSB to refund 
the payment charged  to her credit  card for these  tickets. 
background
flight upgrade
Ms As flight upgrade  cost her a little under  £550 (including a credit card transaction fee). She 
acquired this upgrade while  in the airport from which  her flight  departed, and after she had acquired  
her flight ticket.
Ms A told us that, although  she did receive the seating upgrade,  she did not receive other significant  
elements of the upgrade: one element was not available; and, because her dietary  requirements 
could not be catered for, she did not receive another upgraded element  (the main meal, on what  was 
a long-haul flight).  She said that these elements were important parts of the reason why she acquired 
the upgrade.
Ms A complained  to the airline. It declined  to refund  her upgrade cost, but it offered her £130 as a 
goodwill gesture, which she did not accept. 
Ms A then referred her complaint to TSB. It concurred with the airlines decision.  And so she referred  
her complaint to us.   
TSB referred  us to the airlines General  Conditions of Carriage. These said (in effect) that the fare 
paid (including upgrades) was for travel from the specified place  of departure to the specified 
destination, in the specified  cabin class. TSB told us that, because  this service  had been provided to 
Ms A, it and the airline were  not liable for a refund of any part of her fare.
entertainment tickets
Ms A acquired the entertainment tickets online. She said that, when she realised  their date was 
wrong, she contacted the supplier and tried unsuccessfully:
to change them for tickets of the correct date
or to cancel them and receive a refund
The supplier told Ms A that it could not change the tickets to her chosen date, because  that day was 
sold out. It also told her that her tickets were non-refundable. Ms A complained initially to TSB, and 
then to us. 
TSB told us:
The online booking system Ms A used asks customers to select  a date  the system then 
shows all tickets available  for that day
It was most likely that Ms A chose the wrong date (although  she disputed  this)
Ms A was unable  to provide evidence that she selected her chosen date
The terms and conditions confirmed  that Ms As tickets  were non-refundable 
In these circumstances, it acted correctly  by not taking her complaint further 
Ref: DRN86391005our investigators  conclusions
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld  in part. He concluded that TSB had not acted  
unfairly, in relation to Ms As entertainment  tickets.
But our investigator concluded that Ms A did not get the service  she reasonably expected from her 
flight upgrade,  and so TSB should  refund  the cost to her of this transaction. He also felt that TSB 
should pay her £100, in compensation for the distress and inconvenience  she had experienced, 
relating to this part of her complaint.
Ms A accepted our investigators  conclusions.  But TSB did not, saying:
It did not accept that Ms A acquired a flight upgrade  costing a little under  £550,  on the basis 
that she would receive two particular  elements of this upgrade: a meal and one other element  
(which, had it been available, would have incurred  an additional  charge)
The main element of the upgrade  was the change of cabin class   and then there were as 
well many  other significant elements,  in addition to the two elements above
   
And so this complaint  was referred for review by an ombudsman.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Where evidence  is incomplete, inconsistent or contradictory (as 
some of it is here), I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities   in other words,  what I 
consider most  likely to have happened in light of the available  evidence and wider  circumstances.
 
Ms A has accepted our investigators  conclusion (with  which I find I agree, for similar  reasons) that 
TSB did not act unfairly, in relation to her entertainment tickets.  
Ms A has also accepted our investigators conclusion  relating to her flight  upgrade. But TSB disagrees  
with this conclusion.
TSB has a responsibility  to ensure that goods of satisfactory  quality, and corresponding  to their 
description, have been supplied. This means that a reasonable person  would  have regarded the 
goods as satisfactory, taking  into account all relevant circumstances.
I agree with TSB that the biggest element of a flight upgrade is the change  of cabin class. But I also 
think that another very significant element relates to catering,  particularly on a long-haul flight. Ms A 
told us:
Because her dietary requirements could not be catered for, she did not receive a main  meal
This element was an important part of the reason  why she acquired  the upgrade
Ms A said she was unable to choose some of the menu options  because  of allergies, and others 
because of dislikes.  And I think it is more  likely than not that she would have experienced similar 
menu option problems, if she had not acquired the upgrade.
If, when Ms A booked  her flight, she made the airline  aware of her food allergies, or she pre-booked  
food to which  she was not allergic, then I think a reasonable person  would feel that the goods (the 
flight ticket  and the upgrade) she acquired were of less than satisfactory quality. And I think  that a 
partial refund of her flight  costs  (such  as the cost of her upgrade) might be appropriate  recompense.
But I have seen nothing  to indicate that Ms A made the airline aware of her allergies, or that she pre-
booked food.  And, in these circumstances, I think a reasonable  person would feel the goods (the main  
meal) she acquired were satisfactory. This is because the airline could  not be expected either to know  
her dislikes,  or to cater for her allergies  without prior notice.  
Ref: DRN86391006In relation to the other particular element of the upgrade  referred to by Ms A, I understand that its 
availability was not guaranteed, and that she would  have incurred  an additional charge to use it. And 
so I think  a reasonable person would  still feel the goods were  satisfactory, even if this element was 
unavailable.
And so, on balance,  I have come to a conclusion  which  differs from that reached by our investigator.  I 
find that TSB did not act unfairly,  in relation to Ms As flight  upgrade.
 
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  explained above, but subject to any further  comments  or evidence I receive  from Ms 
A or TSB Bank plc by 6 August 2020, my provisional decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Roy Mawford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8639100