K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B say Nationwide Building  Society mis-sold them a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs B bought the policy  in 2004 at the same time as taking out a loan. They  applied  
for the loan and PPI policy over the phone.  
The policys  one-off upfront  premium of £450.45  was paid in advance  by being added  to the 
loan (a single premium)  where it attracted interest  over the term of the loan. The loan was 
repayable over a 36-month term and the policy term matched that of the loan.  The monthly 
loan repayment  was £153.25  with the PPI costing  an additional £13.81 making  the total 
monthly repayment £167.06.  
The policy provided  cover  for Mrs B only for accident, sickness,  unemployment and life  
subject to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay Mr and Mrs Bs monthly loan 
repayment for up to remaining term in the event of a successful disability claim and 12 
months in the event  of unemployment. 
At the time,  Mrs B was employed as a midwife. She has told us she was entitled to sick pay, 
death in service benefit and redundancy pay through her employer. But she didnt have any 
other means  of repaying their loan should  she be unable to work. Mrs B told us she had a 
medical condition  diagnosed before the sale, but she told NBS that this was diagnosed some  
years after the sale.  While we did request more details  about her health issue,  she hasnt 
been able to clarify when she was diagnosed with this medical problem. Ive therefore  
assessed this case based on the information available and decided  what  I think is more 
likely. 
While the loan was jointly held with Mr B, he was not covered under  the policy.  
NBS has sent us Mr and Mrs Bs loan account  transaction list to show that the loan account 
closed in 2006. 
Mr and Mrs Bs representative has made  lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Bs representative  says:
NBS failed to meet  the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  APP 3, it should be presumed  Mr and Mrs B 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr and Mrs 
Bs representatives believe there to be no evidence  to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
Ref: DRN87319222The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means NBS should  have told 
Mr and Mrs B about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means NBS should  have explained  
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr and Mrs B and the 
impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim; and
The information Mr and Mrs B received was misleading. These policies  were  
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs B disagreed  with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Bs. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Bs complaint
This sale took place  in 2004 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated in January 2005.  So, the FSAs  (and FCAs) overarching  Principles for Businesses 
and insurance  conduct  rules  (ICOB and ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint, nor is the 
FCAs Perimeter guidance  (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2006. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
Ref: DRN87319223This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC code, which  set out minimum standards of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
NBS, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
 
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like NBS at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI code and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Bs case. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost  duty of good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so NBS 
was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If NBS gave advice,  whether it advised  Mr and Mrs B with reasonable care and skill  
in particular, whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for them, given their 
needs and circumstances. 
-Whether NBS gave Mr and Mrs B sufficient,  appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
Ref: DRN87319224-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr and 
Mrs B, I must then go on to consider  whether and to what  extent Mr and Mrs B 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs B 
and NBS, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning 
below. 
did Mr and Mrs B know they had a choice?
NBS had to make it clear  that the PPI policy was optional. 
Mr and Mrs B say they applied for a loan and PPI in a meeting in branch but NBS says it 
sold them  the PPI over the phone followed by a paper agreement. I can see Mr and Mrs Bs 
loan agreement was prepared by NBS two days before Mr and Mrs B signed the agreement. 
Had they applied  for the loan and PPI in a meeting at branch, usually wed expect the 
agreement to be prepared  and signed on the same day during the branch meeting. So, I 
think NBS is likely to be right, and this was a phone sale followed by a paper agreement. 
NBS says it no longer  retains a recording of the telephone call which  isnt surprising given 
how long ago the policy was sold. But this means I have to decide  what I think  is more likely 
based on the evidence that is still available  such as the loan agreement that Mr and Mrs B 
signed and both Mr and Mrs B and NBSs testimony.   
On Mr and Mrs Bs credit agreement, I can see the PPI is set out under a heading Optional 
Credit Insurance . I dont know what Mr and Mrs B were told when they initially applied for 
the PPI (likely over the phone),  but had they been led to believe the PPI was compulsory,  I 
wouldve expected  them to have questioned this on receipt of the loan agreement  which  
clearly labelled  the PPI as optional. 
The loan agreement  set out the costs of the PPI separately, set out that Mrs B would  be 
covered by the insurance, and that shed be covered for disability, unemployment  and life. 
Mr and Mrs B signed the agreement  so they agreed to take the PPI to cover Mrs B only.  
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs B knew the policy was 
optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did NBS provide advice?
NBS says it didnt  provide  advice during this sale and Mr and Mrs B havent said if they 
agree. Looking at what happened when NBS sold Mr and Mrs B the PPI, Im not persuaded 
that it provided advice.  I say this because I havent seen anything  to suggest NBS sought  
details of Mrs Bs wider circumstances to assess the suitability of the policy  or that it 
provided them with a tailored recommendation to take the PPI to cover Mrs B only. 
This means  NBS didnt  have to check if the PPI was suitable  for Mr and Mrs B. Instead, it 
had to give them sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable Mr and Mrs B to 
make an informed choice  about whether to take out the policy, including drawing to their 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.  
Ref: DRN87319225the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs B were given a broad  description of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect their payments if 
Mrs B was unable to work through accident, sickness  and unemployment.)  I have reached 
this conclusion because  their credit agreement explicitly said Mrs B was insured  for 
unemployment, disability  and life. And I think its unlikely Mr and Mrs B would have taken out 
the policy without  any sense of what the policy was. I also think Mr and Mrs B knew  that the 
single premium being added to the loan was £450.45, the interest added  to the premium was 
£46.71, the total cost was £497.16, and the monthly cost was £13.81  (as this information 
was, in my view, sufficiently clear  on the loan agreement Mr and Mrs B signed.)  
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  NBS gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit or about the exclusions or limitations  before Mr 
and Mrs B agreed to take out the policy. 
So I dont  think NBS gave  Mr and Mrs B sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  including 
drawing their attention  and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Bs representative  has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and Mrs 
Bs. Ive considered  these carefully and summarised  them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Bs representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs B about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Bs representatives views on this. The duty of utmost good 
faith in insurance  law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material 
facts and not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what a court  
would say  I think  its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer having to 
disclose the claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and 
exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs B has suggested. And taking into account the law, industry  
codes and standards of good industry  practice  applicable to this complaint, I dont think  its 
fair and reasonable to conclude that NBS ought to have done  either.  
What effect did NBSs shortcomings  have on Mr and Mrs B? To what extent did Mr 
and Mrs B suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ref: DRN87319226Ive found that NBS didnt do all it should  have done  when  it sold this policy to Mr and Mrs B. 
So Ive gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr and Mrs 
B suffered loss and damage  as a result. To answer this, I must decide  whether or not Mr and 
Mrs B would have still taken out the policy, had NBS done things properly. 
Mr and Mrs B says they would not have taken it out and believes I should  presume this to be 
the case given  the significant failings identified above. Ive considered the representations  of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr and Mrs B had to weigh up in their own minds the cost of 
the policy against the benefits offered and the potential  consequences if they didnt insure  
against the risk of Mrs B being  unable to work. 
As Ive found above, Mr and Mrs B chose to take this policy  out. So I consider that its 
reasonable to conclude  they had some  interest  in the benefits offered by this type of 
insurance. But they made this decision based on incomplete information. So what Mr and 
Mrs B thought they were getting is not exactly what they got. The extent  to which  this 
differed is a relevant consideration when determining if Mr and Mrs B has suffered any loss 
or detriment.  
As Ive already  said, the information Mr and Mrs B were given about the cost was clear.  But 
the information about other aspects of the policy, such as the benefit, limitations and 
exclusions wasnt as clear  as it should have been. 
Im not persuaded NBS made clear exactly what Mr and Mrs B would get back  in return  in 
the event they made a successful claim. But I think its unlikely  Mr and Mrs Bs expectations 
about what the policy would pay in the event of a claim (an amount  sufficient  to meet  their 
loan payments) were  significantly different to what the policy  actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs B thought  they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions that Mrs B knew  about or 
ought to have known about  or had consulted a doctor about during  the 12 months  
before the start date of the policy and which recurs  within 12 months of the start date 
of the policy; 
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mrs B 
wasnt a permanent employee.
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mr and Mrs B pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude  that 
the policy wasnt as good as they thought and they might have decided not to proceed. The 
limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have 
dissuaded some  consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs B from 
taking out the policy.  
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances  at the time of sale shows  that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  for them. Mrs B was eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable to them 
should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen sufficient evidence  to 
suggest Mrs B wouldve been  caught  by any of the significant exclusions. Whilst Mrs B did 
have a medical condition, shes told NBS this was diagnosed a significant number of years 
Ref: DRN87319227after the sale. Based on what Ive seen  I think its more likely that Mrs B didnt have  any pre-
existing medical conditions and was in permanent employment. So, I still think they had 
some good  reasons to take the policy out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mrs B would have 
expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some  evidence to 
support that claim.
To make a disability claim, Mrs B needed  to not be doing any work. I dont think  this is likely 
to be too different to what they would  have expected to make a claim. They bought  cover to 
protect their payments if Mrs B was unable  to work due to accident,  sickness or 
unemployment. So, it seems unlikely they would  have thought shed be able to make  a 
successful claim  if she was still working,  whether that be in her normal job or any other job. 
The policy did provide  a pro-rata refund if it was cancelled  early, so the policy provided 
flexibility if Mr and Mrs B decided  to repay  the loan early and cancel the policy.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs B would still have  taken out the policy.  The policy was sufficiently close  
to what its likely they thought they were getting  and provided benefits that would help them  
manage the consequences  were  Mrs B made redundant, or unable  to work through  accident 
or disability.  In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs B would 
have taken out the policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations  on cover.
Mr and Mrs Bs representatives say the rules about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP App 
3) make it clear  that, where  a significant failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs B would not have bought  the PPI they bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted  
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr and Mrs 
Bs circumstances  as detailed above, I consider it reasonable to conclude the position Mr 
and Mrs B found themselves in as result  of the sale was the same position they would have 
been in had the breach  or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs B believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Ref: DRN87319228Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs B in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept its possible they wouldnt have taken out the policy, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that they would still have taken  
out the PPI had they been given clear, fair and not misleading information about  the policy 
they were buying.
So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable  in those circumstances, to conclude 
NBS should pay Mr and Mrs B compensation, as that would  put them in a better position 
than they would have been  in if everything  had happened as it should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs B thinks NBS misrepresented  the terms of the policy in how 
it described the PPI. Whilst  I accept  there  is a possibility a court  might conclude  some of 
NBSs statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion the reason why NBS failed to 
act fairly and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  NBS gave Mr and Mrs B, in the way it did, 
was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect it to have 
met in 2004  when providing information about  an insurance policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Bs representative says a court might  take 
if it were to find NBS negligently  misrepresented the contract to Mr and Mrs B and about the 
remedy a court might award if it were to find that NBS had been in breach of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs B in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 August 2021.
Asma Begum 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8731922