K820x#14complaint
Mrs G has complained that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) has treated  her unfairly 
and failed to offer her suitable  solutions  to her financial difficulties.
background
Mrs G has a mortgage with Halifax taken out in September 2016, on the advice of a 
mortgage broker. She borrowed £100,000 plus fees of £295.  The mortgage is on a capital 
and interest repayment  basis  over a term of 15 years.  The mortgage was initially on a fixed 
interest rate of 1.79%  until 31 December 2018, after which it reverted to Halifaxs lender 
variable rate.
Unfortunately in April 2018  Mrs G began to experience  financial difficulties. She contacted 
Halifax to begin  a dialogue  about  what could be done to help. Halifax agreed a nil repayment  
plan until June 2018, after which it would review the position. Halifax  explained to Mrs G the 
implication of this for her credit file.
Since then Mrs G and Halifax have been at cross-purposes over the best way forward  to 
resolve the matter.  Mrs G wants a personalised solution to be put in place  for her, to allow  
her to make reduced payments, possibly  on an interest-only  basis,  and in such  a way that 
her credit file will be unaffected.  
Halifax, on the other hand,  says its unable to offer Mrs G the solution she wants.  Halifax 
doesnt think Mrs G has sufficient income  to service  the mortgage. Halifax has said that, 
although it is able to offer short-term options, such as nil or reduced  payment arrangements,  
Halifax doesnt think there is a long-term solution  at present.
Mrs G brought her complaint to us where it was considered by an adjudicator.  Although 
sympathetic to Mrs Gs situation,  she didnt  think Halifax had done anything wrong. 
Mrs G didnt accept the adjudicators findings, and asked for an ombudsman  to review  the 
complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I confirm Ive read and considered 
everything provided by Mrs G and Halifax. But Im not required to respond  to each and every 
point. Instead  Ill be concentrating  on what I consider to be the main  issues  in the complaint. 
No discourtesy is intended by this  it simply reflects the informal nature of the ombudsman  
service and my role in it.
Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I dont mention something,  it wont 
be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material  to the outcome of the 
complaint
But what  I am considering  is whether or not I think Halifax has treated Mrs G fairly, now 
shes fallen into financial difficulty.  The Mortgages  and Home  Finance: Conduct of Business  
Sourcebook (known as MCOB) sets out at MCOB 13 what  lenders are required to do to help 
borrowers in arrears. 
Ref: DRN84450682The issue  in this complaint is that, due to circumstances beyond her control,  Mrs G finds  
herself in the position where her current mortgage repayments are unsustainable.  She is 
unhappy with the assistance Halifax has offered  her, which  she feels  doesnt  take her 
particular circumstances  into account.
Under MCOB 13 Halifax is required  to explore ways to resolve an arrears  situation, 
especially if the problem  that created the arrears to begin with is one that looks to be short-
term and capable of being resolved.
For long-term difficulties, Halifax must  also look at other ways  to help, such as transferring a 
mortgage from capital  and interest  repayment to interest-only, deferring interest for a period 
of time or capitalisation of arrears.  Balanced  against that is the lenders  obligation to ensure 
that any arrangement  is affordable and sustainable. 
Halifax has considered  whether  a short-term interest-only concession might help Mrs G. But 
once any concession period ended, the unpaid  capital  would  have to be repaid, and the 
monthly repayment would increase. So an interest-only concession  would only be 
appropriate if Mrs Gs financial difficulties are short-term, and she is able to demonstrate  that 
she would  be able to make the higher  repayments  once an interest-only concession  ended.  
Halifax isnt able to offer a long-term switch  to interest-only and in any event  even if it did it 
doesnt appear Mrs G has any repayment  strategy for an interest-only mortgage. 
Mrs G says that she borrowed  money from a friend to enable  her to make  payments. But she 
says she was then not permitted to make a new arrangement ; instead, Halifax wanted  her 
to extend the mortgage term, which she didnt want to do. Mrs G is unhappy that the 
mortgage has now gone onto the Halifax lender  variable rate (as per the mortgage  contract)  
a position I was trying  hard to avoid. 
I fully appreciate this has been a very stressful time for Mrs G; her situation  has been  very 
difficult, through circumstances beyond her control.  But overall I think  Halifax has carefully 
considered which options are available, and has also been mindful of its obligation to act as 
a responsible lender. Halifax isnt obliged to offer Mrs G a new product on a different interest 
rate, or to switch her onto interest-only. In all the circumstances, I dont think Halifax  has 
done anything  wrong.
I can understand how frustrating it must have been for Halifax  to suggest  there  might  be 
options for Mrs G, and then be unable  to offer solutions she found  acceptable.  But I dont 
think Halifax gave Mrs G false hope   it always made clear that it would need to assess  
affordability before being able to put any long-term or short-term solution  in place.
Im also satisfied Halifax is required  to record missed or incomplete payments, payment  
arrangements and mortgage arrears  on Mrs Gs credit  file. I appreciate she is unhappy about 
this, but it is an accurate  reflection of the conduct of the account.
Halifax is willing to consider further  payment arrangements with Mrs G, so I would urge her 
to keep in contact with the bank. It might also assist  Mrs G to have some specialist debt 
advice, which she would  be able to get from StepChange, Shelter or Citizens Advice. We 
can provide Mrs G with contact details for those agencies, if shed like us to do so.
Ref: DRN84450683my final decision
I know Mrs G will be disappointed,  but my decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 June 2019.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8445068