K822xcomplaint
Mr M complains that his investment portfolio dropped by £20,000  between  22 September  
2018 and 30 October  2018 as a result  of Hargreaves Lansdown Asset  Management 
Limiteds (HL) online platform  not working properly.
background 
HL said Mr M was able to successfully log into his online  account  151 times  and various  
trades were  placed during this period. He also had the option  to place trades via phone and 
at the online  prices. It therefore  did not uphold his complaint about the alleged losses  but 
offered him £140, the cost of two months trading fees, as an apology for his difficulties in 
using its online platform.
An adjudicator at this service  felt this offer was broadly reasonable and so did not think  his 
complaint should  be upheld.  She said HL, like all other comparable businesses,  could not 
guarantee that its online trading platform would  always  be operational and this was spelt  out 
in the terms and conditions.
She accepted HLs evidence that Mr M had logged in 151 times so did not accept he had 
been unable  to trade during the period in question. She noted  that he had experienced some 
difficulties getting  through  by phone but felt these problems had not been excessive or 
beyond what one might  expect with any provider at times.
Mr M did not agree, saying:
The problem accessing  the web page  turned  out to be because he had too many  
open positions. If HL had told him this promptly rather than waiting three/four weeks 
he could have solved  this by selling some  positions to improve the efficiency of his 
trading ability
HL should  have accepted the dealing requests he sent through  its secure message 
system
The adjudicators  timeline was not correct and he would supply an explanation of why 
this was the case (he did not do so)
He subsequently sent copies of numerous messages to and from HL seeking  assistance to 
solve the problem  including  explaining that its one suggestion had not worked.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case I agree with the adjudicator and for the same reasons.
HL, along with other platform providers, cannot  guarantee that its online dealing  platform  will 
always work, let alone work quickly and efficiently. It makes this very clear in its terms and 
conditions. So it cannot be held responsible if a client is unable  to make online 
requests/orders and believes s/he has suffered as a result.
Equally, it cannot  guarantee   and probably couldnt do even  if this was its objective - to be 
able to cope with large upsurges in clients wishing to make transactions  over the phone  
Ref: DRN84112412simultaneously. So while Mr M clearly had repeated problems in placing orders both online 
and by phone HL cannot be liable  for any potential losses  he may have suffered.
I also do not believe it is required to action any dealing requests made by secure message.
Overall, I recognise that it could have responded more promptly  and been more proactive  in 
seeking to assist Mr M. But my role is to assess whether a business  has clearly  done 
something wrong, such as failed  to carry out its contractual  responsibilities or made a clear 
mistake. By these criteria  I have not seen sufficient  evidence  to warrant  upholding this 
complaint. On the assumption that HL has or will pay Mr M the £140 it offered I do not 
uphold this complaint.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 June 2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8411241