K820x#14complaint
Ms C complains that Dudley Building  Society:
1.didnt make her aware that she needed  a way of repaying an interest only mortgage  
when it expired. Ms C says she only found  out years  later that shed  only been 
making interest payments, and not paying  off the capital  balance;  and
2.didnt help her in 2013 by giving her advice or support when  she realised shed only 
been paying interest on the mortgage and didnt know how shed  repay it. 
Ms C wants  Dudley Building Society to apologise  for letting her get into debt with no advice 
or guidance and she wants interest  to be refunded to her as compensation. 
background
In 2007 Ms C was added to an interest only mortgage of around £89,000. She was added to 
an existing mortgage,  alongside her partner  at the time. At the same time another party  was 
removed from the mortgage account. 
In 2013 Ms C and her ex-partner  separated.  Ms C says she got in touch with Dudley Building  
Society to discuss the mortgage. Shed recently  found out that the payments shed been 
making towards the mortgage since 2007 had only been covering interest and not repaying  
the loan balance. 
Ms C said she didnt  know what an interest only mortgage was, never mind how she would 
repay it. Ms C complains  that Dudley did nothing to help her in 2013 when she was 
struggling to pay the mortgage.
The mortgage was repaid  in December 2013.
Ms C complained to Dudley Building Society  in March 2019  but it didnt uphold  her 
complaint. Ms C then referred her complaint to us.
Dudley Building  Society  wouldnt give its consent  for us to look at Ms Cs complaint. It said 
the matter had been brought  to us out of time. I issued  a jurisdiction decision on 4 April 2020 
explaining that the first part of Ms Cs complaint about events in 2007  had been brought to 
us out of time. But that we could  look at the second part of her complaint.
Our investigator looked at the merits of Ms Cs complaint that Dudley Building Societys 
didnt help her when she found out the mortgage  was interest only in 2013.  Having done so, 
our Investigator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. She thought Dudley  Building  
Society had reached  out to Ms C by email, but this hadnt been responded to. And she 
thought Dudley had been able to give Ms C the information she needed when  shed got in 
touch in December  2013 just before the mortgage was repaid.
Ms C disagreed with our Investigators findings. She said shed never received the email  
Dudley Building  Society  says it sent her on 22 July 2013. Ms C asked that an ombudsman 
make a final decision on her complaint.
Ref: DRN82090012my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I find myself in 
agreement with our Investigator for broadly  the same reasons.
I dont doubt that 2013  was a difficult year for Ms C. Her relationship  had come  to an end 
and by May 2013 shed moved  out of the mortgaged property  and to another  address. Her 
ex-partner stayed in the mortgaged property and eventually remortgaged  with the same  
lender, removing Ms C from the loan. Ms C says she was bought  out of her share in the 
property in December  2013. 
Ive looked carefully  at the records Dudley has from 2013 that shows  the contact it had with 
both account holders  during that year. And Ive listened to the calls Ms C had with Dudley 
Building Society in December 2013.  Ive also thought about Ms Cs recollection of events 
and how she remembers what happened  to her with respect to the mortgage that year. 
Having evaluated  all the evidence available to me, Im not sure that Dudley  Building  Society  
failed in its duty to help Ms C that year. Its clear  that Ms C was frustrated  by her situation, 
and the lack of information she had about  the mortgage in the run up to her being removed 
from the loan. 
The contact  notes record that there  were a number of calls between  Ms C and Dudley 
Building Society during that year. In May 2013 Ms C spoke to Dudley Building Society and 
said shed moved. But it seems her change  of address wasnt processed as Dudley Building 
Society says it didnt get this instruction confirmed in writing.  Theres also a record of a 
couple of further discussions  on 16 and 17 July about what  happens when the term of the 
mortgage ends.  
Dudley Building  Societys  contact history records that on 22 July 2013 it emailed Ms C to 
invite her to call back  as it didnt have a record of her telephone number. Ms C says she 
didnt receive this email- and that may well be the case. But, if she didnt, I think  Ms C could 
have tried to call Dudley  Building Society  again having been in touch a couple of times in the 
days before.
Theres then a break in communication  between  Dudley  Building Society and Ms C until 
December 2013,  when Ms C calls to ask for the balance outstanding on the mortgage.  Its 
clear from the call that Ms C is frustrated  at how little shes  been  told. I can understand why 
Ms C was keen to work out how much  will be repaid to her when her share  of the equity is 
returned to her. 
However, as the call handler at the time explains, it wouldnt  be Dudley Building Society that 
would be updating  Ms C on another mortgage application that she isnt party  to. The call 
handler says that Ms C should hear from a solicitor acting on behalf of her ex-partner. The 
call handler does tell Ms C the mortgage  balance, which  was the purpose of her call.
It seems  to me that there was a lack of communication  between  a number of parties in 2013  
and I completely see why Ms C felt unaware  of what was going  on. But, overall, I dont think 
Dudley Building  Society  was responsible  for the breakdown in communication or that it failed 
in its duty to help her. Ms C wouldnt  have  seen post sent to the mortgaged  address having 
moved out and Dudley  Building Society didnt have Ms Cs new postal address to write to 
Ref: DRN82090013her. It also doesnt seem  to have had an up-to-date phone number or it wouldnt have 
needed to ask for this by email.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 July 2020.
Emma Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8209001