K820x#14complaint
Mr F says Bank of Scotland  Plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold him a mortgage  payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr F took out a PPI policy  alongside his mortgage  in 1989. Mr F paid a monthly amount for 
it.
Our adjudicator didnt  think we should uphold the complaint. Mr F disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Fs case. 
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Fs complaint.  
 
Both Mr F and Halifax agree the policy was sold during a meeting. During that meeting, 
Halifax shouldve taken  reasonable steps  to make  Mr F aware  he had a choice in buying  the 
policy. Mr F says it wasnt made clear the PPI was optional and he was led to believe he had 
to take the policy  in order to get the mortgage.  
Halifax hasnt been able to provide copies of the actual paperwork completed during Mr Fs 
meeting when he took out the mortgage and the policy. This all happened  nearly  30 years 
ago, so it doesnt surprise me that the original paperwork  is no longer available.  And Halifax 
doesnt have to keep records indefinitely. So Ive given consideration to everything  Mr F has 
told us, as well as taking  into account  everything  we know about how Halifax sold policies 
such as these at the time to decide  what I think is most likely to have happened.  
From what  we know about how Halifax sold these policies at the time, I think  it would have 
made it clear  the policy was optional. And having considered what Mr F has told us carefully, 
nothing hes said leads  me to think that Halifax didnt  follow  its normal  procedures here. 
So, I think its most likely Halifax made Mr F aware he had a choice  about  buying the policy.  
And he chose to take it but has understandably forgotten he did that. 
Halifax says it recommended the PPI to Mr F so it shouldve made sure the policy  was right 
for him. From what Ive seen, it seems to have been suitable for Mr F based on his 
circumstances at the time. Ill explain why:
Mr F met the policys  requirements so was eligible for it.
Mr F says he wouldve  received 6 months  full followed by 6 months  half sick pay 
benefit from his employer. In the event of a successful claim, the PPI wouldve paid 
Mr F mortgage repayments for up to 12 months if Mr F was unable to work due to 
being too unwell. It would have  also covered  his repayments if he became  
Ref: DRN87258812unemployed for up to 24 months. This would have  paid out alongside his employee 
benefits. 
Ive thought about the information  Mr F has given us around  his savings at the time. 
Although he had a reasonable  amount, its not clear  if these savings were  for other  
things. Especially given  he was in the process  of obtaining  a mortgage. So I cant be 
certain if those savings would have been  available if he needed them to pay his 
mortgage repayments if he was unable to work.   But having the policy  wouldve  
meant he could have used these savings  to pay for other essential  costs. 
Mr F was taking  on a large  and long term financial commitment on his own, which  
was secured on his home. So the effects of not keeping  up with the repayments 
couldve been serious for him. And I think having the security that his repayments 
wouldve been made if he was unable to work  wouldve been important to him. 
It doesnt look like there was anything about  Mr Fs circumstances that wouldve 
made it difficult for him to claim  like any known health issues  or unusual 
employment arrangements. So there was nothing to stop Mr F claiming the full 
benefit if he needed to. 
I dont know if Halifax made it clear how much the policy  would have cost or what  
benefit it would have offered. But Ive not seen sufficient  evidence that Mr F couldnt 
afford the monthly payments  or needed to keep the costs  down.  
As well as making sure the PPI was right for Mr F, Halifax shouldve taken reasonable steps 
to point out the main things the policy didnt cover. I dont  know  if Halifax  did point these 
things out. But Ive explained  why I think the PPI was right for him. And I dont think  clearer 
information wouldve  changed his decision. I think  he would still have bought  it. I say this for 
the same  reasons I think the policy was suitable  for him. Which means Halifax  doesnt have 
to pay back all the cost of the PPI to Mr F. 
But Halifax  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr F because:
Halifax got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr F about  that. Because Halifax didnt tell Mr F, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Halifax  has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
I know Mr F feels strongly and will be disappointed  by this outcome. Hes put time and effort 
into his complaint. And Ive thought carefully  about  all the points  hes raised, but taking 
everything into account, I dont think Mr F lost out as a result of anything  Halifax  mightve 
done wrong. 
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Halifax does not have to pay back  all the costs  of the 
PPI to Mr F. 
Ref: DRN87258813But Halifax  does have  to pay back to Mr F any commission and profit share  it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, so I dont award 
any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2019.
Claire Marchant-Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8725881