K821x#15complaint
Miss J says Valour Finance Limited trading as Savvy irresponsibly lent to her.
background
This complaint is about a loan Savvy provided  to Miss J in August 2018.
Miss J took out the loan for £1,500. This was repayable over a fifteen-month  period and cost 
Miss J £200  per month.  The total charge for credit was £1,500. Miss J made  six repayments  
between August 2018 and January 2019 totalling £1,200. Miss J then told us she sold her 
car to make a further early repayment  of £1,205.05 in February 2019. Miss J repaid 
£2,405.02 in total and the loan is repaid in full.
Miss J has said she was in financial difficulty at the time and Savvy  should  never  have given 
her this loan which contributed to the debt spiral she was in.
In its final response letter  Savvy  said it would not uphold Miss Js complaint. It told her it had 
carried out various checks including reviewing her credit file which  showed  no signs of 
financial distress and it was satisfied this loan was issued responsibly.
Our adjudicator upheld  Miss Js complaint. She said that if Savvy had carried  out 
proportionate checks it would likely have shown Miss J was having problems managing  her 
money.
Savvy disagreed  with this view. It said that based on the various checks  it carried  out, it had 
not been made aware of any financial difficulties  or hardship. It strongly  believed  the loan 
was issued in line with the regulations and guidance  available to regulated firms at that time. 
It asked for the matter  to be referred  to an ombudsman and so the complaint was passed  to 
me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Savvy needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice  
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Miss J could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Savvy should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
Ref: DRN84601442the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Savvy was required to establish  
whether Miss J could  sustainably repay  her loans  not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Js complaint. Ive decided to uphold this complaint.  
I will explain  why.
This loan was repayable over a period of fifteen- months. So, Miss J would be required to 
make her loan repayments over an extended  period. In these circumstances I think  Savvy 
should have looked at Miss Js financial circumstances  in more detail, for example by asking 
her to provide copies  of her bank statements.
If it had done proportionate  checks at the time, I think these  would likely  have  revealed  that 
Miss J was having problems managing her money as she had a number of other short-term 
loan commitments  and she was also paying regular  sums of money to gambling  companies. 
I have taken into account everything Savvy  has told me about the checks it carried out and 
what Miss J had told it about her income, expenditure and her other commitments. But I still 
think Savvy  should  have  checked this information more  thoroughly.  If it had done that, I think  
it would  have been alerted to Miss Js underlying financial difficulties. So, all in all I dont 
think Savvy  should  have  given Miss J this loan and I uphold this complaint.
putting things right  what Savvy needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Miss J paid on this loan;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about this loan from Miss Js credit file;
Ref: DRN84601443 HM Revenue & Customs requires Savvy to take off tax from this interest.  Savvy must give 
Miss J a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  Miss Js complaint. Valour Finance Limited  
should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13  June  2020.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8460144