K821x#15complaint
Mr R complains that ERGO Reiseversicherung AG hasnt paid a claim for theft under his 
travel insurance policy. 
Where I refer to ERGO,  this includes their agents and claims handlers. 
background
The detailed background to this complaint  is well known to both parties, so Ill only provide a 
brief summary here. 
Mr R was in South Africa  visiting  family. He says he left his hire car parked with his luggage 
locked in the boot. A couple  of hours  later he returned  to the car and found that a window 
had been smashed and his luggage  had been  taken. 
He reported the matter  to the police  and made  a claim  to ERGO. As part of the claims 
process Mr R provided various  documents  as requested by ERGO. He was also interviewed  
over the phone to record his account of events.  
Following this ERGO declined to meet  his claim.  They said The responses you have 
provided are not satisfactory, coupled with the numerous inconsistencies, I regret to inform 
you that we are unable  to consider your claim any further. Mr R complained  to ERGO who 
maintained their position, so the matter  was referred to our service.  
One of our investigators  thought the complaint should be upheld. In summary she didnt 
think that ERGO had treated Mr Rs claim fairly and reasonably. She recommended that 
ERGO should pay Mr Rs claim subject to the relevant policy  limits. 
ERGO dont  accept this and have asked for an ombudsman to review  the complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with our 
investigator and for largely the same reasons. Let me explain why. 
Mr Rs policy  says: You must not act in a fraudulent manner. We shall not pay a claim if you 
or anyone  acting for you makes a claim under the policy, or makes  a statement, or provides 
a supporting document in support of a claim,  knowing the claim to be false, or fraudulently 
exaggerated in any respect.
It is for ERGO to demonstrate that the term applies. For this reason I need  to decide whether 
or not the evidence supports that the claim is fraudulent or fraudulently exaggerated.
Ive reviewed the reasons our investigator  gave for why she didnt  think that was the case 
and I agree with what shes  already explained. I wont  repeat all the details here but Ill 
outline the evidence I find most persuasive.
Mr R provided  documents from the car rental  company which evidences the broken window 
and his report of theft from the car. It also details  the payment he made towards the repair. 
Ref: DRN89518372Mr R has also provided evidence of the initial police report  and text messages he says he 
received from the police providing him with a reference number. 
I find this persuasive evidence that the theft occurred  and was reported to the police. 
I understand ERGO  have some concerns about  the police report. Theyve highlighted 
different handwriting, theyve alleged Mr Rs signature is different and they say that the 
pictures had missing meta data, some  of which was later provided.
But if ERGO had concerns as to the authenticity  of the police report, the best way to verify 
this would be to contact the police  force concerned  using the reference  number and report  
Mr R has provided.  I appreciate this isnt necessarily an easy task to do internationally. But it 
would have provided conclusive evidence as to the authenticity of the report.  Our 
investigator raised this with ERGO  who havent  provided evidence of contacting  the police. 
And Im satisfied theyve  had ample opportunity to do so in the course of handling Mr Rs 
claim and the following  complaint.  So overall, I dont think ERGO  have  done  enough  to show 
that the police report  isnt genuine. 
ERGO also highlighted that the police report varies slightly with regard to where Mr R told 
their investigator he went whilst the theft occurred. Mr R has explained this as a 
misunderstanding by the police officer recording his account which  was possibly due to a 
language barrier. I think this is a plausible explanation and Im not persuaded that the detail 
involved would make a material difference to whether or not the theft occurred. 
ERGO have  also highlighted that Mr R told their investigator that he only checked in one bag 
on his return flight. They contacted the airline who confirmed that there were two checked  
items. This exchange  comes toward the end of a 90 minute phone interview. Mr R later told 
our investigator that he returned with a quantity of wine and food which  had to be checked in 
as it wouldnt pass security. Whilst the information  Mr R initially  provided was technically 
inaccurate, I dont think this could reasonably be described as an attempt to mislead.  
Overall, I think it was most likely an innocent oversight. So, Im not persuaded that is 
sufficient for his claim to be declined  as fraudulent. 
ERGO also had concerns  that Mr R was able to provide receipts  for all his stolen items. 
Many of the items were purchased online, so I think it would have  been  easy  for Mr R to 
have ready  access to this evidence. And whilst not all customers are likely to maintain such  
detailed records, Im not persuaded it is fair for Mr R to be disadvantaged because he did, or 
that this is evidence of his claim being  fraudulent. 
Taking everything into consideration, I dont think it was fair or reasonable for ERGO to have 
declined Mr Rs claim. Im not persuaded there is sufficient evidence  to reasonably conclude 
that Mr Rs claim  is fraudulent, exaggerated or that he failed to evidence his loss. So, Im 
upholding the complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
ERGO Reiseversicherung  AG must pay Mr Rs claim  in line with any policy limits and the 
relevant excess.  They  should also add 8% simple  interest to the settlement amount to be 
calculated from the date the claim  was first declined to the date of settlement.
Ref: DRN89518373Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 November  2019.
Richard Annandale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8951837