K820x#14Complaint
Miss B complains  that National Westminster Bank Plc has closed her accounts and they 
registered a marker  against her with CIFAS, the UKs fraud alert service. This marker  made  
it difficult to open  another  account. She would like the accounts  reopened and to know the 
reason why they were closed.
Background
Miss B had three accounts with NatWest. On 20 March 2019 following a review  from 
NatWest she received a letter giving her 60 days notice of closure of all her accounts and 
asking her to make  alternative banking arrangements. 
Miss B was unhappy  with this decision. She contacted  us and we advised her to complain to 
the bank. In response to the complaint NatWest reviewed  the decision and on 8 April 2019  
they confirmed  their original decision to close  her accounts with 60 days notice. 
NatWest recorded  a CIFAS marker  against  Miss B in August 2019 when they thought she 
had deliberately removed funds she wasnt entitled  to from her account.  It later transpired it 
was an administrative error. After our investigator contacted NatWest, they reviewed their 
decision to apply the marker and removed it in February 2020. 
As Miss B was unhappy with NatWests decision,  she referred the complaint to us. She said 
NatWest were unfair to apply the marker.  And stopped her from opening other bank 
accounts. She wanted NatWest to pay her compensation.
Our investigator looked into the complaint, she thought that NatWest were  entitled to close 
the accounts. She thought  that NatWest shouldnt have recorded a marker  against Miss B in 
August 2019 and awarded her £100 in compensation for the distress  and inconvenience of 
not being able to open an account.
NatWest agreed with our investigators view.
Miss B was unhappy  with the investigators  view she thought that the amount of 
compensation was not adequate for the time and distress  of not being able to open a bank 
account due to the marker. So, the matter has come to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Account closure
As the investigator  explained its generally for banks  to decide whether or not they want to 
provide, or to continue to provide, banking facilities to any particular customer. Unless 
theres a good  reason to do so, this service wont usually say that a bank must keep a 
customer or require it to compensate a customer who has had their account closed.
Banks should however, give reasonable notice before closing  an account. Usually  that 
means 60 days notice, but it can be less depending on the circumstances. I can see that 
Ref: DRN82496702NatWest wrote to Miss B on 20 March 2019  and let her know  it was closing her account  
giving her 60 days notice.  So, Im satisfied NatWest closed the accounts  in line with the 
account terms. And gave  Miss B adequate time to open another  bank account.
Whilst Miss B mayve  expected to be given  the reasons for the closures, NatWest  isnt 
required to give her a specific reason for closing the accounts. So, I cant say NatWest have 
done anything  wrong by not giving Miss B this information  as much as shed like to know.
In summary,  I recognise Miss B feels unhappy about  the closure and that NatWest  isnt 
justified in closing  the accounts, but overall,  based on the evidence  Ive seen, I cant say 
NatWest has acted  unreasonably and treated Miss B unfairly when  it closed her accounts. 
CIFAS Marker  
NatWest said it applied  the marker in August 2019 because it believed  that Miss B had 
deliberately removed funds, she wasnt entitled  to from her account  during the closure 
process. 
So, Ive looked  at whether  NatWest was fair to apply the marker, based on the evidence  it 
had and the investigation it carried out and what the rules say about  applying such markers.
CIFAS guidance says the business  must have carried out checks  of sufficient  depth  to meet 
the burden of proof set by CIFAS,  which at that time was that NatWest needed to have 
enough information to make a formal complaint to the police or other  relevant  law 
enforcement agencies. And that any filing should be for confirmed cases  of fraud, rather  than 
mere suspicion.  In addition, CIFAS guidance  set out businesses  are expected to retain the 
evidence they rely upon when applying a CIFAS marker for at least six years.
Having reviewed Miss Bs account of events and the evidence NatWest  have provided, Im 
not satisfied NatWest had sufficient evidence  for the CIFAS marker to be recorded  on her 
file. In coming to this view Ive taken into account  the following reasons:
NatWest didnt contact the branch or Miss B to find out exactly  what had happened, 
had they done so they would have realised  that Miss B didnt intend  to defraud  them, 
and the branch had in fact made an error by allowing Miss B to withdraw  money 
against a pending  transfer.
I have seen a system  note that confirms NatWest knew the money wasnt  lost. 
Despite this the marker wasnt removed until February 2020. Following the 
involvement of our investigator.
NatWest removed the marker in February  2020,  so Ive gone  on to consider the impact  this 
had on Miss B. Miss B had opened a replacement account in May 2019 with bank N but as a 
result of the CIFAS marker this was closed in August 2019. She has said she was also 
refused an account  by another  bank. She said that because of these problems she became 
anxious and fearful about going  into another branch. I appreciate that this was stressful for 
Miss B. I dont  think  NatWest met the burden of proof to load such a marker and I accept that 
not being able to find suitable accounts  caused  Miss B frustration  and distress. I am satisfied 
that the amount of £100 compensation is a fair and reasonable award.  In deciding this I have 
taken into account  that Miss B had access to a basic account which her salary was paid into 
during this time. So, the impact  was reduced. 
Ref: DRN82496703In summary  the bank  is entitled to close the account  on notice. I appreciate  that having to 
find new accounts was stressful. However, I recognise that the loading of the CIFAS marker 
made a stressful  situation  more difficult and as Ive said I think  £100  compensation is fair 
and reasonable amount in the circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold the complaint.
I require National Westminster Bank Plc to pay Miss B £100 in compensation for the trouble 
and upset caused by loading the CIFAS marker.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 July 2020.
Esperanza Fuentes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8249670