K821x#15complaint
Mr P complains about the way that his early settlement of two finance  agreements has been  
dealt with by Lloyd Motors Limited.  
background
Lloyd Motors had acted as the credit intermediary between Mr P and the credit provider on 
two finance agreements  one was a fixed sum loan agreement which he used to buy a car 
and the other was a hire purchase  agreement under which a car was supplied to him. Mr P 
asked it in June  2018 to get settlement figures  for both agreements. It provided them to Mr P 
and he decided to settle the agreements.  Lloyd  Motors  then sent Mr P a cheque  for £450. 
But his direct debits  had been  cancelled  by the time that the cheque  was sent to him and the 
payment was due to the finance  provider. 
Mr P complained that hed spent the money  and that Lloyd Motors should  pay the money  
that was due to the finance  provider. Lloyd Motors said that the settlement  letters  clearly 
stated that payments totalling £450 were due to be made by Mr P in order for the quoted 
settlement figures  to stand and that the compliments slip enclosed  with the cheque 
explained its understanding  of the situation.  It also said that it had made a mistake  by 
sending the cheque to Mr P but it was unaware that hed cancelled his direct  debits. Mr P 
wasnt satisfied with Lloyd  Motors response  so his complaint was considered by this service. 
Mr P made the payment  to the finance  provide  in August 2018.
The investigator recommended  that this complaint should be upheld  in part. He said that the 
cheque shouldnt have  been sent to Mr P and that the information  regarding  the cheque 
wasnt clear enough  for Mr P to be able to understand  the correct  current status of his 
account. He concluded that an error  was made  by Lloyd Motors  which  resulted in Mr P 
receiving conflicting  information. So he recommended that Lloyd Motors should pay £100 to 
compensate Mr P for the distress and inconvenience that hed been  caused. 
Lloyd Motors has agreed to pay £100 compensation to Mr P but hes asked  for his complaint 
to be considered by an ombudsman.  He says, in summary, that he was shown the cheque  
and the full amount to pay off his finance whilst sat in the showroom  waiting to pick up his 
new car. And he says that if Lloyd Motors had sent that cheque,  or processed  the payment 
online, he wouldn't be in this situation. He also says that Lloyd Motors didnt pay-off his 
finance agreements  until July 2018.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im satisfied that the calculations that have been provided by Lloyds  Motor  
for the settlement of Mr Ps finance  agreements are correct.  Mr P received the cheque  for 
£450 when he wasnt entitled to that amount because he hadnt made the final payments 
that were due to the finance  provider  because his direct debits had been cancelled.  But Mr P 
has since paid the £450 to the finance  provider  and I consider that his finance  agreements 
have now been  settled correctly.
Mr P says that he was told by Lloyd Motors to cancel his direct debits  but Lloyd Motors 
says that it was clear  from the early settlement quotes and the compliments slip with which 
Ref: DRN80025552the cheque was enclosed that the settlement figures were  on the basis  that the direct debits 
had been paid. 
I consider that Lloyd  Motors shouldnt have sent a payment to Mr P until it knew that the 
outstanding finance had been settled. And, if it had done that, Mr P wouldnt have received a 
payment to which he wasnt entitled  and these issues wouldve been avoided. But Mr P 
received £450  to which he wasnt entitled   and Im not persuaded that it would be fair or 
reasonable for Mr P to benefit from that.
These events have clearly  caused distress and inconvenience to Mr P. And I find that it 
would be fair and reasonable for Lloyds Motors to pay him £100 to compensate  him for that 
distress and inconvenience. But, other  than that, Im not persuaded that theres  enough 
evidence to show that Lloyd Motors has acted  incorrectly in connection  with the early  
settlement of Mr Ps finance agreements. So I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable in 
these circumstances  for me to require it to pay any other  compensation to Mr P  or to take 
any other action in response  to his complaint.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I uphold Mr Ps complaint in part. And I order Lloyd 
Motors Limited to pay £100 to Mr P to compensate  him for the distress  and inconvenience 
that hes been caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 June 2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8002555