K822xComplaint
Mr H complains that BMW  Financial  Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS) gave him incorrect 
information about ending his agreement.
Background 
In March 2016, Mr H acquired a vehicle funded  by a hire agreement and a deposit  of £5,040. 
He agreed to pay £304.42 a month  for the minimum hiring period of four years.
In February 2019,  Mr H contacted BMW enquiring  about ending the agreement. On 22 
February 2019, BMWFS emailed Mr H telling him that the only way to exit the agreement 
would be to sell the vehicle to a third party, and to ensure the vehicle is sold for the current  
market value which was £9,575. It said that he would be liable for any shortfall.  Finally,  it told 
him he would  receive 95% of the sale value. The email makes  no mention of having to settle 
the minimum hiring period balance.
Mr H arranged a sale with a third party and on 29 March 2019 he contacted  BMWFS to ask 
for the settlement figure. He was then informed  of the requirement  to settle the minimum hire 
period. Mr H sold the vehicle and then complained  to BMWFS.  It rejected  the complaint and 
said it had acted in accordance with the terms and conditions  of the agreement.
Mr H brought his complaint to this service  where  it was considered  by one of our 
investigators who didnt  recommend  it be upheld. 
He said that if a business makes an error  either by providing incorrect or incomplete  
information, we cant hold it to that incorrect or incomplete information. So even though,  in 
February 2019, BMWFS told Mr H that in order to end the agreement  all he had to do was 
sell the vehicle for market  value, and then receive  95% of the balance he didnt believed  he it 
to be bound by this. 
He said he could consider what may have happened  if Mr H had been given full and 
complete information  in February 2019.  He went on to note BMWFS had given Mr H the full 
information on 29 March  and it appeared the vehicle  was sold to the third party the following 
day. 
He considered Mr H had the correct information about the termination requirements before 
the car was sold and so he didnt think the unclear  termination information affected  his 
decision to sell. However, our investigator felt the incomplete information  had caused Mr H 
distress and inconvenience for which he should be paid £150  compensation.
Mr H didnt agree and said he hadnt found out about having to settle  the minimum balance  
until after he had sold the vehicle. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have every sympathy with Mr H but I do not consider I can ask that BMWFS  forgo the 
outstanding balance. I will explain why. 
Ref: DRN83356792I have reviewed the business file and can see that Mr H had a number of problems with the 
vehicle and had complained on numerous occasions. An independent inspection was carried 
out and BMWFS refused  to let him reject the vehicle. I believe Mr H was keen to get rid of 
the vehicle. 
He was told the only option was to sell it to a third party. Regrettably he wasnt  told about the 
minimum hiring period  requirement. However,  I believe he was told about it at the point of 
sale and he could have  changed his mind.  I accept that this was very last minute and 
stopping the sale may not have been  straightforward. But no money was paid to BMWFS  
until a few days later and while a change of view may have been at the last moment it was 
possible.
If Mr H had changed his mind he would have had to keep a vehicle with which he was 
unhappy and continue to make payments to BMWFS while  it would have been depreciating 
in value. Therefore,  I am not persuaded that he has lost out, but I do accept he did have a 
loss of expectation. For that and the distress  and inconvenience he is entitled to be 
compensated.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in that I direct BMW Financial Services (GB) 
Limited to pay Mr H compensation of £150. Under  the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or reject my decision before 14 May 2020.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8335679