K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in November 
2005 with a credit card.  Mr H says Bank of Scotland Plc trading as Halifax mis-sold him the 
PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Hs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Mr H says he wasnt aware  of the PPI and didnt know it was optional. But Ive seen a copy 
of Mr Hs credit card application form. I can see that there was a section on the application 
form called  Product Details . And in that section it said Credit Card Repayment Cover . This 
was immediately followed by a box which has been marked with an x. I think  this is the 
likely result of a conversation between  Mr H and Halifax about  the PPI. The box has not 
been crossed for another  product on offer, which suggests  Mr H had some choice about the 
products he was taking.  
On Mr Hs credit agreement I can see that after he has signed for his card,  theres a 
separate box where Mr H has ticked next to the statement I wish to purchase Credit Card  
Repayment Cover and hes signed  to confirm his selection. 
Ive also seen copies  of some of Mr Hs credit  card statements and can see a payment for 
the PPI being  taken.  If it was something he hadnt  been aware of or asked for, I think  its 
likely he would have questioned these payments with Halifax  sooner  than he did. 
So overall, I think its likely Mr H was aware  that he was taking PPI and that he chose to take 
it out at the time  knowing he didnt have  to. Although I can understand why Mr H doesnt 
remember this now - as the sale was a long time ago.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr H so it had to check that the PPI was right for him  and 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time,  I think that it was. For example he 
wasnt affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover.  
Mr Hs told us that he would have received some sick pay if he couldnt work  but the PPI 
would have paid out on top of anything he would have received from his employer and its 
likely for longer than he would have got his full rate of pay. It also offered him redundancy 
cover. Having the policy in place wouldve meant  any savings he had could  be used for other 
essential living expense  at what was likely to be a difficult time financially. And while I dont 
doubt Mr Hs wife would have wanted  to help, this depended on her being able to when he 
needed it most - which couldnt be guaranteed. So I think the PPI would  have been  useful  for 
him if something went wrong.  
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr H about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But he chose  to take it out  so it looks like he wanted this type of cover.  And as 
Ref: DRN84651342above I think it was right for him. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think  better 
information about the PPI would have put him off taking  out the cover.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mr H paid for the PPI. But Halifax has already offered to give Mr H back some of the cost of 
the PPI. I dont think it needs  to do anything more. 
I understand Halifax has already paid this to Mr H.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 February  2019.
Hannah Eykel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8465134