K821x#15complaint
Mr F has complained about Calpe  Insurance Company Limiteds handling of his taxi 
insurance policy.
Reference to Calpe includes their agents.
background
Mr F took out a taxi insurance policy with Calpe  in May 2016. On 19 May 2016, Mr F was 
involved in a minor accident at an airport. His taxi was parked with the engine off when he 
said it rolled forward by approximately a metre at around one mile an hour and the front left 
hand side of his taxi came into contact with the front right hand side of a minibus that was 
parked with a number  of passengers inside it.
He said his taxi suffered  a small scratch and a small dent which  he was able to push out 
using his fingers. He said a clamp that held the minibus front bumper together  snapped.  He 
said he paid the owner of the minibus £100  to cover  the damage to the clamp.  Mr F 
accepted the incident  was his fault but neither Mr F nor the minibus driver claimed against 
his policy. But, a few days later, one of the passengers on the minibus claimed against       
Mr Fs policy for whiplash.
As there was no claim for any of the damage  to either vehicle, Calpe initially  recorded that 
incident as notification only. Mr F discussed  the matter with Calpe on 27 May, 2 and 3 June 
2016. On all occasions he said the impact  was so minor that no injury  could have  been  
caused. He said the whiplash claim was fraudulent and that he wanted Calpe to resist the 
claim and not accept liability. Mr F also asked Calpe to get CCTV from the scene  and he 
made it clear  that he was prepared to take the matter to court  if the passenger pursued  the 
claim.
Calpe admitted liability on 20 June 2016,  and settled the passengers whiplash claim on 7 
November 2016  without telling Mr F. It wasnt until around six months  later in May 2017 
when Mr Fs policy  was due for renewal  that he found out from his broker that Calpe had 
settled the claim. Mr F was unhappy  and complained. But Calpe didnt uphold  his complaint 
and said their decision to admit liability and settle  the claim was reasonable. Mr F didn't think 
that was fair, so he brought  his complaint to us. One of our adjudicators looked into it. She 
felt Calpe had treated  Mr F fairly.  As Mr F didnt agree  with our adjudicator, the complaint  
has been passed to me to decide.
My provisional decision was issued on 24 March 2020. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im intending to 
uphold this complaint.  Ill explain why.
Under the policy, Calpe have  the discretion to settle  claims  as they feel appropriate 
without the need to get Mr Fs agreement. But I expect them to exercise that 
discretion in a fair and reasonable way. Especially  given the decision to settle the 
claim has serious consequences for Mr F for years  to come.
Mr F accepted from the start that his car rolled into the minibus, so the incident was 
his fault. But he said given the speed  his car travelled was so slow; the distance it 
Ref: DRN82249192travelled was so short;  the impact was so minimal;  the angle at which  his car and the 
minibus met; and that the minibus was a much bigger vehicle than his, it wasnt 
possible for the passenger to have suffered whiplash injury.
Mr F also gave  the details of a witness, the driver of the minibus  who at the time was 
stood outside  by the minibus, who saw the incident. Mr F said that there  were  other  
witnesses and that Calpe could get their details from the minibus driver. Mr F also 
said there was also CCTV footage which  he wanted Calpe to get that showed how 
minor the impact was and that it showed  the passenger was unaffected by the 
incident when  he got off the minibus.
During his discussions  with Calpe, Mr F urged them to not pay the claim as it was 
fraudulent. He also said he was prepared to take the matter  to court  as losing his no 
claims bonus (NCB) would have serious  implications for him as a taxi driver. Calpe 
agreed to investigate the incident. But within a few weeks  they admitted liability for 
the injury on Mr Fs behalf.
When Calpe  initially spoke with the witness soon after the incident, he appeared 
willing to assist and confirmed Mr Fs taxi just rolled forward at around  one mile an 
hour and that the damage to his minibus  was very minimal. So, his evidence would 
have potentially been favourable to Mr F. But it later became evident that the witness 
was being evasive and he didnt provide a statement.
Calpe later received  medical evidence from the passenger where a doctor confirmed  
the passenger  had whiplash injury.  But Calpe didnt obtain the CCTV even though  
they had the opportunity to do so, because they felt that it wouldnt have made a 
difference to the outcome. Mr F said there  were CCTV  cameras that would have 
captured the incident. He also said there was CCTV footage of the passenger  getting  
off the bus with no signs of injury.  He felt the footage  would have supported  his case 
which is why he wanted Calpe to get it.
I would expect Calpe to carry out a reasonable investigation into the circumstances 
of the incident before  reaching  a decision.  And, on the face of it, Mr F admitted he 
was at fault for his taxi rolling into the minibus and the passenger  has provided 
medical evidence  supporting  his claim that he suffered whiplash injury. But, 
ultimately, only a court  can decide whether or not Mr Fs actions caused  injury to the 
passenger. That being said, I dont expect  Calpe to take every such case to court 
and incur substantial  costs in defending a claim on the chance that the claim wont 
succeed. Calpe are experienced in matters  such as this, so I would expect them  to 
carry out a reasonable investigation and to assess the prospects of success  were  the 
matter to go to court.  But I dont think Calpe investigated the incident  reasonably  for 
the following  reasons:
Mr F provided  an article from a legal practitioners journal called Low Velocity 
Impacts: An Update 2016 - Chapter One from RTA [road traffic accidents] 
Allegations of Fraud in a Post-Jackson  Era: The Handbook, 2nd Edition by 
Andrew McKie. The article examined fraudulent  personal injury claims resulting 
from low velocity/low speed  impact  road traffic accidents. It said that there are 
occasions where fraudulent claims are supported by medical evidence. And that 
such fraudulent claims could be disproved,  but that would almost wholly depend 
upon the credibility of the Claimant at trial. The article detailed relevant case law 
and how medical  evidence supporting a claim could be challenged. And I think 
Ref: DRN82249193Calpe acknowledge  that because in an internal note dated 20 June 2016  the 
following was recorded: reviewing file. to admit liability however the possibility of 
an LVI [low velocity impact] arguments once  evidence of this is gathered.  But 
potentially crucial CCTV wasnt  obtained.
The passenger  said he was jolted to the right and then to the left during the 
incident and he later told his doctor experienced  moderate  shock  and shakiness 
immediately after the accident. The minibus  driver told Calpe that his insurer had 
obtained CCTV footage of the passenger getting  off the bus and loading his 
luggage into a car. There was no suggestion that the passenger demonstrated 
shock and shakiness  which  I would  have expected given what  he told the 
doctor. Had Calpe  obtained the CCTV footage  it could have corroborated Mr Fs 
account. But despite Calpe being told this they didnt obtain a copy  of the footage 
which I think they should have, especially as Calpe were  aware  of its existence.
Likewise, Mr F told Calpe  to get CCTV which he believed would have shown the 
incident and that it would have  supported  his case. The incident happened  at an 
airport and given  the state of heightened  security, I believe there would have 
been a number of CCTV cameras. And when urging Calpe to get the footage,  Mr 
F said that it was likely the airport would  only keep the footage for 30 days. But 
Calpe didnt ask for the footage as they felt it wouldnt have made a difference  to 
the claim. But I disagree. If the incident  happened as Mr F described and if it was 
captured on CCTV, I think Calpe could have sent it to the passengers solicitor 
with a view of getting them to withdraw their claim.  If there  was clear footage 
showing the impact was so minimal that the minibus didnt move at all meaning 
the passenger  couldnt have jolted, together with footage showing the passenger  
leaving the minibus with no discomfort, then I think its possible the passenger 
could have been dissuaded from continuing  his claim. Obtaining  CCTV was a 
reasonable line of investigation, but Calpe failed  to do that.
Calpe  were aware that Mr F wanted  the claim defended and he wanted to be kept 
informed of any developments.  Yet Calpe  didnt tell Mr F that they admitted 
liability on 20 June 2016 nor did they tell him that they settled the claim on 7 
November 2016. He only found  out the following year when his policy was due for 
renewal in May 2017. I think,  given the circumstances, Calpe should have told Mr 
F about  those intended decisions before they made them.  Had they done that, Mr 
F could have then taken  steps gather evidence himself, such as trying to obtain  
the CCTV. But Calpe led Mr F to believe that they were investigating the claim 
and gathering evidence.
For the above reasons I dont think Calpe treated Mr F fairly nor was their 
investigation reasonable. I therefore intend  to uphold this complaint.  I intend  to 
require Calpe to amend  all internal and external records to remove  the fault claim 
currently recorded against Mr Fs driving history in relation to the personal injury  
claim. The only record that should remain to reflect the incident should  be a non-fault 
claim. Calpe should provide Mr F a letter  confirming  the incident  on 19 May 2016 has 
been amended  by removing the fault claim and replacing it with a non-fault  claim.
Calpe should  also award Mr F a NCB  year for the policy year in which  the incident 
happened, provided that he didnt have any other fault claims within  that policy  year. 
They should  provide him a letter confirming the number  of NCB years he had as of 
17 May 2017 when  his policy ended.
If Mr F took out taxi or motor insurance in any of the subsequent years following  the 
end of the policy in question with Calpe, which ended  on 17 May 2017, Calpe should 
Ref: DRN82249194assist Mr F by contacting  his subsequent  insurer(s) to have any premiums  
recalculated on the basis  that: (a) he had a non-fault claim and not a fault claim 
during the May 2016 to May 2017 policy year; and (b) he had an additional NCB year 
for the May 2016  to May 2017 policy year.  If, as a result of any recalculation,  Mr F is 
given a refund(s) Calpe should pay simple interest  at a rate of 8% a year on any 
refund(s) from the date Mr F made  payment until the date he is refunded. If Mr F 
believes he should be given a refund by any one of his subsequent insurers but isnt, 
he would  have to make a separate complaint against the relevant insurer(s).
Finally, Im aware  that this matter has been a source of distress and inconvenience 
for Mr F. And it has been ongoing for almost four years.  So I intend to require Calpe  
to pay Mr F £400 compensation to address that.
The parties were invited to comment on my findings. Neither Mr F nor Calpe provided  any 
comments.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, and given the parties 
havent provided any comments in response to my provisional decision, my decision remains  
the same. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint and require Calpe Insurance  
Company Limited  to:
Correct all internal and external databases  by changing  the fault claim to non-fault.  
Calpe should  provide  Mr F a letter confirming this.
Reinstate Mr Fs no claims bonus  for the policy year in which  the incident took place, 
provided there were  no other fault claims within that policy year.
Ref: DRN82249195If Mr F took out taxi or motor insurance in any of the subsequent years following  the 
end of the policy in question with Calpe, which ended  on 17 May 2017, they should 
assist Mr F by contacting his subsequent  insurer(s) to have any premiums  
recalculated on the basis  that: (a) he had a non-fault claim and not a fault claim 
during the May 2016 to May 2017 policy year; and (b) he had an additional NCB year 
for the May 2016 to May 2017 policy year.  If, as a result of any recalculation,  Mr F is 
given a refund(s) Calpe should pay simple interest  at a rate of 8% a year on any 
refund(s) from the date Mr F made  payment until the date he is refunded. 1
Pay Mr F £400 compensation for the distress and inconvenience  he experienced. 
This should be paid within 28 days of us telling them  that Mr F has accepted my final 
decision. If Calpe pay later than this they must also pay interest on that amount from 
the date of my final decision  to the date of payment at a rate of 8% a year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 May 2020.
Mehmet Osman  
ombudsman 
1 If Calpe consider that they are required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income  tax from that 
interest, they should tell Mr F how much they have taken off. Calpe should also give him a certificate 
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.  
Ref: DRN8224919