K820x#14complaint
Mr W and Mrs W say Nationwide Building  Society, the Portman Building Society  at the time, 
mis-sold them a payment  protection  insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr W and Mrs W bought the policy  in 2006 sometime after taking out a mortgage. They 
applied for their mortgage with a third party, but took out the PPI policy with Nationwide over 
the phone. 
The policy provided  cover  for Mr W for unemployment only  subject to its exclusions and 
limitations. It offered  to repay  £728 a month towards Mr W and Mrs Ws mortgage balance  in 
the event of a successful  claim. At the time it was taken out it cost around £29.16 a month, 
this later increased to £30.50 per month. 
At the time,  Mr W was employed as a production  manager. He has told us he was entitled to 
some sick pay and redundancy  pay from his employer. He also says he and Mrs W had 
about £5,000 in savings  which  they couldve used to make their repayments.  Mr W has said 
he suffered from a medical  condition prior to the sale of the PPI. 
Mrs W was also employed at the time, but as this policy covered Mr W only I have mainly  
considered his circumstances, however I have also taken into account Mrs Ws 
circumstances at the time. 
Mr W and Mrs Ws representative has made  lengthy  and substantial representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr W and Mrs Ws representative  says:
Nationwide failed  to meet  the sales standards which  applied  at the time. In those  
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr W and Mrs W 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr W and 
Mrs Ws representatives believe there  to be no evidence  to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Nationwide  should 
have told Mr W and Mrs W about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Nationwide  should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr W and 
Mrs W and the impact  they would have  had on their chances  of making a claim;
Ref: DRN82181082The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long-term transaction   cover would stop just at 
the time it would  be most needed;  and 
The information Mr W and Mrs W received  was misleading. These policies were 
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr W and Mrs W disagreed  with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr W and Mrs Ws. I dont intend to set 
that out in much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr W and Mrs Ws 
complaint.
The mortgage was arranged after mortgage  lending became regulated in October 2004  as 
such this was a regulated  mortgage  contract. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140A of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable.
This sale took place  in 2006 after the sale of general  insurance  products like this became 
regulated by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) in January 2005. So the FSAs and the 
FCAs overarching principles for businesses and insurance conduct rules  (ICOB)  are 
applicable to this complaint.
It is also relevant to note that there have for some  time been codes governing the sale of 
insurance products  such as PPI. There is much in common between  the present statutory 
regulatory regime and the non-statutory provisions that preceded  it (and, indeed, the position 
at law). 
Although the non-statutory provisions no longer apply as specific requirements on those 
selling insurance,  I consider they still represent a helpful guide to good  industry  practice. As 
Ref: DRN82181083a result it is appropriate for me to take them into account along  with the relevant ICOB rules 
and the other relevant considerations.
In the period immediately before statutory regulation in 2005, there was a period of industry 
self-regulation by the General Insurance  Standards  Council (GISC). It published  The 
General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance Code for private customers   the 
GISC Code. This set out minimum  standards of good practice for its members  to follow 
when selling  insurance, including PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Nationwide, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
The sale took place  after the sale of mortgage products became regulated by the FSA. So 
the mortgage conduct of business rules  (MCOB)  are applicable to this complaint. Prior to 
regulation subscribing  lenders and mortgage intermediaries followed a voluntary mortgage 
code. While predominantly about mortgage  related matters, it also included  some insurance-
related commitments.  As with the sale of general insurance, there is much in common  
between the pre and post-regulatory position.
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. The sale took place after insurance mediation became  a regulated  activity  in January 
2005, so Nationwide was required to take into account the provisions in DISP  App 3 when 
considering Mr W and Mrs Ws complaint.
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Nationwide gave  advice, whether  it advised  Mr W and Mrs W with reasonable care 
and skill  in particular, whether the policy was appropriate or suitable for them, 
given their needs and circumstances. 
Ref: DRN82181084-Whether Nationwide gave Mr W and Mrs W sufficient, appropriate and timely 
information to enable them to make an informed  choice  about whether to take out the 
policy, including drawing to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr W 
and Mrs W, I must then go on to consider whether  and to what extent Mr W and 
Mrs W suffered  loss or damage and what I consider would amount  to fair 
compensation for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr W and 
Mrs W and Nationwide, Ive decided not to uphold Mr W and Mrs Ws complaint. Ive set out 
my reasoning below.  
did Mr W and Mrs W know they had a choice?
Nationwide had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
Mr W and Mrs W say the PPI was just added as part of the package with their mortgage and 
they wouldnt have  taken it out if they were given  the option. But the evidence shows  Mr W 
and Mrs W took their mortgage out with a third-party, and declined the PPI cover during their 
mortgage application process. 
Nationwide have provided evidence to show Mr W and Mrs W took out the PPI over the 
phone after their meeting  with the third-party. But, unfortunately, due to the length of time 
thats passed there is no call recording for me to listen  to. So, I have  to consider what 
evidence is available  to come to a decision on what I think is more likely to have happened.  
Mr W and Mrs W chose  to take out the PPI in Mr Ws name only and decided to take out 
unemployment cover  only. This suggests they discussed the cover and what was best for 
their needs.  As they declined the cover on their mortgage application and came directly to 
Nationwide to arrange the PPI, suggests  that they were aware the PPI was a separate  and 
optional product. 
Taking everything into account,  and without and stronger evidence  to the contrary,  I think  its 
more likely Mr W and Mrs W knew the policy was optional and they agreed to take it out 
without undue pressure.  
did Nationwide provide  advice?
Nationwide says it didnt  provide advice  during  this sale. Mr W and Mrs W havent disagreed 
with this, so Ive also considered this to have  been  a none advised sale. 
This means  Nationwide  didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable  for Mr W and Mrs W. 
Instead, it had to give them sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to enable Mr W and 
Mrs W to make an informed choice  about  whether to take out the policy, including drawing to 
their attention and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main provisions 
of the policy  and significant limitations  and exclusions. 
the information
Ref: DRN82181085Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr W and Mrs W were  given  a broad description of what  
the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy would protect  their payments if Mr W 
was unable to work  through unemployment) and of the approximate  costs. Ive reached this 
conclusion because I think  its unlikely  Mr W and Mrs W would have  taken out the policy  
without any sense of what the policy was for and of how much the premium might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Nationwide gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr W and Mrs W agreed  to take out the policy. 
So I dont  think Nationwide gave Mr W and Mrs W sufficient,  appropriate and timely 
information to enable them to make an informed  choice  about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing their attention  and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr W and Mrs Ws representative has raised 
a number of general  points  in regards to the requirements on a business  when providing  
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr W and 
Mrs Ws. Ive considered  these carefully and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr W and Mrs Ws representative considers to 
be poor value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather 
than the insurer.  
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr W and Mrs W about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone 
further and explained  the significance of them to them.  
Im not persuaded by Mr W and Mrs Ws representatives views on this. The duty of utmost  
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mr W and Mrs W have  suggested. And taking into account the 
law, industry codes and standards  of good industry  practice applicable to this complaint, I 
dont think its fair and reasonable to conclude  that Nationwide ought  to have done either. 
what effect did Nationwides shortcomings have on Mr W and Mrs W? To what extent  
did Mr W and Mrs W suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found Nationwide didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  to Mr W and 
Mrs W. So Ive gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude  
Mr W and Mrs W suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer this, I must  decide 
whether or not Mr W and Mrs W would have  still taken out the policy, had Nationwide done  
things properly. 
Ref: DRN82181086Mr W and Mrs W say they would not have taken it out and believe  that I should  presume  this 
to be the case  given the significant failings identified above.  Ive considered the 
representations of both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr W and Mrs W had to weigh up in their own minds the 
cost of the policy against the benefits offered  and the potential consequences  if they didnt 
insure against the risk of Mr W being  unable to work. 
As Ive found above, Mr W and Mrs W chose to take this policy  out. So I consider that its 
reasonable to conclude  they had some  interest  in the benefits offered by this type of 
insurance. But they made this decision based on incomplete information. So what Mr W and 
Mrs W thought  they were getting is not exactly what they got. The extent to which this 
differed is a relevant consideration when determining if Mr W and Mrs W have suffered any 
loss or detriment. 
Although I consider it more likely than not Mr W and Mrs W knew  they would have to pay 
something for the policy, it doesnt appear Nationwide  told them the exact premium at the 
point they applied for the policy. Having said that, it seems likely Mr W and Mrs W would 
have been told the cost before the policy started and they paid for the policy for a number of 
years, so if the costs were  significantly at odd with their expectations at the point of sale, its 
possible they might have raised  that with Nationwide at the time,  or reconsidered their 
decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr W and Mrs W would have found the cost unacceptable  if they 
had been given the exact figure during  the call in which they agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Nationwide  made  clear exactly  what Mr W and Mrs W would 
get back in return  in the event they made a successful claim. But I think its unlikely Mr W 
and Mrs Ws expectations about what the policy would pay in the event of a claim (an 
amount sufficient to meet their mortgage  payment) were significantly different to what  the 
policy actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr W and Mrs W thought  they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr W 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mr W and Mrs W pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude  
that the policy was not as good  as they thought and they might have decided  not to proceed. 
The limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might 
have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr W and Mrs W 
from taking out the policy.  
But, the evidence  about Mr W and Mrs Ws circumstances at the time of sale shows that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  for them. Mr W eligible for its benefits and it provided 
cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to them should 
the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence  to suggest  they 
wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions. Even though  Mr W has given us 
Ref: DRN82181087details about his previous medical  conditions this policy covered him for unemployment only,  
so it didnt cover him in the event of any disability whether pre-existing or not. And this is the 
level of cover Mr W chose  to take out at the time So, I still think  they had some good  reasons 
to take the policy  out.
Nationwide may not have  told Mr W and Mrs W that any claim they made would be limited  to 
a 12-month. This may have differed from what they expected and might have hoped for  but 
12 months was a longer period than Mr W would have received full sick pay for and his 
statutory redundancy entitlement was also significantly less than 12 months income.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr W and Mrs W would still have thought  a policy  
that paid up to 12 monthly mortgage payments would have been of benefit  to them and 
would help them manage the consequences  should Mr W be unable to work  in the 
circumstances covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made, it 
could help reduce their outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time ensure their home was not 
placed at risk and might  potentially help preserve Mr Ws sick pay or redundancy money for 
other use.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr W and Mrs W would still have taken  out the policy. The policy was sufficiently 
close to what its likely  they thought they were getting and provided benefits  that would help 
them manage the consequences if Mr W and Mrs W were  made  redundant, or unable  to 
work through  the accident or disability.  In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not 
that Mr W and Mrs W would have taken out the policy in any event notwithstanding the 
limitations on cover.
Mr W and Mrs Ws representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP  
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr W and Mrs W wouldnt have bought the PPI they bought unless, in the 
particular circumstances  of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr W and Mrs 
Ws circumstances as detailed above,  I consider it reasonable to conclude the position Mr W 
and Mrs W found themselves in as a result of the sale was the same position they would 
have been in had the breach or significant  failings  not occurred. 
Mr W and Mrs W believe  the presumption may only be rebutted  when the flaws in the sales 
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. Im not persuaded by these  arguments. 
Ref: DRN82181088Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr W and Mrs W in the position they would have been in 
if they had not bought the policy. 
That is because,  while I accept its possible they wouldnt have taken out the policy, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not they would still have taken out 
the PPI had they been given clear,  fair and not misleading information  about the policy  they 
were buying.  So Im not persuaded  it would be fair and reasonable in those  circumstances, 
to conclude Nationwide should pay Mr W and Mrs W compensation, as that would put them 
in a better position  than they would  have been  in if everything had happened as it should 
have done. 
Im also aware that Mr W and Mrs W think Nationwide misrepresented the terms of the policy  
in how it described  the PPI.  While  I accept  there  is a possibility a court  might conclude  some 
of Nationwides  statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion  the reason  why 
Nationwide failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in 
the information it provided  but because the overall information Nationwide  gave Mr W and 
Mrs W, in the way it did, was insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and 
reasonable to expect  it to have met in 2006  when  providing information  about an insurance  
policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr W and Mrs Ws representative says a court might 
take if it were to find Nationwide negligently misrepresented the contract  to Mr W and Mrs W 
and about the remedy a court might  award  if it were  to find that Nationwide  had been in 
breach of its duty of utmost good  faith. But this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions 
about what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what  I 
think is fair compensation in the circumstances  of this case. For the reasons Ive already set 
out I dont think  it would be fair and reasonable to put Mr W and Mrs W in a better  position  
than if everything had happened  as it should have done. 
Mr W and Mrs Ws representative has raised  a number of what  I consider to be general  
complaint points, which it says applies to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a 
claim that we are not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance for handling PPI 
complaints; these policies represented  poor value because of the number of significant 
exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty of utmost  
good faith meant Nationwide should  have disclosed the poor value and explained  the 
significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the chances  of making 
a claim.
But Mr W and Mrs Ws representative  has not said how these points apply to the specific  
facts and circumstances of Mr W and Mrs Ws individual complaint  just that they apply to 
all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr W and Mrs Ws particular 
case. But these  points doesnt  persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  - for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold this complaint. 
my decision
Ref: DRN82181089Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 21 August  2021.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8218108