K820x#14complaint
Mr R has complained that Ageas Insurance Limited  undervalued his car under his motor 
policy when it was written  off in an accident.
background
Mr Rs car was involved in an accident  so he made a claim to Ageas. Unfortunately,  it was 
deemed a total loss. Ageas said its market  value was £2,350. Mr R thought this was too low 
and so he complained.
Ageas thoughts its valuation was correct given some pre-existing damage.  Mr R didnt think  
his car had any pre-existing damage. So he brought his complaint to us.
The investigator was of the view that Ageas handled his claim reasonably. Mr R didnt  agree  
so his complaint  has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint and Ill now explain why.
As the investigator  explained, this service  doesnt provide a valuation  service for cars in this 
situation. What we do instead is look to make sure the insurer, Ageas here,  came  to its 
valuation reasonably and fairly. In doing  that we look at the relevant  trade  valuations  guides 
used for vehicle valuations. Thats because these  are based on actual selling prices rather  
than any advertised price seen on forecourts  or online.
Mr Rs car was a unique and cherished car, which was consequently quite old and 
considered something  of a classic. Therefore, as the investigator explained the usual trade  
guides wouldnt have  been able to value it. Ageas instead used the Practical Classic Guide, 
which I consider was reasonable in these  circumstances. That showed Ageas that Mr Rs 
could be valued  as high as £3,200 and as low as £1,500. Mr Rs car was well presented,  as I 
can see from the photos he provided, which  were  taken shortly  before his accident.  
However, Ageas also showed us its engineers report, which showed some pre-accident  
damage on the photos it contained. There were six photographs showing the following:
Some paintwork was blistering on tailgate  spoiler
Some paintwork was faded on the off side mirror back
Some corrosion could  be seen  on a wheel arch
Some cracks were on the near side right light cover
There was a crack on the bumper
Some scuffing on the front seat padding  inside. 
Based on this Ageas engineer decided Mr Rs car was worth  £2,350.  As the photographs do 
show some  pre-accident issues, I dont  consider Ageas reductions to be unreasonable  or 
unfair.
Mr R also complained Ageas delayed in dealing with his claim. But I dont  consider  it did, 
because it inspected his car shortly  after the accident, which was on 19 March  2018 and the 
Ref: DRN87957172engineers report  was dated 21 March  2018, which provided this valuation. Given  Mr R didnt  
agree with the valuation figure,  Ageas also paid him an interim  payment on 23 April 2018 
with the second payment made in May 2018. So it had valued  his car within two days after 
the accident and in view of the discussions as regards the market value, it nevertheless  paid 
Mr R an interim payment  within a month of the accident. I dont consider there was any 
excessive delay consequently.
my final decision
So for these reasons its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 April 2020.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8795717