K821x#15complaint
Miss A complains  that debit cards issued  to her by Santander UK Plc (Santander) do not 
work in cash machines.
background
Miss A has a current  account  with Santander with a debit card.
In December 2017 Miss A contacted Santander to say that her debit card was working in 
shops but not in cash machines. Santander sent a number of replacement  cards to Miss A 
over the following months. She says these cards  worked in shops and Santander cash 
machines but not in non-Santander cash machines. So she complained to Santander saying 
that this was causing her a lot of problems. Santander asked Miss A to come into branch so 
that the problems she was having  could be investigated further.  At this stage Santander also 
said that it thought  it was unlikely that the cards Miss A had been sent were all faulty  given 
the tests cards go through before being  sent  and that Miss A might  be damaging the 
magnetic strips given  the way she was storing the cards. Miss A complained to us saying 
that she wasnt storing her cards  in a way that would damage them as Santander had 
suggested. In the meantime,  she was unhappy  at how long shed been without a fully 
functioning card particularly given that shed gone into branch as Santander had asked and 
co-operated with its investigation.
One of our investigators  looked into Miss As complaint and recommended  Santander issue 
a new card and pay Miss A £150 for the trouble and upset shed been caused. Miss A didnt 
think the compensation our investigator recommended  was enough. So Ive been  asked to 
consider this complaint
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I said:
Miss A first told Santander that she was having problems with her card in December 2017  
the problems werent  fixed despite Santander sending out a new card. Santander thought 
that it was odd that Miss A was having  trouble with more than one card and so suggested  
that it might be because of the way she was storing the cards or using them. So Santander 
asked Miss A about how she was storing  the cards and suggested she pick up a new card 
from one of its branches and try using it with a member of staff present. In other words, 
Santander tried to get to the bottom of what was going  wrong.  Thats what  I would have 
expected Santander to do  it had issued the card and is more  likely to be able to work out 
what was going  wrong than Miss A. I can see that Miss A co-operated with Santander,  but 
despite this Santander hasnt been  able to explain why Miss A had problems with more  than 
one card. Santander has suggested that it might be because of the way Miss A is storing her 
cards, but the evidence Ive seen  doesnt show that this is the case.
Miss A was still having problems with her card when our investigator said what  they thought  
of this complaint.  That was in August 2018.  Our investigator recommended  that Santander 
issue a new card, as well as pay compensation, and in March 2019 Santander did so. Ive 
looked at Miss As statements,  amongst  other things, since that new card (ending  7332) was 
issued. Having done so, Im satisfied that Miss A has been  able to withdraw cash  from 
Santander and non-Santander cash machines  since March  2019. In other words, Im 
satisfied that Miss A was without a fully working  card between December 2017 and March  
Ref: DRN826527122019. In the circumstances,  I think its fair to ask Santander to compensate  Miss A for the 
trouble and upset  that not having a fully working card for this period caused, including  the 
time Miss A took to help Santander with its investigations.
I can see from Miss As statements that she makes  cash withdrawals relatively infrequently  
compared to other  types of card payments. Thats important because  it means  that although 
it must  have  been extremely frustrating  not having  a fully working card, the impact  on Miss A 
wasnt as significant  as it could have been  had she been someone who makes regular cash 
withdrawals. Having said that, this did go on for 15 months, and during that time Miss A had 
to go to one of Santanders  branches  to show the staff there how she used her card as well 
as spending time following up her complaint.
In my provisional decision I thought £350  was fair and reasonable compensation in the 
circumstances. In deciding on the compensation, I considered  Miss A had been  without a 
working card for 15 months and she had to visit the branch on various occasions and be 
watched using  her different cards as well as being asked on multiple occasions how she 
kept her cards.
responses to my provisional  decision
Miss A has accepted  my provisional decision.  Santander have also accepted  my provisional 
decision.
my findings
Although Miss A and Santander  have not provided any further  comments, I have 
nevertheless re-considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  what is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I have seen  nothing  to change  my 
mind and so my provisional  findings stand.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold the complaint  and I direct Santander UK Plc to pay Miss A £350 
in compensation  for inconvenience.
Santander UK Plc must  pay the compensation within 28 days  of the date on which  we tell it 
Miss A accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest  on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 December  2019.
Esperanza Fuentes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8265271