K821x#15complaint
Mr D is making  a claim against Nationwide Building  Society under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974.
He says, among  other things, that he was induced by a misrepresentation to enter  into a 
contract for a jobs search website or network.  
background
Mr D paid £120 on his credit card for one years  access to the network. Before he did so, he 
says the supplier told him there were  currently around 29 jobs (17%  of 170) on the network 
for his area. He then found out there were only ten. He more  or less immediately gave notice 
to cancel his membership  and recover his £120.  The supplier didnt refund the money.  Mr D 
then made  his claim under section 75 against  Nationwide, the creditor  under his credit card.
Nationwide declined his claim. It said he got what he paid for, which was access to the 
network and training materials. It said Mr D hadnt  proved his claim that hed been told there 
were more jobs advertised in his area than were  currently  on the network. And it said that 
the written contract  in any case prevented  Mr D from relying on alleged misrepresentations 
or applying  for a refund.  
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. In summary, he concluded  Mr D had relied on the 
misrepresentation to enter into the contract and Nationwide should  pay Mr Ds money  back. 
He didnt accept  that the effect  of the misrepresentation  could be negated by the written 
contract, as a misrepresentation  didnt form part of the written  contract. 
Nationwide didnt accept  the investigators conclusions.  It wasnt convinced  that a material  
misrepresentation had been made   ie a false statement of fact that had induced Mr D to 
enter into the contract.  It thought the timing of the cancellation might  indicate dissatisfaction  
with the service for other reasons. It repeated that according to the contract the subscription  
was non-refundable. It said that maybe Mr D didnt leave a long enough  time to see if more  
jobs would  appear  on the network.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im sorry to disappoint Nationwide  but I 
too have concluded the complaint  succeeds.
The contract and the effect of any misrepresentation
The written  contract  ie the terms and conditions of the service,  a copy  of which 
Nationwide produced  is to some  extent a puzzling document. In important respects it 
doesnt appear to reflect  the service being supplied to Mr D or the part he plays in it. The 
contract says the customer  (in this case Mr D) warrants  its acting as a business, while 
Nationwide and the ombudsman service have  treated Mr D, I think  rightly, as a consumer. 
The service  to be supplied to Mr D is defined as public relations. And its envisaged  the 
customer will submit  Content, as defined, to the supplier which  the supplier will or may 
disseminate.
Ref: DRN89129112While a clause excluding  liability  for misrepresentations may be valid in a commercial 
contract between parties of equal  or equivalent  bargaining  power, it may be much less so 
where one of the parties is a consumer  agreeing  to the commercial  suppliers standard terms 
of business. 
The normal  legal effect of a misrepresentation is to rescind  the contract from the start. So if 
there was a misrepresentation, any clause stating  the supplier wont  give refunds in any 
circumstances would  also cease  to apply. 
Taking all the circumstances into account,  I think  its fair in this case that I should require 
Nationwide to treat the relevant contract as rescinded if I conclude  the contract  was induced 
by a material misrepresentation.
Was there a material misrepresentation inducing the contract?
I think there was. On balance I accept  Mr Ds account of what he was told by the supplier 
before he agreed  to subscribe. The inaccurate information he received led him to believe 
there were currently nearly  200% more  job vacancies  in his area on the network than there 
in fact were.  My finding  is that if hed known  the true picture he wouldnt have subscribed. My 
finding is supported  by the fact that as soon as Mr D realised the true picture, he took steps 
to cancel his subscription.  
my final decision
I uphold Mr Ds complaint. Nationwide Building Society  should  refund him £120.
Nationwide should  also reconstruct Mr Ds card account from when the transaction was 
applied. This should  take into account  any extra interest or associated  charges that Mr D 
was charged.  If, after doing this, Mr D is still out of pocket,  Nationwide  should pay 8% simple 
interest per year from when he was first out of pocket until he gets it back.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 December  2019.
Roger Yeomans
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8912911