K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains about the way that Bank of Scotland Plc has dealt with his business account 
and the service that hes received.
background
Mr B had a business account with Bank of Scotland and he was being  charged for an 
overdraft that was being used on the account.  He changed the status  of his business to a 
limited company and wanted an account  set-up for the company and for the overdraft to be 
transferred to that account. He also wanted  to be set up for internet  banking. He says that 
hes had issues with Bank of Scotland since 2010.
He complained to Bank of Scotland about the service that hes received  and it sent him a 
final response letter in August  2015. It said that his account was a partnership account so a 
new account was required and that he should  contact the number provided to start that 
application. It refunded  £350 of charges that hed incurred  and paid him £500 for his distress  
and inconvenience.
Mr B complained to Bank of Scotland again  in July 2017 because he was continuing to have 
issues with his account. It sent him a final response  letter in November 2017  in which it said 
that it was clear that the service  hed received fell short of its normal standards so it paid him 
an additional  £150. It said that: a limited company account was opened in October 2017; it 
had extended  the £10,000 overdraft facility on his partnership account until December  2017  
but it was unable to transfer  the overdraft  to the company  account  (and in order to discuss  
an overdraft on the new account a full financial application was required); and to access 
internet banking he would need to register online and complete the relevant forms. Mr B 
wasnt satisfied with Bank of Scotlands response  so complained  to this service in 
March 2018.
The investigator said that Bank of Scotland hadnt consented to this service  looking into 
Mr Bs complaint before August 2015  and it had provided evidence  to show that its final 
response letter was sent to him. And she didnt agree that exceptional circumstances had 
prevented him from bringing his complaint in time. So she said that she was unable  to 
consider the events before August 2015.
Mr B says that Bank  of Scotland has lost relevant papers,  breached data protection rules  
and failed to respond to him on several occasions.  And he says that its of utmost  
importance that the situation is looked  at in the whole  and not in part.
I issued a jurisdiction  decision on this complaint last month in which  I said that this service 
doesnt have the legal  power to consider Mr Bs complaint about the events that happened  
before August 2015 but that it can consider his complaint about the events that have  
happened since then.
Mr B responded to that decision and says that the issues that hes had with Bank  of Scotland 
from 2010 onwards  were  twofold:
its administrative failure to provide him with internet services over several  years  
despite his regular provision of pertinent  documents which  were  lost in the bank's 
internal systems resulting  in direct financial loss  and although thats  been  dealt  with 
partially the problem  continued after an amount  of compensation was awarded and 
therefore is outstanding; and
Ref: DRN85793282its failure to comply with data protection legislation   and those issues  are serious  
and ongoing.
But the investigator said that the complaint about data protection  legislation was a new 
complaint that hasnt  been addressed by Bank of Scotland  so Mr B would need to raise 
this new complaint with it before this service  is able to consider it. 
Shed previously recommended that other aspects of Mr Bs complaint should be upheld and 
she recommended  that Bank of Scotland should  pay an additional  £350  to Mr B for the 
inconvenience that he was caused. She said that the limited companys account  was set up 
in October 2017  but she thought that it wouldve have been set up earlier but for the errors 
caused by Bank of Scotland. 
She thought  that it was good  practice  for Bank  of Scotland to assess  the business 
circumstances before transferring the overdraft  to it and that it assessed the application  for 
affordability for the new account and informed  it of the outcome. And she thought that 
Bank of Scotland had given adequate notice before it withdrew the overdraft and she 
couldnt see that Bank of Scotland had acted out of line with its agreement with the business  
for the charges on the overdraft account.  And she said that Mr B wanted access  to the 
internet to be able to manage the overdraft account   but internet banking  wasnt available  
because a new account was needed.
Bank of Scotland has agreed that additional redress of £350 would be applicable in the 
circumstances.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint   but only to the extent  that it relates to 
events that have happened since August 2015.  And I havent  considered  Mr Bs complaint 
that Bank  of Scotland hasnt complied with data protection legislation. If he wants  to make  a 
complaint about  that he should complain  to Bank  of Scotland  about it  and if hes not 
satisfied with its response he may then be able to make a separate  complaint to this service. 
There have clearly been some failings  in the way that Bank of Scotland has dealt with Mr Bs 
business account. He complained to it in July 2017 because he was continuing to have 
issues with his account. It accepted that the service that hed received fell short of its normal  
standards so it paid him £150 (in addition to the compensation that it had paid to him 
previously). It said that: a limited company account was opened  in October  2017;  it had 
extended the £10,000 overdraft facility on his partnership account until December 2017 but it 
was unable to transfer the overdraft to the company account (and in order  to discuss  an 
overdraft on the new account a full financial application  was required); and to access internet 
banking he would need to register online and complete the relevant forms. 
The account  for the limited company was opened  in October 2017.  But I consider that it 
shouldve been  opened soon after the account had been applied for and that the delay was 
caused by Bank of Scotland. That will have caused  distress and inconvenience to Mr B. The 
investigator recommended that it should pay him an additional £350 compensation for that 
distress and inconvenience. Bank of Scotland has agreed with that recommendation and I 
consider that £350 compensation  in addition  to the £150  that it had already paid to him - is 
fair and reasonable compensation for the distress and inconvenience that hes been caused. 
Ref: DRN85793283Mr Bs business account had a £10,000  overdraft facility.  He wanted that facility to be 
transferred to the limited company account. Bank of Scotland said that a full financial 
application was required for that to happen  but it extended the £10,000  overdraft facility  on 
his partnership account until December 2017.  I consider that it was appropriate for 
Bank of Scotland to properly  assess whether any overdraft was suitable and affordable for 
the company before  it was made available to it  and I don t consider that there  was any 
requirement for it to transfer the overdraft from the business account to the limited  company 
account. And I consider that Bank  of Scotland gave adequate notice to Mr B before the 
overdraft was withdrawn.
Im not persuaded that theres enough  evidence to show that the charges  that it made for the 
overdraft account  were other than what was agreed in the terms and conditions  for the 
account. Nor am I persuaded that they were unfair or reasonable. So I find that it wouldnt be 
fair or reasonable  for me to require Bank of Scotland to refund to Mr B any of the charges 
that have been applied  to the account   or to pay him any compensation because of the 
issues with the overdraft about which hes complained.
Mr B wanted  to use internet banking to access his account. Bank of Scotland said that he 
would need to register online and complete the relevant forms. I dont consider that to have 
been unfair or unreasonable  in the circumstances   or that Bank of Scotland  has acted 
incorrectly in connection with his access to internet banking. Mr B says that this issue 
remains outstanding.  But Im not persuaded  that theres enough evidence to show that 
Bank of Scotland has acted incorrectly in connection  with Mr Bs internet access  to his 
account.
Its clear that Mr Bs very upset about the way that hes been dealt with by Bank of Scotland  
and hes asked for compensation of £4,500 in settlement of his complaint. But Im not 
persuaded that compensation  of more than £350  (in addition to the £150  and other 
compensation that its paid to him) is justified in these circumstances. 
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I uphold Mr Bs complaint in part. And I order 
Bank of Scotland Plc to pay him a further £350 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 March 2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8579328