K821x#15complaint
Mr L complains  that Clydesdale Bank Plc wont refund  money he lost when he was the victim  
of a scam.
background
Mr L was involved in an online relationship with a woman we now know  to be a scammer. 
The woman told him she had inherited  a significant amount of money  from her father, but 
that taxes needed to be paid on the money before it would be released  to her. Mr L therefore 
went into a Clydesdale  branch to take out a loan for £15,000, so he could send her the 
money to pay the taxes.
Clydesdale accepted Mr Ls loan application and Mr L then withdrew  £14,150 of the funds 
from the loan as cash and used this cash to make a series  of payments to accounts  the 
woman had given him the details for.
The scam was ultimately uncovered shortly after these payments were  made,  when Mr L 
tried to make a further payment and a member of staff in the US bank where  he tried to 
make the payment said the woman was known to them and was a scammer. Mr L then 
reported the scam to Clydesdale, complained that it hadnt warned him of potential  scams 
when he applied for the loan and asked that the money hed lost be refunded to him.
Clydesdale investigated  but said Mr L gave the purpose of the loan as legal expenses and it 
was his responsibility to decide if he wanted  to proceed with it or not, so it didnt agree to 
refund the money hed lost. Mr L wasnt happy  with Clydesdales response,  so referred his 
complaint to our service.
One of our investigators  looked at the complaint and felt Clydesdale should have been 
concerned that Mr L was at risk of financial  harm  and warned him about the risks of sending 
money to someone  hed never met in person before processing the loan application. And he 
felt that, if Clydesdale had done  this, the scam wouldve been discovered and Mr L wouldnt 
have lost the money. So they recommended Clydesdale refund the money Mr L had lost. 
Clydesdale disagreed, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute  that Mr L applied for the loan himself or authorised  the subsequent 
payments to the accounts the scammer  had given him details for. So, although he didnt 
intend for the money to go to a scammer,  under  the Payment Service Regulations 2017, the 
starting position is that Mr L is liable for the loss and Clydesdale  doesnt have to refund him.
However, taking into account  the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time,  I consider 
Clydesdale should  fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made  or received  to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Ref: DRN87274732Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other  signs that 
might indicate that its customers were  at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given  the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.   
In some circumstances,  irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases  declined  to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers  from 
the possibility  of financial harm from fraud.
Mr L says that when he went into the Clydesdale  branch to apply for the loan, he told the 
staff he wanted  the money to pay the taxes on the womans fathers will so the money shed 
inherited could  be released to her. He says he showed the staff an email hed received from 
the woman which explained the situation with her fathers will, as well as the legal 
documents the woman had sent him showing  her being appointed  administrator of her 
fathers estate. Mr L also says he told the staff his relationship with the woman  had been  
solely online  up until that point, but that he would be flying out to meet her in the US once 
the taxes were  paid.
Ive seen copies  of the email and the legal documents, as Mr L has also sent them  to us. Ive 
not seen anything to suggest  Mr L has ever hidden the purpose of the loan or given an 
incorrect explanation  of why he wanted it or his relationship  with the woman. And while  
Clydesdale says Mr L told it the purpose  of the loan was legal expenses,  I dont think this 
contradicts what hes said as paying  the taxes  on a will could be categorised  as legal 
expenses. So I think its likely Mr L did tell Clydesdale about the true purpose of the loan and 
his relationship with the woman when  he applied for the loan.
Given this information,  and as paying  to release money from someone elses will and 
sending money  to someone  theyve never  met in person are both well known types of scam, 
I think Clydesdale should have identified that Mr L was potentially the victim of a scam. I 
think it should then have warned him about the prevalence  of romance scams and the risks 
of sending money to someone hed not met in person.
As Clydesdale  is in a position of knowledge and authority in financial matters,  I think  these 
warnings wouldve carried considerable weight with Mr L. I think  the warnings wouldve 
caused the scam to be discovered,  as it was when the member of staff in the US bank 
warned Mr L about the possibility of a scam.  And I think Mr L then wouldnt have taken out 
the loan and wouldnt have sent the money  from the loan to the scammer.
After the loan was granted, Mr L withdrew  £14,150  of the money from the loan in cash. He 
then went to a local money transfer company and made a payment of £4,991.10, the most  
he says the company would send, to an account  the woman had given him the details for.
Mr L then made another payment the following day, this time of £4,925.10 plus £74.90 in 
fees, through another money  transfer company at the airport. He then flew to the US but, 
after he arrived, he found out the payment of £4,925.10 hadnt  been successful and so this 
amount was returned to him by the money transfer company in the US.
Mr L says he made several  attempts  to send the rest of the money from the loan to the 
account the woman had given him the details for, and ultimately sent two payments a few 
days later through  a US bank for $5,487 and $5,600. Ive seen receipts for these two 
Ref: DRN87274733payments. And at this point it appears  Mr L had sent all the cash he had withdrawn from the 
loan.
As there had been a delay in sending some of the money, Mr L says the woman told him he 
needed to make a further payment. So he went into a different branch of the US bank  two 
days later and made this further payment of $6,035 using  money from a credit card.  Shortly  
after this further  payment  was made,  a member of staff at the US bank told Mr L the woman  
was known to them and was a scammer.
The scam was then discovered and the US bank was able to recover the $6,035  payment.  
This was given to Mr L as a cheque, which he says he deposited back into his account  when  
he returned to the UK. Ive also seen that the £4,991.10  payment  was refunded  to Mr L by 
the money transfer company. But Mr L has said the US bank wasnt  able to recover  the 
$5,487 or $5,600 payments.
As the £4,991.10 payment has been refunded to Mr L by the money transfer  company, he 
hasnt lost this amount  and I dont think it would be reasonable to ask Clydesdale  to also 
refund it. The £4,925.10  payment was also returned to Mr L, as the payment  was 
unsuccessful, and so he hasnt lost this amount either. And the $6,035 payment didnt come 
out of the money from the loan,  and has been refunded  to Mr L in any event, so he also 
hasnt lost this amount.
But the payments  of $5,487 and $5,600  did come  out of the money  from the loan and 
havent been recovered, so Mr L has lost these amounts. And as Mr L had withdrawn the 
money from the loan in cash, and had been  using separate sources of funds for his 
expenses while in the US, Im satisfied these two payments represent  the entire £14,150 
cash he withdrew from the loan, less the £4,991.10 that was refunded  by the money transfer 
company.
So Mr L lost those two payments.  And if Clydesdale had warned Mr L that he was potentially 
the victim of a scam, as I think  it should  have done,  I think  the scam wouldve been 
discovered, Mr L wouldnt have taken out the loan and he wouldnt have lost the two 
payments he did.
Putting things  right
In order to put things  right, Clydesdale should:
Remove any record of the loan from Mr Ls credit file
Refund any interest and charges applied on the loan to date, and make sure no 
interest and charges  are applied moving forwards
Reduce the balance of the loan by the £9,158.90 Mr L lost (calculated as the £14,150 
cash he withdrew, less than £4,991.10 refunded to him for the first payment)
If this refund and balance reduction means  Mr L has paid more than he should have 
towards the loan,  these excess payments  should be refunded to him, plus 8% simple 
interest from the time he made  the payments to the time theyre repaid
If there  is still an outstanding balance following this refund and balance  reduction, 
Clydesdale should get in touch  with Mr L and arrange a fair repayment plan
Pay Mr L £250 as compensation for the distress and inconvenience  hes suffered
Ref: DRN87274734my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and require Clydesdale Bank  Plc to put things right by doing what Ive 
set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 July 2021.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8727473