K821x#15complaint
Mr A complains about the quality of the car that was supplied to him under a hire purchase
agreement with Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited.
background
I set out the background  of this complaint in great detail  in my earlier  provisional  decisions. 
The parties are well aware of the history of this complaint and these  points are not in 
dispute. That being so, I think there is no benefit  in setting out the background again here, in 
similar detail.  So, I will only give a brief summary below.
In September  2018 Mr A entered  into a hire purchase agreement with VWFS  for a new car.
Within days of having the car Mr A complained  that various aspects of the media system did 
not work.  In particular,  he has not been able to use his own phone or other phones
with the media  system, in the way he wanted  to use them.
Mr A went  back and forth with the car trying to get it repaired. But ultimately the problems 
were not resolved, and the parties  could not agree a way forward.  In summary, Mr As 
stance was that the car was not of satisfactory quality and it was dangerous to drive. 
VWFSs initial stance  was the car was of satisfactory quality and safe to drive and Mr A was 
merely experiencing  a comfort issue.
Mr A was dissatisfied with VWFSs  response and came to our service.
Mr A wanted  a refund of the whole of the deposit, and all the repayments he had made 
towards the agreement. Plus, he wanted  back the motor insurance and the road tax paid in 
relation to the car. He also asked  for expenses  related to relatives cars which he had been 
driving.
I looked at Mr As complaint. I issued two provisional decision. In these decisions I explained  
why VWFS  was responsible for providing  a car of satisfactory quality to Mr A. In my second  
provisional decision I also said both parties now accepted that the car was not of satisfactory 
quality when supplied.  On that basis, the only complaint point left to look at was redress.
I said that VWFS had to refund the deposit  that Mr A paid with interest. Mr A had initially  said 
he had paid the whole of the £2,385.05 deposit.  However, when I looked closely  at the 
contractual documents they showed Mr A had only paid part of the deposit that is £635.05.  
The balance of the deposit  had come from the dealership. I said if Mr A disagreed with this 
and specifically if he continued to say he had paid the whole deposit, he ought to let me 
know. But given the information I already had he would need  to provide new information to 
support his position. However, unless Mr A sent in something new that changed  my mind,  
VWFS need  only refund  him £635.05  for the deposit.
I didnt agree that the car was unsafe to drive. Albeit, I recognised  Mr A was worried the car 
was unsafe and had not driven it for the majority of the time that he had had it. I took on 
board that he had agreed an annual mileage  with VWFS,  but he had done over eight months 
mileage in the space  of around two months.  I found it was fair and reasonable that he should  
have to pay for the use he had made  of the car. I concluded that VWFS can keep the 
repayments he made for the first year he had the car but must refund all other repayments, 
that Mr A made towards his agreement  with it.
Ref: DRN83047132That said,  I underlined that I was awarding  the refund of some of the repayments he had 
made, based on the use he told us he had made of the car. So, Mr A should only fairly and 
reasonably get this refund of repayments  on the proviso that he has only driven  8,523  miles. 
That means that when VWFS comes to collect the car the mileage  should  be 8,523 miles.
Further, I said I was not going to ask VWFS to refund  all of the insurance the road tax costs. 
This was because Mr A was always obliged to pay for such costs when driving. However,  
once he stopped using the car I thought it is fair and reasonable  to say these costs
should be refunded. But this was subject to Mr A demonstrating he paid these costs. I said 
this meant  that VWFS should refund him for the insurance and the road tax he paid in 
relation to this car only, for the period from September 2019.
I did not find that VWFS had to pay anything in relation to Mr As use of his relatives cars as 
this would have  provided him with free motoring which as not fair and reasonable. I thought 
VWFSs offer to pay Mr A £750  for distress and inconvenience was a fair offer.
In summary,  I said I intended to require VWFS to:
1. End the hire purchase  agreement  with nothing further owed by Mr A.
2. Collect the car at no cost to Mr A. I believe the car is currently  on Mr As driveway.
3. Refund Mr As deposit of £635.05 and pay interest at the rate of 8% simple  per year
from the date of the payment of the deposit until the date of settlement.
4. Refund the monthly repayments  Mr A has made  from September 2019 onwards
towards the car that was supplied under the hire purchase agreement.  Provided that the
mileage of the car on collection  is no more than 8,523 miles.
5. If Mr A provides proof of payment by him refund the road tax and motor insurance that 
was paid from September 2019 onwards in relation to the car that was supplied under the
hire purchase agreement.  Provided  that the mileage of the car on collection is no more
than 8,523.
6. Pay Mr A £750 for distress and inconvenience  as it has already agreed to do.
7. Send information  to the credit  reference  agencies so that they can mark the hire
purchase agreement  as settled on Mr As credit file.
I invited Mr A and VWFS to respond to my provisional decision.  The both did. Mr A accepted 
my provisional decision with some reluctance. He also sent in information  about the motor 
insurance and the road tax which he said he had paid for. VWFS accepted  my provisional 
decision.
my findings
I thank Mr A and VWFS for their responses to my provisional decision.  Ive re-considered  all 
the available  evidence and arguments  to decide  whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
As both Mr A and VWFS accepted my second provisional decision,  I have reached the same 
conclusions for the same  reasons as I did in it.
Ref: DRN83047133I had invited Mr A to send  in any information that he had to show  he had paid for the motor  
insurance and the road tax in relation to the car. What he sent in was a schedule  of 
insurance and a confirmation of payment of road tax. What he did not send in was 
information to show he had paid for the motor  insurance and the road tax. This is important 
as if he cant show that he made  these  payments,  I would have no proper basis for asking 
VWFS to refund him for these payments.
We have explained  this point to him. So far he has not sent in that information he now has a 
further opportunity  to do so.
my final decision
My final decision is that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited must do the following:
1.End the hire purchase agreement with nothing  further owed by Mr A.
2.Collect the car at no cost to Mr A.
3.Refund Mr As deposit of £635.05  and pay interest at the rate of 8% simple per year 
from the date of the payment of the deposit until the date of settlement.
4.Refund the monthly repayments Mr A has made from September 2019  onwards 
towards the car that was supplied  under the hire purchase agreement.  Provided that 
the mileage of the car on collection is no more than 8,523 miles.
5.If Mr A provides  proof that he made these payments  refund  the road tax and motor  
insurance payments  that Mr A made from September 2019 onwards in relation to the 
car that was supplied  under the hire purchase agreement. Provided that the mileage 
of the car on collection is no more  than 8,523 miles.
6.Pay Mr A £750 for distress and inconvenience  as it has already agreed  to do.
7.Send  information  to the credit reference agencies so that they can mark the hire 
purchase agreement  as settled on Mr As credit file.
If VWFS does  not pay the £750 compensation for distress and inconvenience  within  28 days
of the date on which we tell it Mr A accepts my final decision then it must also pay 8%
simple yearly interest on this from the date of my final decision to the date of payment.
If VWFS considers  that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs  to withhold income tax from
the interest part of my award, it should tell Mr A how much its taken off. It should  also give
Mr A a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 August 2020.
Joyce Gordon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8304713