K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2002. Miss F says Tesco Personal Finance PLC (trading as Tesco  Bank) mis-sold her the 
PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Fs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. I know this will disappoint Miss F, so Ill explain why. 
Tesco has sent us a copy of the credit agreement completed at the time, which Miss F 
signed. This has a separate section  for the PPI, in which I can see theres a tick to take out 
the cover. So I think its most likely that Tesco made it clear that Miss F didnt have to take 
out the PPI and that she chose to take it out. 
Tesco didnt  provide Miss F with a personalised recommendation to take out the PPI so it 
didnt have to check if it was right for her. But it did have to make  sure Miss F got the 
information she needed to decide if it was right for her. 
Its possible the information Tesco gave Miss F about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But Im satisfied she most likely  chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks  like she wanted 
this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look 
like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  - so it could have 
been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I 
dont think better information  about  the PPI would have  put her off taking out the cover. 
In saying the above, Ive carefully  considered everything Miss F has said about her 
employee sick pay benefits and the savings she had. Miss F doesnt have any independent 
evidence of her savings, and thats  understandable given the circumstances shes  explained.  
But where evidence  is incomplete, I need to make my decision on what  I think  is most likely  
to have happened  the balance of probabilities. And given the information  Ive seen related 
to her credit card account history from around the time the card started, Im not persuaded, 
on balance, that she had significant  savings  which  she could have used if needed around 
the time of the sale. 
Which means Tesco  doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss F. But Tesco  
will pay back  some  of the cost of the PPI to Miss F because: 
Ref: DRN88640582Tesco got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Miss F about that. Because Tesco didnt  tell Miss F, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Tesco has basically  offered to pay back  the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
Ive thought about everything Miss F has said. But for the reasons explained  above,  these 
points dont change  my decision.
what the business needs  to do
Tesco has to pay back to Miss F any commission and profit share it got that was more  than 
50% of the PPI premium. Tesco should  also pay back to Miss F any extra interest she paid 
because of that.
Tesco should re-work the credit card account  and pay back  to Miss F the difference between 
what Miss F owes  and what she wouldve owed if the commission  and profit  share it got 
hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Tesco should also pay Miss F 8%* simple  
interest if she paid off her credit card at some  point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Miss F can claim  back  the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Tesco Personal  Finance PLC does not have to pay back 
all of the cost of the PPI to Miss F.
But Tesco Personal Finance PLC does  have to pay back to Miss F any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss F to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 April 2019.
Ketan Nagla
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8864058