K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a store  
card in 1996. Miss M says Financial Insurance Company  Limited (FICL) mis-sold her the 
PPI.
Miss M took out the store  card and PPI in a shop  but FICL has taken responsibility  for the 
sale, and for this complaint, so I will refer to FICL in my decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Ms case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Miss M says that she didnt know about PPI, so wouldnt  have taken  it out  she also says 
that she was made redundant  twice,  and that if shes known she had PPI, this may have 
been of use to her during these times.
FICL has provided a copy of Miss Ms store card application  and I can see that the policy is 
presented as optional, and has been selected.  Miss M has then signed  the application, 
agreeing to the information on it. So at the time she took out the policy, I think that FICL 
made it clear  that she didnt have to take out the PPI, and that she chose to do so, although I 
can understand why she doesnt remember this as it was so long ago. 
I dont know why Miss M didnt try to make a claim on the policy when she was made  
redundant  it may be that she simply  forgot  that she had PPI, or didnt  make  a claim as she 
found temporary work. But as Ive explained above,  at the time the PPI was taken out, I think 
that she chose  to do so. She may wish to approach FICL about the possibility  of making a 
backdated claim. 
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Miss M so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. But 
it did have to make sure Miss M got the information she needed to decide  if it was right for 
her. 
Its possible the information FICL gave Miss M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But she chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted  this type of cover. 
Based on what Ive seen  of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put her off taking  out the cover.  
Ive thought about everything Miss M has said, including  what  shes  said about family  and 
friends having been pushed back when making a complaint, and that she knows people who 
work for the business who have confirmed  its stance.  But these points dont change my 
decision. Im only considering Miss Ms complaint, and for the reasons set out above, I dont 
think the policy was mis-sold.
Ref: DRN89841292my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 October  2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8984129