K821x#15complaint
Mrs Y says HSBC Bank plc (HSBC)  mis-sold her a payment  protection insurance (PPI) 
policy in 2002.
background
Mrs Y took out PPI with a credit card in 2002.  The PPI policy  included  accident, sickness  
and unemployment  cover. The policy cost 73p per £100 of Mrs Ys monthly repayment 
amount and wouldve provided  10% of the balance for up to 12 months if she became too ill 
to work or was made redundant.
Our adjudicator recommended  the complaint be upheld. HSBC  disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint passed  to me. I issued my provisional decision in 
respect of this complaint on 31 October 2018,  a copy of which  is attached to, and forms part 
of, this final decision. In my provisional decision I set out the reasons why I was minded not 
to uphold Mrs Ys complaint about the miss-sale  of the PPI. 
I asked the parties  to the complaint to let me have any further representations that they 
wished me to consider by 1 December  2018.  At the time of writing I have not received any 
further submissions from either  party. I consider that sufficient time has been given for a 
response had either party  wished  to make one. So I am proceeding to my final decision.
my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ys case.
In my provisional decision I explained  that,
After reviewing all of the information provided in this complaint, I do not intend upholding 
Mrs Ys complaint currently. I explain why below.
Mrs Y says she applied for the credit card and PPI by post. HSBC has provided a copy of 
the application form, which is very hard to read. Its maybe not surprising that HSBC doesnt  
have a more readable  version of this document as these events occurred over 16 years ago. 
Nor is that a reason,  in itself, to criticise HSBC. In cases  like this, where the evidence is 
incomplete or contradictory,  I have to make  my decision on the balance  of probabilities  that 
is, to decide what  is most  likely to have  happened.
HSBC has now provided a readable version  of a sample application form which  it says pre 
dates the sale and that it says throws light on the form that Mrs Y wouldve been asked to 
complete during the meeting. From comparing the two forms it seems that Mrs Y had to tick 
a box to get PPI with the credit card and it seems most  likely  from the actual form that she 
did so. 
So, whilst I accept that Mrs Y has given her best recollection of events, I think its more likely 
that HSBC wouldve made Mrs Y aware  that the PPI was optional and that she chose to take 
it, even though she may not remember that now, many years later. 
Ref: DRN86850912Both parties  agree that the sale was made by a postal application and there is no evidence 
of any direct interaction between Mrs Y and HSBC from the time of the sale.  So it seems 
unlikely that any advice was given to Mrs Y. However, Mrs Y told us that she thought advice 
was given. If it provided advice, HSBC  had to sell Mrs Y something that was suitable  for her. 
I dont need to make a firm finding on this because I dont think  it makes a difference to the 
outcome of the complaint.  
I say this because looking at Mrs Ys circumstances at the time, if advice was given, the PPI 
seems to have been right for her. For example Mrs Y was eligible for the policy  and wasnt  
affected by any of the exclusions from or limits to the PPI cover.  And she seems  to have had 
a need for the cover. Mrs Y told us she had some  sick pay that would have lasted only six 
weeks, and that she had no other means  she could have relied on in that circumstance, such 
that she may have had to rely on her family  helping her to pay her credit card.  This policy  
couldve covered  paid out for up to 12 months if Mrs Y was too ill to work  or if she lost her 
job. So, as this would have paid out in addition to Mrs Ys sick pay and would have  reduced  
her reliance on whatever  help her family may have been able to provide her at that time,  I 
think she couldve found this cover useful.
The policy cost for the benefit was comparable to other  policies offering similar benefits  at 
the time.  And Ive not seen anything to suggest  it was unaffordable.
HSBC also had to give Mrs Y clear information about the policy so she could make  an 
informed choice about buying  it. Its possible that HSBC couldve done  more to provide  clear 
information about aspects of the policy. But, for the same reasons that I dont  think the policy  
was unsuitable  for Mrs Y, I dont think clearer information wouldve put Mrs Y off buying  the 
policy. Overall,  I think Mrs Y would still have taken the policy  out if shed been properly 
advised and informed. So, she hasnt lost out due to anything  HSBC did wrong.  
I know it will come as a disappointment to Mrs Y, but I hope  that the explanation is helpful.  
HSBC has given us information that shows the credit card agreement Mrs Y took out PPI 
with started on 4 March  2002 and ended on 23 September  2004.  Ive relied on all this 
information when  looking into this complaint  so if something isnt right,  its important that 
either party let me know.
The Supreme Court decided a case  that involved the commission  on a PPI policy  - Plevin v
Paragon Personal  Finance. And the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) - who make the 
rules for financial businesses - have  introduced  some new rules and guidance for 
businesses to follow when theyre  looking  at PPI complaints that are affected by this court  
ruling.
What this means is that if businesses expected  to get a high level of commission from the 
PPI - more than half of what the consumer paid for the policy  - they should have told the 
consumer about  it. If that didnt happen,  it might  mean the business didnt treat the 
consumer fairly. And, in turn the business  might have to give the consumer some  of that 
commission back.
But this only applies  to credit agreements taken out on or after 6 April 2007, or agreements 
taken out before then which were still running  on 6 April 2008. From the information Ive 
seen, this credit agreement doesnt  fit into these dates - and so I dont think HSBC  have  to 
refund any of the commission Mrs Y paid on her PPI policy.
Ref: DRN86850913my provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I am not minded  to uphold  Mrs Ys complaint  and I intend  to make 
no award against HSBC  Bank plc. 
I have considered all of the evidence and arguments  from the outset in order  to decide what  
is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In the absence of any further 
points for me to consider,  I find no reason  to depart from my original findings as set out in my 
provisional decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, and within my provisional decision, I do not uphold  Mrs Ys 
complaint that the PPI policy was mis-sold, and I make no award  against  HSBC Bank plc. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs Y either to 
accept or to reject my conclusions, in writing,  before  3 February 2019.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8685091