K821x#15Complaint
Miss W is unhappy  with the response  of Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), following 
her claim against it under  section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act (CCA)  1974.
Background
Miss W was contacted by a company, Ill refer to them as G, that supplied  and installed 
solar panel  systems. Following a meeting, she agreed to enter into a contract  with G for it to 
supply and install a solar panel  system costing about £12,500.  To fund this Miss W also 
agreed to enter into a 15 year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook.
Miss W made  a claim under section 75 (s75) of the CCA. She said that G had told her that 
the solar panels  would be self-funded and that the monthly loan repayments  would  be more 
than off-set  by the feed-in-tariff (FIT) income.  But that hadnt happened. Instead, the 
monthly loan repayments had been much higher than the income.
In its final response letter,  Shawbrook said that it thought the benefits of the solar panels  had 
been misrepresented  to Miss W. It offered to reduce the loan balance by 75%.  Miss W didnt 
accept this and referred  her complaint  to this service.
During our investigation Shawbrook  offered to write  off the remaining balance of the loan,  
with Miss W keeping  the solar panels  installed at her home. However, Shawbrook did say it 
would have no further liabilities  in respect of the solar panels.  Miss W didnt accept this. 
Shawbrook made  a further offer to resolve the complaint. It had calculated an estimate of the 
potential savings and income to Miss W over the term of the loan. It said it would restructure 
the loan so that she would pay no more than this over the 15 year term of the loan. It also 
said it would  still honour its previous offer to write  off the outstanding balance of the loan if 
she would  prefer that option.
Our investigator felt that the offer put forward by Shawbrook was fair. Miss W disagreed.  In 
summary she said she wanted the solar panels  to be removed from her home, have all the 
payments she had made returned and to be compensated for the trouble and upset this 
whole matter had caused her. She has said that she has struggled  financially to meet her 
contractual monthly payments,  borrowing  money from friends and family to do so.
As an agreement couldnt  be reached on what would be a fair way to resolve this complaint it 
has been passed to me. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to hear of the impact this complaint  has had on Miss W and her health and 
wellbeing and I wanted to thank her for her patience.  Miss Ws complaint has been  with this 
service for longer than either she or I wouldve liked.
Miss W says that a friend  referred  her to G and during a sales  meeting she was told that the 
solar panels  would be entirely  self-financing.  As neither Shawbrook nor Miss W dispute that 
G misrepresented the benefits of the solar panel  system  this decision will deal with what I 
consider to be fair compensation. 
Ref: DRN80887842The role of this service is to help settle disputes between  consumers and businesses  
providing financial services fairly  and reasonably  with minimum formality. In cases  like this 
one, determining fair compensation isnt an exact science. My role is to arrive  at a fair and 
reasonable outcome taking account of the particular  circumstances.
My view of Miss Ws complaint is that it isnt so much about the solar panels themselves but 
that she had been led to believe  that they would  be self-funding. And based  on this I dont 
think it would  be fair or reasonable  to require the removal of the solar panels  from her home. 
And it is also accepted  that it would cost Shawbrook  a significant sum to remove them.  So, I 
dont think it would be fair or reasonable to ask it to do that. 
Shawbrook has provided two options to settle Miss Ws complaint. I consider both options  to 
be fair and have set out my reasons below as to why. Both options will result  in allowing 
Miss W to keep  the panels  and by doing this Im satisfied that she will likely benefit  from 
lower electricity bill and FIT payments going forward (i.e. after the term of the loan has 
finished).
The first option Ive considered from Shawbrook is to put Miss W in a position  where  the 
panels are self-funding over the original  term of the loan. 
self-funding offer
Miss W has said that she was told that the monthly loan repayments would be covered by 
the FIT so Ive considered whether any electricity savings should be taken  into account when 
arriving at fair compensation. 
Im satisfied that Miss W was misled into thinking  that the solar panels would be self-funding  
and so on that basis I need  to decide fair compensation. When thinking about that question,  I 
think its fair to take account of the electricity generated  by the solar panel units. On the one 
hand Miss W has to pay her loan and for any electricity used in addition  to that generated by 
the panels and on the other she can off-set those payments  by the FIT payments and the 
savings associated with the electricity generated  by the panels. It would be unfair to ignore 
the electricity generated and used by Miss W when calculating fair compensation.
Ive considered the methodology  that Shawbrook has submitted to this service to calculate 
the total benefits of the solar panel  system. This methodology is based on the actual 
performance and estimated future  performance of Miss Ws solar panels.
Shawbrook has said that calculating the estimated future performance of Miss Ws solar 
panel system it will use a number of assumptions. These include a self-consumption rate of 
37%. This is the percentage of energy generated by Miss Ws solar panels that she is 
expected to use rather than buying electricity from her energy provider.
The Government has previously used an assumption of 50% when it set out how the FIT 
payment should  be calculated.  Ive looked at the Energy Savings Trust website. It explains 
that the FIT scheme has since closed to new applicants and will be replaced  with the Smart 
Export Guarantee  (SEG) that starts in January 2020. Previously the Energy  Savings  Trust 
website gave a table of potential savings  under  various scenarios  depending on the location 
and the consumers lifestyle rather than a specific percentage.  And now, for the SEG,  it has 
something similar.
Ref: DRN80887843Its clear that self-consumption is impacted by the amount of time someone is in their home  
and able to use, or self-consume,  the electricity that their solar  panels are generating. And 
even with respect of the same consumer, that figure could  change from time to time. So, in 
my view, determining an exact figure over the period of the loan is difficult.  My role is to 
determine fair compensation and arrive at an outcome  that is fair and reasonable overall. 
And in cases like this, that isnt an exact  science.
Taking the above into account Im satisfied  that using a self-consumption rate of 37% is fair 
and reasonable in this case.  Im of the opinion  that this takes into account all the available  
evidence discussed  above and takes  into account  changing consumer occupancy habits 
over the lifetime of the solar panel system.  Once the loan has been repaid,  Im satisfied that 
it is highly  likely that Miss W will continue to benefit from the system as a result of a 
reduction in her electricity  bills because of the electricity generated by the panels  and the FIT 
payments. 
   
Ive also considered the other assumptions used by Shawbrook, including electricity  price 
inflation, the degradation  rate and the estimated retail price index (RPI). Im of the view that 
these appear reasonable taking into account the actual known figures. As an example, the 
actual average RPI for the last four years doesnt  seem to be far from the assumed figure. In 
summary, Im satisfied that the assumptions  that have been used by Shawbrook provide a 
fair and reasonable basis for calculating  fair compensation.
Shawbrook has offered to make  Miss Ws solar panels self-funding.  By doing  this it has 
worked out that Miss W has previously been  paying  more than she would have done if the 
panels had been self-funding, resulting in an overpayment. And as she has been deprived of 
the monthly overpayment  it has, as I would expect,  added 8% simple  interest  from the date 
of the overpayment to the date of its calculation. It has given Miss W the following four 
options to choose from as to how she would like her overpayments  to be used:
(1)the overpayments are used to reduce  the outstanding balance of her loan and she 
pays a new, lower  monthly payment, around  £24, until the end of her current  loan 
term,
(2)the overpayments are used to reduce  the outstanding balance of her loan and she 
continues to make her existing monthly payment resulting in her loan finishing earlier  
than the original term,
(3)the overpayments are returned  to Miss W and she pays a new,  lower  monthly  
payment of around £73, until the end of the loan term, or;
(4)the overpayments are returned  to Miss W and she continues to make her existing 
monthly loan repayments resulting in her loan finishing  earlier  than the original term.
My view of Miss Ws complaint is that it isnt so much about the solar panels themselves but 
the she was led to believe that they would be self-funding and come at no additional cost to 
her. On that basis  I think the four options put forward  by Shawbrook are fair and reasonable 
as they make the system  cost neutral.  These options give her the opportunity to pay a 
reduced monthly payment going  forward or receive  the overpayments back as a lump sum.  
Miss W has said that sometimes  it has been  a struggle to make  her contractual monthly loan 
repayments and has, on occasion,  had to borrow money from friends and family to do so, so 
I think this would be important to her. 
Ref: DRN80887844Shawbrook has agreed that as long as Miss W can provide it with a copy  of her warranty, 
and it can be evidenced that it formed part of the initial contract, it will honour the warranty. 
This doesnt guarantee the outcome of any future  claim but, if Miss W experiences any 
system issues  within the original warrantee period, shed be entitled to raise  a claim under 
the warranty and Shawbrook will consider it under the terms of the warranty.
Overall, under this offer, the solar panels  will cost Miss W a total of around £13,100.
offer to write off the outstanding balance
Shawbrook has said that alternatively it will write  off the remaining  balance of the loan, 
meaning that Miss W will pay no more than what she currently has. Shawbrook has said this 
figure is currently £9,558.73, £134.63 x 71 months.
I understand that Miss W may prefer this offer, as it means she will no longer be required to 
make any future monthly payments. It would  also mean that overall her system would be 
self-funding over a shorter term than the original loan term.
It has also said that if Miss W accepts this offer it would have no further liability  for the solar 
panels and any issues that may arise in the future will solely be the responsibility of Miss W. 
Ive looked at the information available from the Energy Savings Trust. It says that solar  
panels dont need a lot of maintenance but usually the inverter would need  replacing 
sometime during  the lifetime of the panels at a current  cost of about £800.
Under this offer Miss W will pay around  £3,500 less for the solar panels but if there are any 
issues with the solar panels in the future it will be down to Miss W to arrange  and pay for any 
repair work that may be required.
other issues
Miss W says that this matter has caused her trouble and upset. I have no reason to doubt 
what she has said and have carefully  considered this and the points she has raised. Ive 
considered that when  she initially  complained to Shawbrook it made  an offer to reduce her 
loan balance  by 75% and I havent  seen any evidence that suggests Shawbrook  was aware 
of the financial  hardship she was experiencing. If it had been, I wouldve expected it to treat 
Miss W positively and sympathetically as a result.  Whilst  I know this will come  as a 
disappointment to Miss W, I wont be making  an award for trouble and upset.
summary
In summary,  for the reasons I have explained, I consider that, overall, either  of the offers  
proposed by Shawbrook represent  fair compensation in this case.  
If Miss W accepts my decision she should indicate, on the acceptance form, whether shed 
like Shawbrook to make the panels  self-funding and how shed like her overpayments to be 
used, as explained in the four options above or, write off the remaining balance of the loan.
My final decision
My final decision is to uphold this complaint against Shawbrook Bank Limited. In full and final 
settlement, it should:
Ref: DRN80887845allow Miss W to keep  the solar panels,
estimate the potential  savings and income  to Miss W from the panels over the 15 
year term of the loan and rework  it so she pays no more  than this. Where possible, it 
should use her electricity bills and FIT statements to do this,
add 8% simple interest* to any overpayment  made from the date the overpayment 
was made to date of settlement,  and;
allow Miss W to decide how shed like her overpayments to be used, using the four 
options described above.
Alternatively, if Miss W chooses, it should write  off the remaining  balance of the loan.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 January 2020. 
Michael Fisher
ombudsman
*If Shawbrook Bank Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take 
off income tax from that interest, it should tell Miss W how much  itss taken off. It should also 
give her a certificate showing this, if she asks for one, so she can claim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs.
Ref: DRN8088784