K821x#15The complaint
Miss Q says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold  her and Mrs J two mortgage  payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policies.  
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out with a mortgage in 1999 and a further 
advance in 2002. The policies were sold during a meeting between Miss Q and Mrs J and an 
advisor for Lloyds. For both policies, the benefits  were split evenly between  Miss Q and    
Mrs J and they would have covered their mortgage  repayments for a maximum  of 12 months 
if either of them was too unwell to work or became unemployed. Mrs J was removed from 
the policy in 2010 when  she reached  retirement age and the policy  was cancelled in 2013.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Miss Q disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion so the complaint was passed to me. I issued my provisional decision in 
February 2021, explaining  why I was thinking of partially upholding the complaint. Heres 
what I said:
Both policies  were sold during a meeting between Miss Q and Mrs J and Lloyds.  During 
each meeting Lloyds  should have made Miss Q and Mrs J aware they had a choice in 
buying the policy. Miss Q says they were told that the PPI had to be taken out in order  to 
secure the borrowing. 
Lloyds has provided  copies of the mortgage and further borrowing documents completed at 
the time of each  sale. 
Each mortgage document gives the option to select or decline to take PPI. For the 1999 
policy Miss Q and Mrs J have ticked to opt for it. For the 2002, neither  the yes or no 
option has been selected on the mortgage document.  
But for each sale,  they would  have  then completed a separate  PPI application form and 
Lloyds has provided  a copy of these for each PPI sale. Looking at each form, Miss Q and 
Mrs J have chosen what level of cover they wanted.  
So, overall I think Lloyds  made it clear  to Miss Q and Mrs J they had a choice about  taking 
the PPI for each  sale and they agreed  to it. But given how long ago this all happened, I can 
understand why Miss Q cant remember this.
Based on my experience of how Lloyds usually  sold these policies at the time, I think  its 
likely it gave Miss Q and Mrs J advice  about  whether to buy the policy in both 1999 and 
2002. So, it had to check it was right for them. 
Looking at Mrs Js circumstances she seems  to have had a need for the cover.  She wasnt  
affected by any of the exclusions  or limits on the PPI cover.  Miss Q says Mrs J would have 
received sick pay and redundancy benefits  from her employers, but the policies would have 
paid out alongside the employee benefits.   
Miss Q says Mrs J had critical  illness cover, but critical  illness policies usually only pay out a 
lump sum in the event of specific  severe illnesses. By contrast, Mrs J could have  claimed on 
the PPI for most conditions, if they prevented her from working. And the PPI would have also 
Ref: DRN84005712paid out in addition to any benefit  received from the critical  illness policy, had she need to 
claim on both.  
Ive also looked  at Miss Qs circumstances  at the time and she has said that at the time of 
each sale that she had sufficient income protection through another policy and has shown 
us that this cover is still in place. This benefit  would have covered her portion of the 
mortgage repayments for as long as the PPI would have done. Miss Q has been consistent 
in her submissions about this point. Looking at the mortgage documents Lloyds has 
provided, I cant see that there was any real detail asked about Miss Qs other  means. So, 
its unclear if Lloyds considered any other  policies  Miss Q may have had at the time of each 
sale. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint because it was their opinion that the PPI would 
still have been  of use to Miss Q and Mrs J despite Miss Qs additional cover.  But I dont 
think either of the policies  were suitable for Miss Q as I think she could have managed 
without the PPI for long enough to not really need  it. 
However, I dont think this had a detrimental effect  on Miss Q and Mrs J whilst they were  
both covered by the PPI. The policy was suitable for Mrs J and the cost of the policy would  
have been the same whether both were covered by the policy  or just one of them. 
And on each occasion, Miss Q and Mrs J were borrowing funds against a large  and long-
term financial commitment, which was secured on their home. So, I think having the 
security that their mortgage  repayments would be made if either of them were unable to 
work would have been important to them.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Miss Q and Mrs J about the PPI wasnt as clear  as 
it shouldve been.  But Miss Q and Mrs J chose to take out the PPI each time - so it looks 
like they wanted  this type of cover. And it looks like the policy would have been useful for 
them if something went wrong. It also looks like the policy  was affordable  for them.  So, I 
dont think better information  about  the PPI would have  put Miss Q and Mrs J off taking out 
the cover. 
Overall I dont think Miss Q and Mrs J have lost out by anything  Lloyds might have done 
wrong when they were  both party to the benefits.  However, I think  this changed when Mrs J 
was removed from the policy in 2010. As explained above, the policy wasnt  suitable for 
Miss Q as she had enough  cover  already.  So, Lloyds should have cancelled  the policy  
entirely in 2010  when  Mrs J stopped being eligible. 
Lloyds responded to accept my findings. Miss Q responded with further comments  for me to 
consider. In summary she said as she and Mrs J hadnt selected  yes for the policy  on the 
mortgage agreement  in 2002,  then they didnt consent to have the policy and she should be 
refunded from 2002 until the policy was cancelled. 
What Ive decided - and why
Ive now reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments  to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ref: DRN84005713Having done this, my decision  remains the same  I partially uphold this complaint. Ill 
explain why.
Miss Q has responded to my provisional  decision  with detailed  comments and I firstly want 
to reassure her that I have carefully considered everything shes said.  I appreciate  she feels  
strongly about this complaint and has put time and effort into dealing with it. 
In her response to my provisional  decision,  Miss Qs main  point seems to stem  from the fact 
neither she nor Mrs J selected yes to take out the PPI in 2002.  But the fact they didnt 
select yes or no on their mortgage  application  document doesnt mean they werent told 
the policy was optional or didnt consent  to taking  the cover  out. 
The process for obtaining the policy would have been Miss Q and Mrs J also completing  a 
separate application form for the PPI and  as previously mentioned - Lloyds has provided a 
copy of this. Also, Ive considered what I know in general about  how Lloyds sold PPI at the 
time to decide what I think is more  likely  to have happened. And based on this knowledge, I 
would have expected there to have been  conversations between  Lloyds and Miss Q and   
Mrs J about the PPI and paperwork would have  been completed to confirm the cover.  Given  
the information contained on the application form for the 2002 sale I think this is most  likely 
what happened here. And in my experience, Lloyds usually made it clear  that the policy was 
optional. Nothing  Miss Q has told me makes me think  that Lloyds did anything differently 
here. As Miss Q signed the PPI application form, I think she would have had the opportunity 
to question anything  she hadnt agreed to or she was unsure about before she did. 
So, I am still of the opinion that its most likely  Miss Q and Mrs J consented  to take out the 
policy. But as the sale happened nearly  20 years ago, its understandable Miss Q doesnt 
remember this now. 
Another point  Miss Q raised  was around  whether it was detrimental to her and Mrs J that 
Lloyds advised  them to take the PPI when Miss Q had other means. Miss Q hasnt provided 
any new information about Mrs Js circumstances at the time, so it is still my decision that 
the policy was suitable for Mrs J. And as the policy would have cost the same amount if it 
had just covered  Mrs J, they werent  financially impacted by paying for a policy  which  had 
Mrs J needed to  would  have covered her portion of the mortgage repayments. 
I dont agree with Miss Qs comments that she and Mrs J would have been prevented from 
cancelling the policy due to the setup of how it was paid. Had they wanted to cancel  the 
policy at any time they could have done  so by contacting the insurer   it didnt matter  that the 
payments for the PPI came from Mrs Js sole account or was only in Miss Qs name after 
2010. 
So, my decision remains unchanged here  I dont  think Miss Q has lost out by anything  
Lloyds might have done  wrong here when  both she and Mrs J were on the PPI. But this 
changed when  the policy was in Miss Qs sole name. Lloyds has agreed with my findings on 
this, so I have nothing further to add at this point.
Ive noted Miss Qs request for compensation due to the distress and inconvenience Lloydss 
failings has caused.  And I have  thought  about whether any award  should  be made but 
having done so Im not persuaded that its actions in this case  caused  any more trouble  and 
upset to the extent  that it requires compensating for beyond what I have  laid out below.
Ref: DRN84005714I appreciate Miss Q will be disappointment with this outcome, but I hope  my explanation  
helps her to understand how I reached  my decision.  
Putting things  right
Lloyds has already agreed  to Miss Q in the position  shed be in now if the policy was 
cancelled completely in 2010. This is what Lloyds  has agreed to do:
Pay Miss Q the amount she paid each month for the PPI between  2010 when Mrs J was 
removed to when  the policy was cancelled  in 2013
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get[s] it back.  The 
rate of interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on.
If Miss Q made a successful claim under  the PPI policy, Lloyds can take off what  she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
Lloyds can deduct any amount  it has already paid in commission  redress.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires  Lloyds to take off tax from this interest. Lloyds must give Miss Q a certificate  
showing how much tax its taken off if she ask for one.
My final decision
I partially uphold  this complaint and Lloyds Bank PLC should  put things right as explained 
above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss Q and the 
Estate of Mrs J to accept  or reject  my decision before 5 April 2021.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8400571