K820x#14complaint
Miss K is unhappy that Legal and General  Assurance Society Limited  has terminated a claim 
she made on her employers group income protection  policy.  
background
In June 2017 Miss K witnessed a very traumatic event whilst at work. In August 2017 she 
stopped work because  she says this had a severe  impact on her mental  health.  She felt her 
employers were very unsupportive following the incident and she was especially upset 
about returning to the scene. Miss K was diagnosed with Post Traumatic Stress  Disorder 
(PTSD). 
Miss K made a claim on her employers income  protection policy,  of which  she was a 
beneficiary. In February 2018 Miss Ks employer agreed that she could work from a different 
location as shed requested. The claim was accepted by Legal and General in March 2018 
and backdated  to the previous month.  
She was regularly reviewed by a registered nurse during the deferred  period and once the 
claim was accepted, in order to monitor  her progress. In July 2018 she had a welfare  
meeting with her employer and discussed possible locations she could work at, as the 
vacancy at the other suggested location  was no longer available. Miss K wanted to go to the 
location she was originally offered, but agreed to consider the options  presented  at the 
meeting. 
In September  2018 Miss Ks employer was told that her claim would be stopped at the end 
of October  as Legal and General were satisfied that Miss Ks functioning  and capability had 
improved, based  on the information  they had. Legal  and General  said the remaining barrier 
to work was the location, which was an issue between Miss K and her employer. 
Miss K says the decision  to end the benefit  was unfair.  She pointed  out that in October 2018 
the occupational health team  said she was unfit for work and that her GP referred her to a 
psychiatrist at around the same time. Legal and General reviewed information from the 
psychiatrist and asked him further  questions. They didnt receive a response.  
Having looked  at Miss Ks appeal, Legal and General maintained their decision to decline 
the claim.  They noted that the psychiatrist had recommended  a graded and phased return to 
work and said Miss K shouldnt return to the scene of the incident. 
Our investigator looked into what happened and didnt uphold the complaint. He thought that 
Legal and General had fairly relied on the contents  of the medical  reports when deciding to 
end the claim. Miss K didnt agree,  saying  that Legal  and General arent  doctors, so asked 
an ombudsman to look at her complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having read the circumstances of the event  which  triggered Miss Ks absence from work  I 
can fully understand  how deeply  distressing and stressful this experience  must have been. I 
dont doubt that her description of her feelings  and symptoms are genuine. I have 
Ref: DRN82862072considered all of the evidence  provided  by both parties,  but Ill only refer to that which I think  
is central to my decision.   
My role is to consider whether Legal and General have acted fairly when deciding to end 
Miss Ks benefits under the policy. Thats because the relevant rules  and industry  guidelines 
say that Legal and General has a responsibility  to handle claims promptly  and fairly, and 
they shouldnt  reject a claim unreasonably. 
the relevant policy  terms and conditions
The policy terms say that Miss K is entitled  to benefits if she is a disabled member.  To be a 
disabled member she must meet the definition of incapacity which  is defined  on the policy 
documents. 
Miss Ks was insured for her own occupation.  So in order  for Miss K to demonstrate she 
had a claim she needed to meet the following definition  of incapacity:
the insured member is incapacitated by illness or injury that prevents  him from 
performing the essential duties of his occupation  immediately before the start of the 
deferred period.  The insured members capacity  to perform the essential duties of his 
own occupation will be determined whether or not that occupation remains  available 
to him.
The policy says Legal and General is entitled to end the benefit if the insured member 
ceases to be a disabled member. 
has Legal and General  terminated the benefit unfairly? 
Theres no dispute Miss K met the definition Ive referred to above when the claim was 
accepted.  
As Legal and General ended the benefit its for them to demonstrate that this was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. I think it was because:  
Miss K was regularly  reviewed by a rehabilitation team  during  the life of the claim. 
Legal and General  received regular  reports  about her progress and prognosis. The 
report prepared in March  2018 says that, provided the work arrangement in relation 
to her location of work were discussed and confirmed, there should be no reason 
why Miss K could  not return to work. In the previous report, dated February 2018, the 
nurse had identified the location of work, and a perceived lack of support from 
Miss Ks employers, as the main barriers  to returning to work
It took some time to arrange a meeting  between  Miss K and her employers to discuss 
her welfare. It took place  in July 2018  and there were  discussions about the locations 
that could be offered  to Miss K. Based on the evidence Ive seen there  was no 
suggestion that Miss K would be required to attend the scene of the incident  shed  
witnessed. Whilst she was keen to go to a particular  location,  there was no longer a 
vacancy. So her employer  offered her alternatives and asked her about  any other 
support needed.  Based on the evidence Ive seen Miss K reiterated that the main 
issue was location
Ref: DRN82862073Im therefore satisfied that it was reasonable for Legal and General to terminate the 
claim at the point they did as I think the main  barrier to her returning to work was not 
going back to the scene of the incident, and that had been resolved. I also note shed 
engaged with a number of talking therapies, and her GP, by this point in time 
Ive taken into account the occupational health report  from October  2018  which  says 
Miss K isnt fit to return to work  and the GPs letter from around the same time 
referring her to a psychiatrist. However, the psychiatrist said that Miss K could return 
to work when ready on a phased return although  he did stress the importance of her 
not returning to the location  of the incident.  No follow up appointment was considered 
necessary. Legal and General tried to contact the psychiatrist a number of times for 
more input but werent able to get a response
As no follow up was required,  a phased return was available and Miss K had been  
told she wouldnt have to return  to the location of the incident  I dont  think  it was 
unreasonable that this information didnt change  Legal and Generals mind  in the 
circumstances of this case.  Thats because I dont think it was unreasonable for 
Legal and General  to conclude that the main barriers to work related to work place 
issues rather than incapacity
It is open to Miss K to submit further evidence to Legal and General for them to 
consider if she remains unhappy with the outcome of her claim. Its a matter  for her 
whether she wishes  to do. 
my final decision
Im not upholding Miss Ks complaint. Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service, 
Im required  to ask Miss K to accept or reject my decision before 13 February  2020.
Anna Wilshaw 
ombudsman 
 
Ref: DRN8286207