K820x#14complaint
Mrs B complains that AIB Group (UK) Plc (AIB) mis-sold her a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy when she took out a personal loan in 1999.
The heart of Mrs Bs complaint is she was told she had to have it in order to get her loan. 
She says AIB told her it was compulsory. Mrs B also told us that she had good cover from 
work so she didnt need the policy.
background
Mrs B took out a loan for a term of 36 months.  At the same time she took out a single 
premium PPI policy. This policy covered Mrs B if she had to take time off work because of an 
accident or if she was too ill to work. It also covered her if she lost her job. As she paid for it 
by a single  premium this meant the cost of the PPI was added to her loan upfront and 
interest was charged  on it over the term of the loan.
It cost Mrs B £727.37 and would  have paid the monthly benefit of £207.33  for up to a 
maximum of 36 months per claim if she was off work  because  she was too ill or had an 
accident. If Mrs B lost her job then the policy would have paid up to 12 months per claim.
Our adjudicator didnt  think this claim should be upheld. Unhappy with this view, Mrs B 
asked for her matter  to be referred  to an ombudsman  for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account  in deciding 
this case.  
I appreciate Mrs B feels very strongly about her matter and Ive carefully considered  
everything she has told us. Having done  so, Ive not upheld her complaint.  Im sorry to 
disappoint her but Ill explain why below.  
This sale happened many years  ago now and understandably not all the paperwork from the 
time is available. Businesses arent required to keep records  indefinitely  so where the 
evidence is incomplete  I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities; that 
is, what is more likely  to have happened  taking into account, the evidence thats available,  
what both parties have told us and also thinking  about what we know  generally about  these 
types of sales.
The first thing Ive considered is whether  Mrs B had a fair choice  about  taking out the PPI or 
leaving it. It was important  that AIB gave  Mrs B a fair choice.  I can see that Mrs B feels 
absolutely that she was told that she had no choice in taking the PPI if she wanted to secure  
her loan. Shes told us that she was told it was compulsory. She has also said that she 
would have looked into other  alternate  sources  of PPI if she had been given a choice. So to 
help me decide  Ive looked at everything  the parties have told me together with paperwork 
that AIB has provided.
The original  sale documentation  from either Mrs B or AIB isnt available. As I explained 
above this isnt unusual. But AIB has provided samples of the type of paperwork for these 
Ref: DRN87004042types of loans that AIB says would have  been  used in 1999 around the time that Mrs B took 
out the cover. They are dated close to the time of the sale so I think its fair to take these 
documents into account. I think this paperwork more likely  reflected the point of sale 
documents Mrs B would more likely have seen at the time.  
The loan application form would have requested information from Mrs B about her 
circumstances and on the paperwork there  was a section about  the PPI. This gave Mrs B the 
choice about whether  to take out the PPI or leave  it. I think  she likely ticked the yes box to 
say she wanted  it. She could have ticked no. I think this showed there  was a choice about 
taking it out. Theres  nothing written on the form which would have  made her think  she had 
to have the PPI to get the loan and Mrs B would  have  been required to sign and date the 
application. As she was taking  on a new financial commitment  I think  its likely she would 
have read the form before  she signed it.
I accept that I cant know what was said to her at the time but for me to think  she was more 
likely told that she had to have the cover  to get the loan, Id have to think that she was told 
something that wasnt written on the paperwork and I dont think  thats more likely.
After completing the application I think its likely  she would have also received a schedule of 
the insurance as evidence  of her taking out the PPI which would have  more  likely told her 
that if she was not satisfied with the cover  or it did not meet her needs she could cancel it. 
So if she was unsure about it or had changed  her mind she could have questioned it at the 
time.
Ive also thought about whether Mrs B could have been pressured into buying  the PPI by the 
representative at the time.  But pressure is something which  depends on how a person  feels - 
although one person  may feel pressure another may not. It could be that Mrs B might have 
been told it was a good idea to buy the cover  as she was taking out a loan but thats not the 
same thing as being told she had to have it. Theres simply not enough evidence for me to 
say that she was told she had to have  the PPI to get her loan. So I dont uphold Mrs Bs 
complaint about  this point. Overall I think Mrs B had a choice at the time and chose  to take 
out the PPI for the cover it gave knowing she could decline  it if she didnt want  it.
Ive next looked to see if there are any other reasons to uphold Mrs Bs complaint.
AIB says this was a non-advised sale. Mrs B says it was recommended to her. Theres  
nothing that makes me think a tailored recommendation  would have  been  made  to make 
sure that the PPI was the right fit for her needs.  I think the representative  at the time would 
likely have told Mrs B the purpose  and benefits  of the PPI rather than checking  that it was 
suitable for Mrs Bs particular circumstances - so I dont think  this was an advised sale. That 
meant the onus wasnt on AIB to make sure it was the right for her circumstances. But it still 
needed to give Mrs B clear enough  information so that she could decide  for herself whether 
she wanted the policy.
The agreement likely would have set out the cost of the loan and the PPI amount separately. 
But its possible that not all the information was as clear as it could have  been.  But thats not 
enough for me to uphold the complaint. I next need  to consider whether if Mrs B had more 
information at the time it would have put her off buying the PPI. I cant  say it would have 
done.
More information  would  have shown her that she was eligible for the PPI and that its likely 
she could have made a successful  claim  if shed needed to. As she was working and at the 
Ref: DRN87004043time she was in good health, I dont think she would have been affected by any of the main 
limitations and exclusions  of the policy which might  have made it more difficult to make a 
claim.
As a non - advised sale AIB didnt need  to check Mrs Bs circumstances. But Ive still thought 
about what shes told us. Shes said that she had very generous  sick pay from work. Shes 
said that she would have received 12 months full sick pay from work and 12 months half sick 
pay for the next 12 months.
Mrs B has also told us that she had savings,  health cover and life cover she could have used 
if she fell into difficulty. But this level of sick pay is quite generous and although I can see 
that Mrs B was in a good job if she was off work  the policy would have paid out for potentially 
the full term of the loan, so longer than her sick pay lasted and in addition  to it.
And I can see that although she had savings she might have wanted  to leave them  intact as 
she didnt use them at the time.  But in any case she could have used them  for other  
important expenses if she was out of work. So I still the PPI would have been useful if things 
went wrong. Mrs Bs other benefits from work - for example; health insurance  and life cover 
that shes told us about werent the same  thing as PPI so I still think the policy could have 
been useful if she fell into difficulty.
Ive also thought about the fact that this policy wouldnt have  offered a proportionate refund If 
Mrs B had cancelled it early. Although the information about cancellation of the policy could 
have been clearer,  when she took it out, it was her first loan arranged through  AIB and 
theres nothing which  makes me think she would have thought she would repay her loan 
early so I dont think this would have put her off buying the cover.
In summary,  I think Mrs B chose the cover and would  have  known what the PPI covered her 
for. For the reasons Ive explained I think the PPI could  have been useful if things went 
wrong. So even  if Mrs B had clearer or better information, I dont think  shed have changed  
her mind  about buying the cover. 
I have carefully thought  about all she has said including what she has said about the large  
amounts of compensation for mis-sold  PPI being  paid out. But each  case  turns  on its own 
facts and merits and the facts and circumstances which apply  in one case do not necessarily 
apply in another - there are many different factors which alter the outcome of a complaint.
And AIB didnt need to tell Mrs B about other types  of policy  that were available at the time. 
So I dont  think Mrs B lost out financially because of anything AIB did wrong. Im sorry to 
disappoint Mrs B but I hope the reasons Ive given  explain why I dont uphold this complaint. 
AIB doesnt need to do anything further.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 September 2019.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8700404