K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that a car that was supplied to him under a hire purchase  agreement with 
Black Horse  Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality.
background
A used  car was supplied to Mr M under a hire purchase agreement with another  finance 
provider that he electronically signed  in September 2016. The car showed  some fault codes 
the following  month and Mr M paid for them to be diagnosed.  He had further  issues  with the 
car in June 2018 and he paid for the timing chain,  oil pump, balancer shaft and oil chain 
guides to be replaced. He complained  to Black Horse  because the agreement had been 
transferred to it - and it arranged for the car to be inspected by an independent  expert. It 
didnt uphold  his complaint so Mr M complained to this service.
The adjudicator didnt recommend that this complaint should  be upheld.  He said that there 
wasnt any evidence linking the fault codes  that appeared in October  2016  to the timing 
chain issue which presented in June 2018  and the experts report  stated that the issue  
wouldnt have been developing or present at the commencement of hire. And he thought  that 
it was likely that the faults were due to wear  and tear.
Mr M has asked  for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He says that the 
problem first registered as a fault within the three  month warranty period and the fault codes 
may have  been  present at the date of sale and were only brought to light when the car was 
unable to be driven and the fault codes read.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Black Horse,  as the supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring that it was of 
satisfactory quality. Whether  or not it was will depend on a number of factors,  including  the 
age and mileage  of the car and the price that was paid for it. The car that was supplied to 
Mr M was about eight years old, had been driven  for about 37,000 miles and had a price of 
£7,000. Satisfactory quality also covers  durability which means  that the components  within 
the car must  be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but exactly  how long that 
time is will depend on a number of factors. 
The car was supplied to Mr M in September 2016  and he paid £42 in October 2016 for four 
fault codes to be diagnosed by a garage. He returned the car to that garage  in July 2018  to 
investigate a noisy engine  and because of a burning smell. He paid the garage £646  for the 
work that it performed (and a courtesy car) and in August 2018 he paid a manufacturers 
dealer £500 for diagnostic work which identified that a chain guide bolt had sheared off and 
that a chain guide had broken  up. He then paid another  garage £1,460.92 in September  
2018 for the timing chain to be replaced  and removal of the damaged bolt.
He complained to Black  Horse and it arranged for the car to be inspected  by an independent  
expert in October  2018. The report concluded that:
The issues identified appear to be not inconsistent with the age and mileage of the 
vehicle .... It is our considered opinion that the timing chain issue  and snapped  bolt 
Ref: DRN85658092would not have been developing  or present at commencement of hire. It is most likely  
that the snapped bolt is a consequence of the timing chain issue if shock loading has 
overloaded the bolt causing a stress fracture.
We are therefore of the opinion that none of the above issues  would have been 
present or developing at commencement of hire. 
That was more than two years after the car had been supplied  to Mr M and in that time the 
car had been  driven for nearly 30,000 miles.  Its clear that there had been  other  issues  with 
the car but none of the fault codes  that were  diagnosed in October 2016 refer to an issue 
with the cars timing  chain. Im not persuaded that those issues  are enough  to show that 
there was a fault with the cars timing chain  or that the car wasnt  of satisfactory quality when 
it was supplied to Mr M.
The independent experts report concludes that the faults wouldnt have been developing or 
present when the car was supplied  to Mr M. If the cars timing  chain was faulty when the car 
was supplied to Mr M I consider it to be more likely than not that there wouldve been issues 
with it sooner than there were  and that it wouldnt have lasted nearly two years  and been  
able to be used  to drive  for nearly 30,000  miles.
Although I sympathise with Mr M for the difficulties that hes experienced and the repair 
costs that hes incurred, Im not persuaded that theres  enough evidence  to show  that the car 
wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to him. So I find that it wouldnt  be fair or 
reasonable in these  circumstances for me to require Black Horse to reimburse Mr M for any 
of those repair costs   or to take any other action in response to his complaint.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 April 2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8565809