K821x#15complaint
Ms K complains  that Virgin Media Mobile  Finance Limited (Virgin) charged  her for a phone 
she never received.  She would like a refund of the payments she has made.  And her credit  
file rectified.
background
Ms K says she took out a fixed sum loan with Virgin on 22 May 2018  for a mobile phone.  
She says she called Virgin on 26 May 2018  as she hadnt received the phone. And says at 
that point Virgin accepted  the phone hadnt been  delivered. So on 30 May 2018  Ms K took 
out a further loan agreement for the same type phone. She confirmed she did receive this 
phone.
Virgin said it had proven that the first phone  hadnt been delivered .So Ms K was liable for 
both finance agreements. It said it did offer a resolution  a reduced tariff for six months - but 
Ms K declined this.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. She didnt feel that Virgin  had provided  conclusive  
evidence that the first phone had been delivered.  She recommended  that Virgin:-
-Cancelled the first loan agreement in a way that didnt impact on Ms Ks credit file
-Refunded any payments Ms K had already  made under the loan agreement with 8% 
simple interest from the date of payment to the date of settlement
-Removed any negative information  recorded  against the first loan on Ms Ks credit 
file.
Ms K accepted this view but Virgin did not respond. Our service  contacted  Virgin to try to get 
a response but was unable to do so. So the case has come to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Virgin has told us that the phone was delivered.  But, due to the time that has passed,  the 
delivery company  arent able to provide a photograph  of the signature it obtained. Nor can it 
provide evidence of the address its says the phone  was delivered to. 
It can only confirm that the delivery  companys records show  the phone  was delivered to a 
man at a house with a grey door and give the name  of the person who signed for the phone..
Ms K is insistent she didnt get the first phone. She says no one was at home when the 
phone was delivered and she doesnt  recognise the name of the person  who signed for the 
phone.
Its unfortunate that Virgin hasnt responded to our adjudicators view.  Based on the limited 
information I have  I agree with our adjudicator that there isnt enough evidence  to show  that 
the phone  was delivered to Ms Ks address. So on that basis I think its reasonable that Virgin  
Ref: DRN81454082cancels Ms Ks first fixed sum loan agreement, refunds any payments  made  with interest  
and rectifies her credit  file.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
In full and final settlement  of this complaint Virgin Media Mobile Finance Limited should:-
-Cancel the first loan agreement  in a way that doesnt impact on Ms Ks credit file
-Refund any payments  Ms K had already  made under the loan agreement  with 8% 
simple interest from the date of payment to the date of settlement
-Remove any negative  information recorded against this first loan on Ms Ks credit file.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 July 2019.
Bridget Makins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8145408