K822xcomplaint
Mr W complains that Scottish Equitable Plc gave  him contradictory  information regarding his 
pension. He says he relied on the information given to him to make future financial decisions.
background 
I issued my provisional decision upholding this complaint  on 19 July 2020. A copy  of my 
decision is attached  and forms part of this final decision. 
In my provisional decision I explained  that, as theres no dispute that Mr W was given 
contradictory and incorrect  information regarding his entitlement  under his pension plan, all I 
had to decide is what Scottish  Equitable  needs  to do to put matters right.  In summary I 
provisionally concluded that: 
Scottish Equitable should backdate Mr Ws annuity to reflect the fact that it shouldve 
been in payment  from his 70th birthday.  The value used to purchase the annuity should 
be the applicable value of the plan back in 2018,  at the point the plan would have 
needed to be settled to ensure the first annuity  payment  could be made to coincide with 
Mr W turning 70. Scottish Equitable  didnt  need to use the GAR for age 71, as opposed 
to 70, as Mr W had requested.
As the non- guaranteed rate was never available to Mr W, I wasnt  intending  to ask 
Scottish Equitable to provide  the GAR on a non-guaranteed basis.  And I didnt think 
Mr W relied on the incorrect information  given in 2018  which  was quickly  rectified - so I 
didnt intend to ask Scottish Equitable to honour  these rates.  
To reflect the cost of being deprived of money in the past, once Mr W has decided the 
basis on which he would like his annuity  to be set up, Scottish  Equitable will need to add 
interest to the missed  payments  at a rate of 8% simple per year.  Scottish Equitable 
should deduct tax from the interest award.
As the compensation payment (before interest)  represents extra taxable income that 
Mr W shouldve  been received in the past,  it wont now be subject to tax when the 
complaint is settled. So the compensation will need to be calculated  based on payments 
net of the assumed rate of income tax Mr W would have paid. Given what  Mr W has 
said about  his tax position,  I thought it was reasonable to assume that he would have 
remained a 20% tax payer, had he received the payments  at the correct time. But I said 
that if Scottish Equitable believed that not to be the case,  it should  ask Mr W to provide  
evidence to support  his tax position.
Scottish Equitable didnt need to pay for Mr W to have the matter reviewed by a pensions  
lawyer because  hes had recourse through our service,  which is free to use and allows 
people to settle disputes without the need to pay for other  help. So, if Mr W chooses to 
have this matter reviewed by a pensions lawyer, hed need to cover  this cost himself.
Ref: DRN82250652Scottish Equitables letter in March 2004  explained the correct rates that Mr W would be 
entitled to, these being on a 5-year guaranteed basis. And didnt think  it was reasonable 
for Mr W to rely on the figures he was given  for the non-guaranteed GAR. So while I 
accepted that errors were made both back in 2003/04  and again 2018,  I didnt  agree  
that this matter had been ongoing for all those years.  However, I acknowledged that 
Mr W had spent time and effort trying to get to the bottom of what  hes entitled to under 
this plan. And that he was also unhappy  that at times  hed been told his pension  is no 
longer with Scottish Equitable. However, I thought  the £1000 Scottish Equitable had 
already offered  to pay fairly reflected  the trouble and upset caused.
Scottish Equitable had already acknowledged its mistakes and offered its apologies, on 
more than one occasion, as evidenced by its emails of 8 August 2018 and 30 January 
2019. So, I didnt  intend to ask it to do any more in this regard.
Scottish Equitable  responded  to confirm that it accepts  my provisional  decision. 
Mr W responded. He provided copies  of the original  policy document and confirmed  that 
although he accepts  that the annuity should be backdated to age 70, he doesnt agree with 
my key findings.  In  summary hes said that: 
Non guaranteed  and guaranteed rates - Its not an exception that hes able to take the 
plan at age 70. The policy is clear on this. So his decision to take the annuity at that age 
is absolutely proven and in line with the policy. The policy  also shows that he is entitled  
to both guaranteed and non-guaranteed rates at this age. So he is entitled to the non-
guaranteed rates of either 144.47 or 147. 
The tax position  by deducting 20% tax from the compensation, Aegon  is then paying 
less than it should and HMRC  are not getting  any tax. Its not right that money is 
deducted from him for tax and not passed  to HMRC. The tax should  be paid to HMRC  
so its not disadvantaged. 
Recompense - Aegon had access to the policy document and shouldve interpreted  it 
correctly. It was a gross failure that Scottish  Equitable didnt check  the policy document.  
He hasnt been able to pay off the mortgage  or go on the round the world  trip that he 
wanted to do. Scottish Equitable shouldve admitted its errors and activated the policy on 
14th April 2018 using  the non-guaranteed rates for aged 70. So, £1000  is unacceptable.
findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments, including  any new submissions, 
to decide whats  fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, 
I see no reason to depart from my provisional  findings. Ill explain why. 
Ref: DRN82250653Non-guaranteed and guaranteed rates
The policy document states  that the benefits had to be taken no later than the employees 
70th birthday. So, Im satisfied that any GARs provided previously for over age 70, were 
provided in error. In any event, I explained  in my provisional decision that as Mr W had 
always intended to take his benefits from age 70, it was the GAR for that age that I minded  
to ask Scottish Equitable to use when setting  up Mr Ws annuity.  Mr W had requested  that 
the age of 71 was used  as a gesture of goodwill but he understands why Ive not 
recommended this and is happy that its backdated  to age 70.
However, Mr W still believes the annuity should  be set up on a non-guaranteed basis,  using 
the rate of either 144 or 147. Ive considered  this further in light of Mr Ws new comments  
and the policy document  thats  been  provided. But I remain of the view that Scottish 
Equitable is only required  under the policy to provide the GAR on a 5 year guaranteed  basis.  
Section 10 of the policy document  sets out the conditions for purchased  annuities.  Mr W 
has highlighted the first two paragraphs of this section but I think  its the third paragraph that 
is of most relevance when  determining the basis on which  the annuity should  be paid. 
10. Purchased Annuities
The Purchased Annuities shall be of any description  provided  for in these conditions but 
each shall be a Corresponding  Benefit  and they shall include  any guaranteed Minimum 
Annuity or Widow's Guaranteed Minimum Annuity.
Subject to the following  paragraph the Purchase Price of a Purchased  Annuity of any 
description shall be determined by the Society  at the time it is secured in accordance with 
the Society's published tabular rates for annuities of that description purchased under its 
Exsel-Plus Pension Policies,  and with the age or ages  of the person or persons on whose  
life or lives the annuity depends.  If there are no published rates  for annuities of that 
description, the Purchase Price shall be determined by the Actuary of the Society, who shall 
take into account the additional cost to the Society of payment of an annuity  which  is not of a 
description which the Society normally offers  for sale.
For a Purchased Annuity  of a level amount secured  on the life of an Employee payable 
monthly during  the lifetime of the Employee, the first payment falling due on the Actual 
Retirement Date and the last on the monthly  due date immediately preceding his death with 
the annuity payable  for a minimum of sixty such monthly payments in any event {my 
emphasis},  the annuity purchased will not be less than the amount shown in the Appendix 
hereto per £1,000 of Purchase  Price (with the amounts of annuity  secured for other retirement  
dates and on an increasing annuity  basis being calculated  on a corresponding basis).
When a Purchased Annuity is secured under the Policy the Society shall issue a statement  
showing-
ithe life or lives on which the annuity is payable and its amount;
iiin the case of an Employee's Annuity the period,  if any, for which the amount  is payable;
iiithe date or event upon which payment is to commence.
Ref: DRN82250654I think its clear  from the above that it was only ever intended that the annuity be provided on 
guaranteed basis,  payable  for a minimum of sixty months (5 years).  Although Mr W has 
highlighted other sections of the policy document, Ive not seen anything that specifically 
states that a GAR applied if the annuity  is taken on a non-guaranteed basis.   
I think its worth explaining here that Mr W can take the annuity  on a non-guaranteed basis 
should he wish but that would be at a standard current  annuity rate. However, Scottish 
Equitable has explained  that these current rates without guarantee are far lower than the 
GAR on a five year guaranteed basis. 
As I acknowledged in my provisional decision, Mr W was provided with non-guaranteed rates 
in late 2003. But after receiving the letter dated  30 March  2004, which  confirmed that 
incorrect GAR information had been provided  previously,  I dont think  it was reasonable for 
him to rely on any figures hed been  provided with prior to this. And this letter only confirmed 
the guaranteed rates.  Im satisfied the non-guaranteed rate was never available  to Mr W. 
In terms of Mr Ws comments about  the policy document saying the minimum rates 
payable, I dont think this suggest that there  will be higher GARs available.  The GAR  is a 
fixed rate offered when the pension  is first set up. At the point of set up, it cant  be foreseen 
what the general annuity rates will be when the plan holder takes benefits. So, its possible 
current annuity rates, although not known  in advance  or guaranteed, could be higher  than 
the GAR  at the point the plan holder opts to take the annuity. And so the GAR is the 
minimum that will be paid. 
Income tax
I appreciate that Mr W feels Scottish  Equitable will be paying less to put matters right if it 
doesnt pass  on the tax payment to HMRC.  But the payment for the backdated annuity 
payments is a compensation payment,  which is exempt from income  tax in most situations.  
To ensure Mr W isnt over compensated,  its important the compensation is reduced to 
reflect the tax that wouldve  otherwise been payable, had everything gone as it should  have 
and the annuity  had commenced on Mr Ws 70th birthday. This approach, known as the 
Gourley principle is a well establish and informs the approach  taken  by this service  in terms 
of notional tax deductions.   
My main  concern is that Mr W is put in the position  he would otherwise have been in, but for 
the mistake. So I see no reason in this case why Scottish Equitable should depart from our 
usual, well established approach to paying redress.   As such,  the method for calculating  
redress as set out in my provisional decision stands. 
Recompense
Mr W doesnt consider £1000 is enough to compensate him for the trouble and upset this 
matter has caused.  But having reviewed this aspect again, I think it fairly reflects  the 
circumstance of this complaint. 
I explained in my provisional decision  that I didnt think  Mr W shouldve relied on the 
information given  regarding the non-guaranteed GAR at age 70 to make his retirement 
decisions.  So I didnt  agree that this matter  had been ongoing for as long as Mr W had 
suggested. But I do acknowledge mistakes  have been made which  have caused  a delay and 
inconvenience. 
Ref: DRN82250655In terms of the delay,  I have directed  Scottish Equitable to add 8% simple  interest on to the 
compensation payment. And Im satisfied that this fairly compensates Mr W for the time hes 
been deprived of any missed annuity payments. So the £1000  compensation for trouble and 
upset is solely to reflect the inconvenience  this matter has caused Mr W.  
This award  isnt intended to fine or punish  Scottish Equitable but it acknowledges the 
significant inconvenience caused as a result of the mistakes and the time and effort involved 
for Mr W in trying  to resolve this matter.  I think £1000 fairly reflects  this so Im not asking 
Scottish Equitable  to pay any more than this. 
Putting things  right
For the reasons  explained above and in my provisional decision, I uphold  this complaint 
in part and I direct  Scottish Equitable to:
-Offer Mr W the GAR for age 70 on a 5-year guaranteed basis. And provide quotations 
on a non-guaranteed  basis (without  a GAR) should Mr W request this.
-Once Mr W has decided the basis on which he would like his annuity to be set up, 
Scottish Equitable  should  backdate  the annuity to Mr Ws 70th birthday. The value 
used to purchase  the annuity should  be taken from the relevant settlement date in 
April 2018.
-Calculate  the total net value any missed annuity payments. These  payments should 
be paid to Mr W as a lump sum.
-Interest  should be added at 8% simple on any missed  payments from the date they 
should initially  have been paid, until the matter is settled. Scottish  Equitable should 
then deduct tax from the interest  award.
-Pay Mr W £1000  for the trouble and upset this matter has caused.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained, I uphold this complaint in part. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 October  2020.
Lorna Goulding
ombudsman
Ref: DRN82250656Provisional decision 19 July 2020
complaint
Mr W complains that Scottish Equitable Plc gave  him contradictory  information regarding 
his pension. He says he relied on the information  given to him to make future financial 
decisions.
background
Mr W held a pension plan with Scottish Equitable. It contained both protected  and non- 
protected rights.
In 2003, Mr W contacted Scottish Equitable  to obtain information  on the guaranteed annuity  
rate (GAR) on his policy. Scottish Equitable confirmed in a letter,  dated  4 November 2003, 
the guaranteed rates  available to Mr W. The table included  on the letter,  showed  rates  up to 
age 70. The covering letter said the benefits  could  be withdrawn until the age of 75. It also 
said that Mr W would not lose any entitlement to the GAR when he retired.
In early 2004, Mr W wrote to Scottish  Equitable to query, amongst other things, why the letter 
said the benefits could be taken at any point up to 75 but the table only included GARs up to 
age 70. Scottish  Equitable responded at that time and explained that the GARs applied  until 
age 75 but quotations for age 71 to 75 were  calculated by the actuarial department.
Mr W continued to correspond with Scottish Equitable  over the next couple  of months, 
seeking clarification  of his entitlement. On 30 March 2004, he received a letter  from the 
Managing Director of Individual Pensions & Investments. This letter confirmed that under the 
Section 32 plan that Mr W held, the calculated GARs  for males, aged 71 - 75, are as follows:
71: 130
72: 134
73: 138
74: 143
75: 147
The letter also apologised for the previously incorrect information Mr W had been  
given about his GAR entitlement. And it confirmed  that the information above  was 
from the Actuarial  department  and was correct.
Mr W was 55 at the time and based  on the information he received, he decided  to delay 
taking the non-protected  rights part of his policy until the age of 70. He took the 
protected rights part of his plan in 2013.
In late 2017, Mr W started discussions with his independent financial adviser  (IFA) about 
taking his benefits. Initially the IFA was told by Scottish Equitable  that the benefits had 
already been taken.  Then, in 2018  when Mr W made enquiries  himself, he was given 
different information  to that provided  in 2004  regarding his GAR entitlement.  He was told 
that the previously  quoted rates werent available to him and that there was no GAR  
available between the ages of 70 and 75.
Ref: DRN82250657Mr W complained  to Scottish Equitable. He said that based on the information hed been 
given in 2004, hed decided to put off taking  his protected rights pension  until age 70. He 
was also unhappy  that the person hed been  dealing with at Scottish  Equitable had offered 
no apology for the errors. And that he was still receiving contradictory information  
regarding the GARs.  To resolve the complaint Mr W said he wanted  the following:
1.Scottish Equitable to honour  the rates quoted in 2003 and 2004 for GAR on a 5-year  
guaranteed and a non-guaranteed  annuity  from 70 to 75. These were  also confirmed 
in the 2018 correspondence - which shows those  rates had increased.  So Mr W said 
he expected to take advantage of the new increased  rates.
2.Confirmation of the GARs from 71 to 75 without a guaranteed  period, which  start at 
either 147 or 144.47 at aged 70 (as quoted  in 2003 and 2004 and again in 2018).
3.Hed planned  to take his annuity  from aged  70, which was April 2018. So he 
shouldnt be financially disadvantaged due to the delay caused by the inconsistent 
and incorrect information provided.
4.Recompense for the stress and time taken to deal with this matter. It had started in 
January 2018 when  he was told twice that his policy didnt exist.
5.For this to be resolved  without any further delay.
Scottish Equitable  reviewed the complaint. In its email of 8 August 2018,  it apologised for 
the contradictory information  Mr E had been given. It explained it had provided Mr W with 
incorrect information on more than one occasion  and it apologised for the inconvenience  
this had caused. It explained  that Mr W shouldnt  ever have been provided with 5-year 
guaranteed GARs beyond age 70 or GARs with no guarantee period at any age. However, 
as a gesture of goodwill,  Scottish Equitable offered to hold the rates  it had previously 
detailed (in its letter  dated 30 March 2004), from age 70 to 75, based on a 5-year  
guaranteed period.
It went on to explain that this involved each £1,000 of purchase  price providing the 
following annuity amounts:
70: 128
71: 130
72: 134
73: 138
74: 143
75: 147
It also explained that its staff member  had apologised for the errors  in an email dated 
22 March 2018.  And in recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused,  
Scottish Equitable  offered  Mr W £500 compensation.
Mr W remained unhappy so he went back to Scottish Equitable. He said that Scottish 
Equitable had failed to address or consider some of the things  hed asked for. He also 
said Scottish Equitable  should honour  all the different rates it had given him. He said hed 
made his financial  plans based  on the GAR at age 70 with no guarantee and it was that 
which needed to be upheld. This was the rate of 147 at age 70.
Ref: DRN82250658Mr W said that he wanted this backdated  to his 70th birthday, with interest paid on the 
missed payments. He also said that Scottish Equitable should give him the option of a 
non- guaranteed rate at age 71, based on similar  calculations.  He also didnt think  the 
£500 compensation for the errors  was fair, given that they spanned several years.
Scottish Equitable  reviewed matters again. It said that the offer to hold the previous rates 
from age 70 to 75, based on a five-year guaranteed period, remained. But it said it was 
unable to provide  the non-guaranteed rates, as these should  never  have been  offered. It 
offered to cover the missed annuity payments from Mr Ws 70th birthday and to pay interest 
on these too. It also increased its offer for the distress and inconvenience to £1000.
As Mr W was unable  to resolve  matters  with Scottish Equitable,  he referred the matter  to 
this service for consideration.
One of our investigators  reviewed matters and initially  concluded that Scottish Equitable  
should honour the GAR on a 5-year guaranteed  and a non-guaranteed basis  from ages 
70 75. She also thought that the £1000 offer by Scottish Equitable was fair.
Scottish Equitable  didnt  accept the investigators initial findings. In summary it said that:
The investigator had asked it to make  GARs  available  to Mr W from ages 70 to 75, 
both with and without a guaranteed period.  However, Mr W had consistently 
indicated that he intended to take his benefits  at age 70. So the implication that he 
relied on GAR  figures  provided for ages 70-75 (as opposed  to just age 70) doesn't  
align with this. It therefore  felt that its offer to provide  the guaranteed annuity from 
age 70 on a backdated basis (with  a 5-year guaranteed period) was fair under  the 
circumstances.
Mr W had said that hed relied  on GAR figures provided for a number  of years in 
planning his retirement.  However, it hadnt  seen  or been able to locate any evidence 
that it had provided GAR figures without a 5-year guaranteed period beyond age 70, 
prior to communication in 2018, which was corrected  soon afterwards.
It shouldnt have  offered a GAR  without  the 5-year  guaranteed  period for this type of 
plan at all, as it doesn't offer this option at any age. Likewise,  it shouldn't have quoted  
any GARs  beyond age 70, as again it doesnt offer them on this type of plan.
By offering to provide the guaranteed  annuity  from age 70, backdated to Mr W's 70th 
birthday, itll be providing Mr W with the highest possible annuity rate it offers for this 
product (this can be seen from page 16 of the policy conditions booklet). And by 
backdating it to his 70th birthday, it'll be providing it to him on the most favourable 
possible terms.
If it made  the range  of annuity rates the investigator had suggested available to 
Mr W, this would put him in a position to benefit  from the error - an outcome it 
wouldn't normally expect, other than maybe  in very exceptional circumstances.  
This is contrary  to the principle of putting customers  in the position they should 
have been in had it not made  any errors.
Ref: DRN82250659Mr W responded to the investigators initial findings.  He said that he shouldnt  be worse  off 
or disadvantaged  due to this issue. And he said to resolve the complaint, he wanted the 
following:
The annuity payments  to be backdated to his 70th birthday, based on the non- 
guaranteed rate, which as a gesture should be the rate at age 71.
Interest  paid on the missed payments and for Scottish Equitable  to cover any tax due 
on the backdated amount for the 2018/19  and 2019/20  tax years.  He said hed 
specifically left space  in his 20% tax band  for those years.  And two payments for that 
year will push him into the 40% bracket.
A full written  apology  accepting that time and time again he was given information 
that he relied on. And a proper explanation  as to what  went on.
Compensation for the time he spent on this, and for the stress that this has caused.
To cover all his costs  with a top pension  lawyer to agree that he is not disadvantaged 
in any way.
The value of the pension is as at the date in early 2018.  So before any of the 
subsequent charges  were taken. Any charges should  be cancelled and written  back.
The investigator put Mr Ws points  to Scottish  Equitable for consideration. In 
response Scottish Equitable said that:
It had already  agreed to backdate annuity payments to Mr Ws 70th birthday, on the 
basis of the GAR with a 5-year guaranteed period. But it wouldnt agree to do it 
without a guaranteed period as this shouldnt have been offered in the first place.
It wasnt reasonable to base the rate on the age of 71, given the annuity  was being 
backdated to 70.
It would pay interest on the backdated  annuity payments from the date they should 
have been paid, had the annuity  started on Mr Ws 70th birthday.
The redress wasnt taxable  and so wouldnt affect  Mr Ws allowances. So no 
additional tax should be due as a result of the error.
In backdating the annuity, it would use the value as at the appropriate date in 2018. 
So the effect of any charges paid since would not affect the valuation.
The errors had been caused because it had been working from an incorrect  
calculation spreadsheet. This had remained in place for several years until it realised  it 
was wrong. It wasnt a recent change that it no longer  provided  these  rates  it had 
always been  the case for this type of plan. This is confirmed by the GAR table 
provided on the last page of the policy conditions booklet  provided.
It doesnt agree that it should  provide  a higher  annuity rate than it normally  makes  
available for this type of pension. This is in line with other ombudsman decisions its 
received on similar  matters in the past.
Ref: DRN822506510The investigator reconsidered the further submissions. In summary  she thought that:
Scottish Equitable was prepared to offer the guaranteed rates at age 70. But it should 
also offer the non-guaranteed  rates at age 70.
Scottish Equitable didnt need to offer the rates from age 71, as Mr W always  
intended to take the benefits  at age 70.
Scottish Equitables offer of £1000 for the distress and inconvenience caused  was in 
line with what  this service would expect for this type of error.
It wasnt fair to ask the business to cover any costs incurred by obtaining  a pensions 
lawyer.
In backdating the annuity, Scottish Equitable  should use the value as at the 
appropriate date in 2018   so the effect of any charges  applied  since  then would not 
affect the valuation.
Scottish Equitable  maintains that it shouldnt have to provide GAR on a non-
guaranteed basis.
Mr W maintains  that all his calculations were based  on the non-guaranteed rate. He says 
the guaranteed rate is not acceptable and will not put him back to where he should be - 
especially as he would  be part way through  the 5-year guarantee period by the time the 
matter is resolved. He believes the interest  on the missed annuity payments should be at 
8% over base, on a compounded basis. He also says that Scottish Equitable  should  cover 
the cost of a pensions lawyer so the offer can be checked. And he doesnt think £1000  
compensation is enough and he requires a proper apology.
As neither party accepted the investigators  opinion, the matter has been  passed to me 
to make a final decision.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding 
the complaint  but on a slightly different basis to the investigator. Ill explain why.
Theres no dispute that Mr W was given contradictory and incorrect  information regarding  
his entitlement  under  the Section  32 pension plan. So, the issue I must decide  is what  
Scottish Equitable  needs to do to put matters right.
In response to the investigators opinion, Mr W submitted several  points that he felt would 
resolve the complaint. Scottish Equitable  accepted many of these but a few matters  remain 
outstanding or require  further clarification. For completeness,  Ive considered all aspects and 
have set out everything that I believe Scottish  Equitable needs  to do to put matters  right.
Ref: DRN822506511backdating payments to Mr Ws 70th birthday
Mr W has said that based on the information he was given in 2003 and 2004, he decided to 
delay taking the non-protected  rights part of his Section  32 plan until he was 70, in April 
2018. There is evidence  to support Mr W starting  the process of trying  access  his benefits 
in time the annuity to be set up for his 70th birthday. And it seems this has only been 
delayed because of the ongoing  complaint.  So, for this reason, I think  its right that Scottish  
Equitable should backdate the annuity  to reflect the fact that it shouldve  been in payment 
from Mr Ws 70th birthday.
The value used  to purchase the annuity should be the applicable value of the plan back  in 
2018, at the point the plan would have  needed  to be settled to ensure the first annuity payment  
could be made to coincide with Mr W turning 70. As the investigator has correctly explained, 
this removes the impact of any subsequent charges taken from the plan after this point.
Given the errors and general customer service, Mr W believes that, as a gesture of 
goodwill, Scottish Equitable should  use the GAR for age 71, as opposed to 70. But I dont 
intend to ask Scottish Equitable to do this.
In putting things right, my role is to put Mr W in the position hed be in now, had everything 
gone as it should have.  It shouldnt mean  that Mr W is given better  terms than he would 
otherwise have had. And its important to understand that this service is not the regulator 
so its not our role to punish businesses. Any trouble or upset caused as a result of the 
errors, needs to be reflected in the compensation payment, which  Ive addressed further 
on in my decision.
Should Mr W be offered  a GAR on a non-guaranteed annuity?
Ive next considered whether Scottish  Equitable should give Mr W the GARs for both a 
5- year guaranteed  annuity and a non-guaranteed annuity.
The investigator thought that Scottish Equitable should offer Mr W both. Scottish Equitable has 
said that its willing to offer the 5-year guaranteed GAR  at 70. But it says that it was wrong  to 
ever say that GARs  were available on a non-guaranteed basis. It says this has never been 
something that its offered under the type of plan Mr W holds. But Mr W says he was told that 
this was available in 2003 & 2004,  so he based  his future  financial  decisions on this.
Ive reviewed all the correspondence  provided  from 2003 and 2004. It seems Mr W was 
told twice in writing that a GAR was available  on a non-guaranteed basis. Firstly, in 
November 2003,  when it was confirmed that the non-guaranteed GAR for age 70 was 127. 
Mr W queried this as it wasnt  in sync with the other  figures being quoted on the table. 
Scottish Equitable  wrote again to Mr W on 22 January 2004 and confirmed that this figure  
should in fact have been 144.47.
Mr W continued to correspond with Scottish Equitable  as he didnt believe it had 
adequately answered his questions. In his letter dated 5 February 2004, Mr W specifically  
said am I to understand  that the information  I was given from Scottish Equitable  
concerning rates for age 70 is incorrect? Why is this? Are all the other rates correct also? 
Please confirm?
Ref: DRN822506512Mr W wrote  again  on 15 February 2004 again explaining that he needed answers to his 
questions otherwise How can I possibly know the information you are giving me is 
correct, without knowing in some way, the way the calculations  are done?
Scottish Equitables  letter dated 30 March 2004  confirmed the GARs for ages 71  75, it 
also enclosed a copy of the relevant policy document. The table  in the policy  document 
contained the GARs for ages  60 to 70. These were in line with the figures Mr W had 
previously been  quoted  for the 5-year guaranteed annuity. The letter also apologised that 
incorrect GAR information had been provided  previously,  but it said the information  in the 
letter was from the Actuarial Department and was correct. Mr W says that after receiving 
this letter,  he accepted the figures  hed been  given for both a 5-year guaranteed  annuity 
and a non- guaranteed  annuity.
Ive thought about this carefully.  Having  received  this letter   dated 30 March  2004 - I dont 
think it was reasonable  for Mr W to rely on any figures hed been  provided with prior to this. 
The letter specifically states that incorrect figures  have  previously  been  provided. And no 
GAR figures  were quoted  in the letter or the policy document for a non-guaranteed annuity. 
So while I accept that Mr W may have relied  on the 5-year  guaranteed  figures, I dont  think  
it was reasonable  to assume that any previously quoted non-guaranteed figures were 
correct and so should  also be relied  on. Particularly considering Mr W had been given 
differing figures  on both occasions when the information regarding  the non-guaranteed 
GARs had been  put in writing.
I appreciate that if Mr W takes  the annuity  now on a 5-year  guaranteed  basis, he will 
be more than two years into the guaranteed  period when this matter is settled. But the 
non- guaranteed rate was never  available  to him. If everything had gone as it should 
have, he would never have been given information for a GAR on a non-guaranteed 
basis. For this reason, Im not currently  minded to ask Scottish Equitable  to provide the 
GAR on a non- guaranteed basis.
I know that Mr W was also given information  in 2018, when he approached Scottish  
Equitable about  taking  his benefits,  that suggested a GAR was available  on a non- 
guaranteed basis.  But this error was rectified quickly. And, as this was at the point where 
Mr W was trying to access his benefits,  it wasnt information hed used to plan for his 
financial future. So I dont intend  to ask Scottish Equitable to honour the rates provided in 
2018. I do think Scottish Equitable needs to compensate Mr W for any confusion 
regarding this and Ive addressed this further down  in my decision under the Trouble and 
Upset section.
Interest on missed payments
Scottish Equitable  has agreed to pay interest  on each missed annuity  payment. Mr W 
believes this should  be on a compound basis at the rate of 8% above base. However,  
compound interest  is generally what people are charged on borrowing and is 
effectively interest on interest thats  already accruing.
To reflect the cost of being deprived  of money in the past, I think 8% simple  interest  per 
year is more appropriate in the circumstances. I say this because  8% is also the same  
interest rate that the courts would  normally award  and is in line with other  awards this 
service would make when a consumer  has been  deprived of the use of money.
Ref: DRN822506513This means  that once Mr W has decided  the basis on which he would like his annuity to be 
set up, Scottish  Equitable will need  to work out the amount of each missed payment and 
when it should  have been paid. It will then need to calculate the number of days Mr W didnt 
have the funds and apply  8% a year to the amount being refunded.  This will produce  a 
figure of gross interest  (i.e. interest where  tax hasnt been deducted). Scottish  Equitable 
should then deduct tax from the interest award.
Income tax
Mr W says that he planned his tax position  carefully,  ensuring  he remained a basic  rate 
tax payer.  So, hes concerned that any backdated  annuity payments might take him into 
the higher rate tax band for the 2018/19  and 2019/20 tax years.
Generally, when a compensation  payment (before interest) represents extra taxable income 
that shouldve  been received in the past,  it wont now be subject to tax when the complaint 
is settled. So the compensation will need to be calculated based  on payments net of the 
assumed rate of income tax Mr W would  have paid. Given what Mr W has said about  his 
tax position, it seems reasonable to assume that he would have remained a 20% tax payer,  
had he received the payments at the correct time. But if Scottish Equitable believes this is 
not the case, it should ask Mr W to provide evidence to support his tax position.
Should Scottish Equitable cover the cost of a lawyer?
Mr W would  like Scottish Equitable to cover the cost of a pensions  lawyer so this matter 
can be reviewed. I dont intend  to ask Scottish  Equitable to do this as I dont believe its 
necessary in the circumstances. I say this because  Mr W has had recourse through  our 
service, which  is free to use and allows people to settle disputes without the need to pay 
for other help.
Our service is specifically set up as an informal alternative to the courts.  Ive reviewed 
matters on an independent and impartial basis and set out what  I think  is fair redress to 
put Mr W back into the position he would be in now, had everything gone as it should 
have. So, if Mr W chooses to have  this matter reviewed by a pensions  lawyer, he will need 
to cover this cost himself.
Trouble and upset
When thinking about the appropriate amount to award for the trouble and upset  this 
matter has caused,  Ive thought about  the impact the business mistakes  have  had on Mr 
W. Theres no doubt that theres  been  service failings and Mr W has been  provided with 
conflicting and incorrect information.
Mr W says this has been ongoing for many years. But Scottish Equitables  letter in March  
2004 explained the correct rates that Mr W would be entitled to, these being on a 5-year  
guaranteed basis.  And for the reasons Ive explained above, I dont think  it was 
reasonable for Mr W to rely on the figures he was given for the non-guaranteed GAR. So 
while I accept that errors  were made  both back  in 2003/04 and again 2018, I dont agree 
that this matter was ongoing for all those years.
Ref: DRN822506514However, I acknowledge that Mr W has spent time and effort trying to get to the bottom of 
what hes entitled to under  this plan. And I know he is also unhappy that at times hes 
been told his pension is no longer with Scottish Equitable, which  I appreciate would have 
been distressing.  But Scottish  Equitable has offered  to pay £1000 and think  this amount 
fairly reflects the trouble and upset caused.
Written apology
Mr W would  like a written apology from Scottish Equitable accepting that time and time 
again he was given incorrect information. But I think Scottish Equitable  has already 
acknowledged its mistakes and offered its apologies, on more than one occasion, as 
evidenced by its emails of 8 August  2018  and 30 January 2019. So I dont intend to ask it to 
do any more in this regard.
Putting things  right
For the reasons  explained above, I currently minded to uphold this complaint in part and 
I intend to ask Scottish Equitable to:
-     Offer  Mr W the GAR  for age 70 on a 5-year guaranteed basis
-Once Mr W has decided the basis on which he would like his annuity to be set up, 
Scottish Equitable  should  backdate  the annuity to Mr Ws 70th birthday. The value 
used to purchase  the annuity should  be taken from the relevant settlement date in 
April 2018.
-Calculate  the total net value any missed annuity payments. These  payments should 
be paid to Mr W as a lump sum.
-Interest  should be added at 8% simple on any missed  payments from the date they 
should initially  have been paid, until the matter is settled. Scottish  Equitable should 
then deduct tax from the interest  award.
-Pay Mr W £1000  for the trouble and upset this matter has caused.
my provisional decision
For the reasons  explained above, Im currently minded to conclude that the complaint should 
be upheld. And Scottish Equitable should pay redress as set out above.
Ref: DRN8225065