K822xcomplaint
Mr H complains Admiral  Insurance  Company Limited (Admiral) has delayed  repairing 
ongoing snagging  issues  in his property following a claim on his home  insurance  policy  in 
2017. He says its been going on for too long. Any reference to Admiral includes its agents.
background 
Mr H has a home insurance policy which covers his building  and contents. It also provides 
home emergency cover at an extra cost. In August 2017, Mr H reported  an escape of water 
from a leaking pipe.  Admiral accepted  the claim and following some delay, drying out and 
reinstatement works  started in February  2018. During this time, Mr H and his family were  
staying in alternative accommodation.  In April 2018, they were able to move  back  home.
The following  month, Mr H contacted Admiral about snagging issues hed identified.  This 
included cracks in the walls, uneven flooring and delamination of the bath panel. Admirals  
internal notes suggest there were ongoing conversations  between Mr H, the contractors and 
itself over the next few months but it was attending to the snagging issues  at the same time. 
In January 2019, Mr H said the works  still werent  complete and as he was unhappy,  he 
raised a complaint.
Admiral accepted it had delayed  dealing  with the snagging issues for nine months. And it 
arranged for its supplier (S) to visit the property to comment  on the outstanding work. As a 
result of this visit, Admiral didnt agree it needed to do any further  work on the property. It 
said the issues Mr H had raised were caused  by normal movement in the house  or was 
within acceptable allowances. Admiral also didnt think the problem with the bath panel was 
its responsibility as it was fitted  by its contractor but arranged directly by Mr H.
Unhappy with Admirals  response,  Mr H asked our service to look into things. Our 
investigator upheld  the complaint. He was satisfied there were still ongoing issues  that 
Admiral needed  to put right. Admiral  didnt agree, so the complaint was passed to me to 
reach a decision.  In the meantime, in September 2020, Admiral  arranged for another  
surveying company (R) to look at the problems Mr H had raised. Its now told me R thought  
some of the problems were linked to the repairs done under  the policy.  So its instructed S to 
start remedial works. But this work  hasnt started yet.
Admirals explained  the delay in works  starting was initially caused by S and now its 
identified a further issue which needs to be reviewed for liability  to be decided.  It accepts
Mr H has been in contact  more often due to the delays but it doesnt think hes been in touch 
as often as he says he has (around 100 times). And it says its always responded quickly.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in March 2021.  I thought  the complaint 
should be upheld  in summary because  I thought:
Mr H had contacted  Admiral about  the snagging  issues nearly three years  ago. And it 
had been another five months  since R had visited the property and highlighted further 
work Admiral needed to do due to the standard of the initial  repairs.  
S had carried out its role on Admirals behalf  so it was responsible for any delays 
caused by S.
Ref: DRN85409992Admiral had several opportunities to investigate  things  before it did. And it wouldve been 
reasonable for it to have instructed a different company to look at the problems earlier.
Mr H wouldnt  have felt listened to and I was persuaded he wouldve experienced 
significant frustration,  upset and worry considering  how long things had gone on for. 
To put things right, I thought Admiral should  pay Mr H a further £1,000  as compensation on 
top of the £400 it had already paid. I also expected Admiral would handle  Mr Hs claim 
promptly and fairly.  And I thought it should give him regular and meaningful  monthly updates 
on his claim until its settled. 
I asked both parties to make any further  comments before I reached my final decision. Mr H 
said in summary:
He and his family  are currently  living separately  because no suitable  alternative 
accommodation has been found. 
Further issues (damp patches) have been identified. He thinks  these are as a result of 
the initial repair work as it was rectified  by Admiral previously but has now reappeared. 
Mr Hs worried  he might have to cover  the cost of resolving this. 
He and his family  have been inconvenienced  by whats  happened  they have had to 
take time off work to pack up their belongings and its impacting his daughters studies. 
Admiral initially said it had no further  comments to make. But I asked it for further  information  
following Mr Hs comments. In response,  it said:
It did offer Mr H alternative accommodation,  but he decided to live separately from his 
family as he didnt want to be separated from his dog. It cant  accommodate every 
customers needs, but it will offer Mr H a disturbance allowance as an alternative.  
It doesnt agree the further issues identified  are connected to the original claim or the 
repair work carried out. And it says Mr H hasnt given evidence  to show its related. But 
its investigating the cause of the problem and will contact Mr H afterwards.  Admiral  also 
sent me a chain  of emails between it and S to show this. 
I emailed both parties on 16 March 2021 to explain Id changed my provisional  decision. I 
thought the complaint should  be upheld but Admiral  should do slightly more than Id 
previously thought. In summary I said:
I thought it must be difficult for Mr H to live separately from his family. But this seemed 
unavoidable as there were  no alternatives  to accommodate  his family and his dog. 
I didnt think it was unusual for insurers to pay a disbursement  allowance  while 
policyholders stay with family  or friends.  So, I thought Admiral should backdate the 
payment to cover the whole time Mr H and his family  had been away  from home. 
Ref: DRN85409993If Mr H found  suitable  alternative accommodation for him and his family to stay together, 
I thought Admiral should cover the reasonable cost of it. 
Whilst I understood Mr Hs family  had been inconvenienced by whats happened, I could 
only consider the inconvenience Mr H has suffered as hes the policyholder. And I 
thought the amount of compensation Id suggested was enough to make  up for this.
I thought the issue Mr H had raised about  the damp seemed to be a separate  issue from 
the ongoing complaint Im looking into. So, I thought it was sensible for Admiral to 
continue investigating  the cause of it and Mr H could raise another  complaint if needed. 
Admiral didnt respond to my updated  provisional  decision by the deadline. Mr H said he 
didnt accept the alternative  accommodation  suggested by Admiral as two were unsuitable 
due to their location   and none  of the properties  had garden space for his dog. Hes 
explained he cant leave  his dog because he did so when his property was undergoing the 
original repairs and his dog became very unwell   possibly due to the separation. And he 
doesnt want to risk his dogs current health or cause him discomfort. Mr H also explained 
the contractors have now discovered  the drain  for the washing machine hadnt previously 
been connected properly following the repair  works. So, waste  water hadnt been draining  
correctly which caused a foul smell for some time. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought carefully about the comments both parties have made  in response to my 
provisional decisions. And I think the complaint should be upheld.  
I understand Mr Hs explanation  of why none of the alternative accommodation was suitable  
for him and his family.  But it seems  to me Admiral has made a reasonable effort to provide 
alternative accommodation for Mr H. And I accept it hasnt been  able to find anything  
suitable in this case. So, Im satisfied its fair for Admiral to pay Mr H the usual disbursement  
allowance it would pay when policyholders  are staying  with family or friends. Alternatively, if 
Mr H is able to find suitable  alternative accommodation, I think it would be fair for Admiral to 
cover the reasonable costs of this. 
I know Mr H has had further  problems  with his property which  hes told our service about. 
But it seems  Admiral is currently  working  on investigating and rectifying  these issues  which  
is what Id expect. And considering everything  hes been through  and the ongoing problems 
hes had, Im satisfied the compensation Ive suggested in my provisional decision  a total 
of £1,400  is enough  to make up for whats already gone wrong. 
So, overall having looked at the responses Ive received, I havent changed my conclusions  
set out in my provisional decision. 
Ref: DRN85409994putting things right 
To put things right, Admiral should:
Pay Mr H a further £1,000 as compensation for the trouble and upset its caused him due 
to the delays up to the date of my final decision.  That means it would have  paid him a 
total of £1,400 as its already paid him £400.  
Pay Mr H the disbursement allowance for him and his family   this should  be backdated 
to cover the entire time theyve been  unable to live in their home due to the ongoing 
problems.
If Mr H is able to find suitable alternative accommodation for him and his family to live 
together whilst  works are ongoing, Admiral  should  cover  the reasonable costs of this in 
line with the policy  terms and conditions. 
Deal with Mr Hs claim promptly and fairly. And in the meantime, give Mr H regular and 
meaningful monthly updates on the progress of his claim until its settled. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I uphold Mr Hs complaint and direct Admiral  Insurance  Company 
Limited to put things  right by doing  what Ive said above. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or reject  my decision 
before 25 April 2021.
Nadya Neve
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8540999