K821x#15complaint
Mr R complains that British Gas Insurance Limited missed two appointments when dealing 
with a claim under his home emergency insurance  policy.
background
Mr Rs boiler broke down one morning.  He booked a same-day appointment, which  was 
supposed to take place  before 1pm. When an engineer didnt turn up Mr R contacted  British  
Gas, who said it had no record  of the booking.
An appointment was arranged for the following  day instead. However, British Gas phoned 
Mr R at around lunchtime  to say an engineer wouldnt be able to attend on that day either. 
Mr R arranged another appointment for a few days later,  and the problem with his boiler  was 
resolved. Mr R complained to British Gas about  the two missed appointments, saying he had 
spent hours  waiting for an engineer  and had missed a trip out with his children. 
British Gas apologised to Mr R for the inconvenience and explained it prioritises  
emergencies and vulnerable consumers, which can impact on other  appointments. British  
Gas offered  Mr R £50 compensation but Mr R didnt  accept the offer and brought  his 
complaint to this service.  
Our adjudicator looked into things and recommended that British Gas should  increase its 
offer to £100 compensation. British Gas accepted this, but Mr R didnt. So the complaint has 
been passed to me to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear British  Gas made mistakes  here.  And British Gas has apologised for this. I 
understand Mr R wants a total of £320 compensation. But, I need  to decide what  I think  is 
fair and reasonable compensation for the impact British Gass mistakes had on Mr R. 
Theres no doubt British  Gass failure to attend  on two occasions  caused Mr R 
inconvenience  and being left waiting and let down two days  in a row affected Mr Rs plans 
for the entire  weekend. Ive also taken into account  the fact that Mr R was without heating  
and hot water and if British Gas had attended when they should have, it might have been 
possible for the problem  with his boiler  to be fixed sooner than it was. 
Its difficult to put a value  on the trouble Mr R was put to. We need  to be fair to both parties, 
and the role of this service isnt to fine or regulate  businesses. When  considering  
compensation levels, we think  about  what has happened in the individual  case,  as well as 
our published  guidance on the payment of compensation and awards made in other cases  
sharing similar features. 
Having done so, I think an award  of compensation at the lower end of what we call the 
moderate category  is appropriate.   
Ref: DRN80347602So, I think the £100 compensation which British Gas has now offered is fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Rs complaint. 
British Gas Insurance Limited must pay Mr R £100  compensation  for the inconvenience  he 
suffered. This includes the £50 compensation which British Gas Insurance  Limited  
previously offered.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2019.  
Leah Nagle
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN8034760