K821x#15complaint
Mrs B complains about the delay by Suffolk  Life Pensions Limited in transferring  funds  from
her late husbands  pension plan.
background
Mrs B said that due to errors by Suffolk  Life shed suffered delay in receiving the funds from 
her late husbands  pension. She felt shed suffered a loss of around £44,000. She said she 
was vulnerable at the time and didnt feel supported by Suffolk  Life. It had lost forms that she 
had returned,  denied receiving them and then found them. It had taken months to move  the 
funds from her husbands account  to one in her name and then onto a new provider. Suffolk 
Life apologised for the delay  and accepted  its service wasnt  in keeping with what shouldve  
been expected. It hadnt  been as proactive as it couldve been  to ensure the transfer  was 
concluded in a timely fashion and had failed  to act on some instructions. It didnt accept 
there had been  any financial  loss as she had remained  in the market. It sent a cheque  for 
£500 as a gesture of apology.
Suffolk Life apologised for the delay and accepted its service  wasnt  in keeping with what
shouldve been  expected.  It hadnt  been as proactive as it couldve been to ensure the
transfer was concluded in a timely  fashion and had failed to act on some instructions. It
didnt accept there had been any financial loss as she had remained in the market.  It sent a
cheque for £500  as a gesture of apology.
my provisional decision.
I issued a provisional decision in this case. I said that it was clear there had been failings by 
Suffolk Life which it accepts. My decision therefore  needed to consider any loss and an 
appropriate award for distress and inconvenience.
In essence Mrs B wanted to access the pensions  benefits left to her by her late husband.
This meant Suffolk Life needed to transfer them into a new pension account  in her name 
with a supporting  investment account.  Mrs B initially wanted to keep the same  investments 
as her late husband. However  she later changed  adviser and decided to encash the 
investments and transfer to a new provider. It is clear that there were delays and failings in 
this process.
The parties and the adjudicator had exchanged lengthy letters  setting out details of dates 
and activity. I did not propose  to repeat that analysis here,  although I had reviewed each of
the documents. Having considered these I reached the following conclusions in relation to 
delay and any loss.
I did not think there was unreasonable delay  between  December 2015 and January 
2016 in processing papers. I said that because while a form was received in 
December Suffolk  Life didnt have the required form of death certificate to process it 
until late January 2016.
I did think there was unreasonable delay in setting up. I said that because Suffolk Life 
admits the new pension account  was set up in early February 2016 but it failed to 
issue instructions to set up an investment account until mid March  2016. It then failed 
to chase up missing information  well into April 2016. However during this time the 
Ref: DRN84872002plan remained invested and there  was no request  to change  or encash investments 
so while  inconvenient there  wasnt any loss.
I thought there was unreasonable delay in dealing with the encashment instruction. 
Suffolk Life admitted  this was received by 9 May 2016 but didnt act until 14 June 
2016. I thought  it wouldve been reasonable for them to have taken steps to act 
within 5 business  days, in effect by 16 May 2016.
I did not think there was unreasonable delay  in completing the encashment  and 
transferring it to Mrs B investment  account.  I say that because regulatory 
requirements meant this had to be done  in one transfer and the need to collect 
dividends before payment was outside of the control of Suffolk Life.
I did not think there was unreasonable delay  in notifying the new adviser that the 
money had been transferred. I say that because they were notified  by email at the 
time and then by letter.
I did not think that Suffolk Life were responsible for any delay between  September 
and the transfer  out in November as it was awaiting completed forms from Mrs B/her 
adviser re the transfer out.
I did not think there was unreasonable delay  in acting on the transfer  out instructions 
in November 2016 as this was completed within a few days of receipt of the forms. 
I considered whether there was any loss following on from the times when there was 
unreasonable delay. Suffolk Life has checked  the value of the plan between 9 May 2016 (the 
earliest date of receipt of instructions to encash) and 14 June 2016 when it did act. It said 
the value increased  during this time so Mrs B didnt suffer a financial  loss at the time.
I have considered that there was a delay in acting on the instructions to encash.  In that 
situation we would seek to put Mrs B back in the position she wouldve been  in had there not
be a delay of around  21 days. I note that it was around three  months after encashment  that 
Mrs B transferred out. So the 21 day delay in encashment doesnt seem to have delayed any 
next step that Mrs B took. I say that because  her new adviser had been in place for some  
time as they advised on the encashment. It didnt seem that Mrs B was ready to take any 
action by the time the encashed  funds were available. So the delay didnt  prevent her taking 
any immediate actions  and there  was lengthy  period before she wanted to transfer out. So I 
dont think any action  is required to put her back in the position she wouldve been in 
because the delay didnt make a difference.
I have considered the distress and inconvenience that Mrs B has described. In making such
an award my purpose is not to punish  Suffolk  Life but to reflect  on the impact on Mrs B.
I noted that she needed to chase Suffolk Life on many  occasions. She felt Suffolk Life had 
lied about receipt of documents  which she could  prove had been received as they were  sent 
by registered post. That it failed to show any proactivity or to chase third parties.  This meant  
she didnt feel supported at a very difficult time. She suffered because it delayed  access to 
income and meant she had to use capital which mustve added  to the stress. I can 
understand she felt she had been  lied to. I think the impact of the denials of receipt of 
documents wouldve been very stressful. Given this I thought an award of a £850 would be 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Ref: DRN84872003For the reasons  given  above I didnt propose to hold Suffolk Life responsible  for any failure 
to switch investments  during the time the money  was under its control.
Suffolk Life queries  whether the £850  included the cheque for £500 it had already sent.
Mrs B said she was disappointed with my proposed  decision. She didnt think  that an overall 
delay of 12 months had been taken in to account  sufficiently and felt there  wasnt  
acceptance of the negligent manner in which Suffolk Life had conducted  its affairs. She felt 
that the issue of loss should be considered further. She said that while  the monies remained 
in the market they didnt perform in line with indices nor the investment plan that her new 
adviser would  adopt  and which Suffolk Life knew was in place. She said she felt shed been 
treated very badly  by Suffolk Life. However  she said she couldnt provide  evidence to show  it 
was aware of her investment plans.  However  she said that at the end of February  2016  she 
told Suffolk Life she wanted to transfer  to another provider. She gave authority to the new 
provider in early March 2016  and the new provider chased them  in late March 2016,  she 
also had to complete  further forms in June 2016 to confirm she had appointed a new 
financial adviser. So it seemed incomprehensible  that Suffolk Life could suggest they didnt  
know of her intent to move providers  until November 2016. There  had also been  numerous 
conversations between her adviser and Suffolk  Life from March  2016 onwards. However she 
was unable to provide  any evidence  of advice about  the new investments into which  she was 
to switch.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs B feels  strongly that Suffolk Life mustve been  aware she intended to transfer. While I 
can see that a new adviser was appointed  and a transfer was being  discussed it wouldnt 
have known when  or if that transfer  would  happen until it was requested  formally.
Mrs B suggests that the Suffolk Life plan didnt perform in accordance with the relevant 
indices. This would be a new complaint. But I have not been provided with any evidence to 
suggest that the underlying investment carried any guarantee  that it would perform in line 
with a particular  indices so it doesnt seem there is an issue or potential  loss to consider.
Mrs B also says that she lost out compared  to the investment  she wouldve had if shed 
transferred sooner. Mrs B hasnt been able to provide  any investment advice at the relevant 
time. So while in hindsight it might be possible to conclude she wouldve been  better  off if 
shed transferred sooner and invested as she did after the transfer I have  not been provided  
with evidence to show those investments were advised upon  or selected at any of the 
relevant times. That is further evidenced  by the three month delay after the money was 
available and before  the transfer out took place.  So while  I am sorry to disappoint Mrs B I 
remain of the view that I cannot reasonably  conclude that she suffered a financial loss.
Ref: DRN84872004my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part.
I direct  that Suffolk Life Pensions Limited should  pay Mrs B a total of £850 (for the avoidance 
of doubt that includes  the £500 sent by cheque to Mrs B assuming that cheque has been 
banked and cleared into her account).
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 July 2019.
Colette Bewley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8487200