K820x#13complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2002. Mr W says Bank of Scotland Plc trading as Halifax mis-sold him the PPI. 
Mr W bought a Total Mortgage Protection  Plan (TMPP) alongside  a mortgage TMPP can be 
split into sections  Mortgage Repayments  Cover (which is a form of PPI), life cover and 
critical illness cover. Mr W has complained about  the sale of the PPI so Ive looked at the 
sale of the PPI cover only. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ws case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Halifax had to make Mr W aware that the PPI was optional  and gain his consent before 
adding it to his mortgage. Mr W has told us that he wasnt aware the PPI had been  added to 
his mortgage,  and that by cancelling the policy a year after he took it out shows  he didnt  
know he had taken  it out and didnt want it.. I dont  know for certain what  was said when the 
policy was sold, and there isnt much  paperwork  available, but from what  we know about  
how Halifax sold this type of policy at the time I think its likely  Halifax made Mr W aware the 
PPI was optional,  and he chose to take it out, I also think that if Mr W was unaware he had 
taken the policy in the first place he would have raised a complaint with Halifax at the time 
he cancelled  the policy.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr W so it had to check that the PPI was right for him. 
Mr W has told us he put down a large deposit when he took the mortgage and was entitled 
to significant sick pay. Mr W has also provided evidence to support his sick pay entitlement 
from the time. Although Mr W did put down a large deposit the PPI would have covered his 
mortgage payments.  And from what Ive seen the PPI would have paid out in addition to 
Mr Ws sick pay, and for longer than he would have received  full pay. 
From what  Ive seen of Mr Ws circumstances at the time he wasnt affected  by any of the 
exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover and he seems to have had a need for the cover.  So I 
think the policy was right for him.  
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But I think Mr W chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And 
it seems like it would have  been  useful for Mr W if something went  wrong.  It also looks  like it 
was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put Mr W off 
taking out the cover.
 
Ive thought about everything Mr W has said, but these points dont change  my decision.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mr W paid for it. But Halifax  has already offered to give Mr W back  some of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
Ref: DRN87176962Halifax will make arrangements  to pay Mr W now Ive issued my final decision.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr W to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 February  2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8717696