K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them payment 
protection insurance (PPI).
background
Mr and Mrs H took out a secured personal  loan with Halifax in 2002  and a PPI policy was 
added to their account at the same time. They paid a monthly  amount  for the policy which 
wouldve covered  their loan repayments  for up to 12 months if Mr H lost his job and for up to 
60 months if he couldnt work because of sickness or an accident.
Mr and Mrs H say they were sold PPI as part of their loan. And they say they didnt need  it 
because of their excellent  work benefits and the savings they had.
The adjudicator who looked at Mr and Mrs Hs complaint didnt  uphold  it. Mr and Mrs H 
disagree and so their complaint has come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. I know  this will 
disappoint Mr and Mrs H but I hope the reasons Im about to give help them  to understand 
why Ive reached this conclusion.
I think its likely Halifax made Mr and Mrs H aware  the PPI was optional  and they agreed to it 
knowing they didnt  have to. I say this because on the loan agreement  they signed  there  
were Yes and No options  next to the question: Do you want Personal  Loan Repayments 
Insurance?.  The Yes  option has been  typed with a cross. The whole agreement,  including  
the X saying Yes  to PPI, has been pre-populated.  But I think  its likely  to reflect 
discussions Mr and Mrs H had at the time with Halifax. And I would have expected  them to 
read the agreement   which included their agreement to take out the loan  carefully  and to 
query anything that wasnt right. Ive seen  nothing to suggest they did this in relation to the 
PPI, which  is clearly  being taken out in addition to the loan.
Halifax says it recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs H so it had to make sure it was right for 
them. From what  they say of their circumstances at the time and the policy details Halifax 
has given us, I think it was. I say this because:
Mr H was eligible for the PPI. And I dont think he wouldve been affected by any of 
the main things the policy  didnt cover, for example any unusual  employment terms 
or known  medical conditions. So there was nothing to stop him claiming  on the PPI if 
hed needed  to.
Ref: DRN84324822Mr and Mrs H say Mr H wouldve got very good  sick pay from his employer if he was 
unwell. And they also say they had some  savings they could fall back  on. But the PPI 
wouldve covered Mr and Mrs Hs loan repayments  for up to 12 months if Mr H lost 
his job and for up to 60 months if he had an accident or became too ill to work. And 
this wouldve been in addition to his sick pay and savings. So I think the PPI gave 
them useful  protection.
The cost of the policy was shown on the loan agreement. So I think  Mr and Mrs H 
wouldve understood how much theyd need to pay for it. And I havent seen anything 
to make me think the cover was unaffordable  for them. 
As well as making sure the policy was right for Mr and Mrs H, Halifax also had to give them  
enough clear information  about  it so they could decide if they wanted to buy it. Its possible 
some of the information  Halifax gave Mr and Mrs H wasnt as clear as it shouldve been.  But 
for the reasons Ive given  above about why I think the policy was right for them,  I dont think 
clearer information (if it had been needed) wouldve stopped Mr and Mrs H buying it. 
I dont think Mr and Mrs H have lost out because of anything Halifax may have done  wrong,  
so theres nothing it needs  to do to put things right.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 August 2019.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8432482