K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M have  complained to us that they were mis-sold payment protection insurance 
by Loans.co.uk  Ltd (Loans.co.uk) when they took out a joint loan in August 2002. The PPI 
was only in Mr Ms name. They say they didnt want or need the PPI and that the forms 
came with PPI already  added. 
 
background
One of our adjudicators explained that because this policy was sold prior to insurance  being 
covered by us, we could only look at Mr and Mrs Ms complaint  where  it related to a breach 
of the Mortgage  Code.  Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint as he wasnt  persuaded a 
breach had occurred.
Mr and Mrs M asked  for the matter to be referred  to an ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The insurance market  only became  something we covered  in its own right on 14 January 
2005. We can look at some complaints about  insurance before that date but only if the 
complaint related to something we already covered,  or if the business was member of a 
former complaint scheme.
Loans.co.uk was a member of a former  scheme,  the Mortgage Code Arbitration Scheme 
(MCAS). So we can look into this complaint, but only in the same way MCAS could. MCAS 
could only have looked at the below four issues when  considering  complaints about  
insurance that was sold alongside a secured loan or mortgage, whether:
A description of any insurance service which we can arrange  (for example, buildings, 
contents, mortgage payment protection and life insurance);
Whether it is a condition of the mortgage that such an insurance be taken out and whose 
responsibility it is to ensure that it is taken out;
Whether it is a condition of the mortgage that such an insurance must be arranged by us;
A general description of any costs, fees or other charges in connection with the 
mortgage which may be payable by you (for example, mortgage valuation  fees,  
arrangement fees and insurance  premiums).
Because Im limited to the four points above,  I can only consider  Mr and Mrs Ms complaint  
that they werent given a choice about  taking the PPI and that a description of the insurances 
that could be arranged wasnt given.
This sale took place  over the phone with follow up documentation.  There is no recording of 
the call available, which isnt surprising given this took place over 16 years ago. But I can 
see an application form was sent after the call, which shows  a selection of PPI with one 
person applying for the cover. This suggests  to me that a discussion must have been had 
about PPI for the selection to have been  made. So Im satisfied a description of PPI, i.e. that 
it was insurance to protect repayments in the event of accident,  sickness,  unemployment 
and life cover was likely given. 
Ref: DRN84812392Ive also seen a copy of the credit  agreement. This also has a box ticked  to show that yes, 
they wanted to buy PPI  Mr and Mrs M could have ticked a box to say no they didnt want  
PPI if theyd decided  not to take the policy. They  also ticked  a separate box to show they 
only wanted cover for Mr M. The form also describes the PPI as optional  where  it sets out 
the cost of the policy alongside the loan.  
In addition, Ive seen the policy documentation  that I would have expected Mr and Mrs M to 
have received when they took out the cover. 
Taken together, these documents show the lending wasnt conditional  on the policy  being  
taken out. And I think they were given enough  information about the cover to have  a general 
idea about its cost. I therefore  dont think theres enough to suggest that Loans.co.uk 
breached the mortgage code.
In order to find there had been a mis-sale, I would need to see evidence  that Mr and Mrs M 
were explicitly  told they had to have the policy when they didnt. Having carefully considered  
the evidence available, including what Mr and Mrs M have told us, Im not persuaded such  a 
breach occurred, so I dont uphold this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complain against  Loans.co.uk Ltd.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 February  2019
Michael Goldberg
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8481239