K822xcomplaint
Mr M complains how U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has handled the claim for subsidence 
under his landlord insurance policy.
background 
I issued a provisional decision on 13 July 2020 detailing  my intension  to uphold  Mr Ms 
complaint. I said I intended  to direct UKI to pay £300  compensation and to provide Mr M all 
the technical reports on his property. 
I set the background out as follows:
A lot has happened during the life of Mr Ms claim. To be clear,  this background isnt 
intended to set out every event in detail.  Instead Ive given a summarised  timeline of events, 
including whats happened  since Mr M brought his complaint to our service.
In late August 2017 Mr Ms tenants reported issues with the property. Mr M inspected  the 
property in early September and noted internal  and external cracks. Mr M suspected  the 
property had subsidence and reported  it to UKI.
UKI sent its contractor (contractor  A) to investigate. It was determined  subsidence to the 
property was caused by root exacerbated clay shrinkage. Two trees were identified  near the 
property as a cause of concern. An Ash tree owned by Mr M and a Maple tree owned by the 
local authority. The bore hole results only found Ash roots in the sample. Mr M is unhappy as 
he feels UKI didnt bore more holes during the investigation to establish root presence.
In October  2017, an arboriculture report was completed and in summary  it said the Ash tree 
in its opinion was the dominant cause of the damage. However,  the Maple tree couldnt  be 
discounted as a contributory influence,  albeit in a limited and secondary capacity when 
compared to the Ash. It made recommendations to remove both trees as well as removing or 
managing other vegetation. Mr M is unhappy  that there has been no correspondence with 
the local authority  even  a year after this report and he feels  this is causing unnecessary 
delay in the progress of his claim.
UKI raised  concerns with the arboriculture  report as it said removal  of one or both trees  
could cause heave at the address.  It was determined a heave  assessment would need to be 
done to see what  the level of risk was to the property. 
The assessment was done  in March 2018.  With a further site investigation being completed 
mid-April 2018 to confirm  the results. Following this, the results  of the assessment were 
discussed and in May 2018 UKI instructed its contractors to remove  the Ash tree. It would 
continue to monitor the property so it could  see if the property stabilised and it would also 
identify if the maple was causing any further subsidence. 
The Ash tree wasnt removed until September 2018.  Mr M thinks  the delays has caused  
further damage to his property. 
Mr M has also raised his concerns about the windows  not working correctly in the rear of the 
property. There have  been conflicting reports as to whether the windows could be fixed 
temporarily. UKI went for the weatherproofing  option as they were concerned anything else 
could cause the glass to break. Mr M doesnt agree the repair  was adequate. 
Ref: DRN88452562In December 2018, UKI changed contractors (contractor B) to manage their subsidence  
claims so further inspection was required by the new contractor.
Mr M raised  his concerns about his premium increase and how the value the claim was 
recorded on his renewal documents. He said UKI has used up the initial budget  of the
claim but with only a small percentage of the works completed against  the works
schedule that was agreed. Mr M said this increased  the risk of the budget being reached and 
has caused an increase in his premiums.
Mr M feels overall that he has received poor customer service  including  not receiving  
responses to correspondence, and UKI not sharing  survey reports  done by its contractors. 
Mr M feels UKI are holding back information  and lying.
UKI says it has handled the claim correctly and wouldnt be doing  anything further.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr M has raised several points and asked for 
an ombudsman to review  the complaint. So, the complaint has been  passed to me.
My provisional findings were as follows:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are several elements to Mr Ms complaint, so Ive addressed them  in sections below:
Maple tree
I understand Mr M is unhappy that the Maple  tree hasnt been removed especially as the 
arborist recommended  removing both trees. Mr M also doesnt  think enough bore holes were 
done to establish the roots  causing  the subsidence.
UKI has shown it bore a hole at the focal point of the subsidence and it only found  evidence 
of the Ash roots. I think this is a reasonable approach to searching  for the cause  of the 
subsidence. Digging  more  holes away from the focal point may find evidence  of other roots  
but it doesnt mean those roots are causing  the property to subside. 
The Arborist  report said the dominant cause was the Ash tree and that the Maple can also 
be considered  to retain a contributory influence  albeit in a limited/secondary capacity to the 
Ash tree. UKI have  shown they considered this report alongside the soil samples. And it also 
considered the age of the trees and conducted  a heave assessment before making the 
decision to remove only the Ash tree at that time. 
Mr M is unhappy  that UKI hasnt approached the local authority to see if they will remove the 
tree. UKI has said that in its experience local authorities will require proof that their tree is 
the cause and will want evidence to show this. Mr M thinks  they shouldve  checked this 
before presuming  this is what is required by his local authority. I dont think its unreasonable  
that UKI hasnt approached the local authority  until it is sure if the Maple tree is causing the 
subsidence. And from the investigations that were completed at that time I cant see this had 
been established. Im not persuaded that the evidence showed  that the Maple tree needed 
to be removed at the same time as the Ash tree or that this has caused  unavoidable delay in 
the claim.  
Ref: DRN88452563If after a further  period  of monitoring,  its found  the Maple is also causing the property  to 
subside then UKI should have all the evidence it will require, and Id expect it to contact the 
local council.
Ash tree
Mr M thinks UKI shouldve removed the Ash tree in March 2018. As UKI told him that the 
heave assessment  would be done in early  March. However, it wasnt  removed until 
September 2018 and Mr M says this has caused  more damage to his property.
UKI has said following  the arborist report in October 2017 and the further follow  up in 
December 2017  it was concerned that removing one or both trees  may cause heave.  It 
therefore needed to conduct  a heave  assessment before  it completed  any removal works. I 
can see the age of the trees hadnt  been defined  and considering UKI wanted to ensure no 
further damage was caused by it creating a problem with heave, I dont think it unreasonable  
that this approach was taken. UKIs contractor A, recommended the heave assessment to 
be done in April as this would be the best time.  
After UKI received the reports and considered them it instructed contractor A in May 2018 to 
remove the tree. 
Mr M was contacted for consent to remove  the Ash tree on 11 June 2018.  Mr M followed this 
up with a lot of questions.  Although I can appreciate  Mr M wanted some clarification, and I 
can see he didnt get full response until early  August 2018, UKI couldnt remove the tree until 
he gave his consent. 
Mr M did give his consent on 16 July 2018. However,  UKI chased Mr M twice  more for his 
consent and he gave it to them again  on the 1 and 17 August. The tree was then removed in 
September 2018.
I think some  of the delay  was avoidable here and UKI couldve removed the tree soon after 
Mr M gave  his consent in July 2018. And I think it shouldve  responded to Mr Ms email  even 
if it couldnt respond in full at that time. I understand Mr M still thinks  the tree shouldve been 
removed in March  2018, but Im satisfied this couldnt be done  until the heave assessment 
was complete and UKI was guided by the expertise of its contractors as to the best time to 
conduct the assessment. So, although  in December  the plan was to do this in March,  
contractor A recommended it was done  in April - Im satisfied that is fair and reasonable.
Mr M has however said the delay  has caused more damage to the property. 
In November 2018, UKI sent contractor A to investigate the further cracking,  Mr M had 
reported. It was not long after this that UKI had decided to stop using contactor A. 
I can see Mr M was able to obtain  a copy of the report done by contractor A and they told Mr 
M that UKI should have a copy of it as it had access to its systems. UKI told Mr M that it 
didnt have access and they hadnt received  a copy.  It also explained that as the contractor  
had changed the report wasnt relevant as the new contractor would complete a full review. 
Mr M thinks UKI have the reports  and are lying to him.
Ref: DRN88452564I havent seen  anything to substantiate  that UKI has lied to Mr M. But I dont think UKI 
handled this situation very well. Contractor  A was working for UKI at the time and Id expect 
any reports issued to have been  provided  to UKI. So, when Mr M was raising his concerns 
about some  of the recommendations  in the report,  I think UKI shouldve  followed up and 
obtained a copy  as it mayve been  useful especially as Mr M was still concerned  about  the 
adequacy of the window  repair.   
But I have also considered that contractor  B was appointed soon afterwards and completed 
a review of the claim. I think this is reasonable as it wouldve needed to do this to proceed 
with the claim. So, although I can understand Mr M frustrations regarding  the report  not 
being considered I think  as the contractor had changed, any recommendations from the 
report would  have been superseded by contractor Bs view of what  actions were needed 
going forward. 
Any damage caused by movement regardless of whether this damage was caused before or 
after the removal of the tree should  be covered  as part of the repair works UKI will 
undertake, including any further  damage  caused as the ground recovers. So, I dont think  Mr 
M will lose out because  of when the tree was actually removed.
Inadequate repairs to windows
In Autumn of 2018 Mr M raised the concerns  that the windows were  letting  in cold air into the 
property and these  rooms were occupied by his tenants children. 
I can see UKI had conflicting  reports on how the windows  could  be temporarily repaired. 
One specialist  said the windows were  beyond repair even on a temporary basis,  whilst the 
building was still moving. It said the amount of time it would take to try and get the windows  
to work and seal even  for a short time couldnt  be guaranteed. 
The other specialist  said slightly smaller  windows could be installed to fit them level.  UKI 
didnt accept this as the advice hadnt  considered that the subsidence was on-going,  and the 
property was still moving. 
In October  2018, UKI instructed a temporary  weather proofing measure  placing plastic  film 
over the window to prevent cold air coming in. I can appreciate this may not be an ideal 
solution. But I can see that UKI were warned the glass  could break if other measures were 
taken. Bearing  in mind  Mr M had informed UKI that his tenants  had children in these rooms. I 
dont think the action taken was unreasonable until a permanent fix can be made. 
I can see Mr M continued to raise his concerns as his tenants were  unhappy  with the 
weather proofing  measure. UKI have shown  that they tried to respond  to this as an 
emergency repair. But there were problems getting  access to the property as the tenants 
were required  to have  a minimum of 48 hours  notice of any visits. When  UKI did arrange a 
visit, the tenant refused as they said the problem had been fixed. Mr M has said the tenants  
had resorted to trying to fix it themselves. Im satisfied  UKI did try to resolve the issues  with 
weatherproofing.  
Ref: DRN88452565I appreciate Mr M wasnt satisfied with this solution  in the first place and felt the windows 
shouldve been  adjusted or changed. And he feels that the report done in November 2018  by 
contractor A, supported  that the repair wasnt adequate. But bearing in mind  the property  
was still moving I dont think UKI actions were unreasonable. It was relying  on expert reports 
it had at the time which clearly showed  the danger  of the glass breaking if altered or 
replaced could  be dangerous.
Premium increase
As our investigator has already explained, it isnt our role to regulate financial businesses 
and that we dont regulate  insurance  pricing or tell an insurer how much  they should  charge 
for their policies. 
I understand Mr M is unhappy how the value of the claim  was recorded on his renewal 
documents and he thinks the budget has been  used and therefore  his premiums have 
increased. He feels the documentation isnt clear.   
Our investigator has explained  that the amount  recorded  on Mr Ms first renewal after he 
made the claim is a reserve  amount and was automated by UKI when the cost of a claim 
hasnt been fully estimated.  
Ive looked at Mr Ms renewal documents and I agree with Mr M that this isnt clear. In the 
2018 Statement of Fact document It says:  
Total amount of claim (including any amounts paid and outstanding)?  £9,999.00  
Mr M says he spoke  to UKI as he had heard that premiums go up by a significant  amount 
following a subsidence  claim. He says he was told that would not be the case  as all the work 
had been taken into account and reflected  in the premium. Ive not seen evidence  of this call 
however; Mr M has explained he was then unhappy  to find his premium almost doubled the 
following year. 
Its not uncommon in claims  that the costs  will change as things can impact the claim as it 
goes on and the document does clearly  show the claim is pending. 
Mr M has said he relied on this documentation when deciding if he was renewing with UKI. 
From experience of these  claims, it can be very difficult to get buildings cover elsewhere  that 
will continue to cover  subsidence  when there  is an ongoing claim. Mr M hasnt shown that he 
has found cover like-for-like with a cheaper  premium.
Mr M wants UKI to continue to calculate  his premiums based  on the £9,999  figure. I do think 
the document issued to Mr M could have  been clearer  in relation to this figure.  But, even if 
UKI had made a mistake (and I dont think it has) it wouldnt be reasonable for it to proceed 
as if the wrong  information was right. This wouldnt be an accurate reflection of the situation.  
Instead UKI should  proceed as if the right information had been given. And it must  
compensate the customer for any financial and non-financial losses that result.  Im not 
persuaded UKI has made any error and Im satisfied  UKI has applied  it calculations to Mr 
Ms premiums correctly and fairly. So, I wont be asking it to do anything more  in relation to 
this point. 
Ref: DRN88452566Customer service
UKI have  a duty to manage the claim promptly and fairly. Subsidence claims can be more 
complex, and the damage can progress and change during the course of the claim. Overall, I 
think the claim has progressed largely as it should.  But I am aware there have been  times 
when I think UKI couldve acted more efficiently or done things better. So, I understand that 
this will have caused Mr M some upset and inconvenience.
Mr M has said UKI on several occasions either  didnt respond to his emails or took a long 
time to respond. 
He has also said he has had problems getting copies of the technical reports. UKI said these 
were for their use only. But Mr M is entitled to see the reports  about his property, so if these 
havent already  been sent to Mr M, UKI should  provide them.
I can see Mr M has asked  very detailed questions of UKI throughout the claim and at times 
there have  been  delays  in responses  or no response. Likewise, I can see Mr M has repeated 
questions several  times, when he feels he has hadnt  adequate responses. UKI feel theyve 
already addressed the points so will not continually repeat themselves. So, I think the 
communication between  the parties  has broken down at times.  
There have also been some delays in the management of this case. UKI instructed 
contractor A to remove the Ash tree in May 2018.  But the contact with Mr M was delayed 
until June 2018  then further  delays  until the tree was removed in September 2018. I 
understand UKI think some of the delay is due to Mr M not giving his consent until July 2018. 
However, Mr M had raised some questions in June,  and these were not responded to in a 
timely way. So, I think its unfair  to say the delay  was purely down to Mr M. 
I think this has caused some trouble and upset to Mr M and I therefore  intend to recommend 
that UKI pay Mr M £300 compensation.
Responses to provisional decision
I gave both parties until 13 August 2020 to respond  to my provisional thoughts.  UKI didnt 
have anything further to add and Mr M has replied shortly after this deadline. 
Mr M asked  for all documentation we had been  provided by UKI. And he said this would 
allow him to make a fair and through response  to my findings. But he hasnt made any 
specific points to my provisional decision nor has he outlined  any particular information he 
hasnt seen that he feels is key to the outcome of his complaint. 
Im satisfied that all the key information and considerations of this complaint have been 
outlined in my provisional decision and Mr M has had ample  opportunity to respond  to any 
points he disagrees  with. So, because he hasnt provided anything new and hasnt provided  
any further points  for me to address, Im not persuaded  it will be proportionate to extend  the 
deadline any further. 
Ref: DRN88452567my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Mr M is still looking for answers  and the technicalities as to the reasoning why the 
Maple tree wasnt removed. Im not persuaded that UKI can provide anything further from 
what Ive already seen.  It considered the arborist reports, site investigation, root identification 
and monitoring results. And it is for the insurer to decide the course of action it will take to 
rectify the subsidence.  And as I said in my provisional decision if after the Ash tree was 
removed it was seen  that the property was still moving, UKI should have the evidence it 
required, and Id expect it to contact  the Local Authority.    
As neither party has provided me with anything new to consider, Im satisfied that my 
provisional decision represents an outcome thats fair and reasonable. 
 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and require U K Insurance Limited to pay Mr M £300  compensation 
for the trouble and upset  and provide all the technical reports on Mr Ms property. 
UKI should pay the compensation  within 28 days of the date on which  we tell it Mr M accepts 
my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must  also pay interest on the compensation from 
the date of my final decision  to the date of payment  at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 September  2020.
Angela Casey
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8845256