K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about mortgage payment protection insurance  (MPPI)  sold by 
Lloyds Bank  PLC, trading  as Cheltenham & Gloucester  (C&G), in 2002. The mortgage  was a 
joint one issued in the names of Mr and Mrs L. But only Mr L was covered by the MPPI. 
They say this cover was mis-sold because not enough information was provided.
For consistency Ill refer to C&G in my decision.
background
I see C&G  has already  paid Mr and Mrs L some money in relation to part of the commission  
it received from selling the mortgage. 
However one of our adjudicators said the complaint  about  the policy being mis-sold shouldnt  
be upheld. Mr and Mrs L still think the cover was mis-sold in the first place and so the 
complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. 
Whilst I accept  Mr and Mrs L may well have forgotten what took place during the sale, Im 
afraid I think theres quite  strong evidence that they both agreed to the MPPI and would have  
known they had a choice.  
For example, on their Mortgage Application  Form  I see there was a section  about  MPPI. Mr 
and Mrs Ls form contained  a tick against  a declaration which said I wish to apply for C&G 
Payment Protection  Plus cover and have completed the relevant proposal form There  
was a similar option to tick if they didnt want MPPI and this option box was left blank. Mr 
and Mrs L then both signed the application  form.
It seems  they then went on to complete a second and separate  application form specifically 
relating to the MPPI,  which they both signed. In this form they chose the cover for Mr L but 
not Mrs L. I also see a separate direct debit instruction was authorised by Mr and Mrs L 
transferring the monthly MPPI fee from their bank account. 
So I think all this represents strong evidence they asked  for this type of cover  with their 
mortgage and that they engaged  in a discussion about MPPI.
Its not disputed  that the MPPI  was recommended  as part of an advised sale. This means 
C&G had a duty to ensure the policy was suitable.  I think it was.
I think this because Mr L was eligible for the cover and not caught by any of the major 
exclusions we tend to see in these types of policy. He was employed but I think any sickness 
protection he would  have  had would have been  quite  moderate. The mortgage,  on the other 
hand, was secured against their home and so the consequences of not being  able to make 
Ref: DRN84573632the repayments could have been serious. In the event of a successful claim,  the MPPI would 
have paid the mortgage for up to 12 months. This would have been in addition to the other 
means they already had in place.
I therefore dont  think recommending  MPPI was unreasonable  in this case and Mr L appears  
to have been the main earner.
C&G also had to provide information  that was clear,  fair and not misleading. I obviously cant 
confirm what would  have  been said at the meeting(s) and its possible C&G could have done 
a better  job in explaining  things. But from what Ive seen, I think  the disclosure of information  
looks relatively comprehensive. It would also have been easy  to see the cost of the monthly 
MPPI premiums. So I think Mr and Mrs L had enough information on which  to make  an 
informed choice about what they wanted  to do.
I dont think the MPPI policy was mis-sold.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. And I dont  direct  
Lloyds Bank  PLC, trading  as Cheltenham & Gloucester,  to do anything  to put matters right.  
Its my understanding Mr and Mr L have  already  been paid the commission element Ive 
mentioned above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 September 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8457363