K820x#14complaint
Mrs D complains that she didnt receive  a copy of a loan agreement she entered  into with 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd. Shes unhappy  that the interest  free period has expired and 
that Creation is charging interest.
background
In March 2016 Mrs D placed an order for a new kitchen and entered into an agreement  with 
Creation. The kitchen was installed later in 2016. The terms of the loan agreement  included 
a 12 month  Buy Now Pay Later (BNPL) interest  free period, which ran from the date when 
the kitchen was installed.
Mrs D says she didnt receive a copy of the loan agreement and didnt know  who to make 
payments to during the BNPL period. She says she tried to obtain information  from the 
supplier of the kitchen  but it was unable to help, so she waited to hear from the loan 
company.
Mrs D says she didnt hear anything from Creation until 2018, after the BNPL  period had 
expired. Shes unhappy that shes being charged  interest on the loan. To resolve her 
complaint she wants 12 months  to repay  the loan without being charged any interest.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She said it was likely that the loan agreement 
was either  given to Mrs D in-store or emailed to her. She said the loan agreement  made  it 
clear that if the account wasnt settled by the end of the 12 month BNPL  period any interest 
accrued during that period would be chargeable.
Mrs D didnt agree. She said she had gone  to great efforts to obtain  a copy  of the loan 
agreement so that she could make  payments  during the BNPL  period. She felt Creation 
should have written to her following installation to check that everything was satisfactory.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the loan agreement and I can see that Mrs D electronically  signed this on 24 
April 2016. I appreciate that Mrs D says shes never  been provided with a copy of the loan 
agreement. I dont doubt what  Mrs D says about  not being able to find a copy  of the 
agreement in the folder she was given by the retailer.  But I think its likely that the agreement  
was emailed to Mrs D, because Creation has advised  that it was provided with details of Mrs 
Ds email address when  she entered into the agreement.
Even if Mrs D couldnt find the agreement  that was emailed to her, Im satisfied that she 
could have looked at the agreement online. Creation has explained that Mrs D wouldve 
been able to view the agreement including any payment due dates on her online account.  
Although Mrs D says she didnt know who her loan was with, Creation has told this service  
that she accessed her online account and has actively used it.
Its unfortunate that the retailer wasnt able to provide Mrs D with the information she 
wanted. I appreciate  that this must have caused  frustration to Mrs D. However, based on the 
available information,  Im satisfied that the loan agreement was provided to Mrs D and that 
Ref: DRN84111222she was in a position to discover the identity of the loan provider and make  payments during 
the BNPL period  had she wanted to do so.
Ive also taken into account that Creation wrote  to Mrs D approximately one month before 
the expiry of the BNPL period to remind her that the offer period was ending.  
I understand Mrs D is unhappy  because shes been  charged interest.  The terms of the 
agreement include a 12 month BNPL period. If Mrs D had paid the balance during the first 
12 months she wouldnt have been charged any interest. But the terms of the agreement are 
clear that if the balance  isnt paid before the end of the BNPL period, interest will be 
charged. Because of this Im unable to say that Creation  has made an error in charging 
interest.
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im satisfied  that Mrs D was provided  with a copy of the loan 
agreement at the time when she entered into it. Im also satisfied that Mrs D was aware that 
the agreement  had a 12 month BNPL period after which  interest would be charged  if the 
account hadnt been settled. Mrs D didnt  settle the account within  the BNPL  period so 
interest has been correctly charged.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 July 2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8411122