K820x#14complaint
Mr V complains that Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance Plc (RSA) declined his golf care 
insurance claim for theft of his golf shoes  from the locker room  at his golf club.  
background
Mr V took out a golf care policy which was arranged and sold by an insurance intermediary 
and underwritten by RSA. 
In July 2018 Mr Vs golf shoes were stolen from the locker  room  in his golf club.  He reported 
it immediately to the club which emailed its members to ask if anyone had taken the shoes in 
error. When no-one replied that they had, Mr V made a claim to RSA under his policy. 
RSA considered the claim but declined it. It relied  on one of the policy exclusions which  said 
theft wasnt covered  when  there  was no evidence  of any forcible and violent entry.  Mr V was 
unhappy with RSAs decision so he complained. RSA looked  into his complaint but didnt 
change its mind. It said the claim fell outside  the scope of the policys  cover.  
Unhappy with RSAs  findings, Mr V complained  to this service. Our investigator looked  into 
his complaint but, taking the policy terms and conditions  into account, didnt think  RSA had 
unreasonably declined the claim.
The complaint was passed  to me for a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Although  I appreciate it will come as a 
disappointment to Mr V, I dont think his complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
I have to decide whether RSA unreasonably declined  Mr Vs claim.  In reaching my decision 
Ive reviewed the policy terms and conditions. Section 3 covers  golf equipment. It says:
We agree to pay for repair or replacement, up to the limit stated in your Insurance 
Schedule, of Golf Equipment owned by you that has been stolen, lost or sustained 
accidental damage  or malicious damage
WHAT IS NOT COVERED
6. Loss or theft of any Golf Equipment left unattended unless the loss or theft shows  
evidence of forcible and violent entry/exit to or from any premises, security controlled 
clubhouse, changing room or any securely  locked locker
I dont doubt Mr Vs account of what happened   that his golf shoes were  stolen  from a 
locked locker in the changing room. But not all golf equipment losses  are covered by his 
policy. Loss of equipment by theft is covered unless RSA is able to successfully apply  one of 
the policy exclusions. If it can, it need  not meet  the claim. 
Ref: DRN85145002Ive quoted the relevant  exclusion above: unless the theft shows evidence of forcible  and 
violent entry to a securely locked locker  then it isnt covered  by the policy. Unfortunately  for 
Mr V theres no evidence of forcible  and violent entry to the locker. That being the case I 
cant reasonably  say that RSA has unfairly declined  his claim. Its applied the policy  terms to 
the claim and unfortunately for him it isnt covered. 
In his response to our investigators findings, Mr V said hed never disputed the policy terms 
but felt hed been miss-sold a policy that wasnt fit for purpose. He also said hed not 
received the policy  booklet. 
I cant see that Mr V had previously mentioned he thought the policy  had been miss-sold.  In 
any event, the policy  was sold and administered by an insurance intermediary, separate  
from RSA. So I cant consider any complaint about  a miss-sale or the administration of the 
policy within  the confines of this complaint. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 November  2019.
Claire Woollerson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8514500