K820x#14complaint
This complaint was brought to us by a Company who I will refer to as A throughout my 
decision.
A complain  about their mortgage with Skipton Building Society.  They are unhappy the 
interest rate is linked to the Buy to Let Standard Variable Rate and not to the Bank of 
England Base Rate or other commercial rates they were offering at the time.
background
In December 2007 A took out a mortgage for three properties. A took the mortgage out on 
a fixed rate of 5.99% for five years. In January 2010,  Skipton sent out a letter  setting out 
changes to their standard variable rate (SVR) at that time that may affect A in the future. 
They provided details  of the changes  they made to their SVR in this letter.
In April 2012, the fixed rate product ended,  and As mortgage reverted to the Buy to Let 
SVR (BTL SVR). The mortgage has remained on this rate since  that time.
A raised  a complaint  with Skipton  in July 2016 as they said the interest rate should  be 
linked to the Bank of England Base  Rate or the three-month London Inter Bank  Offer Rate 
(LIBOR). A raised concerns that the SVR Skipton applied wasnt  referenced within 
documentation they had been provided  when they originally took the mortgage  out.
A referred  to a leaflet from 2007 which contained details of interest rate products available 
for commercial loans. They said information in this leaflet was unclear as to what  rate they 
would revert to once their fixed  rate expired. Skipton said the products in the leaflet  were  not 
available for Buy to Let commercial loans such as As. They  said the description  in the 
leaflet shows that when the product expired, As mortgage would revert  to the BTL SVR. 
Skipton were  satisfied  that A did ask to take this product out and that they were on the 
correct interest rate.
A disagreed so they brought the complaint to our service. It was looked at by one of our 
investigators who didnt  think that Skipton acted unfairly in administering  the interest rate in 
the way they had.
A were unhappy with this. They said they remained of the view that the matter is unclear. 
They said that Buy to Let mortgages  for companies rather  than individuals  are hard to obtain  
and that this matter  is further complicated  by the fact that apartments  are over a shop. They  
said that having entered into a long term agreement with Skipton, they expected it to remain.
A asked  for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so it has been passed  to me 
to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  While Im sorry to disappoint A, I agree 
with what the investigator has said. Ill explain why.
Ive firstly  looked at the application  form between A and Skipton and this states that it is a 
commercial mortgage application  for BTL purposes.
Ref: DRN85250932Ive also looked  at the leaflet that both A and Skipton have alluded to. Looking at the 
interest rates which are set out in the leaflet,  I think its clear that the rate which was taken 
was one for BTL commercial loans and borrowers.  Ive also looked at the mortgage offer 
from that time and I think this also clearly shows this too.
There is reference to commercial interest rates in this leaflet. Some  of these products show 
that rates would revert to a choice  of interest rates  based upon the LIBOR or Bank  of 
England Base Rate  plus a loading of for example, 0.75  2.25% once the initial fixed  rate 
has expired. But other  products reverted to the SVR or BTL SVR.
Skipton have said that A chose a mortgage product which reverted  to the BTL SVR. They 
said that based on the fixed  rate product that A chose, they acted fairly  in applying the BTL 
SVR once the fixed rate had ended, and that the other rates  were  not relevant to the 
mortgage they took out.
Ive gone on to consider what A have  said with regards to information  that Skipton provided.  
A said that the information didnt clarify that their mortgage would revert to the BTL SVR 
once the fixed  rate expired in 2012.
The mortgage offer set out what would happen  once the fixed  rate ended. It says, After  the 
Fixed Rate  Period interest will be charged at the variable rate applicable to this product from 
time to time.
The mortgage offer also states,  where  reference  is made to the early  repayment charge, that 
when the fixed  rate ends, Thereafter interest  up to the end of month of redemption  will be 
charged at the variable  commercial rate applicable to the product from time to time.
Having looked  at this, I am satisfied that these statements make it clear what the mortgage 
will revert  to once the fixed  rate has ended.  Both statements say that the mortgage will revert 
to the rate applicable to the particular product. And as it was a BTL commercial mortgage 
that was taken out, the BTL SVR was the reversion  rate which  would apply in this case.
I think this information  is clear. But even if Im wrong  about  that and I thought that Skipton 
could have made it clearer for A to understand, Skipton have shown that the commercial 
SVR was either the same or higher  than the BTL SVR during the relevant period when As 
mortgage was on the BTL SVR. So, A has benefitted from being on the BTL SVR in any 
case.
A think that their rate should be linked to either the Bank of England  Base Rate  or LIBOR 
like other  commercial rates that Skipton were offering at the time, and they think  changes  to 
these rates should  be reflected in their mortgages  SVR. Skipton have provided their reasons 
as to why they think A wouldnt be eligible for either of these rates. 
The mortgage application form shows that the mortgage would be taken out for BTL 
purposes and that the product they entered was a commercial BTL 5 year fixed rate. So, Im 
satisfied that this would mean that the mortgage  would revert  to the BTL SVR at the end of 
the fixed rate period  which is what is stated  on the leaflet.
The mortgage offer also doesnt suggest  that the SVR the mortgage would revert  to at the 
end of the fixed rate would be linked to any specific  benchmark. 
Ref: DRN85250933The SVR reduced  to 4.7% in 2016 and then increased again in September  2018 to 4.95%. 
Ive looked at the terms and there  is nothing  in there  which  says that Skipton should  vary the 
interest rate in a specific circumstance, and it doesnt say that the rate is linked or should 
track the Bank of England Base  Rate or LIBOR. I havent seen anything which makes me 
think that the rate should be linked  to the Bank of England Base Rate  or any other 
benchmark such as the LIBOR.
In addition to this, the terms contained within the legal charge provide details about  the 
variation of the interest rate. Under the heading  Variation  of interest rate or repayment term 
it states, the society shall have the power  from time to time to increase or reduce the rate of 
interest to be charged to the borrower.
A have  said that Skipton are no longer  providing  borrowing for commercial borrowers any 
longer. This isnt something that would have been  foreseen when the mortgage was taken 
out. Its for Skipton to decide if they no longer want to offer borrowing to commercial 
customers and this is a decision they are entitled  to make.
Skipton waived any costs  of redeeming the mortgage for 90 days when the fixed rate expired 
so they didnt prevent A from moving the mortgage to another  lender if they wanted to. I 
havent seen any significant barriers put in place which would mean  A were unable to move 
their mortgage elsewhere.
I do understand As strength  of feeling  on this case. And Ive carefully considered  everything  
they have said.  But having done so, I dont think Skipton has treated them  unfairly, and so I 
dont uphold this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 January 2020.
Maria Drury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8525093