K822xcomplaint
Mr J is unhappy with Allianz Insurance Plcs handling of a claim he made under his buildings 
insurance policy.
When I refer to Allianz, Im also referring to any of their appointed agents or representatives.
background 
Mr J lives overseas.  He has a house  in the UK which was rented out to three  tenants.  In 
June 2018 the tenants noticed a problem  in the bathroom of the house. Water  was escaping 
and it caused  damage to the bathroom  and rooms below.
The tenants made Mr J aware, who reported  the claim to Allianz.  Allianz appointed someone 
to assess the claim and accepted it towards the end of June 2018.
However, the repair works werent approved until early September 2018, and the earliest  
Allianz could start the work was early October 2018.  Mr J said this was unacceptable  and 
arranged for his own contractor to complete  the work. Allianz  agreed  to cash settle  the 
amount Mr Js contractor was charging him. 
Mr J wasnt happy with the way Allianz  had handled  the claim up to this point. He made a 
complaint to them. He said the delays were unnecessary,  and he and his tenants had been  
caused inconvenience as a result. He also said hed had to arrange  alternative 
accommodation for his tenants to stay in while the repair  works  were carried out, and he 
wanted to be reimbursed for that. Mr J also asked for his loss of rent to be reimbursed.
Allianz responded to Mr J in October  2018. They accepted that they had caused 
unnecessary delay in progressing  the claim and they apologised to Mr J. They  also offered 
him £400 compensation to acknowledge  their delays. Regarding the alternative  
accommodation costs  and any loss of rent, Allianz  asked Mr J to provide  the evidence  of all 
the costs hed incurred. Once  Allianz  had that, they said they would be able to consider 
those aspects for Mr J. Mr J didnt provide them to Allianz at this time.
Mr J didnt accept the response from Allianz and brought  his complaint to our service. By the 
time our investigator looked into things, the claim and complaint had progressed. Mr Js 
tenants had moved  out of the house in February 2019. Mr J felt this was as a result of 
Allianzs poor handling of the claim and the delay in getting the repairs  completed.  He felt his 
tenants had lost trust in him as a result. So, as the house was now unoccupied,  Mr J also 
wanted Allianz to cover  the four months  loss of rent hed recently suffered. Allianz  agreed  
that our investigator could  look into all the matters up to this point.
Our investigator upheld  Mr Js complaint. He said that the £400 compensation was fair in the 
circumstances. Mr J had provided  proof  of the alternative accommodation  hed paid to 
Allianz in May 2019, along with confirmation  that hed reimbursed the tenants some of their 
previous rent money.  Our investigator  told Allianz to pay these amounts back  to Mr J along  
with interest from the date theyd been provided with the evidence.  He didnt suggest that 
Allianz should reimburse Mr Js loss of rent following the tenants  moving  out, as there was 
no evidence to suggest they left because of Allianzs delays. They had told Mr J they were  
leaving because he had continued to charge them rent while the bathroom  wasnt  available 
and had broken  their tenancy agreement. 
Ref: DRN83334522Allianz accepted  the investigators  opinion.  Mr J didnt. He said the compensation amount 
was too low. He also said he should  receive  interest from the date the money left his 
account, and he wasnt happy that his current rental  income  wouldnt  be covered.
As Mr J didnt  agree its been passed  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I will be asking Allianz  to 
do something more, if they havent already done  so. Ill explain why.
Mr Js insurance  policy  covers  him for the escape of water in the bathroom. And Allianz have  
accepted the claim. Theyve  also accepted they caused delays during the claims handling, 
and theyve accepted our investigators recommendations. So, all I need to decide  is 
whether Allianzs  offer of compensation  and other  payments  are fair. And in this case, I think  
they are. 
Mr J has raised  several points. I will address  each  of them  in turn.
Compensation
Its clear from Mr Js letters and emails  to Allianz throughout the claim that hes unhappy with 
their handling  of the claim and the impact  this has had on him and the tenants. But Im only 
considering the impact  the delays had on Mr J. He is Allianzs  policyholder. 
Allianz have accepted they caused delays during the initial stages of the claim.  Mr J had 
made it clear  to Allianz  that he lived overseas, and, because of that, he could only receive 
email communication  from them. He also explained that his father was acting as his 
representative during the claim if anyone needed to visit the house. Regrettably, Allianz  
didnt record this information correctly and wasted  several days  trying  to call Mr J to arrange  
an appointment to visit. 
There were also occasions when Allianz  didnt  communicate well between themselves and 
left information  off the claim  files. The claim was accepted quickly  by Allianz in June  2018  
and, while  its difficult to know when  repairs should  have started, I can understand Mr Js 
frustration that the repair  works werent scheduled  until early October 2018. But as Mr J 
wasnt living  in the house he wasnt as inconvenienced by not having a bathroom  as the 
tenants would have been. 
Allianz have offered Mr J £400 in recognition of the delays  they caused.  Because  of their 
inaction and poor attention to detail,  Mr J has had to send more emails  and make more 
phone calls than he should be expected  to make.  But I think  £400  is a fair amount to 
compensate him for this. 
Alternative accommodation
Mr J arranged for his own contractor to repair the damage. And because the bathroom was 
going to be out of action  for a week, Mr J arranged  for his tenants to move  into alternative 
accommodation. 
Mr J has provided  evidence  to show that he paid for this in September  2018. He has 
provided an invoice  from the accommodation company along  with his credit  card statement. 
Ref: DRN83334523The booking reference is the same on both and Im satisfied Mr J is entitled to claim  this 
money back from Allianz. Allianz  have agreed with that too. 
The only area of concern  for Mr J is the interest  payable to him. He has said that he should 
receive interest from the date the money  left his account. I would agree with him if Allianz 
had been shown this evidence when  it was paid and had chosen to ignore it. However, that 
isnt the case  here. In their final response letter to Mr J in October  2018,  Allianz  asked him to 
provide the evidence of the alternative  accommodation he had arranged, so they could 
consider that for him and settle it as soon as possible.
Mr J had paid for the alternative accommodation  in September 2018. Its unclear why he 
didnt provide the evidence Allianz asked for when they requested  it as it seems  it would 
have been available. And Allianz had expressed their desire to consider and settle this for 
Mr J. Because Mr J has delayed in sending the required evidence  to Allianz and hasnt  
outlined any reasons for this, I dont think its fair that Allianz should have to pay interest  from 
the date the money left Mr Js account.  
Mr J provided  the evidence to Allianz in May 2019, and theyve agreed to pay the interest  
from that date. Thats  a reasonable offer and I wont be asking Allianz to backdate the 
interest payment  any further.
Loss of rent
In his complaint  Mr J asked Allianz to reimburse his tenants for their rent payments for three 
months, while the bathroom couldnt  be used, and the claim  was being progressed.  As they 
hadnt had the full use of the house, Mr J felt they should be reimbursed. 
But Mr Js policy only covers him. It doesnt cover his tenants. And from the letters received 
from Mr J, it seems that hed continued  to charge  his tenants the full rental  agreement  for the 
months the bathroom  was out of action. So, at the time he didnt have a valid claim for loss 
of rent. 
Since then,  the tenants have moved out and asked  Mr J to reimburse  them part of their 
rental payments for the period they were without  a usable bathroom.  He has agreed and has 
shown that hes repaid  £1,500. He paid this in May 2019.
Allianz have agreed  to reimburse Mr J for that. Theyve also agreed to pay interest  on that 
amount from the date they became aware. Thats  fair and I wont be asking Allianz  to 
consider anything further.
Ref: DRN83334524Continued loss of rent
Mr Js policy  doesnt cover him for loss of rent if his tenants leave the house at the end of 
their agreement and theres  a delay in getting new tenants. However, if it can be proven that 
the previous tenants only moved  out because of Allianzs handling  of the claim I can 
consider it.  Mr J said they wouldnt have moved  out if the claim hadnt taken so long to 
progress and the repairs had been completed  sooner. He holds Allianz  responsible for this 
and for the tenants moving out. 
I dont agree with Mr J here. He hasnt provided anything  that suggests  the tenants  moved  
out because of Allianzs handling of the claim.  An email from one of the tenants says:
the property was left without a working bathroom  and therefore  legally  uninhabitable for 
an extended period of time during which you were still taking full rent from all tenants,  in 
breach of your own contract
you were in breach  of your contract  to us as tenants when accepting rental payment while 
the house was uninhabitable. Your financial obligation to us still stands regardless of any 
developments with your case with the insurers and ombudsman.
The repairs  to the bathroom were completed in October 2018. The tenants didnt move out 
until February 2019. Im persuaded  that this email  shows that the tenants moved out of the 
house as they were  unhappy with how Mr J had treated them while  the bathroom wasnt 
usable. It doesnt mention Allianz  or their handling   it highlights Mr Js decision to continue  
to take the full rent from all the tenants. It seems, the reason why the tenants  decided to 
move out is a civil matter.  Because  of this Im not asking Allianz to consider  this point any 
further.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, Im upholding this complaint.  If they havent done  so already, 
Allianz Insurance Plc must:
Pay Mr J £400 compensation for the delays  and inconvenience he experienced 
during the claim;
Reimburse Mr J £1,121.57 for the alternative accommodation costs he incurred. 8% 
simple interest should be added  to this amount from the date Mr J provided evidence  
that it had been  paid,  which was 20 May 2019*;
Reimburse Mr J £1,500 for the refunded rent payments to his tenants. 8% simple 
interest should be added to this amount from the date Mr J provided evidence  that he 
had refunded it. This was 20 May 2019*.
*If Allianz Insurance  Plc considers that theyre required by HM Revenue  & Customs to 
deduct income tax from that interest,  they should tell Mr J how much  theyve  taken off. 
Allianz Insurance Plc should give Mr J a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
If Allianz Insurance Plc have already  made the above payments to Mr J, theyre not required  
to do anything further.
Ref: DRN83334525Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 May 2020.
Kevin Parmenter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8333452