K822xcomplaint
Mrs H complains that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC hasnt pursued a chargeback request for her.
background
Mrs H spent a little over £10,000,  and bought  what she understood to be a package, which  
included training, and a product to market which would earn her a percentage income from 
sales. She said that she got the training, but not the product to sell. She asked Barclays to 
make a chargeback  request for her. 
Barclays made this request, and the company shed bought the package from defended it. It 
said that it had sold training  to Mrs H. And Mrs H had used the training it had sold her. 
Barclays wrote to Mrs H on 9 February  to ask if that settled the issue, and if not, asking for a 
response within 10 days. Barclays said that it didnt  receive a reply within this deadline. It 
had asked for the information by 19 February,  but didnt get it until 22 February. So Barclays  
said that it couldnt pursue Mrs Hs chargeback  request for her. 
Mrs H said she only found out that shed missed  the deadline some time later, because at 
first Barclays  just said it hadnt received what shed sent. She knew  it mustve done, because  
shed sent her reply  by recorded delivery,  and it had been signed for on 22 February. 
Mrs H said this wasnt good  enough. And she wasnt sure if a chargeback was the right way 
to deal with her problem  anyway,  because  she thinks the transaction  was fraudulent.  
Barclays said that because Mrs H hadnt replied within  the ten day deadline it had given her, 
it couldnt do any more  to help her. It said the rules of the chargeback scheme,  which are set 
by the card scheme  operator, wont allow it to pursue this chargeback request for her. 
But Barclays  said that Mrs H shouldve been  told that when she first got in touch to see if 
Barclays had received her reply.  Because she wasnt  told that, she had spent time and effort 
getting the documents sent over again. Barclays didnt think  that she shouldve been  put to 
this trouble. So it offered her £200  in compensation for that. Mrs H turned that down at that 
time, but Barclays said it would still pay this if she wished.
Our investigator didnt  uphold this complaint. She said that Mrs H hadnt asked for a refund  
from the company  within the seven day cancellation  period  after shed made her purchase. It 
wasnt unreasonable for there to be a deadline for Mrs H to reply to Barclays,  and Mrs H 
hadnt met that deadline. So unfortunately the chargeback case  was closed. And she said 
that Mrs Hs chargeback didnt meet the reason code services not provided or merchandise  
not received. Our investigator didnt think that Barclays had done anything wrong. 
Mrs H said that she didnt  ask for her money back from the company within seven days,  
because the programme changed shortly  after that. And she was told a chargeback  would 
be done. It was only when time went on that it became clear this wasnt the case.
Mrs H also said that Barclays had never told her she had to reply within ten days of the date 
of the letter.  Shed replied within ten days of receipt.  And although the letter  said that she 
had to reply to the address on that letter, there wasnt  an address on it. She said she hadnt 
set the reason code for the chargeback, Barclays did that. And she said that others  who had 
paid this company  got their money back through chargebacks,  so she didnt  know why she 
Ref: DRN88056682had been treated differently. She also said that Barclays hadnt  told her in February  that her 
chargeback had failed. It had only told her this in May. She didnt think that this could be fair.
We asked Mrs H if she had a copy of the terms and conditions that covered her purchase. 
She said that shed  had access to this online. She sent us information which detailed an 
affiliate programme run by this company, and other information which  suggested that this 
had now closed. She said that she could  try to get further information  if that would help.
Because Mrs H and our investigator didnt agree, this case was passed to me for a final 
decision.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I proposed  to uphold it in 
part. This is what I said then: 
-Barclays accepted  Mrs Hs chargeback request, and processed  it. The company that 
Mrs H bought the programme from defended that request. Barclays  received that 
defence on 19 January. It was then left with a tight deadline to reply, under the 
chargeback rules.  Barclays doesnt  set those rules, the card scheme operator whose 
symbol is on Mrs Hs card does  that. And Barclays has to follow  them. 
-Barclays wrote to Mrs H on 9 February.  It said in that letter that it had got some further 
documentation for Mrs H. If that didnt  resolve  her dispute, then she should  write back  to 
Barclays to confirm  why she still wanted  to go ahead  with her chargeback request. 
-Barclays did need that information  from Mrs H at this stage. It asked her to supply that 
within 10 days. Mrs H says she assumed this was within ten days of receiving the letter.  
But I thought that it was reasonably  clear  that Barclays meant ten days  of the letter being 
issued. It would  have  no way of knowing for sure when  the letter might be received.  
-Mrs H replied just outside that deadline,  and her chargeback  request  was closed 
because of that. There was then some  confusion, and Barclays didnt actually  confirm  
what it had done until some time later. I knew  that Mrs H wasted quite a bit of time 
resending this information in the meantime. Barclays has offered Mrs H £200 to make up 
for that. I thought that would be the right amount  to make up for the inconvenience 
caused by Barclayss  delay in telling Mrs H her chargeback request had been closed.
-I didnt think that Barclays had paid that £200  to Mrs H yet. She said she didnt want  to 
accept it at the time. But I said that if it had done, then it could count that payment  
towards the amount I was proposing to award  in this case.
-I asked Barclays a series of detailed questions about this case. I wanted to be sure that 
there wasnt anything  that Barclays couldve done, once it had received Mrs Hs reply, to 
continue this chargeback request for her. And I was satisfied that there wasnt. The way 
the chargeback  rules  work meant that there was nothing that Barclays  couldve done 
after 19 February to continue this complaint. 
-I also thought  that Mrs H was unlikely to ultimately win this chargeback dispute. Although 
she told us that the product she purchased included  both training, and a product to 
market which would  earn her a percentage income from sales,  the company sent terms 
and conditions which made no mention of any commission  arrangements,  and 
Ref: DRN88056683specifically prohibited resale. I knew that Mrs H said she no longer has access to a lot of 
the relevant documentation, and that she says that the company has been dishonest in 
its dealings with her, but I thought that may mean  that she wasnt  well placed  to succeed 
with a chargeback  request.
-But I did think that Barclays couldve done more to help Mrs H. In particular, I was 
concerned that Barclays took from 19 January to 9 February to write to Mrs H to ask her 
for further information. The external  deadlines  that applied  to this case  meant that, by the 
time Mrs H got this letter, she then had less than ten days  to get a reply back  to 
Barclays. I didnt think, once there was a strict deadline for a reply, that it was reasonable 
for Barclays to use up about  two-thirds of the available  time just to tell Mrs H she needed 
to send it more evidence.
-I explained that I thought that Mrs H was unlikely to succeed with this complaint. But I 
couldnt rule out entirely that she may have been  successful. And even if she had been  
unsuccessful, I thought Mrs H wouldve liked to at least  try. She may have been  less 
disappointed if shed  made her best case,  and her chargeback request wasnt  upheld  by 
her card scheme  operator, than she was to find that her request was just timed-out. 
-So I did think that Barclays should pay a little more compensation than it has offered in 
this case. I thought  that it should  pay an additional  £200  to Mrs H, for its part in this 
request timing-out. I thought that because  it used up most of the time that Mrs H had to 
make her reply,  in getting round to notifying  her that she needed to do so. 
-I knew that Mrs H says shes  lost an awful lot more than this. But I didnt think  Barclays  
had to pay more  than this. Thats because this was compensation for the poor service 
Barclays provided. It wasnt compensation for the failure of the chargeback. The delay in 
writing to Mrs H wasnt the only reason the chargeback failed.  Mrs H did get the letter, 
and she didnt reply  within  the deadline.  And as Id said,  I think  this chargeback was 
unlikely to succeed. 
I invited the parties  to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Barclays said that it agreed to pay a further £200 for this case, and confirmed that the initial  
offer of £200 hadnt yet been paid. Mrs H sent a detailed reply.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I havent changed my mind.
Mrs H wanted to say again just how important  she felt it was to this case  that Barclays gave 
her a ten day deadline, but with no start or end point. She said that if the deadline was so 
important then perhaps a final date should have been given in the letter. Many things 
couldve happened to mean a response in time wasnt possible. She pointed out that there 
was no follow up letter or email from Barclays. She said she would have thought that for 
such a large sum of money Barclays could have  guided  her far better. 
I said in my provisional decision that I thought  that it was reasonably clear that Barclays was 
asking for a reply  within ten days of its letter being  issued.  I appreciate  that this was a very 
short deadline, and I commented on that, and the reasons  for this, in my decision.
Ref: DRN88056684Mrs H said that shed  even had to call to ask for an address for her response as none had 
been provided. She said she told Barclays  then that her response was going in the post that 
day. She asked Barclays to note that she wanted  to contest the case,  and said she wasnt  
told that her response  might be over the deadline.  She said she was told that would be fine. 
And she had no reason  to assume that her case had been closed, as Barclays told her on 
numerous occasions that it was still waiting for her documentation. It was not until May that 
she was told the case had been closed,  when she phoned once again for an update.
I thought that it was clear that Barclays had made  mistakes when Mrs H sent her reply. The 
delay in telling Mrs H that her chargeback had been  closed,  because  the reply was out of 
time, was poor service, and caused  Mrs H to waste quite a bit of time. But I thought that the 
amount of £200  that Barclays offered was the right amount to make up for that. 
Mrs H said that Barclays  had just gone through the motions but provided very little customer  
service, support or guidance.  She repeated that she knew  others had got their money back 
through chargebacks, and shed assumed that Barclays would help her to do the same.  She 
said she did very much want to try. 
Mrs H said that she agreed  that Barclays should pay compensation for its poor service,  lack 
of help and support and missed opportunity. She didnt  expect it to pay for the chargeback. 
But she said that she had lost a substantial amount of money, with a case to put forward 
where others  have  succeeded. And she couldnt  even try to get her money  back now. Mrs H 
said she would have  expected more than the £400  offered. She felt this amount hardly 
compensated her for her time wasted and didnt  take into account the stress and upset this 
whole process has caused.  She said she would leave that for me to decide.
Ive considered what Mrs H has said carefully. But, as I noted above, I havent  changed my 
mind. I appreciate that Mrs H now no longer has the chance to make  a chargeback request, 
and that she wouldve very much  liked to try. I noted  that in my provisional decision. I also 
appreciate that Mrs H says others have succeeded  with similar requests. I cant  comment on 
that, because  I dont know the circumstances  of those other requests, and what  evidence 
was put forward  in those cases.  I have considered all the evidence Mrs H had for her 
request, and I think she was unlikely to succeed. So I think that a total payment of £400 
remains the right amount  to make up for the poor service Barclays  provided  to Mrs H, for the 
time shes put into this, and for the distress and inconvenience this has clearly caused her. 
I understand that this award will seem a modest amount in comparison to what Mrs H has 
lost. Unfortunately, even  if Barclays had offered  exemplary customer  service in this case, I 
think that larger amount  would  be unlikely  to have been recovered. 
my final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank  UK PLC must pay Mrs H a total of £400 in 
compensation. If Barclays Bank UK PLC has already paid Mrs H the £200 it previously 
offered for this complaint,  then it can count that towards the total award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 February  2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ref: DRN88056685ombudsman
Ref: DRN8805668