K821x#15complaint
Ms H complains that Black  Horse Limited wont allow her to reject a caravan she bought  with 
a finance agreement. 
background
In May 2017  Ms H bought  a caravan which was funded by a hire purchase  agreement with 
Black Horse  Limited. This was paid off after some three months.  She encountered a number 
of problems and the caravan was repaired by the retailer on several  different occasions.  This 
included repairs to the windows, gas locker and toilet. Ms H complained to the retailer and to 
Black Horse.
It commissioned an independent report which  concluded that the majority of problems had 
been adequately repaired by the retailer. It said that caravans  were  hand built and it was 
reasonable to expect  some snagging  work. However, it agreed that Ms H would have 
suffered some distress  and inconvenience in the period when the toilet  wasnt  working 
properly. 
The report  also discovered that there was an area of damp in one corner  of the caravan. 
Black Horse  said remedial action should  be taken  to address the damp and it offered £200  
compensation. Ms H remained unhappy  and brought her complaint to this service where it 
was considered by one of our investigators. She initially  thought  Ms H should be allowed to 
reject the caravan, but after representation  from Black Horse she concluded that repairs  to 
the damp area and compensation of £700  would be reasonable.
Ms H didnt agree and said that she had been  sold a caravan  that wasnt of satisfactory 
quality. The investigator said she had accepted that the caravan wasnt of satisfactory  
quality, but she thought  the appropriate  resolution  was for it to be repaired. Ms H said the 
damp had yet to be repaired under warranty.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
The finance  agreement, that is the hire purchase  agreement, in this case is a regulated  
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
Black Horse  is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement,  and responsible 
for a complaint about their quality.
The relevant  law says that under a contract to supply goods,  there  is an implied  term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory . I also have  to have regard to the means by which 
any faults can be adequately addressed. 
It is clear there were  some issues with the caravan in the few months after purchase.  
However, the independent report shows that these were addressed satisfactorily  by the 
retailer. Where  goods are sold which are not of an acceptable standard and no rejection is 
Ref: DRN83373542requested within 30 days the seller  has the right to repair the faults. It has done so in this 
case and I consider that to be fair and reasonable.
I note the caravan was damaged in an accident in the months after it was bought,  but it has 
been agreed by all parties that this hasnt  had an impact on any of the problems  raised by 
Ms H. She also has said that the shower tray split, but this didnt happen until June 2018, 
over a year after it was purchased. I dont believe this could be said to have been a fault at 
the point of sale. More recently she has told us that a rear light cover  came off when she 
was travelling on holiday.
I can see why Ms H feels so strongly and I can appreciate her disappointment that the 
caravan has needed a number of repairs. However, the caravan has been repaired at no 
cost and to an acceptable  standard. Nevertheless,  she has been without out it for several  
periods and she has suffered some inconvenience  for which  I think Black Horse  should pay 
her £700.  This is to include the costs of paying for access to showers when the shower 
wasnt working.
Clearly the damp issue needs to be addressed and if it hasnt been done this should be 
done under  warranty.  I do not know when the warranty  expires,  but I would expect Black 
Horse to ensure  the work is done at no cost to Ms H and if she wishes  for that work to be 
subject to an independent inspection. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Black Horse  Limited to pay Ms H 
compensation of £700 and ensure the damp problem is repaired at no cost to her. Under the 
rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or reject my 
decision before  7 February 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8337354