K821x#15complaint
Mr D complains that Volkswagen Financial  Services (UK) Limited (VWFS)  applied  unfair 
charges at the end of his hire purchase  agreement (HPA).
background
Mr D entered into a HPA to acquire  a vehicle and says that he was led to believe that at the 
end of the agreement he would be able to return the vehicle with no further  costs.  He says 
that in 2018 when his HPA was ending an inspector was sent to assess his vehicle. This 
resulted in charges of over £1,000.  Mr D disputed the charges saying that scratches had 
occurred to the vehicle but he had these repaired at the time and that he had the chip in the 
windscreen repaired and the vehicle then passed its MOT. 
Mr D returned the vehicle to the workshop where  he had previous work undertaken and it 
accepted that some  was not to the standard required. Following  further work a second 
inspection took place. This reported  damages  totalling £546 (including  VAT). 
Mr D doesnt accept  the damage  charges  and says any issues  are normal  wear and tear. 
VWFS says that refurbishment fees form part of the terms  and conditions  of Mr Ds HPA and 
that the charges were applied after an inspection had been carried out in line with the 
industry guidelines. It says the charges were applied for damage that fell outside of fair wear 
and tear.
Our investigator partially upheld this compliant. She said that in regard to the damage  
charges applied following the second  inspection, she thought two of the five charges should 
be removed and one amended to reflect the price allocated to the repair in the first 
inspection. 
VWFS accepted that the charges for the front bumper and right hand front wing could be 
waived. It also agreed  to the price for the front screen repair of £229.96 (excluding VAT). 
Mr D didnt accept this. He reiterated  his comments about fair wear and tear and said that if 
a vehicle is sold at auction it will receive a reduced  price which  should  be accepted by 
VWFS. He made a counter offer which wasnt accepted by VWFS.
As a resolution wasnt agreed, this case was passed  to me, an ombudsman,  to issue  a 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D entered into a HPA and in doing so agreed  to its terms. While I understand he didnt 
expect there  to be additional  charges  applied at the end of the agreement the HPA sets out 
that the hirer is responsible for any damage or deterioration that falls outside of the wear and 
tear guidelines. Given this I would expect the vehicle to be inspected at the end of the 
agreement and any damage recorded.
In this case the vehicle was first inspected in March  2018 and a number of items recorded. 
Mr D has explained that he had previously had repairs carried  out and given a number of the 
issues noted in the inspection report related to unsatisfactory repairs  I find it reasonable that 
Ref: DRN89190502Mr D returned the vehicle to the workshop and that remedial action was taken.  Following this 
a second inspection took place in June 2018. This listed five areas of damage.
Following our investigation VWFS has agreed  to waive  two of the charges. Our investigator 
also noted a price difference for the repair of the windscreen between the two inspection  
reports and VWFS has agreed to apply  the lower price. I find this reasonable.
The outstanding issue is whether it is fair that charges are applied for the damage to the rear 
bumper, carpet in the driver area and the front screen (although I note Mr D did offer to pay 
for this). 
I have looked  through  the inspection  reports  and the photographs provided. Based  on these 
I can see that there is a chip to the windscreen,  the carpet appears damaged and the rear 
bumper photograph appears to show an uneven finish. Given  this I accept these  charges 
have been applied fairly. 
Based on the above, I find it reasonable that Mr D is liable for the charges applied  for the 
windscreen (£229.96), carpet (£60) and rear bumper (£18).  VWFS has said this leaves and 
outstanding liability  of £370.27 (including VAT), however my calculations suggest  the 
amount is £369.55  (including VAT). I would expect VWFS to confirm the correct outstanding  
balance to Mr D.
my final decision
My final decision is that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited should, as it has 
agreed, remove the charges applied  to the front bumper and right hand front wing and 
amend the repair  cost for the windscreen. Mr D remains liable for the charges for rear 
bumper, carpet and front screen.  I would expect the total amount to be confirmed to Mr D. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 September  2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8919050