K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) paid £2,444.36 into his 
current account instead of completing  a balance transfer. 
background
Mr A has a credit card with Barclaycard  and on 4 January 2019 he called to talk about some  
offers hed received. During the call Mr A said he wanted to proceed with a balance transfer 
offer. But after asking some additional  questions the call handler explained that Barclaycard 
couldnt do a balance transfer  for a debt that was already held on his credit card. 
The call handler said that if Mr A wanted to clear the money  he owed on his Barclaycard he 
could use the money  transfer offer instead  and explained how that process worked. The call 
handler said that by using  the money transfer offer the funds would be paid to Mr As current 
account and he could then use the money  to reduce  his credit  card debt leaving the 
remaining balance at 0%. After  discussing  the different money  transfer offers Mr A agreed  to 
proceed. 
Mr A later complained as he felt Barclaycard had misled him. In addition, Mr A is concerned 
that he didnt sign anything to accept the terms of the money transfer offer.  Barclaycard 
looked at the complaint but didnt agree an error  had been made so Mr A referred his 
complaint to this service.  An investigator looked at what had happened but didnt agree that 
Mr A had been misled  so didnt ask Barclaycard to do anything else.  Mr A asked to appeal 
his complaint so its been passed  to me to make  a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A says that he was misled by Barclaycard when discussing the different options  
available. But Ive listened to Mr As call with Barclaycard  on 4 January 2019  and I thought 
the call handler  provided clear information about the offers and options.  Im sorry to 
disappoint Mr A but I havent found any evidence that Barclaycard  provided misleading 
information to him when  he called. 
Mr A initially  said he wanted  to proceed with a balance transfer 0% interest offer. But the call 
handler explained that a balance transfer  offer could  only be used to pay off another credit  
card. So Mr A wouldnt have been able to take advantage of the 0% balance transfer offer he 
called about. 
The call handler then explained that Mr A could use a money transfer  offer. They  said the 
money transfer would  be paid into Mr As current account and he could then use that money 
to clear his existing Barclaycard balance. That means the overall position wouldve  meant 
Mr A owed £2,444.36  to Barclaycard at 0%. Im sorry to disappoint Mr A but I havent found 
that he was misled when  discussing how the money transfer would work. 
Mr A says he didnt sign the anything  to agree the money transfer offer.  I understand his 
concerns but banks  can take a customers acceptance over the phone and dont have to 
Ref: DRN89072182obtain a signature  to proceed.  So whilst  I agree there isnt any signed paperwork I havent  
found that Barclaycard made  an error. 
When Barclaycard responded to Mr As complaint  it refunded  his money transfer fee of 
£46.44 and paid him £25 as a gesture  of goodwill. As I havent found any evidence of an 
error by Barclaycard  Im not telling it to increase its offer or take any further  action to resolve 
this complaint. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2019.
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8907218