K821x#15complaint
Miss T is unhappy that a car supplied to her under a conditional sale agreement with 
Moneybarn No. 1 Limited  was of an unsatisfactory quality.
background
In January 2019, Miss T was supplied with a used car through a conditional sale agreement 
with Moneybarn. The agreement  was for £6,050 over 43 months,  with monthly repayments 
of £229.64. At the time, the car was just over eight years old and had done 72,000 miles. 
A few days  after taking possession of the car, the engine management light came on. The 
dealership who supplied the car unsuccessfully attempted a repair. An independent  engineer 
inspected the car in April 2019, and said there was a timing chain issue  which  was likely to 
have been present when  the car was supplied to Miss T. So Moneybarn  said she had the 
right to reject the car.
But Moneybarn told Miss T that, if she rejected the car, shed be charged for each mile shed 
done in the car. And they told her shed  also be charged for any damage to the car that fell 
outside fair wear  and tear guidelines.
Miss T decided not to reject the car, and have  it repaired instead. She paid £1,709 for some 
repairs to be done and has been  quoted £1,905 for the remaining repairs.  She wasnt happy  
with how Moneybarn have  dealt with this matter,  and shes brought it to us for investigation.
Our investigator thought Moneybarns rejection proposal was fair. But she thought they 
should pay for the repairs the independent  engineers report  of April 2019  had said were 
necessary  the replacement and refitting of the timing chain. And this had cost Miss T 
£569.21. She thought Moneybarn should also pay Miss T an additional £250 to compensate 
her for the inconvenience shed been  caused by the dealerships initial  failed repair and for 
the time her car had been off the road while being repaired.
The investigator said that the repairs Miss T had paid for, and been quoted for, included 
things the independent  engineer didnt include in their report.  She thought these faults had 
likely developed since the car was supplied to Miss T. And, because  of this, she didnt think  
Moneybarn were responsible for these. 
Miss T said there were  problems with the vanos units, the oil pumps  and the head gasket; 
which were all present at the time the car was supplied. And this is confirmed by the 
diagnostic check done by the dealership. So she thought Moneybarn should be responsible  
for these  repair costs as well.
The investigator didnt  agree, and didnt think the diagnostic showed these faults were 
present when the car was supplied  to Miss T. Because of this Miss T has asked for an 
ombudsman to make a final decision.  
Ref: DRN88517182my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations;  any 
regulators rules,  guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what  I 
consider was good industry practice at the time.  Miss T was supplied  with a car under a 
conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement  which  means 
were able to look into complaints  about it. 
The relevant  law  the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA)  - says,  amongst other things,  that 
the car shouldve been of a satisfactory quality when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the 
supplier of goods, Moneybarn are responsible.  Whats satisfactory is determined by what a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory given the price,  description other relevant 
circumstances. In a case  like this, this would include things like the age and mileage  at the 
time of sale;  and the vehicles history. 
The CRA also says that, where a fault is identified within the first six months,  its assumed 
that the fault was present  when the car was supplied. But this doesnt apply where its 
established the goods confirmed to contract  when they were  supplied, for example where 
the fault is the result of wear  and tear. So, if I thought the car was faulty when Miss T took 
possession of it, and this made the car not of a satisfactory quality, itd be fair and 
reasonable to ask Moneybarn to put this right.
Its not in dispute  that there  were  faults with Miss Ts car, or that these became apparent 
shortly after she took possession of it. Miss T has provided a photograph of the electronic 
diagnostic report done on her car. The photograph  is dated 29 January 2019  a few days 
after Miss T took possession of the car, and the car details on the diagnostic report  match 
that of the car supplied to Miss T. 
The diagnostic report shows fault codes relating to the oil pressure, the camshaft  timing,  the 
clutch switch input  and the powertrain control module. But fault codes  are only an indication 
of whats wrong, and usually an inspection is needed to establish  the actual problem. 
The car was inspected by an independent engineer on 15 April 2019. The engineer  said he 
was inspecting the car because Miss T believed it needed a new timing belt, oil pump and 
vanos unit; and because the engine flush, pressure  test and filter replacement  done by the 
dealership hadnt fixed the faults. 
After considering the issues raised by Miss T, the engineer said that the problem was with 
the timing chain, which needed  checking  and possibly replacing  at the earliest  opportunity. 
The engineer thought  that the vehicle has had a underlying/developing issue at the date of 
purchase in regard to the timing chain  but in all other aspects the vehicle is considered to 
be in a good general condition and considered road legal.
The engineer was independent of Moneybarn, the dealership and Miss T; and their duty is to 
the courts, and not to who instructed them and/or who paid their invoice for the inspection. 
And the statement on the engineers report confirms  this. Given  this, Im satisfied its 
reasonable for me to rely on this report as part of my decision.
Ref: DRN88517183Miss T has said there  were other  faults with the car, present  at the time it was supplied  to 
her, that the engineer  didnt comment on. But the engineer did comment that these faults 
had been considered. And the lack of reference to any other faults  shows me the engineer 
didnt think these made the car of an unsatisfactory  quality. So Im satisfied it was only the 
issue of the timing chain  that made  the car of an unsatisfactory quality  at the point  of supply.
The fact that the car was of an unsatisfactory  quality, and that the dealership had already 
had their chance at repair, meant that Miss T had the right to reject the car. And Moneybarn 
allowed her to do this.
In making the rejection offer, Moneybarn said that Miss T would have to pay for the mileage 
shed done while the car was in her possession. And the CRA says if the consumer 
exercises the final right to reject,  any refund  to the consumer may be reduced  by a deduction 
for use, to take account of the use the consumer has had of the goods in the period since  
they were delivered.  And the explanatory notes for the CRA say if the final right to reject  is 
exercised within  6 months of the delivery  of the goods  the trader  must generally  give the 
consumer a full refund [but] there is an exception if the goods consist  of a motor  vehicle  in 
this case a deduction for use may be made within the first 6 months.
Moneybarn also told Miss T shed need to pay for any damage to the car, over and above  
fair wear and tear. And Ive seen the terms Miss T agreed to when she took possession of 
the car say you must maintain (at your expense)  the goods  in good order and condition and 
will be responsible for any loss or damage  to the goods, except fair wear and tear.
Given this, Im satisfied that the rejection offer Moneybarn made was fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances. Miss T didnt accept this offer, and shes told us she preferred the car to 
be repaired  and her keep  it, rather than reject it. This is her choice, and in these 
circumstances, itd be fair for Moneybarn to cover  the costs of the repairs specified by the 
independent engineers report  the timing chain.
Miss T has provided  an invoice  for £569.21  for the replacement timing chain on her car. 
Shes also provided evidence of the costs for other work to be done  on her car, which  she 
says is to fix faults present at the time the car was supplied  to her. For the reasons already 
stated, Im satisfied that Moneybarn should cover the costs of the timing  chain, but not the 
other work Miss T says needs doing  on the car  the independent engineer  didnt say this 
other work made the car of an unsatisfactory quality.
Miss T has already paid the invoice for the timing chain, so I think its fair that Moneybarn 
also pay her interest on this money  when they reimburse her. But the investigator didnt 
include interest in her recommendation. So Ive contacted both parties about the inclusion of 
interest and asked for their comments.  Neither  Moneybarn nor Miss T have objected to the 
inclusion of interest, so this will form part of my final decision.
The investigator has also recommended  Moneybarn pay Miss T £250 to compensate  her for 
the inconvenience shed been caused  by the dealerships initial failed repair  and for the time 
her car had been  off the road being  repaired. Im in agreement  that this wouldve been 
inconvenient for Miss T, so Im satisfied that Moneybarn should also pay this to Miss T.
Ref: DRN88517184my final decision
For the reasons  explained above I uphold Miss Ts complaint. Moneybarn No. 1 Limited 
must:
reimburse Miss T £569.21 for the cost of the timing chain repair  to her car, plus 
simple interest at 8% a year from the date Miss T paid the invoice to the date of 
reimbursement; and
pay Miss T an additional £250  to compensate her for inconvenience shes  been 
caused as a result of the car being of an unsatisfactory  quality when supplied.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 March 2021.
Andrew Burford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8851718