K821x#15complaint
Ms E complains  that CashEuroNet UK LLC, trading  as QuickQuid, was irresponsible when it 
provided her with a number of loans.
background
This complaint is about seven loans QuickQuid  provided to Ms E between December 2011 
and August 2015. Six of the loans were  payday loans repayable  over 1, 2 or 3 periods: one 
was an open ended  credit  agreement known  as flexcredit. I've prepared this table  from some  
of the information QuickQuid  has provided about  Ms Es loans.
loan 
numberdate amount repaid
1 30/12/11 £400 24/02/12
2 24/02/12 £750 29/06/12
3 06/11/12 £850 11/02/13
4 12/02/13 £1,000 03/05/13
5 09/05/13 £1,000 31/07/13
6 
(flexcredit)10/12/13credit limit 
£1,00021/01/15
7 24/08/15 £550 11/07/18
QuickQuid objected to this Service looking into Ms Es first two loans. It said shed 
complained too late. Our adjudicator explained  why he thought  we could  look into those 
loans. QuickQuid is aware of our approach  and hasnt  provided anything new for me to 
consider on that issue. 
When considering  the merits of Ms Es complaint  our adjudicator  concluded that he couldnt  
fairly say that QuickQuid  had been  wrong to provide her with Loan 1. But he recommended  
that her complaint  about all the other loans should be upheld. QuickQuid doesnt agree with 
out adjudicator  so the case has come to me for a final decision.  If Ms E accepts my final 
decision it will be binding  on the parties.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have thought about what QuickQuid  has told us in response to our adjudicators  
recommendation but Im satisfied that Ms Es complaint about Loans  2 to 7 should be upheld 
for broadly similar reasons to those found  by our adjudicator. I realise that QuickQuid will be 
Ref: DRN83464772disappointed but I hope that my explanation below will help it understand why I've reached  
my decision.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending  including the 
relevant rules, guidance and good  industry practice  on our website. Broadly speaking, this 
all means that QuickQuid needed  to take reasonable  steps to ensure  it didnt  lend 
irresponsibly. In practice,  this means it should  have carried out proportionate checks  to make 
sure Ms E could  repay her loans in a sustainable  manner.  Additionally,  there may come a 
point where the lending  history and pattern of lending itself clearly  demonstrates  that the 
lending was unsustainable.
For a borrower to be able to repay  in a sustainable  way it meant that they should be able to 
repay the credit:
without undue difficulty  in particular without incurring or increasing  problem 
indebtedness: in other  words a borrower should  be able to make repayments  whilst 
also meeting other debt repayments  and other normal/reasonable  outgoings  and, 
without having  to borrow further to meet these repayments
over the life of the credit agreement 
out of income  and/or  available savings
For Loans 1 to 6 it seems  Ms E declared she had a monthly income of £1,596. I've not seen 
any evidence of QuickQuid asking Ms E about  her outgoings during  that period. At the point 
she took Loan 7 it seems  she declared that she had a monthly income of £2,149 and 
outgoings of £1,150.
On the same  day Ms E repaid Loan  1 she took Loan 2. This time she was borrowing almost 
twice as much and she was due to repay  it in two instalments - the first being made up of 
interest only - of £187.50. The second instalment was due to be £937.50. This was made  up 
of interest and all the principal borrowed. And it was going to take up almost 60% of Ms Es 
declared monthly income  leaving her around  £660 to meet all her other normal outgoings 
including rent. I dont  think it was reasonable for QuickQuid to conclude  that Ms E would be 
in a position to meet this repayment in a sustainable way. 
Indeed Ms E deferred  repayment of the final amount on two occasions. This meant that she 
paid interest only for two additional months and she took twice  as long to repay Loan 2 as 
had originally been agreed  (126 days instead  of 62). This suggests that she struggled  to 
repay this loan. 
And QuickQuid was aware  of this background when, four months later Ms E returned for 
Loan 3. This was for an even  higher amount of £850. She hadnt  been  able to meet the 
repayment of Loan  2 as originally agreed, so its unclear  why QuickQuid concluded  - during 
its assessment - that shed be able to repay this loan in 28 days  with a single repayment  of 
over £1,060. This repayment amounted to around  two-thirds of Ms Es declared  income.  I 
dont think QuickQuid acted responsibly  when it provided this loan. Given the background 
and the circumstances of which it was aware,  it was highly unlikely that Ms E would be able 
to make the repayment  in a sustainable way. I dont think it was surprising when Ms E again 
deferred repayment of Loan 3. On the day after she did repay  it she came back  for her 
highest loan yet - £1,000 (Loan 4). 
The second  repayment on Loan 4 was £1,250  almost 80% of Ms Es declared income. 
Loan 5 was for a similar amount although it was taken over a term of 22 days; both these 
Ref: DRN83464773loans were extended. As before,  I dont think it was responsible of QuickQuid to have agreed 
to these.
After Ms E repaid Loan 5 she returned to QuickQuid for an open ended credit  facility  the 
flexcredit loan (Loan  6). I accept that there was a gap of over four months between repaying 
Loan 5 and taking Loan 6. But Ms E had been  borrowing from QuickQuid for almost two 
years and the sums being borrowed had gradually  increased. I acknowledge that the highest 
repayment on this flexcredit loan was due to be around £372. But the hypothetical  
repayment schedule  included in the credit agreement was based  on Ms E drawing down to 
her credit limit and not drawing down again. 
Given Ms Es history  of returning for credit I think it shouldve been apparent to QuickQuid 
that she was unlikely to only draw down once. And she did return  for more credit  on two 
further occasions. Her last drawdown was in March 2014 and it took her ten months to clear 
her balance. 
Again I can see that there was a gap  this time of around seven months  - between Ms E 
clearing her flexcredit loan and taking Loan 7. And I note that at this point QuickQuid asked 
Ms E about her income and her outgoings.  But the overall pattern of borrowing itself and the 
history (including that shed had to pay a late fee on the flexcredit loan)  suggested that Ms E 
was reliant on these high cost credit products to help her make ends meet.  The pattern of 
repeat lending meant that it was very likely that Ms E was having to borrow again and again 
to plug the gaps in her finances left by previous loan repayments. Indeed  within a month of 
taking Loan 7 Ms E was charged a late fee and daily default interest was applied  to her 
account. It seems she entered a repayment plan and eventually cleared Loan  7 around three 
years after shed taken  it. 
Had QuickQuid done what it was obliged to do it wouldve realised that this was a likely 
outcome when it provided Loan  7. As a responsible lender it shouldve declined  this loan.
With all this in mind  I'm satisfied that QuickQuid  was wrong to approve Loans  2 to 7 and so 
I'm upholding Ms Es complaint about  those  loans.
putting things right
I am satisfied that QuickQuid didnt act responsibly when it provided Loans  2 to 7 (as 
outlined in my table) to Ms E. So I require it to:
refund  all interest and charges Ms E paid on Loans 2 to 7 (taken  between  
24 February 2012 and 24 August 2015) 
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement*;
remove any adverse information  in Ms Es credit  file as regards Loans 2 to 6
by the time of Loan 7 any information recorded  about it was adverse. So all entries  
about Loan 7 should be removed  from Ms Es credit file.
* HM Revenue & Customs  requires QuickQuid  to take off tax from this interest.  QuickQuid  must give Ms E a 
certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
Ref: DRN83464774my final decision
For the reasons  given  above I'm upholding Ms Es complaint in part and I require 
CashEuroNet UK LLC to put things right in the way I've outlined.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 September  2019.
EJ Forbes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8346477