K821x#15complaint
Mr J complains that Wealthmasters Financial Management Ltd (WFM)  gave  him unsuitable  
advice to transfer his personal pensions into an occupational pension  scheme  offered by 
ARK Business Consulting (Ark), making use of a Pension Reciprocation Plan (PRP). Mr J 
says as a result he now cant access his pension benefits, has a county court judgement  
(CCJ) recorded against him for unpaid debts and is facing  tax demands from HMRC.
background
In 2010 Mr J approached  WFM to see whether  if could access his two personal pensions  
(worth around £48,000)  as he was struggling  with debt. He was in a difficult  financial and 
personal situation and was keen  to access any available  funds to repay  his debt and rebuild  
his credit rating so he could buy a property. Part of his debt was managed by a debt 
management company  and he had already exhausted all other options.
WFM told him they couldnt help as he was 50 years  old at the time and so below the 
minimum age of 55 at which pensions can generally be accessed.  A few months later WFM  
contacted Mr J again to inform  him that they had now been  made  aware of a unique 
product that may help solve Mr Js problems, so another meeting was arranged.
A fact find was completed and a suitability report was issued in November 2010 setting out 
WFMs recommendations. Mr Js objective was to release monies from his pension to repay 
the majority of his debt. His profile was recorded as 20% cautious, 60% realistic and 20% 
adventurous. 
The report  says WFM discussed Mr Js options and the only provider they were aware of 
that could provide the service of transferring the personal pensions  to an occupational  
scheme and loaning Mr J part of his pension fund was Ark. It went  on to explain that the 
benefit of the scheme was the facility to have access  of up to 50% of the pension  fund now 
for Mr J to use in repaying most of his debts. The loan would  have to repaid before the end 
of the pension plan which was at age 77.  WFM then recommended Mr J to invest into the 
EPF 90 fund which they said was in line with his attitude to investment risk. 90% of the fund 
would be invested  in the Entrepreneurs Property  Fund with the balance  being  held in cash  or 
spread across manged funds. In the summary at the end of the report  WFM  said they would 
transfer Mr Js personal pensions to an occupational scheme. Ark would then arrange a 
Master Pension Scheme which would accept Mr J as a new member of an occupational 
scheme.
Mr J transferred his pensions and says he took a loan of £25,000  from the pension.
In 2011 the Pension Regulator appointed a new independent trustee  to the Ark scheme amid 
concerns that the scheme was being used for pension liberation.  Later  that year, a court 
found the loans given  to members were unauthorised payments. HMRC also considers 
these loans were unauthorised payments.  As a result Mr J received tax demands from 
HMRC, but these were  appealed and I understand demands are currently  postponed until a 
tribunal decides  on the correct basis of taxation. 
The trustees of the scheme also ordered for the loans  to be repaid which  led to a CCJ 
recorded against Mr J for the non-repayment of £28,395 (which  is the loan of £25,000  plus 
administration costs). I understand the scheme currently  doesnt pay out any benefits to 
Ref: DRN82101372members as there is uncertainty about the value  of the schemes investments, the recovery 
of loans and the uncertain  position  to the tax situation.
 
Mr J complained to WFM in 2018  and subsequently to this service.  WFM says they did their 
research and confirmed  to Mr J that Ark was a registered scheme and then put him directly 
in contact with them.  All further communications would have been  between Ark and Mr J. 
WFM says they had no involvement in arranging loans or making any investments. They 
were only facilitating  the pension  transfer. WFM said Mr J should direct his complaint at Ark 
and that WFM did not recommend pension liberation. They also raised arguments that the 
complaint was raised too late.
Another ombudsman  at this service  issued a decision explaining that he considered Mr J 
had complained in time.  
An investigator then looked at the merits of Mr Js complaint and upheld it. He said WFM 
gave Mr J advice to transfer his personal pension to an occupational  scheme  and they 
needed to make sure this was suitable in his circumstances. WFM needed to consider the 
overall proposition,  so not only the actual switch between pensions  but also the underlying  
investments Mr J was going  to make.  They  couldnt wash their hands of any consequences 
by simply saying they hadnt arranged the loans. 
At the time of the advice no concerns had been raised yet by the Pensions Regulator or 
HMRC. However, the scheme was not covered by the Financial Services Authority (FSA)  
and the scheme  was untried and untested.  There was also no explanation why the 
recommended fund was suitable. The suitability report didnt mention any substantial risks of 
the scheme, only that the performance  was not guaranteed and Mr J might not be better off 
in retirement. There was little evidence that WFM had done any due diligence  on the 
recommended scheme other than checking it was HMRC registered.  If the risk of potential 
tax charges and HMRC  investigations had been explained to Mr J, the investigator thought  
he wouldnt  have gone ahead with the investment.  So he thought WFM was responsible  for 
the situation Mr J found  himself in now. 
He recommended WFM to compensate Mr J by :
comparing the notional value of his previous pensions if he hadnt transferred with 
the value of his existing pension which would show the financial losses  he suffered.  
He said WFM could  deduct from these losses the loan Mr J received as well any debt 
interest he saved by paying  off his debt with the loan as these were benefits he had. 
covering any tax liability Mr J had to pay to HMRC. Mr J was asked to show  WFM the 
final demand.
Pay Mr J £500 for the trouble and upset  caused  by the distress and upset this matter 
has caused him including the dealings with HMRC and the disruption  to his pension  
planning.
WFM didnt respond to the investigators assessment, even after a response was chased  by 
email. Mr J agreed with the majority of the findings but pointed out that he doesnt have the 
funds to clear the CCJ debt. Without the transfer  Mr J says he wouldnt be in this position. 
He was told his loan could be repaid when he eventually took his pension benefits,  but due 
to the ongoing court proceedings and administration  costs he is worried  the pension will 
have no value to him. He wants  to pay off the loan to be able to move on. The settlement of 
the loan should be considered in the compensation.
Ref: DRN82101373The investigator explained he couldnt  request WFM to remove the CCJ as they didnt have  
the power to do this. The CCJ was applied for by the pension  trustees.
As no settlement was agreed between the parties, the complaint was referred to me for a 
decision. WFM was asked for further comments they wanted the ombudsman  to consider, 
but again we did not receive a response.
I issued a provisional decision upholding the complaint. Mr J agreed with the outcome. WFM  
disagreed and provided a copy of a letter they had sent to this service in October  2020  in 
response to my colleagues  provisional  decision on jurisdiction. They  disagreed with his 
findings on time limits and provided comments on the merits of Mr Js complaint.
Unfortunately, we dont  have a record that this letter  was received at the time. WFM  also 
made further submissions  disagreeing with the outcome  of the decision. Ive considered 
everything they said in their letter in October 2020 as well as in their more recent 
correspondence.
After considering their comments I slightly changed the redress and shared this both parties.  
Mr J and WFM provided further comments which Ill also address in this decision.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I remain satisfied that this 
complaint should  be upheld.
In my provisional decision I said:
Based on the evidence  I have seen Im satisfied  WFM  recommended  Mr J to transfer his 
personal pensions  to an occupational scheme  with Ark. The reason for this was solely to 
take out a loan immediately to pay off Mr Js debts. WFM also recommended  the fund Mr J 
should invest in. WFM didnt just facilitate a transfer here. They  gave Mr J advice on what  to 
do with his pensions  and provided him with a recommendation of how to achieve immediate 
access to a cash lump sum.  
WFM had to make sure this course  of action  was suitable for Mr Js circumstances and that 
it was in Mr Js best interest. Theres no doubt Mr J was in a difficult situation  and wanted  to 
clear his debts and that accessing his pension for this purpose would have sounded 
attractive. However,  he was in a debt management plan and looking at the fact find he still 
had disposable  income every  month  after paying off his monthly debt instalments and other  
outgoings. So whilst I appreciate being  in debt is stressful and Mr J would have  liked to pay 
off his debts to move on with his life, it seems they were being  managed.  
In any event, pension  funds are designed to provide income in retirement  which is the 
reason why they generally cant be accessed  early. I cant see that Mr Js retirement needs 
were properly discussed. Whilst Mr Js focus might  have been on the clearance of his debt,  
WFMs obligation was to make sure any immediate needs for cash  were weighed  up against 
what was in his best interest in the long-term. Mr J said he was told by taking the loan his 
pension income  in retirement might be lower. I appreciate that he might  have  been  willing  to 
accept this to alleviate  his imminent financial position. But I cant see that WFM assessed 
whether he actually had the capacity to bear these losses. He noted on the fact find that he 
had a workplace  pension, but no value  was recorded. He had no savings or other 
Ref: DRN82101374investments, so based on what  WFM knew about Mr Js circumstances  the pensions  he was 
transferring would have been an important part of his retirement planning.
WFM knew Mr J was below the minimum retirement  age and that early access to a pension  
was generally not possible, so I think they should  have reasonably been aware of the risk 
that this sort of scheme  - which  was non-standard and not regulated  by the FSA - could  be 
investigated by HMRC and the consequences this might have.  WFM mentioned that 
occupational schemes could  provide loans. It is correct that occupational schemes could 
provide commercial loans  to their sponsoring employers.  However,  loans to members  of an 
occupational scheme were not authorised member payments as set out in section 164 of 
Finance Act 2004. The trustees have also confirmed in their communications  to members 
that, alongside the loans,  all other funds in the scheme were invested in unusual and high-
risk unregulated investments through overseas companies. Mr Js attitude  to risk 
assessment points to an overall medium attitude  to risk. The scheme recommended in my 
view clearly exceeded his attitude to risk.
In summary,  WFM recommended a course  of action here that wasnt suitable for Mr J or in 
his best interest.  
WFMs response to my provisional findings:
jurisdiction
In their letter in October 2020, WFM said they disagreed with my colleagues findings on 
jurisdiction and remained of the view the complaint had been brought  too late. However, they 
didnt provide any new information.  And I think its worth noting that shortly before, in 
September 2020, WFM confirmed to the investigator  over the phone  that after taking legal 
advice and consulting  with their insurers, they wouldnt be challenging the jurisdiction 
decision. 
In any event, I independently considered the matter  of jurisdiction and based  on the 
evidence available  I agree  with my colleagues conclusion and his reasons which  he set out 
to both parties in detail.  So Im not going  to repeat these findings here again. 
In their most  recent submissions WFM pointed to a letter Mr J wrote  in January 2016. They 
said Mr J knew  there  was an issue  in January 2016  and so he should  have  complained then 
and not nearly  three years later. Mr J complained to WFM in November 2018.  As explained  
by my colleague, the relevant test for the three-year time limit in DISP 2.8.2R is whether Mr J 
ought to have known he had cause  for complaint against WFM before November 2015 and 
based on the evidence available he likely didnt. So whether he should or shouldnt have 
complained in 2016 rather than 2018 is irrelevant.
Having considered everything  again, Im satisfied  the complaint  was made in time. 
merits
WFM say:
Their recommendation was suitable. 
They undertook  the due diligence  required  at the time and could not have foreseen  
that the loan from the Ark scheme would  later be deemed  pension liberation. They 
made the recommendation in good faith believing the Ark scheme was bona fide 
Ref: DRN82101375(borne by its registered status  with HMRC and the pension  regulator). They  shouldnt  
be held responsible for other parties  fraudulent behaviour or the negligence on the 
part of HMRC who permitted the scheme  to be registered.
When the Ark scheme came to their attention they saw it as a legitimate  way to help 
Mr J meet  his objectives. They carried out a compliant risk assessment and Mr J 
accepted and agreed to the fund choice. WFM say Mr J was extremely satisfied with 
the outcome at the time and grateful for WFMs  help. He was given all the relevant 
information and had been given sufficient time to ask further questions or seek  
alternative advice  if there  was anything he felt unsure about.
They say Mr J made an informed  choice. WFM points to an Ark declaration  which he 
signed saying:
I am solely responsible  for the decision to proceed  and acknowledge that Ark, the 
MPS trustees  or the individual who introduced  me to the concept do not give any 
advice in relation  to whether I should join an MPS,  the term of the MPVA and 
whether a Pensions Reciprocation  Plan is appropriate in my circumstances. 
I understand that there is no entitlement under the MPS to Unauthorised  Payments 
(as defined  in the Finance  Act 2004). I will not knowingly carry out any action which  
could lead to unauthorised payments.  
WFMs advice  was limited to the transfer  of Mr Js personal pensions to the Ark 
scheme. The expectation was that once the transfer  had completed,  any future 
correspondence would be between Mr J and Ark directly. WFM  says they didnt  
recommend the loan nor did they arrange  it.
Mr J was in a difficult financial  position  and desperate at the time. He was determined 
to find a way of accessing his pension funds no matter what . WFM says theres a 
strong possibility Mr J would have entered into the Ark scheme  or something similar 
without WFMs  recommendation.
Ive considered WFMs submissions but my decision remains  that they shouldnt have 
recommended the Ark scheme. WFM say they didnt recommend the loan to Mr J. However, 
as I see it, the whole purpose  of recommending the Ark scheme to him was so that he could 
access money from his pension early to repay  his debts, so the loan was part and parcel of 
the arrangement. If it wasnt for the early access to a lump  sum, there was no reason to 
transfer his pension at all as far as I can see. 
Ive also not put particular  weight  on Mr J signing a declaration that he wasnt given advice 
and that he was solely responsible for his decision.  Its not disputed  WFM gave Mr J advice  
and recommended him to invest in the ARK scheme and the purpose  was to release funds 
immediately. Mr J was following WFMs advice and would have likely followed all required 
steps to complete the necessary paperwork to receive the loan. This was a non-standard 
and complicated  scheme which invested  in high risk, unregulated funds. Mr J had no real 
investment experience and his attitude to risk was assessed as medium. So even taking the 
pension liberation  aspect aside, I dont think the scheme was suitable for him. 
WFM were the ones who proactively contacted Mr J to tell him about this scheme after they 
had previously been unable to help.  Given Mr Js lack of investment experience,  I find it 
Ref: DRN82101376unlikely that he would  have discovered the Ark scheme or a similar investment himself and 
pursued such an avenue  without WFMs involvement. 
I dont think it was enough for WFM to rely on ARKs HMRC  and pension  regulator 
registration. They knew releasing funds early from a pension  wasnt generally possible and 
so I think it should  have reasonably foreseeable to them that there was a risk the scheme 
could be subject to an HMRC investigation in future. I also cant  see that any enquiries were 
undertaken to establish what Mr Js remaining  pension funds would be invested in. The 
scheme was not regulated by the FSA and was untested. 
In addition, I cant see that Mr Js overall retirement  objectives were explored at all. The 
whole advice seems  to have focussed  on the release of a cash  lump  sum for an immediate 
need without weighing  up Mr Js long-term  retirement needs. I remain  of the view that WFM  
gave unsuitable  advice.
With regards to redress WFM said:
Mr J would have saved significant  amounts on interest over many  years by paying off 
debts with the loan he received from his pension. Assuming  8% simple  interest over 
ten years  this would  be £20,000.  If the debt was on credit cards, interest rates  would 
have been even higher than 8%. 
If he went into a debt management plan now for the loan he has to repay to the 
trustees, he would  be no worse off than in 2010  before he received the loan from his 
pension.
I considered WFMs  points carefully.  It is true that Mr J has benefitted from having a loan in 
2010. However, I cant agree that if Mr J went into a debt management plan now he would 
be no worse off than before the transfer. If he hadnt transferred, his pension  value would 
have included the £25,000 plus investment returns at least until age 55. And he would have 
been able to access his pension 
In any event, it wouldnt be fair to deduct the sum of the loan from the compensation amount. 
This would have been appropriate if Mr J had received £25,000  from his pension to keep.  
But he only received the money as a loan which  he has to repay,  so this amount has to form 
part of the loss calculations and cant be left out entirely, otherwise Mr J would be 
undercompensated. 
However, I agree Mr J has likely benefitted from saved interest  on the debt he was able to 
pay off in 2010. When setting out the redress in my provisional decision I took the view that 
interest in his debt management plan would likely have been reasonably low or even zero. I 
thought the likely minimal  interest saved, together  with the stress relief the loan brought Mr J 
at the time, could  be offset with the significant stress and upset caused by the current 
situation Mr J finds himself  in. This included  HMRC pursuing Mr J for payment, the recorded  
CCJ, him not being able to access his pension due to the scheme  not paying out any 
benefits at the moment and the uncertainty of when  this will happen and how much Mr J will 
receive. I normally would have made an award for distress and inconvenience  here.  But as 
Mr J did benefit from the loan at the time I thought one could be offset by the other.
 
I can see WFMs argument that the interest  Mr J saved since 2010 could be more  
substantial and should be given more weight in the loss calculation. So I asked the 
Ref: DRN82101377investigator to go back to Mr J for further  information about what  debts  he paid off with the 
loan.
Mr J said from memory  he had about £3,000 in credit card debts and £2,500 in overdraft. He 
also had received a loan from his mother for a deposit on a car. He also paid monthly 
payments on finance on the car, however he continued to pay these  instalments and didnt 
pay this off with the loan.  He says he had an additional loan of around £1,800 from his 
employer which was paid off from his salary every  month. He said he spent the rest of the 
loan on general  living costs and taking care of his daughter including  paying  for holidays. 
Given that 11 years have passed since  the advice was given, Mr J has acknowledged he 
doesnt remember exact details and he doesnt have evidence from the time which I think is 
understandable after so many years. So I wont be able to exactly  work out what Mr J saved 
by receiving the loan which means I have to work on reasonable assumptions.  
Based on the above, Mr J would have only paid interest on his overdraft and credit cards 
with a high street bank which he says was around £5,500 in total. I dont know  what exact  
interest he would  have paid, but I think an average rate of about 15% is a reasonable 
assumption. 
I then considered how long Mr J would have paid this interest  for and I dont think it would be 
for the whole  eleven years until now. If he hadnt transferred to Ark, Mr J would have been 
able to access funds  from his pension at age 55 and I think on balance  he probably would 
have accessed  money  from his pension as soon as he could. The fact find in 2010  also 
suggests he was making  payments towards  his debts every month. So I think  its likely that 
five years later these interest-bearing debts would  have  been either paid off or if not, Mr J 
could have accessed his pension to use some money to clear debts.  
Interest for five years at 15% calculates to around  £2,200 which I think WFM can deduct  
from the compensation amount. I appreciate Mr J also benefitted of having some of the 
money to spend  on himself and support his daughter. However, I consider these benefits 
can be offset with the distress WFMs  actions caused him.
If he hadnt transferred,  I think  Mr J would have  likely accessed his pension at age 55 when 
he was allowed to. Even if his interest-bearing debts  had been paid off, he likely would have 
wanted to clear his other debts or spend  more  money on building  up his life again after 
separating from his partner. I dont  know how much  of his benefits he would have taken. It 
might have been all of it or maybe just a few thousand pounds if he transferred into a 
drawdown plan,  depending on what he needed at the time. So in the circumstances and for 
the purpose of my calculations, I think its reasonable to assume he would have  taken the 
same £25,000. This means Mr J wouldnt have accrued investment returns on this sum after 
2015 which I made allowances for in the redress below.  
comments on my changes to redress
I shared my intentions to change the redress from my provisional decision with both parties.
Mr J says he was in a difficult financial and personal  situation  at the time of the advice and a 
lump sum payment, as available through the Ark scheme, seemed convenient at the time.  
However he found it hard to accept he would have  taken  some or all of his pension at age 
55, particularly  if it was subject to large tax reductions. He would like this to be calculated  
until his current age of 60. 
Ref: DRN82101378He would like to be in a position  where he can pay off the loan and clear  the CCJ and have 
funds for retirement. He doesnt have trust or confidence in WFM,  so is worried  how the 
undertakings with regard  to HMRCs tax payments would  be dealt with.
I dont know for certain when Mr J would  have taken benefits  from his pension  if he had not 
transferred into the Ark scheme in 2010.  Of course  its possible that he would have  been  in a 
better position five years  later and not seen the need  to access  his pension until now or even 
later. However, I cant ignore that Mr J wanted  to access his pension, even before he knew 
about the loan option from Ark. On balance I think that without the loan in 2010, he might 
have still had some outstanding  debts  and accessing his pension would have allowed him to 
pay these off. And even  if he had been able to pay off all his debts by 2015, he might have 
simply taken funds  to support his daughter (like it seems he did with large parts  of the loan). 
He also would have  been able to take part of his pension  as a tax-free cash  lump sum which 
likely would have been attractive. 
So overall, I still think its reasonable to assume he would have taken pension benefits  when 
he was able to-which was at age 55. As explained previously, I dont know how he might  
have taken this money  and how much of it. But in the circumstances  I think  its reasonable to 
allow for the same sum of £25,000 that he took in 2010.
The redress  should  allow  Mr J to pay off his current debts with the pension trustees and start 
rebuilding his credit history. In the likely situation  that his current  pension is valued  at zero, 
hell essentially receive what his pensions would be worth now if he had not transferred but 
taken £25,000  at age 55 with the rest of his pension accruing further investment returns.  He 
can then restart his retirement plans.  Mr J needs  to bear in mind, however, that he will 
possibly receive some  funds in future  from his current pension scheme once they have  been  
able to recover loans  and are able to confirm what each member will get back from their 
investments. And in my redress I allowed WFM to ask Mr J for an undertaking to repay these 
sums when  he receives them.
I appreciate that Mr J is worried that he might encounter problems with WFM honouring an 
undertaking to pay his HMRC bills if they become due. However, WFM is in the same  
position as they rely on Mr J honouring an undertaking to pay them back sums received later 
on as well. Ideally, I would  have  preferred  to settle the matter without undertakings. 
However, as its unknown what Mr J will receive from his pension  and also what HMRC will 
eventually charge Mr J, I consider this to be a reasonable way to address these  uncertainties 
as much as possible.
WFM also provided further comments about  the redress. They said:
Mr Js debts must have been higher than £5,500.  The fact find and suitability report  
referred to substantial debt and he was paying  £200 per month towards  his credit 
cards and £750 per month on loan repayments. Mr J wouldnt have paid £950 per 
month on only £5,500  of debt.  Also, when WFM asked the adviser who met with Mr J 
for his comments on the complaint  in 2018, he said Mr J had £20,000  of debt from 
his divorce.
The minimum interest on credit cards would have been 29% and not 15%.
They queried why he borrowed  £25,000  if he only needed  £5,500. He wouldnt have 
needed to pay it on living costs  as once his debts were paid off he would have  had 
Ref: DRN82101379£950 more income  per month. And if he spent the money on holidays,  gifts and 
luxuries WFM queried why they should pay for this. 
If debts were only £5,500, Mr J should have paid off his Ark loan earlier  than he did. 
He could have  repaid  it at any point and didnt have to wait until retirement. He could 
have paid off the loan from his monthly £950 increased income and the sale of his 
marital home  or if his mother passed away (as she was seriously ill) from the sale of 
her house. WFM should not be penalised  for Mr Js decision not to repay the loan 
when he could and to borrow more than he needed.
The CCJ could have  been avoided if Mr J paid the loan off earlier. Also, its likely he 
would have been written to many times  before the CCJ was issued, so he should 
have known about it. The additional  costs  are due to him taking  no action.
First of all I want  to point out that £5,500 is the debt amount that attracted interest (credit  
cards and overdraft). As set out before, Mr J also said he had a loan from his employer of 
about £1,800 and he owed money to his mother for a deposit on a car. The information on 
the fact find on loan repayments  might  have also included the finance for his car which he 
mentioned. WFM didnt include any detailed information of Mr Js debt in the fact find at the 
time of the advice  even though the form allowed for this. So theres  no contemporaneous  
evidence I can rely on. I appreciate the adviser said in 2018 that Mr J had debts of £20,000,  
however this was eight  years after the sale and I dont  think a recollection  from that long ago 
relating to a client  is more  reliable than Mr Js recollections of his personal circumstances. 
I appreciate its possible  Mr Js debts  were higher then he now claims.  And he has said 
himself that everything  happened a long time ago, so his submissions can only be estimates. 
However, having no substantial information which contradicts his testimony-  and I dont  think  
WFMs submissions do -I think its reasonable to use this as a base for my redress  
calculations.
I dont know what exact interest Mr J paid on his credit cards and overdraft. WFM havent 
provided any evidence  as to why they think interest rates of 29% would apply here.  The 
Financial Conduct  Authority launched a credit card market study in 2014.  In its interim report 
it stated that standard (credit card) products had rates  between  12% and 23% and low rate 
products varied  from 6.5% to 12%. I appreciate this reflects the market in 2014 and between 
2010 to 2014 rates could  have been  different, but I think this gives  a good indication.  
Looking only at the standard products a medium rate would be 17.5%. However, in my 
redress I calculated interest  on Mr Js full interest-bearing debt for five years.  I need to take 
into account that he was making repayments  and so the balances  would have likely 
decreased over time and he might have  even been paid off these debts earlier  than five 
years. So I think overall using an average rate of 15% is reasonable in the circumstances.
In the notes to the fact find the adviser  said that Mr J understood he could get access  to up 
to half of his pension value. And the information  leaflet  about the Ark scheme shows  that for 
a pension worth £50k, Mr J was able to access  a lump sum by entering a Maximising  
Pension Value Arrangement (MPVA). The lump sums available were  £12.5k over ten years 
increasing to £25k over 25 years. The brochure  said: 
The MPVA  is issued  over a fixed period of time (usually over 10,15,20  or 25 years)  and, prior 
to maturity, there is no requirement to make repayments. 
Ref: DRN821013710It also said there no restrictions on how the money could be used by the member. 
Illustrations and examples showed  the lump sum being paid back from the pension when the 
customer came to retire. So the proposition here was to get access to a lump sum which Mr 
J didnt have to pay back for many  years to come  (he didnt need to ay this back  until age 
77) and which would be paid back -in full- from his pension. So essentially he was given the 
impression he didnt  have  to worry about paying it back as this would be covered through  his 
pension funds. Therefore,  I dont  see why Mr J would  have seen  an issue with borrowing as 
much as he could and use the money to pay off some  debts and use the rest as he pleased. 
He couldnt have reasonably foreseen that he would  be pursued for this sum a few years 
later. 
WFM isnt paying  for Mr Js expenses on potential holidays and gifts.  Mr J was essentially 
using his own pension  fund, just earlier than it was allowed. The redress  puts Mr J as much 
as possible back in the position  he would  have been in if he hadnt been given unsuitable 
advice. Ive already  acknowledged that he benefitted  from the lump  sum he received  through  
Ark which includes his enjoyment of the possible things he bought  with it. However,  I think 
having the use of the money  earlier that he ordinarily would have had it (he could have 
accessed it at 55 and the redress  assumes he would have done) is offset by the significant 
distress and inconvenience he suffered later on. Even taking the CCJ aside,  he couldnt 
access his pension, he received payment notices from HMRC and faced  uncertainties about 
his retirement funds. 
I agree  its likely Mr J received correspondence before the CCJ was recorded.  However,  
based on what he told us Mr J wouldnt have  had the funds to repay such a large  sum in any 
event and on balance  I think administration costs and interest would  have always applied. 
The key issue here is that Mr J wouldnt have been  in a situation  where  he was unexpectedly 
pursued for the full repayment of a significant sum of money if WFM had not advised him to 
transfer into the Ark scheme.  So I think its fair they cover the additional administration costs. 
Having considered everything  again, including all comments provided by both parties,  my 
decision remains that the complaint should  be upheld. I also consider the proposed  redress 
is fair to both parties.
putting things right
My aim is to put Mr J - as much  as possible - back into the position he would be in without 
WFMs unsuitable advice. It was WFM who introduced Mr J to this investment. So I think if 
they hadnt recommended this to him, he would have likely kept his existing personal 
pensions.
WFM should:
A)Obtain the notional value of Mr Js personal pensions  at the date of my final decision,  
if he had not transferred them  to the occupational scheme. It should be assumed  
£25,000 would have been taken  from the pension when Mr J turned 55 in November 
2015, so no further  investment returns would accrue on this sum after this date.
B)Obtain the value of Mr Js current pension value at the date of my final decision from 
the scheme trustees if possible.  
I understand the trustees havent  been able to place values on scheme members  
benefits due to the uncertainties of the HMRC investigation and the unclarity of how 
Ref: DRN821013711much of the loans provided to individuals - which made up a significant  part of the 
schemes assets - can be recovered. It doesnt appear to be a straightforward case  of 
Mr Js loan being lent to him by his scheme   the overall position of all the loans from 
or between  all the schemes will need to be established first. If this is still the position, 
then the value of Mr Js pension should be assumed  to be nil for the purpose of the 
calculation. 
In this scenario,  WFM can request Mr J to give them an undertaking to return  to them  
any sum he receives back from the trustees once  they are able to value his assets and 
wind up the scheme. That undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be 
incurred on drawing the receipt  from the pension plan. WFM  will need to meet  any costs 
in drawing up the undertaking.
C)Calculate A-B. This is the amount of financial loss in the pension.  If this provides a 
negative figure there is no financial loss. 
Given the uncertainties  of the scheme  and the fact that benefits  cannot be taken from it at 
the moment, I consider it fair that in the circumstances all compensation is paid either into 
another personal pension (to be set up by WFM at their cost) or directly to Mr J. The 
payment into a pension should allow for the effect of charges and any available  tax relief.  
The compensation shouldnt be paid into a pension plan if it would  conflict with any existing 
protection or allowance. 
If WFM pays the compensation  directly to Mr J, it should be paid to him as a lump sum after 
making a notional deduction  to allow for income tax that would otherwise have been paid. 
25% of the loss would  be tax-free  and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely 
income tax rate in retirement   presumed  to be 20%. So making a notional reduction of 15% 
overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
I consider that Mr J benefitted from a loan of £25,000 which  without the recommendation of 
the scheme he would  not have had. However, he is being actively pursued  for this loan and 
has a CCJ recorded  against him, so he needs to pay this money back.  As explained  earlier 
in this decision, I wont allow WFM to deduct this loan amount from the compensation. Mr J 
will be able to use part of his compensation to pay back the loan and start rebuilding his 
credit history.
D)The loan has attracted some additional administration  costs of £3,385 which  should  
be covered by WFM as without  their advice Mr J wouldnt have  to pay this now. Mr J 
knew he had to pay back the loan, but was assured this would be paid back from the 
pension when he retired. Instead  he prematurely was pursued for the full amount of 
the loan plus administration  costs.
E)WFM should cover any tax liability including applicable charges and interest  
demanded by HMRC.  Mr J has received demands which he has appealed and as 
a result HMRC has postponed any demands until their investigations have  
concluded. So I understand  hes not actively being  pursued  for these sums at the 
moment. WFM must give Mr J an undertaking that as soon as any demands 
become payable they will be settled by WFM immediately (either directly with 
HMRC (if possible) or through Mr J). WFM will need to meet any costs in drawing 
up the undertaking.
Ref: DRN821013712F)WFM can deduct £2,200 from the overall  compensation to take into account 
assumed interest payments Mr J saved 
G)The investigator recommended  £500  for the distress and upset this matter has 
caused Mr J including  the stress of having to deal with HMRC, being  subject  to a 
CCJ and the disruption to his pension planning. I agree that the matter  has caused 
him quite a lot of distress and I would usually  award additional compensation 
because of this. However, I also think Mr J did benefit from the loan at the time of the 
advice. Insofar that he was able to repay debts which caused him stress at the time 
and also he had use of the money to spend on other things in his life. So I think in the 
circumstances the benefits and stress relief the loan brought  at the time 
compensates for the distress he suffered when he found out about the problems with 
his new pension. So I wont  ask WFM to pay any additional  compensation in this 
regard.  
WFM must  pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which  we tell it Mr J accepts 
my final decision. If it pays later than this it must  also pay interest on the compensation from 
the date of my final decision  to the date of payment  at 8% a year simple.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and require Wealthmasters Financial Management Ltd to pay Mr J 
compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 August 2021.
Nina Walter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8210137