K821x#15complaint
Mr H has complained that Elite Insurance Company Limited delayed in paying him a refund 
of his guaranteed asset policy (GAP) premium.
Reference to Elite includes its agents.
background
Mr H sold his car and cancelled his GAP policy  in September 2018. His policy entitled him to 
a proportionate refund of premium. But despite regularly chasing this, Elite didn't pay the 
refund promptly. It told Mr H that because of the legal and financial position of its reinsurer it 
was operating under a restricted payment protocol.  And that protocol was delaying 
payments to its customers. It acknowledged  the distress  the delay was causing and, when it 
did make  the payment  it waived a £35 admin  fee.
In March 2019 Elite paid Mr H his £69.31  refund. In doing so it waived a £35 admin fee it. 
Our adjudicator didn't think  that went far enough.  So she said Elite should:
pay Mr H £65 compensation for his distress and inconvenience; and
add simple interest to the £69.31 refund at a rate of 8% a year from the date of 
cancellation to the date it paid him.
Elite didn't  think that was fair so the complaint's  been passed to me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im going to uphold it. 
Mr Hs policy,  which is a contract  between him and Elite, says that if he cancelled  it without 
making a claim, he would be entitled  to a pro rata refund of premium. The contract doesn't  
specify in what time-frame  Elite would pay such a refund.  But I don't think  a delay of roughly 
six months is reasonable.
I understand that Elite put in place its restricted payment protocol in order  to deal with its 
customers equitably. And it was that equitable treatment as well as the position of its 
reinsurer that caused payments to be delayed. But that doesn't  mean that it treated Mr H 
fairly.
As I've said above, I don't think a delay of six months to pay a refund was reasonable. And it 
certainly wasnt Mr Hs fault that Elite encountered the problems that caused  it to set up a 
restricted payment protocol. So I don't  think it was fair that Elite didn't promptly  pay him the 
refund his contract entitled him to. Elite recognised this in its response to his complaint when 
it said the delay in issuing your payment has caused you some distress . In other  words  it 
recognised that it hadn't dealt with him reasonably  and that had an impact on him. I agree. 
So I think its fair that it takes  action to put that right. I was pleased  to see that Elite waived 
the £35 admin  fee, but given the length  of the delay  and the fact that Mr H had to chase Elite 
for updates  I don't  think  that goes far enough to address  his distress and inconvenience. So 
to put things right I think Elite should  pay Mr H £65 compensation and add simple  interest  to 
the refund  it paid in March 2019.  
Ref: DRN85954612my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I uphold this complaint. I require Elite Insurance  Company 
Limited to:
pay Mr H £65 compensation for his distress and inconvenience; and
add simple interest to the £69.31 refund at a rate of 8% a year from the date Mr H 
cancelled the policy to the date it paid the refund1.
It should pay the compensation within 28 days of us telling it that Mr H has accepted  my final 
decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the compensation from the date 
of my final decision to the date of payment at a rate of 8% a year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 August 2019.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
1 If Elite considers that its required  by HM Revenue & Customs  to take off income  tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr H how much its taken off. It should also give Mr H a certificate showing  this if 
he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HMRC  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN8595461