K820x#14complaint
Mrs C has complained that Positive Solutions  (Financial Services)  Limited  mis-sold  her a 
mortgage payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mrs C took out the PPI in February  2006  at the same time as she arranged the mortgage 
during a meeting at her home.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs C disagrees with the adjudicators opinion  
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Cs complaint and Ill explain why.
Neither Positive Solutions nor Mrs C has been  able to provide any paperwork from the sale. 
This is not surprising given how long ago it took place, but it does make  the case  more 
difficult to decide.  In reaching  my decision I have considered the evidence that we do have, 
as well as what I think is most likely to have happened. I have also considered the time that 
has elapsed since the sale and how this is likely to have affected Mrs Cs memory of events 
(although bearing  in mind that she first made  her complaint to us in 2012, six years after the 
sale).
Mrs C says she was told that the lender wouldnt agree the mortgage unless she took out the 
PPI as well, and Ive thought very carefully  about this.
As our adjudicator has explained,  weve established  with the lender that the particular 
mortgage product  in question didnt require PPI to be taken as a condition of the lending.
On balance, I think its likely that Mrs Cs recollection of the sale will have faded  slightly.  In 
the course of discussing what  the PPI was for, its possible that Positive  Solutions  talked 
about it as something  she should  have, rather than something she had to have. Overall Im 
unable to conclude  that Mrs C wasnt given a choice  about having  the policy.
Its more likely than not that Positive  Solutions advised Mrs C to take out the policy.  
Therefore, in recommending the PPI to her, it needed to ensure that it met her needs.  And 
from what I know of Mrs Cs circumstances at the time, the policy  appears  to have been 
suitable for her.
Mrs C wouldnt  have been entitled to any sick pay from her employer. And she didnt have 
any other means, such as savings,  to fall back on. Mrs C says that her family would have 
helped, but other people  cant always be relied  upon as their circumstances can change. A 
mortgage is a significant financial commitment, and the consequences of defaulting on a 
mortgage can be serious. So it wouldnt be surprising if Mrs C had an interest in protecting 
her repayments.
Ref: DRN88524542Positive Solutions also had to provide  Mrs C with enough information for her to make an 
informed choice about buying  the policy. Mrs C has said that she was told the cost of the 
policy. Its possible that Positive Solutions could have provided more  information, particularly 
about the things that the policy didnt cover. But Mrs C wasnt affected by any of those 
things. As I think she had an interest in the PPI and decided to buy it, I dont think that further 
information would have caused  her to change her mind. So she isnt any worse off as a 
result of anything Positive Solutions may have done  wrong, so theres nothing  it needs to do 
to put things right.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 September  2019.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8852454