K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain  about the interest rate Mortgage Express  has charged on their 
mortgage. Theyre unhappy that it hasnt  followed the Bank of England base rate.
background
Mr and Mrs P took out a mortgage in 2006. Mortgage Express  later bought this mortgage, 
but the terms and conditions  Mr and Mrs P had agreed to remained the same. Mr and Mrs 
Ps mortgage has been on discounted  interest rates  in the past, but since 2009, its been on 
Mortgage Express Standard Variable Rate (SVR).
When Mr and Mrs P took out their mortgage in 2006, the SVR was 6.99%. Since then, 
Mortgage Express have  made the following changes to the rate.
January 2009   decrease to 4.84%
September 2016  decrease  to 4.59%
December 2017   increase to 4.84%
September 2018  increase to 5.09%
Mr and Mrs P complained, as they felt the rate they were being charged on their mortgage 
was unfair.  They said it should have followed changes in the Bank of England base  rate. 
Mortgage Express explained that they were responsible for setting the SVR, and hadnt done  
anything wrong  in doing so.
When Mr and Mrs P brought  their complaint to us our investigator looked into things. He 
explained that, in his view, Mortgage Express hadnt  acted unfairly.  Mr and Mrs P disagreed  
so the complaints been passed to me to issue a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ps mortgage  that they agreed to when 
they took it out. These explain that the lender may vary the standard  variable rate by giving 
prior notice, and they give a list of reasons  for why the rate may be varied.  A change  in the 
Bank of England  base rate is listed as one of the reasons the SVR may change, but this 
doesnt mean that the SVR will be directly linked to the base rate. I appreciate  Mr and Mrs P 
dispute this, and feel the SVR should  be linked to the base rate. But this would be a tracker 
rate, and that isnt the rate Mr and Mrs P agreed  to when  they agreed  to the mortgage. 
Mr and Mrs Ps mortgage was then transferred to Mortgage Express,  who have confirmed 
that there  were no changes to the terms and conditions of the mortgage. So the original 
terms Mr and Mrs P agreed to when they took the mortgage out still applied. I understand 
Mr and Mrs P doubt this is the case,  but Ive not seen anything  to suggest that the terms and 
conditions were changed. Mr and Mrs P agreed to these terms and conditions  when they 
agreed to the mortgage, so Mortgage Express have had to operate  their mortgage in line 
with them.
There is no indication on any of the mortgage  paperwork, or in the terms and conditions, that 
the SVR would track the base rate. The terms of the mortgage explain that the interest  rate 
applicable is variable, and the bank set this rate. So whilst I appreciate  Mr and Mrs P feel the 
interest rate theyve  paid has been too high, Im satisfied Mortgage Express  have charged 
interest in line with the terms  of Mr and Mrs Ps mortgage, and were entitled to do so. I also 
Ref: DRN81521822want to point out that Mr and Mrs P have in fact benefited from the lenders ability to change the 
interest rate, as it has fallen since they agreed to an SVR of 6.99% in 2006.
When the interest rate charged  on Mr and Mrs Ps mortgage account changed, Mortgage 
Express wrote to them to tell them this  and told them  what  their new monthly  payment was 
going to be. Whilst  Mr and Mrs Ps mortgage was on the SVR,  there  was no Early  
Repayment Charge  (ERC) payable if they wanted  to redeem the mortgage  and move  to 
another lender. So Im satisfied there were no contractual barriers preventing Mr and Mrs P 
from redeeming their mortgage early if they wanted  to look for another  interest rate 
elsewhere. 
Mortgage Express didnt  offer any new lending or products themselves, but this in itself 
didnt mean  that Mr and Mrs P couldnt have redeemed their mortgage and moved  to a 
different lender. I appreciate its likely this would have been difficult for Mr and Mrs P, given 
their circumstances. Theyve told us theyd  built up significant debt, and have retired. It does 
sound like Mr and Mrs P have taken steps to manage this debt, and are still making their 
monthly mortgage payments as a result. If this were to change, and the monthly  payments 
become too difficult, Id encourage Mr and Mrs P to talk to Mortgage  Express about this, and 
Id expect them to work  with Mr and Mrs P to agree an affordable plan.  Mortgage  Express 
can also make arrangements for Mr and Mrs P to see a regulated  mortgage  adviser  to 
explore their options,  if thats something  theyd like to do.
However, whilst  I do appreciate Mr and Mrs P have  been through  a difficult time, Im not 
satisfied Mortgage  Express  have charged an unfair interest rate on their mortgage.
my final decision
Considering everything, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 April 2019.
Kathryn Billings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8152182