K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains about esure Insurance Limiteds  valuation of his car following a claim 
against his motor insurance policy.
background
In October  2018, Mr G was involved in an accident.  He made a claim on his motor insurance 
policy. esure decided  that Mr Gs car was a total loss. It valued Mr Gs car at £1,750, which 
was £1,949 less £199 for pre-existing damage. 
Mr G wanted to keep  his car, so esure  deducted  35%, that is, £612.50, to reflect the salvage  
value of the car. esure also deducted the excess of £300 due under Mr Gs policy.  It paid 
Mr G £837.50. 
Mr G wasnt happy about esures valuation and complained to this service.
Our investigator thought that esures  valuation was fair. Mr G didnt agree with the 
investigator and said that he wasnt happy  with esures valuation and its 35% reduction for 
the salvage value. 
The investigator asked  esure about  its deduction  of 35% for the salvage  value. esure  offered 
to reduce its deduction  for the salvage  value to 20%,  that is, £350. 
As there was no agreement between the parties, Mr Gs complaint was passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide. 
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting point  is Mr Gs policy, which provides that esure  wont  pay more  than the market  
value of his car at the time of the loss, less the excess. Market  value is defined in the policy 
as the  amount you could reasonably have expected to sell your car for on the open 
market immediately before your accident or loss
Its not unusual  for motor  insurance policies to provide that insurers will cap the amount it will 
pay in this way. The information about  this was clearly set out in the documentation Mr G 
had at the time he took out the policy. I think its reasonable for esure to be able to rely on it. 
We dont provide an exact valuation of Mr Gs car. We can decide  whether esures  offer was 
fair and reasonable. We assess the market  value as the retail price the consumer would 
have had to pay for a comparable vehicle at a reputable dealer, immediately before the time 
of the damage  or loss. Assessing the value of a used vehicle isnt an exact science. We 
generally find the valuations given in motor-trade guides most  persuasive. These  guides  are 
based on extensive nationwide research  of likely  selling prices.  The guides use advertised 
prices and auction prices  to work  out what likely  selling prices would have been. 
Ref: DRN89543182Ive looked at the trade guides  in this case and I think esures initial valuation, without 
deductions, of £1,949  was fair. It took the average of two similar valuations. I dont think  that 
the additional items Mr G has mentioned  the clocks and the navigation  system   materially  
alter the valuation. 
I dont think that esure acted unfairly  in deducting  £199 for pre existing damage.  There  were  
several areas of damage to Mr Gs car before the accident leading  to the claim that may 
reasonably be categorised as more than fair wear and tear. esure got an estimate of £442.20 
to repair  only one area of damage  the passenger  side, rear, quarter panel. I think it acted 
fairly in deducting  less than half of that amount  to take into account pre existing damage. 
esure has now agreed to reduce its deduction for the salvage value from £612.50 to £350.  
I think thats fair. So, esure should pay Mr G an additional £262.50. As Mr G has been  kept 
out of the use of that money, it should  also pay him interest on that from the date of its 
previous payment to Mr G, to the date of settlement. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Gs complaint in part. esure Insurance Limited should 
now pay Mr G:
1.an additional £262.50 and
2.interest on the amount at 1. above at 8% simple* per year,  from the date of its 
previous payment to Mr G, to the date of settlement.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires esure to take off tax from this interest.  esure must give 
Mr G a certificate showing how much tax its taken off, if he asks for one. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019. 
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8954318