K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2004. Mr T 
says Bank  of Scotland plc (BoS)  mis-sold  him the PPI. 
background
Mr T took out a credit card with BoS in 2004.  At the same time he bought  a PPI policy  which 
wouldve paid 10% of his outstanding balance each month for up to 12 months at a time if he 
couldnt work. It also provided life and critical illness cover for the balance.
Mr T says he was led to believe buying the PPI would positively influence the outcome of his 
credit card application.
The adjudicator didnt think Mr Ts complaint should  be upheld. Mr T disagrees, so his case 
has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ts case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Mr T says that he was led to believe that buying  the PPI would increase his chances 
of getting the credit.  I cant know what was said during  the meeting so I have  to rely 
on the evidence  I do have available to me. I havent seen  anything  to suggest the 
credit was reliant on taking the PPI or that BoS didnt follow its usual processes. BoS 
made it clear that Mr T didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it out. 
The application form Mr T signed showed  he had a choice. And although  the cross in 
the box for PPI is electronically populated I think this happened as a result of a 
conversation he had with a BoS adviser.
BoS recommended the PPI to Mr T so it had to check  that the PPI was right for him 
and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example he wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  and 
he seems to have had a need  for the cover  Mr T was entitled to at least six months  
full sick pay but the PPI wouldve paid out in addition to this and for longer than his 
full sick pay wouldve lasted. And he didnt have any other means to pay his credit 
card if he couldnt  work. Mr T has mentioned  that he had Rolex  watches which he 
could have sold, but he also says he was still paying  for these on credit, so I dont 
think these would  have been  an alternative means for him to pay his credit card.  
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mr T about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for him if something went wrong.  I 
also havent seen  anything to suggest  it was unaffordable for Mr T. So I dont  think  
better information about the PPI would  have put him off taking out the cover.  
Ref: DRN88350742Ive thought about everything Mr T has said, especially about being  misled into thinking  his 
credit card application would be positively influenced  by buying the PPI, but these points 
dont change my decision.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So BoS doesnt need  to refund everything Mr 
T paid for it. But BoS has already  offered  to give Mr T back  some of the cost of the PPI. I 
dont think it needs  to do anything more. 
If it hasnt  already, BoS will make arrangements to pay Mr T now Ive issued  my final 
decision. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 March  2019.
Sally Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8835074