K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs C have complained about the advice BUPA Insurance Limited  gave them 
regarding their private medical insurance  policy. 
background
Mr and Mrs C contacted  BUPA in 2001 as Mr C was leaving his job and wanted to know 
what that meant for their membership under the group scheme they were in. Mr and Mrs C 
said they wanted to remain members of BUPA and asked if theyd be able to transfer back 
into the scheme once  Mr C had retired. Mr and Mrs C said this would normally be at 60 but 
could be at 50 or sooner. BUPA said should  you receive the pension at 50 or earlier you 
may then transfer  back into the Group  and receive any discounts  that are applicable at the 
time. BUPA transferred Mr and Mrs C to a voluntary scheme  in the meantime that gave 
them a 20% discount. 
Following Mr Cs retirement in 2017 Mr and Mrs C asked BUPA  to transfer back  into the 
group scheme. BUPA said the scheme  was closed to new joiners so they couldnt  transfer  
them. Mr and Mrs C complained. They said theyd acted on the advice theyd received in 
2001 which meant they hadnt looked into whether it would be more advantageous for them 
to join a different  scheme. They said if BUPA couldnt admit them to the scheme it should 
compensate them for any financial loss theyd  experienced as a result of not joining a 
different scheme.  
BUPA accepted  it had told Mr and Mrs C he could transfer back  into the scheme  and that it 
didnt give a clear  timescale for doing  that. But it didnt think it was reasonable for Mr and 
Mrs C to have relied on advice from so long ago. It said it reserved the right to change the 
schemes available.  BUPA said if the scheme  re-opened Mr and Mrs C could  join but it would 
review their medical history  which  might mean  conditions that were  covered in the past might 
not be covered  under  the new scheme.
Mr and Mrs C were unhappy  about  this and brought  their complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into Mr and Mrs Cs complaint  but didnt recommend it should be 
upheld. She thought BUPA had let Mr and Mrs C know they could transfer into the scheme if 
he retired before 50. She thought it was entitled to make a commercial decision about  the 
schemes available and she didnt think Mr and Mrs C had shown theyd experienced a 
financial loss due to being in the voluntary scheme. She thought  BUPA had reasonably  said 
Mr and Mrs C could rejoin if the scheme opened again and it was fair for BUPA  to review 
their medical history if that happened. 
Mr and Mrs C didnt agree. They said BUPA had accepted it hadnt  provided a timescale and 
theyd acted on the advice they received. They  asked for an ombudsmans decision.  
Following the investigators view I asked BUPA for more information about  the alternative 
scheme Mr and Mrs C said they would have looked to join. BUPA didnt  hold records  for this 
going back to 2001 but was able to show that for the last six years  the scheme provided a 
higher discount  than the voluntary scheme.
I let Mr and Mrs C and BUPA know that I intended to ask BUPA  to pay Mr and Mrs C £200  
for not being  clearer in the letter about  the terms in which theyd be able to rejoin the 
scheme. But I didnt  think  it was fair and reasonable to ask BUPA  to compensate  them 
further as the advice  it gave was accurate at the time.
Ref: DRN80489412Mr and Mrs C said theyd accept £200  as compensation for trouble and upset but thought  
BUPA should compensate them for their financial losses as theyd made an agreement  
with it rather than having been  given  information . 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs C have made a number of detailed points so I hope they dont take it as a 
discourtesy that Im going  to focus on what I see as the central  issues of this complaint. 
Mr and Mrs C clearly went to great lengths  to find out the options that would be available to 
them after Mr C left his job. BUPA accepted it didnt give a clear timescale for them rejoining 
the scheme but said the scheme is no longer available and its within its right to change  the 
schemes. It doesnt think its responsible for any financial loss Mr and Mrs C have suffered 
by not joining a different scheme  instead.  When taking everything into consideration I dont 
think it would  produce a fair and reasonable outcome for me to ask BUPA to admit Mr and 
Mrs C into the scheme or to compensate them  for any financial loss. However I do think  it 
should pay them £200 to compensate for the distress and inconvenience it caused by not 
giving clearer information in 2001.  Ill now explain my reasons for this below.
In 2001 BUPA said Mr and Mrs C could  rejoin  the scheme and receive  any discounts 
available at the time. So I think that made it clear Mr and Mrs C wouldnt  necessarily  receive 
the same  discount  as theyd had before. I also think it would  be reasonable to conclude  that 
would also apply to any terms available at the time.  I accept its for BUPA  to decide what 
schemes are available and what discounts they offer.  I understand BUPA said if the scheme 
becomes available to new joiners in the future  Mr and Mrs C can join. I think thats  a fair and 
reasonable offer as it previously told them they could rejoin. However as this scheme  isnt 
available at the moment Im not going to ask BUPA to allow Mr and Mrs C to rejoin.
I dont think its reasonable for BUPA to say Mr and Mrs C shouldnt have relied on the 
information it gave.  Its accepted it didnt  provide a clear timescale and that any reference  to 
them rejoining before  Mr C was 50 was in the context of his questions. I think this caused Mr 
and Mrs C distress  and inconvenience when they found out they couldnt  rejoin  as the 
scheme was closed. I think BUPA should  pay Mr and Mrs C £200 to compensate  for this. I 
understand Mr and Mrs C feel that compensation should be higher than this based  on any 
potential financial losses but I dont agree. 
Mr and Mrs C said they might  have joined a different scheme if theyd known they couldnt  
rejoin their original scheme  and that they hadnt made any enquiries  because theyd been 
assured that they could rejoin the scheme.  They also said the understanding  was that they 
could only rejoin  the scheme if they didnt  join another scheme.
Its not for me to say whether it was reasonable  for Mr and Mrs C to not make enquires into 
any other schemes, Im only looking  at what BUPA might or might  not have done wrong. Mr 
and Mrs C asked BUPA for details about  the other scheme they might have joined.  BUPA  
doesnt hold this information back to 2001 but has shown that over the last six years  this 
scheme has provided a higher discount than Mr and Mrs C received in the voluntary 
scheme. But I dont think  that makes  a difference to the outcome of my decision as I dont 
think BUPA  is responsible  for any losses.
Ref: DRN80489413I think BUPA gave Mr and Mrs C information  based  on what  it knew  at the time and the 
information it provided was also correct at the time. I dont think  it could reasonably have 
foreseen that the scheme  would close to new joiners  over the next 16 years. So while I think 
BUPA could  have  provided a clearer timescale, I dont think  it would  be fair and reasonable 
for me to hold it responsible for Mr and Mrs C not joining  any other scheme.  Im also 
satisfied BUPA told Mr and Mrs C rejoining  would  depend on any discounts available  at the 
time so rejoining wouldnt have been on the exact same terms as they had previously. It 
follows that I think its fair for BUPA to say it would review Mr and Mrs Cs medical history  if 
they rejoined the scheme as them rejoining  would be on the new terms of the scheme and 
not the old one. 
Mr and Mrs C said theyd reached an agreement  with BUPA rather  than being given 
information. I can see Mr and Mrs C used the word agreement  when writing  to BUPA but I 
cant see that BUPA did the same. In any event that doesnt change my mind because  the 
confirmation BUPA gave  to Mr and Mrs C was correct at the time, it can make changes to its 
schemes and I dont think it reasonably would have foreseen the schemes  closure. It also 
confirmed in that letter that it would  be subject to any discounts  applicable at the time which  
suggested that there could be changes to the terms they were on at the time. 
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr and Mrs C were hoping for. But when taking account of 
other awards  this service makes for cases of similar seriousness I think £200 is a fair and 
reasonable amount for BUPA to pay Mr and Mrs C to compensate them  for the distress  and 
inconvenience caused in not providing a clearer timescale in 2001. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold this complaint and require BUPA Insurance  Limited to 
pay Mr and Mrs C £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it caused  them.
BUPA should pay this within  28 days  of Mr and Mrs C telling us they accept my final 
decision. If it pays later than this it should  add interest to that amount at 8% simple per year 
from the date of my decision to the date it makes  payment.1 
1 If BUPA considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs C how much its taken off. It should also give Mr and Mrs C a 
certificate showing  this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate. 
Ref: DRN80489414Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 April 2019.
Sarann Taylor
ombudsman
 
Ref: DRN8048941