K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont  refund  a disputed cash withdrawal made 
from his account. 
background
On 11 September  2018 a £200 cash withdrawal was made from Mr Ts account at an ATM.
The same day Mr T called Barclays to report that his wallet, containing his Barclays debit 
card, had been stolen from his room at the Bed and Breakfast (B&B) where he was living.  
On this call Barclays asked him about  transactions that had taken place that day and Mr T 
reported three as being fraudulent. Two online payments  to BSH Home  Appliance  and the 
ATM withdrawal. 
Mr T told the investigator that following the last genuine transaction to McDonalds at 6:38 
hed gone back  to his B&B and left his wallet there  whilst he went to visit his brother. He 
says he told the bank on many occasions that someone other than him must have keys to 
his room as hed previously noticed stuff being moved  around  and going missing. 
Mr T said his PIN was written down in his wallet due to his mental health condition. He 
believes someone broke into his B&B room, stole his wallet  and was able to carry out the 
withdrawal as his PIN was written down with his card. Mr T says he has reported this to 
the police. 
Barclays refunded the two online  transactions  but held Mr T liable for the ATM  withdrawal. 
It said that Mr T had either been  grossly negligent  by keeping his PIN in his wallet  or had 
authorised the withdrawal.  Barclays wasnt able to provide any CCTV due to the length of 
time that had passed. 
Mr T says Barclays have  discriminated  against  him because of his mental health condition 
by declining  his claim due to him having his PIN written down. He says the business 
shouldve been  aware of his condition due to him receiving Disability  Living Allowance  (DLA) 
into his account.  He believes Barclays shouldve flagged the transactions  as fraudulent, 
especially as he has had fraud occur on the account in the past.  
Our investigator looked into Mr Ts complaint, but she didnt uphold it. She looked at the 
circumstances around the withdrawal  and the way in which Mr T typically  used  his account 
and felt it was more likely than not Mr T authorised  the withdrawal  himself.
Mr T didnt  agree with the investigators opinion. He maintained the card and PIN had been 
compromised when  they were stolen  from his B&B and CCTV would  show it wasnt him who 
made the withdrawal.  He emphasised that he had his PIN written down because  of his mental 
health condition.  He asked for his complaint to be passed to an ombudsman for a decision. 
my findings
Im very sorry to hear what Mr T has been through  previously. Im conscious of this and the 
mental health conditions he is suffering from. I can never be certain  that what Mr T has told 
us isnt true, and he may indeed  be a victim of fraud  if this is the case,  he has my sincere 
sympathies  but rather than being certain,  I must make a finding  based on the balance  of 
probabilities. Ive therefore considered  all the available evidence  and arguments  to decide 
whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint and come  to a conclusion  
on what I think is most likely to have happened.
Ref: DRN81973162Having done so, my review of the evidence  has led me to the same overall conclusions as 
the investigator previously  set out and for much the same reasons. 
Generally, Barclays can hold Mr T liable for the disputed withdrawal if the evidence  suggests 
that its more likely than not that he made  or authorised them  himself. 
Im satisfied from the banks technical  evidence that Mr Ts genuine card and PIN were  used 
to make the disputed transactions.  But the regulations relevant to this case  say that is not, 
on its own, enough to enable Barclays to hold him liable. So, I also need  to think  about 
whether the evidence suggests that its more likely  than not that Mr T consented  to the 
withdrawals being  made.
Mr T says his wallet, containing his card and PIN, was stolen from his room by an unknown  
third party and this is how he believes the withdrawal was carried  out. However, Im not 
persuaded by this. In coming to this view, Ive taken into account the following reasons:
There was no balance  enquiry before the disputed  £200 withdrawal and no further 
attempt to use the card after this. The balance  on the account prior to the withdrawal 
was £209.27  without a balance enquiry  there would be no way for anyone  to have 
known this. Therefore,  it seems too coincidental  that only £200  was withdrawn. Although 
we cant predict how a fraudster would use a card on every occasion,  its fair to say it 
would be unusual  to see someone  go to the trouble of stealing someones wallet from 
their accommodation, to then only attempt one transaction.  
The transaction wasnt unusual when  compared  to how Mr T generally uses his account. 
For example, I can see on the transaction history  Mr T regularly  withdraws money from 
an ATM the day he receives  his benefit payment into the account. The amounts are 
often similar to the disputed withdrawal as well. 
The two online transactions to BSH Home Appliances  arent being considered under this 
complaint as Barclays refunded them. However,  Ive considered the mobile  banking  
activity around these. This shows Mr T logged into his mobile banking at 12:29  before 
the two online  transactions took place,  and then after at 15:35. I think its fair to conclude  
Mr T wouldve seen the balance on his account on both occasions when he logged in. If 
Mr T hadnt  authorised  the online transactions, I wouldve expected  him to have raised  
the discrepancy in his balance with Barclays. I note, when compared to the balance  on 
the account, that this wouldve been a large discrepancy of almost £150.  Yet Mr T didnt 
report anything  to Barclays  at that point. Although Im making no findings  on whether I 
think Mr T authorised the online  transactions, this inconsistency places  doubt  on Mr Ts 
version of events. 
 
In response to our investigators opinion, Mr T maintained that his PIN was in his wallet due 
to health reasons, and that he didnt  carry out the withdrawal himself. He says the CCTV 
would prove  that he didnt  put the card in the cash machine. Its possible that CCTV might 
have identified that someone  other than Mr T made the withdrawals. But Mr T didnt  have to 
make the withdrawals personally in order to be liable for them under the relevant rules.  He 
can still be held responsible for them  if he authorised  the use of his card. So even if CCTV 
had been available, looking at all of the evidence in this particular case, I dont think  I could 
be as sure as I would need  to be to say that Mr T wasnt involved.
Ref: DRN81973163Taking everything into account,  I find, on balance, that Mr T authorised the disputed 
withdrawal. It follows  that Barclays is entitled to hold him liable for it.
Mr T raised  the fact that Barclays shouldve notified him of the activity  on his account  
especially as hed been the victim  of fraud in the past. I have considered this point and I 
dont think that had Barclays flagged these transactions  to Mr T, it would have resulted in a 
different outcome. I say this because Im persuaded, he authorised  them. 
Mr T has also said that Barclays shouldve been aware of his condition  and pointed to the 
receipt of DLA into his account as an indicator of this. He says they have discriminated 
against him by rejecting his fraud claim due to him having the PIN written down. 
Banks are under an obligation  to protect  customers, especially vulnerable ones, from fraud.  I 
think Barclays had opportunities to learn more about  Mr Ts situation, especially as he has 
reported fraud on the account in the past.  However, up until 11 September the fraud  had 
only occurred in the form of online payments. So even if Barclays had asked Mr T more  
questions about  his situation,  I dont  think they necessarily wouldve discovered  that he had 
his PIN written down  with the card. So its unlikely they couldve done anything to prevent 
this from happening.  
But importantly in Mr Ts case, Im satisfied  he more likely than not authorised the 
transactions. Therefore, it isnt relevant as to whether Mr T had his PIN written down or not, 
as I dont believe this is what led to the transactions  debiting  the account.  In turn I havent 
seen anything to suggest Barclays has discriminated against Mr T in the way they handled 
his fraud  claim.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint against Barclays  Bank  UK PLC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 March  2020.
Sarah Brimacombe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8197316