K820x#14complaint
Mr Hs unhappy with Bank of Scotland plcs service and the way its dealt with him.
   
background
Mr H tried transferring money  online  but his account was blocked. He says he spent a lot of 
time on the phone to Bank of Scotlands  customer services but was told to go to a branch to 
get the block lifted. He did so but was kept waiting and told he needed  identification. He 
visited the branch  again but the block wasnt lifted as hed been promised. He says he was 
inconvenienced and given conflicting information. Hes been given £20 compensation but 
wants £148 more  for his time and the expenses hes incurred. 
Bank of Scotland said in its final response that the account terms and conditions say it can 
close an account at any time without  the need for an explanation. It gave Mr H 65 days  
notice that it would be closing his accounts  on 24 March 2018. His account was blocked on 
18 January 2018.  It told Mr H on the phone and in a letter that if his accounts have credit 
balances, he could  visit any branch with identification to withdraw the funds. Its paid £20 
compensation for this. 
Our investigator felt this complaint  shouldnt be upheld.  She said:
In January 2018 Bank of Scotland  spoke to Mr H and sent him a letter to his correct 
address saying it was ending  their relationship with him in 65 days time on 24 March 
2018. The letter explained this and that hed need  to go into a branch with 
identification to withdraw money.  He was also told this on the phone. His accounts 
were blocked on 18 January  2018.
There was a difficult call on 19 November 2018 but the banks  representative wasnt 
rude and didnt imply Mr H was lying. Mr H also said hed memory problems but bank 
of Scotland wouldnt have  known this. 
It wasnt ideal for Mr H to have to visit a branch  but Bank of Scotland had told him 
this would happen in January 2018. For this reason the £20 compensation is fair and 
she will not be asking it to do anything  further.
Mr H doesnt agree and has asked for an ombudsman review.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Bank of Scotland says it originally  ended its relationship with Mr H in 2016 when his 
accounts were closed and he was told he could  no longer bank with it. Subsequently in 2017 
he opened some  new accounts. When Bank of Scotland realised this, Mr Hs accounts  were 
blocked and It gave him 65 days  notice of their closure.
Bank of Scotland is entitled to decide  who it wishes to deal with and to end a relationship  if it 
wishes to do so. 
Ref: DRN82130782Bank of Scotland told Mr H of the account closures  in a letter and on the phone. Its 
unfortunate if Mr H didnt receive the letter but Im satisfied, on balance  that it was sent to his 
correct address. And its not Bank of Scotlands fault if he didnt receive it.
Whatever happened to the letter Bank  of Scotland also passed on this information to Mr H 
on the phone. Mr H later said he has memory  problems but the bank wouldnt have known 
this at the relevant times.
Bank of Scotland also told Mr H how to withdraw his money in a branch and that to do so 
hed need identification. That wasnt particularly convenient for Mr H and Bank of Scotland 
has paid him £20 to reflect the problems had in branch  in trying to do so.
Taking everything into account  I think Bank  of Scotland  has acted in line with the accounts 
terms and conditions and has treated  Mr H fairly. I also think  its payment of £20 
compensation is reasonable in all the circumstances.
Mr H says the banks  representative  was rude in a later phone call and that she implied he 
was a liar. But I agree with the adjudicator  that this doesnt appear to have been the case. 
Although he clearly had strong opinions which he expressed forcefully  and at length, I think 
the representative dealt with him politely and appropriately in that call.
Overall although  I recognise  Mr Hs strength of feeling and frustration,  I dont think  I can fairly  
or reasonably ask Bank  of Scotland to do any more including paying Mr H another £148 
compensation for the time hes spent dealing with it and towards his expenses  of travelling to 
the branch.
And I dont  see any compelling reason to change  the proposed outcome in this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 April 2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8213078