K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading at the time of sale as Halifax)  mis-sold him a 
mortgage payment  protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
background
Mr M bought  a regular  premium MPPI  policy that started in October 2006. He purchased the 
policy during a meeting with an advisor  from Halifax in one of its branches. MPPI was sold with 
critical illness cover and life cover, within one product that Halifax called a Total Mortgage 
Protection Plan (TMPP). It was arranged that for the PPI part of the policy it would  cover  him 
against accidents, sickness and unemployment.
Mr M has made a separate complaint about the critical illness  cover part of the policy. So 
because of this, I am not looking into that. I will be looking  into whether the MPPI part of the 
policy was mis-sold. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr Ms complaint. As Mr M doesnt agree  with the adjudicators  
opinion, the complaint has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive 
taken this into account in deciding Mr Ms case.
Ive looked at all of the information provided by both parties and decided not to uphold  Mr Ms 
complaint because of the following reasons:
Halifax has been unable to provide much of the sales documentation that was used  at 
the time of sale. There is little information available and so I cant be sure how the policy 
was presented by an advisor from Halifax to Mr M during the meeting and Ive not been 
able to see most of the original sales documentation (such as the agreement  or 
application form). So its been  difficult for me to consider whether Mr M was given a 
choice or not as to whether he should  have the MPPI policy.
But Im not aware of any known issues with the way Halifax sold these policies  around  
this time. Ive also not been able to obtain a detailed recollection of what happened in 
the meeting at the time of sale. This is understandable considering the amount of time 
that has passed. So, I cannot  fairly conclude on this occasion that the policy  was sold in 
the way Mr M says it was. I just havent seen enough on this occasion  to make that 
conclusion. 
Moving on, Halifax has said it recommended the MPPI to Mr M during the meeting and 
so, as this puts additional  responsibilities  on the business, I will proceed that this was the 
case. So as it did recommend the MPPI policy to Mr M, it had to ensure during the sale 
that the policy was suitable for Mr Ms needs.  
Ref: DRN81624752After reviewing the very limited  information, it doesnt look as if the MPPI policy was 
unsuitable for Mr M based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. The policy 
would have paid in addition to any savings Mr M would  have  had. So the benefit would 
have been of use to Mr M during a difficult time as he could have used his provisions to 
pay for other  expenses.  I think,  on balance, Mr M had a need  for this cover for any 
extended period of unemployment or sickness. I also couldnt find any other  reason such  
as a significant or limiting  term that would  make the policy unsuitable for him either.
Halifax has provided some information about the costs relating to the MPPI  policy  that 
Mr M took out but even though it has provided information detailing  the cover  and how 
much it cost,  I cannot be sure that these costs  were disclosed to Mr M in a clear and fair 
way at the time of sale. That said, even if they were disclosed clearly I dont think Mr M 
would have done anything different and decided against having the policy for the 
reasons that I have  already given  for the policy being suitable.
Its possible Halifax didnt point out the main  things the policy  didnt cover. But its unlikely 
Mr M wouldve been affected by any of these.
I understand this will come as a disappointment  but in conclusion  I do not uphold Mr Ms 
complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 August 2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8162475