K821x#15complaint
Mrs S complains that Saga Services Limited  breached data protection law when her friend 
was added to her travel insurance policy. My references to Saga include its agents.
background
Mrs S took out travel insurance thorough Saga to cover a trip. She was travelling with a 
friend who Ill refer to as Mrs X. Saga arranges  and administers the policy through  its agents.
Before the trip Mrs Xs daughter phoned Saga and added Mrs X to Mrs S travel  insurance 
policy. Mrs Xs daughter paid the additional  premium.
Mrs S says she didnt consent to Mrs X being  added  to her policy and only found  out when 
she received new policy  documents with Mrs Xs name added. Mrs S complained to Saga 
that it breached  data protection  law by not asking Mrs Xs daughter  strong enough security 
questions to access her policy and not asking  for her direct consent  for Mrs X to be added.  
She said Saga actions  had badly affected her friendship with Mrs X and caused her a lot of 
distress.
Saga removed Mrs X from the policy but said it hadnt done anything wrong. It said it had 
adhered to its data protection  requirements.  It had asked Mrs Xs daughter its standard  
security questions and she confirmed she had Mrs S consent  to add Mrs X to the policy.  
Saga then gave  Mrs S a password for dealing  with the policy  for extra  security.  It also 
offered her £20 compensation  which she rejected.
Mrs S complained to us. Our investigator  thought Saga should  pay Mrs S £50 compensation 
for her distress  and inconvenience Sagas actions caused.
  
Mrs S agreed with our investigators recommendation. Saga didnt agree and wanted an 
ombudsmans decision. It also queried  why we were looking at a complaint about  handling  
data which  it said should be considered  by the Information Commissioners  Office  (ICO).
Before I made my decision:
 I told Saga I would not be making  a finding as to whether or not it had breached  data 
protection law or regulations, which the ICO regulates. I would decide if Saga acted 
fairly and reasonably  in all the circumstances taking into account  the relevant law, 
regulations and guidance. I asked  if Saga required a jurisdiction decision as to 
whether we could  consider the complaint,  and if so for its comments as to why 
I couldnt consider  the complaint. Saga replied that it didnt require a jurisdiction 
decision.
 I asked Saga  for evidence of how it complied with data protection law and regulation 
requirements by not asking Mrs S directly for her consent and relying on the caller 
saying Mrs S had given consent.  Saga  replied  that it asked appropriate security 
questions in the call and Mrs S' daughter was able to provide all the information 
requested without difficulty. It also said Mrs S daughter  confirmed she had her 
mother's permission  to call and there was no indication  in the call that she was acting 
against her mother's wishes.
 I asked Saga  whether its £20 compensation offer to Mrs S was a goodwill gesture 
and whether she received the money. Saga said the £20 was offered for the 
inconvenience caused, which hadnt  been  paid.
Ref: DRN84708822my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Saga has said it doesnt want a jurisdiction decision about whether  we can look at Mrs S 
complaint. For the avoidance of doubt, we can look at the complaint. But as Ive said above, 
I wont be making a finding  as to whether or not Saga breached data protection  law or 
regulations. The ICO regulates the data protection law and regulation requirements. My role 
is to decide if Saga  acted fairly  and reasonably  in all the circumstances  taking into account 
the relevant law, regulations and guidance.  
I uphold this complaint.  Saga must pay Mrs S £50 compensation  in total for her distress and 
inconvenience. Ill explain  why.
Ive listened to the relevant call which was between Saga  and Mrs Xs daughter. The call 
wasnt with Mrs S daughter, as Saga now suggests.  
In the call Saga asked  Mrs Xs daughter for Mrs S name, address and postcode and policy  
number, which she gave.  She told Saga that Mrs S had given  her the details and that she 
had Mrs S' consent  to add Mrs X to Mrs S policy. Mrs S has been adamant  from the start of 
her complaint that she didnt give Mrs Xs daughter consent to deal with her policy.  
This isnt a case where Saga  didnt ask any security questions or failed to ask about 
consent. But Im concerned that Sagas response to my question  about consent was on the 
basis that the call had been  with Mrs S daughter. That clearly wasnt  the case. I dont think  
Sagas response  has given me a satisfactory reply to my question  to it about consent.
In addition, Saga has told me that its £20 compensation  offer was for Mrs S' inconvenience. 
So even though Saga  thinks  it didnt do anything wrong it has already acknowledged that its 
actions caused  Mrs S inconvenience  and offered compensation.
In all of the circumstances of this case, I think its reasonable  for me to consider if Sagas 
offer was a fair and reasonable  amount for the inconvenience it caused. Mrs S has detailed  
how her friendship and holiday with Mrs X were badly affected  by Sagas actions. I dont 
think Sagas £20 offer was enough. Mrs S has accepted our investigators  recommendation 
of £50 and I think  thats a reasonable  amount  in total.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require Saga  Services Limited to pay Mrs S £50 compensation in 
total for the distress and inconvenience its actions caused within 28 days of us telling it that 
Mrs S accepts my final decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 September  2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8470882