K820x#14complaint
Mr H says Nationwide Building  Society  (NBS) mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr H bought the policy in 2002 at the same  time as taking out a loan. He applied  for the loan 
and PPI policy over the phone. 
The policys  one-off upfront  premium of £120.39  was paid in advance  by being added  to the 
loan (a single premium)  where it attracted interest  over the term of the loan. The loan was 
repayable over a 12-month term and the policy term matched that of the loan.  The monthly 
loan repayment  was £173.63  with the PPI costing  an additional £10.45 making  the total 
monthly repayment £184.08.  
The policy provided  cover  for Mr H for accident, sickness,  unemployment and life  subject 
to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay Mr Hs monthly  loan repayment  for up to 
the remaining  term in the event of a successful disability claim and 12 months  in the event of 
unemployment. 
At the time,  Mr H was as a project  manager. He has told us he was entitled  to a minimum of 
six months employee sick pay if he was too unwell to work.  He didnt have any other 
financial means he could  have relied upon to make  the loan repayments  if he wasnt able to 
work. Mr H has told us he was entitled  to redundancy pay. Mr H has said he was in good  
health at the time of the sale. 
NBS has sent us screenshots to show that the loan account closed in 2003.
Mr Hs representative has made lengthy and substantial representations on his behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr Hs representative says:
NBS failed to meet  the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  APP 3, it should be presumed  Mr H wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr Hs representatives 
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means NBS should  have told 
Mr H about the poor value; 
The cancellation terms  were  unfair;
Ref: DRN86950512The common law duty of utmost good faith also means NBS should  have explained  
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr H and the impact  they 
would have had on his chances of making a claim; and
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr H disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Hs. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here, but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Hs complaint
This sale took place  in 2002 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated in January 2005.  So, the FSAs  (and FCAs) overarching  Principles for Businesses 
and insurance  conduct  rules  (ICOB and ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint, nor is the 
FCAs Perimeter guidance  (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2003. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC code, which  set out minimum standards of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
NBS, selling insurance at this time:
Ref: DRN86950513The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
 
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like NBS at the time. So, Im satisfied I should  take the ABI code and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr Hs case.  
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost  duty of good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Building  Societies 
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Building  Societies  Ombudsmans terms of reference  the Ombudsman  
was required to decide complaints by reference to what  was, in his opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances.
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so NBS 
was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Mr Hs complaint.  
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If NBS gave advice,  whether it advised  Mr H with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him, given his needs  
and circumstances.  
-Whether NBS gave Mr H sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to enable him 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including drawing to 
his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
Ref: DRN86950514-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr H, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr H suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr H and NBS, 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Hs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Mr H know  he had a choice?
NBS had to make it clear  that the PPI policy was optional. 
As Ive explained above, Mr H applied for the personal loan and PPI over the phone and 
NBS says he was subsequently sent a credit  agreement  to sign  this set out what was 
agreed during  the call. There isnt a recording of the call which I dont find surprising bearing 
in mind the length of time since the sale. But it does mean I have limited information  about 
the sale  so I must decide what I think is reasonable  based  on the available evidence.
Ive seen a copy  of Mr Hs credit agreement and this shows the PPI described as Optional  
Credit Insurance.  So had Mr H not known the PPI was optional during the call with the NBS 
representative, I would have expected him to question this on receipt of his credit  agreement 
 which  clearly highlighted the optional nature of the PPI. Mr H has signed this agreement 
confirming the selection made prior to the loan and PPI being set up. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr H knew the policy was optional  
and he agreed  to take it out without undue pressure. 
did NBS provide advice?
NBS says that it didnt  provide advice during the sale, and Mr H hasnt said either  way 
whether advice was provided. Looking at what happened when NBS sold Mr H the PPI, Im 
not persuaded that it provided  advice. I say this because I havent seen any evidence  that 
NBS sought details of Mr Hs wider financial circumstances to assess suitability of the policy  
or that it gave him a tailored recommendation to give the PPI. And Mr H hasnt given  me any 
alternative recollections to consider and that would make me think differently.
This means  NBS didnt  have to check if the PPI was suitable  for Mr H. Instead,  it had to give 
him sufficient, appropriate and timely  information to enable Mr H to make an informed choice 
about whether  to take out the policy, including drawing to his attention and highlighting  in a 
clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of the policy and significant 
limitations and exclusions.  
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr H was given a broad description of what the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect his payments if Mr H was 
unable to work through accident,  sickness and unemployment.)  I have reached this 
conclusion because this was set out on the credit agreement  he signed (which  I think likely 
reflected the conversation he had with the NBS representative on the phone). And while I 
cant know what was discussed during  the phone call I think Mr H knew that the single 
premium being added to the loan was £120.39, the interest added to the premium was 
Ref: DRN86950515£5.01, the total cost was £125.40 and the monthly  cost was £10.45  (as this information  was, 
in my view,  sufficiently clear on the loan agreement Mr H signed). 
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  NBS gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit - or about the exclusions or limitations before   
Mr H agreed to take out the policy. 
So, I dont think NBS gave Mr H sufficient,  appropriate and timely  information to enable  him 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including drawing his 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.  
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Hs representative has raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Hs. Ive considered  
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr Hs representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr H about  the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Hs representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr H has suggested. And taking into account  the law, industry  codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that NBS ought to have done  either. 
What effect did NBSs shortcomings  have on Mr H? To what extent  did Mr H suffer  
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that NBS didnt do all it should  have done  when  it sold this policy to Mr H. So, Ive 
gone on to consider whether it would  be fair and reasonable to conclude  Mr H suffered loss 
and damage as a result.  To answer  this, I must  decide whether or not Mr H would have still 
taken out the policy,  had NBS done  things properly.  
Mr H says he would not have taken it out and believes I should presume this to be the case 
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Ref: DRN86950516As this was a non-advised sale, Mr H had to weigh up in his own minds  the cost of the policy  
against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if he didnt insure against the 
risk of being  unable  to work. 
As Ive found above, Mr H chose to take this policy out. So, I consider that its reasonable to 
conclude he had some  interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But he made 
this decision based  on incomplete information.  So, what  Mr H thought he was getting is not 
exactly what he got. The extent to which this differed is a relevant consideration when 
determining if Mr H has suffered any loss or detriment.  
As Ive already  said, while Mr H might  not have been clearly given the cost information 
during the phone call, the information Mr H was given  in the credit agreement which followed 
the call  and which required  his signature  before the loan the PPI started  was clear. So 
overall, Im not persuaded Mr H would have  found the cost unacceptable if he had been 
given all of the cost information during the phone call in which  he agreed to the policy.  If he 
had found it unacceptable, I would have expected him to have raised  this on receipt of the 
credit agreement which set this out clearly to him.
Im not persuaded NBS made clear exactly what Mr H would  get back  in return  in the event 
he made a successful claim. But I think its unlikely Mr Hs expectations about what the policy  
would pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient to meet  his loan payments)  were  
significantly different to what the policy  actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr H thought he had bought and 
what he actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  condition or disease  which  Mr H knew  
of or should  reasonably have known  of on the start date. Or any medical condition or 
disease for which he received treatment, advice or was refer for investigation during 
the 12 months before the start date and which recurred within  12 months of the start 
date; 
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr H 
wasnt a permanent employee.
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mr H pause for thought  and may well have caused  him to conclude  that the policy 
wasnt as good  as he thought, and he might have decided not to proceed.  The limitations on 
the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might have dissuaded 
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr H from taking out the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr Hs circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy  
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. He was eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable to him 
should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence to suggest 
he wouldve been  caught by any of the significant  exclusions   Mr H didnt have any pre-
existing medical conditions and was in permanent employment. So, I still think he had some 
good reasons  to take the policy  out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr H would have  
Ref: DRN86950517expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some  evidence to 
support that claim.
To make a disability claim, Mr H needed  to be unable to do any work as certified  by a doctor. 
I dont think this is likely to be too different to what he would have expected  to make a claim.  
After all, the policy provided cover if Mr H couldnt  work due to accident, sickness or 
unemployment. So, it seems unlikely he would have thought  hed been  able to make a 
successful claim  if was still working.
The policy did provide  a pro-rata refund if it was cancelled  early, so the policy provided 
flexibility if Mr H decided to repay the loan early  and cancel the policy.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr H would still have taken out the policy. The policy was sufficiently close  to what  
its likely  he thought he was getting  and provided  benefits that would  help him manage the 
consequences were  Mr H made redundant, or unable  to work through accident or disability. 
In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not that Mr H would  have taken out the 
policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr Hs representatives say the rules  about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr H would  not have bought the PPI he bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted  
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr Hs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr H 
found himself in as result  of the sale was the same  position he would  have been  in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr H believes  the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr H in the position he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
Ref: DRN86950518That is because,  while I accept its possible he wouldnt have taken out the policy, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that he would  still have taken 
out the PPI had he been given clear,  fair and not misleading information about the policy he 
was buying.
So, Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those circumstances, to conclude 
NBS should pay Mr H compensation, as that would put him in a better position than he 
would have been in if everything  had happened as it should have done.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Hs representative  says a court might take if it were 
to find NBS had been in breach of its duty of utmost good faith. But this doesnt persuade me 
to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the circumstances of this case. For 
the reasons Ive already  set out I dont  think  it would be fair and reasonable to put Mr H in a 
better position than if everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 March 2021.
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8695051