K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains about problems hes had using internet banking  to access his current 
account with TSB Bank plc. He says these problems caused  him to lose out on a financial 
opportunity.
background
In April 2018 TSB upgraded its systems. It encountered significant  difficulties during this 
process, and a number  of customers  were affected  by the problems it experienced at this 
time. 
Mr K had a current account with TSB.  As a result  of the difficulties above, he was unable  to 
use internet banking and spent a considerable amount of time speaking with TSB on the 
phone to try and resolve issues.  Mr K hasnt lived in the UK for several years, and continues 
to be unable to use internet  banking to manage his account. 
Mr K complained about the issues he was experiencing. TSB looked into his concerns. It 
couldnt identify  any ongoing issues which prevented Mr K from accessing internet banking   
so it couldnt do anything to specifically fix the issue he was experiencing. However, it 
offered £250 for the trouble and upset the matter  had caused him and £50 for the telephone 
costs he incurred. 
Mr K wasnt  happy with this offer as he was still experiencing difficulties using internet 
banking. He also queried certain payments  on his credit  card and said he didnt recognise 
them.  
One of our investigators  looked into Mr Ks concerns. She said that in relation to the 
transactions on his credit  card,  TSB had already directed  Mr K to its fraud  team  but he 
hadnt made any contact.  She said that he had spoken to TSB about  the balance  on his 
credit card, and when  he was told what that balance  was for, he didnt query  the purchases. 
If he was now saying  that those purchases werent made by him, he needed  to contact TSB 
again. 
She next looked  into the difficulties Mr K continued  experiencing with internet banking. 
During her investigation TSB confirmed:
In previous cases of customers living abroad, TSB had found that errors in accessing  
internet banking were  due to language settings on the devices being  used  by those 
customers. 
It said its services  were designed for users living in the UK. Had Mr K being living  in 
the UK the issue  wouldve  been  easier to identify and potentially  resolve.  
In this case, it couldnt identify any system  issues which  were  preventing  or 
hampering Mr Ks access to internet banking. 
It provided a possible  work  around for Mr Ks system issues but maintained that it 
couldnt be held responsible for these issues as they werent caused by its system. 
The investigator concluded that TSB didnt need  to do anymore to put things right for Mr K. 
She considered the issues Mr K was having with internet  banking  werent in fact being  
caused by TSB, and she thought that it was more likely  than not that these issues  were  
being caused by Mr K being located abroad  or the devices he was using. She didnt think  it 
would be fair to ask TSB to compensate Mr K for the investment opportunities he said he lost 
Ref: DRN86582892because she didnt  consider shed seen  sufficient information to demonstrate, on balance,  
that Mr K wouldve invested but for the internet banking difficulties he experienced. 
Mr K didnt agree. In short:
The technical problem  wasnt  his problem. He said he had done everything that had 
been asked of him but the problem still wasnt fixed. He said he thought  that TSB 
werent interested in international customers and thats why there werent  helping  him 
fix the issue. 
He said that he had evidence he had previously  invested in two bitcoin investment 
companies, and he still had money with them. 
In terms of the transactions on his card, as he couldnt check  his statement online,  he 
didnt know about them  at the time. 
The investigator reconsidered her findings in light of Mr Ks comments, but didnt think he 
had raised anything to cause  her to change them. She explained  that TSB was a UK based 
bank and their systems  were designed  for use in the UK. She said that its terms and 
conditions confirmed that there might be problems accessing internet banking for customers 
trying to access internet  banking outside the UK. She also said that evidence  of having 
previously invested  in bitcoin wouldnt be sufficient to conclude,  on balance,  that he wouldve 
invested at the time he said he would have. She said that shed need some sort of evidence 
that showed that at the time he wanted to invest he had contacted TSB about it or the 
investment company itself. In relation to the credit card transactions, she invited Mr K to 
contact TSB again about this. 
As agreement couldnt be reached the case was passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
investigator and for essentially  the same reasons. 
I should start by saying  that in this decision I make no comment on the transactions  Mr K 
says he is disputing on his credit card. If Mr K wishes  to pursue this, he will need  to contact 
TSBs fraud  team in order to allow TSB an opportunity  to investigate his concerns properly. 
In relation to the other issues Mr K has complained about, Im afraid  I dont have much  to 
add to what the investigator  has already  said. 
I dont agree with Mr K that TSB hasnt tried to resolve his internet banking issues. In fact I 
can see it has made several internal enquiries,  including of its IT team,  to try and establish  
whether the issues  he was experiencing were in fact caused  by its system. 
It has provided different  possible work arounds  for Mr K to try and has suggested different 
settings or browsers that might help. 
Mr K has said that despite all of this, he is still experiencing the same problems accessing 
internet banking. Whilst I sympathise with the frustration  this is no doubt  causing Mr K, I 
need to decide on balance whether I consider TSB has treated Mr K unfairly   and in 
particular, whether its systems are causing the issues Mr K is experiencing. Having looked at 
the evidence,  Im not persuaded  that TSB is responsible for these issues.  I think  its more  
Ref: DRN86582893likely than not that the fact Mr K is living abroad in a non-English speaking country is the 
cause of his internet banking problems. Thats not something I can hold TSB responsible for. 
In relation to Mr Ks claim that he missed  out on a possible investment opportunity  in April 
2018, Im also not persuaded  it would  be fair to ask TSB to compensate him for that. I say 
this because, whilst I accept Mr K had previously invested in bitcoin and may well have 
considered doing so again, Ive seen insufficient evidence to persuade  me that the TSB IT 
migration issues prevented him from investing.  Ultimately, internet banking wasnt  the only 
way Mr K could make  an investment if he wanted to  he could have called and given  an 
instruction over the phone, or transferred money  from his TSB account  to a different account  
and made  the investment in that way. Ive seen no evidence that he attempted  these, or any 
other, alternatives. 
For all these reasons, I consider TSBs  payment of £250 plus £50 for expenses to be fair 
and reasonable compensation for the issues he did experience at the time of the IT 
migration  including the delay in handling  his concerns. But I dont consider it ought  to pay 
Mr K any further compensation. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2020.
Alessandro Pulzone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8658289