K820x#14complaint
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Ms C says FICL mis-sold her a payment  protection  insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out alongside a store  card in 1994 it was sold in 
store.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Ms C disagreed with the adjudicators opinion
so the complaint has been passed to me. Ms C said, in summary,  that we couldnt say that 
she wasnt pressurised into taking the PPI. She said she felt the shop assistants werent 
properly trained to deal with this. She also said she didnt need PPI because she was living 
with her partner and there was another salary coming into the house.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Cs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Ms Cs complaint and Ill explain why.
FICL had to make Ms C aware  that the PPI was optional and get her consent before adding  
PPI. I dont know what was said at the time the policy was sold, but FICL has provided a 
copy of Ms Cs store card application  form. 
The form had a separate section for PPI and the option to take PPI was selected.  Ms Cs 
signed the application form. Ms C said she felt pressurised into taking  out the PPI in a busy  
shop. 
As some of the evidence is either incomplete or contradictory, Ive made  a decision on what  I 
think is most likely  to have happened   based on whats available. Based  on the limited 
information Ive got, I cant fairly find that more  likely  than not pressure was put on Ms C to 
take out the PPI. I think it equally likely, from what  Ive seen, that she was given the option  of 
taking PPI and decided to do so. As our adjudicator explained this is a very subjective area, 
and whilst Ms C mightve felt under some pressure  because  the store was busy, that doesnt 
necessarily meant that the business  was pressuring her into taking  out PPI.
Also, as Ms C was signing an important financial document it wouldve been reasonable to 
expect her to take the time she needed  to read over the form before signing it. The 
paperwork made it clear that PPI was optional. So I think its likely FICL made it clear that 
Ms C didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to take it out.
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Ms C so it didnt  have  to check  if it was right for her. But it 
did have to make sure Ms C got clear information  so she could make  and informed  choice 
and decide if it was right for her.
Ref: DRN83394632Its possible the information FICL gave Ms C about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve 
been. Ms C has told us she wouldve got between  8-13 weeks  worth  of sick pay from her 
employer and had no savings. The PPI would have paid on top of Ms Cs sick pay and 
possibly for longer than her work benefits. Ms C said her partner couldve helped  with her 
repayments. I accept  her partner may have wanted  to, but help of this kind cant  always be 
guaranteed when the time comes, so I havent  placed much reliance on this. Overall, I still 
think the PPI could have been  useful to her.
 
Based on what Ive seen  of Ms Cs circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover. As she couldve  benefitted  
from everything the policy offered, I dont think having better information about these things 
wouldve affected her decision take out PPI. It also looks  like the PPI was affordable and she 
couldve cancelled it at any time. I cant see that Ms C has lost out because of anything  that 
FICL did wrong, so I dont  uphold this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Ms Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 February  2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8339463