K820x#14complaint
Mr B is unhappy with the service provided  by Easi-Drive Limited when arranging for repairs 
to his car following a road traffic accident.
background
In August  2018  Mr Bs car was involved in road traffic accident.  Easi-Drive arranged for 
repairs to be carried out. When Mr Bs car was returned to him, he found several issues with 
the repair work. Easi-Drive arranged  for a post-repair inspection (PRI) to take place so that 
the issues could  be investigated by an independent engineer. 
A PRI took place on 2 December  with Engineer N. The PRI report  found that Mr B had 
raised three  key issues with the repairs- bonnet alignment, front bumper paint respray,  and 
the right hand  side lamp  lens not matching the left. 
Following the PRI, Engineer N found  that that the bonnet is misaligned  a further alignment 
attempt should  be made The engineer also found  that for the front bumper  a tinted 
ground coat was required.  The engineer also reported that the lens fitted was supplied to 
the correct part number supplied by [car maker].
Mr B was unhappy with these findings.  Easi-Drive arranged for a second PRI to take place 
with Engineer E on 8 January 2019. At the time of inspection the engineer  recorded  six 
defects presented to him, relating to the bonnet  not securing in lock, poor paintwork, and 
scratches. The engineer  found eight faults  relating  to the bonnet lock, cleanliness, and a 
headlamp not being aligned correctly. 
Mr B told Easi-Drive  that hed like his own garage  to complete the repair  work to his car. Mr 
B was asked  to provide an estimate for the work identified  by Engineer E. On 21 January  Mr 
B supplied  Easi-Drive with an estimate  invoice showing the total costs amounting to 
£2,176.76. Engineer E reviewed this estimate  and amended it to reflect total costs 
amounting to £1,396.76. The reason for the change was because  Engineer E removed the 
repair work included  for near side door and panel,  and glass  removal, saying that this was 
outside of the scope  of the original  claim.  The estimate also didnt include the cost of the 
recovery charge, saying this wasnt a fair charge to include. 
Mr B complained to Easi-Drive about  the amendments  to the estimate  prepared  by his 
garage, saying  that the actual cost of repairs was more than what Easi-Drive had offered. 
Easi-Drive said the estimate  had been  agreed  with Engineer E, and theyd  acted reasonably 
by relying on this. In their final response  letter of 19 February 2019 Easi-Drive offered a cash  
in lieu payment of £1,400 to Mr B, and offered to reimburse the cost of the recovery charge 
of £120. Mr B was unhappy with this response, and brought his complaint  to the Claims 
Management Ombudsman (a Financial Ombudsman service)  for investigation.  
The investigator discussed the complaint with Mr B, and identified three main outstanding  
areas of concern relating  to a mismatched headlight,  incorrect  front indicator, and the bonnet 
release cable. The investigator found that it was more likely  than not that the headlight fitted  
was the correct part as found  by Engineer N. The investigator recommended that Mr B 
provide Easi-Drive with an estimate for the cost of a smoked indicator, for Engineer E to 
review. The investigator found  that the cash in lieu payment included  the cost of a bonnet  
release cable. 
Ref: DRN84628942Mr B rejected these  findings saying Even if years down the line I try to sell, I wont be able 
to, car has been off the road for two years due to poor workmanship. All I want  is a pair of 
headlights that match, so I can have my car the way it was prior to the accident. As the 
complaint couldnt  be resolved it was passed  to me for decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having reviewed the evidence  I broadly 
agree with the investigators findings  and outcome on this complaint. I can understand this is 
likely to come as a disappointment  to Mr B but I hope my findings go some  way in explaining  
why Ive reached this decision.
The investigator concluded If Mr B does  instruct  an independent engineer to look at his car 
to confirm whether  the work  carried  out falls within the standards  set, he should forward this 
report to Easi-Drive. Easi- Drive should then allow  [Engineer  E] to consider the report  and 
provide comments. I dont think Mr B needs to take these actions for reasons explained in 
my findings.  As Mr B rejected the investigators findings I dont believe this difference in 
opinion affects  the overall  outcome of the complaint. So Ive issued a final decision. 
Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent  commented on any specific  
point its because I dont  believe its affected  what I think  is the right outcome.
An engineers professional opinion  is generally  regarded as an impartial  and independent 
view. An engineers professional duty is to the Court- not the business instructing them, or 
the customer. Because of this, generally wed say its fair for an accident management 
company to rely on this evidence when dealing with a claim.
Mismatched headlight  
In response to the investigators findings, Mr B commented that the mismatched headlight  
was his most  concerning outstanding issue. To investigate this complaint Ive considered  
what was discussed  about the headlight with the engineer during the repair process. 
Mr B says the headlight fitted to his car isnt a manufacturer  approved  part. Because  of this, 
it has affected the value, and enjoyment,  of his car. Engineer N found that the garage had 
fitted the correct  part number. Mr B disputed Engineer Ns findings, and Easi-Drive agreed  to 
instruct a second  engineer, Engineer  E. But I cant see that the mismatched headlight was 
on the list of defects shown to Engineer E at the time of inspection. 
During discussion with the investigator about  Engineer E inspecting his car, Mr B explained  
The engineer that came out, in one of the letters he states all the bad bits he doesnt state 
the actual headlight because at the time I did point it out, whether he heard what  I said, Im 
not sure That £1,400  doesnt even cover  the headlights, the headlight comes in at £2,300  
plus VAT for one light. 
Ive considered the estimate invoice prepared  by Mr Bs garage after Engineer E agreed 
additional rectification work was required.  I cant see that Mr Bs estimate invoice included a 
headlight as described by Mr B, matching the cost and description he has explained. Wed 
expect an engineer to consider damage  pointed out by a customer.  Engineers  Es report 
doesnt support  Mr Bs comments  about the headlight issue being raised at the time of 
Ref: DRN84628943inspection. But I also cant see any evidence of Mr B putting this cost to the engineer  for 
consideration in the estimate prepared  by his garage on 21 January 2019.  
With the evidence  available, I dont think on balance I can say that Easi-Drive  have acted 
unfairly in investigating Mr Bs concerns  with the headlight. It appears that this issue  was 
highlighted with Engineer  N, a report Mr B later disagreed with. Following agreement from 
Mr B, a second engineer was instructed, Engineer E. But theres  no evidence of Engineer E 
inspecting the issue with the headlight,  or of Mr B including this in the estimate invoice  
prepared for further  rectification work that needed doing. 
For these reasons I think Easi-Drive acted  reasonably in investigating  Mr Bs concerns by 
arranging for two separate PRIs to take place, and basing their decision for additional work 
using the independent  engineers report completed  by Engineer E. So I wont be asking 
Easi-Drive to do anything  in settlement of this complaint. 
Incorrect indicator
Mr B says that the indicator  fitted  to his car included a clear  lens, when it shouldve been  
smoked. Mr B said this mismatch has impacted on the value,  and enjoyment,  of his car. 
I cant see that the issue of the mismatched indicator was included  as part of the PRI carried 
out by Engineer N, or Engineer E. I have  seen that when Mr Bs garage  prepared the 
estimate invoice for Engineer E to consider,  this included  a OSF indicator lens for £44. Ive 
seen that after reviewing the invoice  prepared by Mr Bs garage,  Engineer E made no 
changes to this cost, and it was included as part of the cash  in lieu payment. Although  it 
doesnt appear to be damage noted by Engineer E at the time of inspection,  Easi-Drive 
included this cost in the cash in lieu payment.  Because of this I dont think  Easi-Drive  need 
to do anymore in settlement  of this complaint. 
Bonnet release cable 
Mr B says there is a gap in the bonnet,  and the closing catch has been damaged.  Mr B has 
told this service that this would cost £64 plus VAT to replace. 
Engineer N found  that a further alignment  attempt of the bonnet  should  be made. Engineer E 
noted several faults with the bonnet lock, catch  and cable. The invoice prepared by Mr Bs 
garage included  repair work to realign bonnet to front bumper gap and the cost of a bonnet  
release cable for £14.96.  After reviewing the invoice prepared by Mr Bs garage, Engineer E 
made no changes  to this cost, and it was included as part of the cash in lieu payment. 
Because of this I dont think Easi-Drive need to do anymore in settlement of this complaint.
Ref: DRN84628944my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. It is for Mr B to decide whether  to 
accept the cash  in lieu settlement of £1,400, and reimbursement of the recovery  charge of 
£120, in settlement of his complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 July 2020.
Neeta Karelia
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8462894