K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that Covea Insurance plc unfairly  avoided his car insurance policy.
background
Mr W took out a car insurance policy with Covea in December  2017 through  a broker. At the 
time, Mr W disclosed to the broker that he had one motor conviction  from October  2013.  The 
policy then renewed  with Covea in December  2018.  
In January 2019 Mr W made a claim as his car was stolen. When  Covea reviewed  the claim, 
it found out that Mr W had three other motor convictions which  hadnt  been disclosed. As a 
result, it avoided the policy   meaning it was cancelled  from the start as if it never existed   
declined the claim  and refunded Mr W the premiums hed paid. 
Mr W complained  to Covea as he felt it was unfair  it had avoided  his policy.  He acknowledged 
he should have  made Covea aware of all his previous motor convictions,  but explained hed 
relied upon the information contained in his paper counterpart to his driving licence, which  only 
listed the one conviction he had disclosed. Mr W also explained that his car was purchased on 
finance and so Coveas decision left him paying  for a car he no longer had.
Covea didnt uphold  the complaint. Covea said that if Mr W had told it about the other  three 
convictions when  he took out the policy, it wouldnt have offered him cover.  Covea said it 
had listened to the call Mr W had with the broker when he took out the first policy. Covea 
explained hed been asked a clear question about his motor convictions and therefore 
should have realised he needed  to disclose all of them. 
Unhappy with Coveas  response, Mr W brought his complaint to our service. He said 
Coveas decision to avoid  his policy was unfair, especially considering the financial 
implications this had on him. He also didnt think the motor convictions  had any bearing on 
the circumstances of his claim  since it was for theft and not driving  related.
Our investigator considered all the issues and recommended the complaint shouldnt be 
upheld. She thought the brokers question was clear  enough for Mr W to understand that he 
should have disclosed  all of his convictions.  She also noted Covea had sent a statement of 
fact document  to Mr W after taking out the original  policy and again at renewal. This asked him 
to confirm all his details  were correct. As the document stated that Mr W had only one motor  
conviction and he didnt flag this error, she felt hed made a careless misrepresentation. 
Our investigator checked Coveas underwriting guidelines to see whether it would have 
provided cover on any terms if it had known about  all of Mr Ws convictions.  Finding that it 
wouldnt, she said it was fair for Covea to avoid  the policy, refund  him his premiums and that 
it need not consider his claim. 
Mr W didnt agree, raising that his friend had been able to get a car insurance  policy  with 
Covea despite  having a similar number of motor  convictions. Our investigator explained she 
could only consider his complaint and having done  so, she was satisfied he wouldnt have 
met Coveas  underwriting criteria due to the number of convictions along with the high value 
of his car. 
Ref: DRN81483432Mr Ws solicitors then contacted our investigator  to raise further comments. They  said the 
question of motor  convictions included in the statement of fact document  sent at renewal 
wasnt sufficiently clear  for Mr W to understand that he needed to disclose fixed  penalty  
notices. They also provided previous  decisions our service had issued to illustrate this point. 
Mr Ws solicitors also said that if Covea would have insured Mr W, but for the value of his 
car, then it should identify  the maximum liability under this alternative policy and consider his 
theft claim up to the value  of that liability.
Our investigator considered these additional  points but didnt change  her opinion. She was 
satisfied Mr W was asked clear  questions and that Covea would never  have provided him 
with a different  policy, as the only policies that covered his convictions would not have 
covered a car of that value. 
Mr W remained unhappy and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not making Covea  
reinstate the policy or cover the claim.  I understand  this will come as a disappointment to   
Mr W, but Ill explain my reasons why.
When Mr W bought his policy,  he had a responsibility  under the Consumer Insurance 
(Disclosure and Representation)  Act 2012 (CIDRA)  to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation. And for Covea to take any action  at all it needs to show  Mr W didnt do 
this and therefore made whats  described as a qualifying misrepresentation.
CIDRA sets out several points to consider  when  deciding  whether a consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. One of these points covers  what questions  the consumer was asked when  
taking out the policy.  
Ive listened to the call Mr W had with his broker before  taking out the original policy  in 
December 2017.  During this call the broker asked whether Mr W had any points or 
convictions in the last five years, speedings  or anything else.  Mr W said he was checking his 
driving licence. The broker  asked if Mr W had his paper counterpart to his driving  licence and 
Mr W replied by saying he was looking for it. Mr W then asked  whether  the information  would  
be on the back of his driving  licence card, but the broker confirmed it wouldnt be. The broker  
went on to explain that if Mr W didnt have  his paper counterpart then he could check  online. 
Mr W responded by saying he was pretty sure his last conviction was an SP50 (exceeding 
the speed limit on a motorway) in October 2013.  The broker  asked whether this included 
receiving points and a fine and Mr W confirmed that was correct. The broker  then asked    
Mr W whether  he received any others and Mr W confirmed he hadnt had any since then. 
Having listened  to the call Im satisfied Mr W knew what was being asked of him by the 
broker. The broker asked a clear  question and further clarified that convictions included any 
speeding offences. 
Ref: DRN81483433Mr W had four motor convictions  at the time of taking out the policy,  which  I can confirm were  not 
spent and were still on his record. He had one SP50 conviction from 2013, which he disclosed in 
the call to the broker and three SP30 convictions (exceeding the speed limit on a public  road),  
one received in 2015 and two in 2016.  The most recent conviction also included a 28-day driving  
ban. However, Mr W didnt disclose the three SP30 convictions to the broker despite the fact they 
too were speeding  offences, like his SP50 conviction. I also think  its reasonable to have 
expected him to remember  his most  recent convictions when he was able to recall  the oldest, 
especially considering  his latest conviction included a further penalty  a 28-day driving  ban. 
When Covea received Mr Ws insurance application it sent him a statement of fact document to 
confirm the details it had received from the broker was accurate. This explained the following:
The document goes on to list the motor convictions Covea had been made aware of:
From the above, Im satisfied Covea made it clear how important it was that Mr W checked 
the information about his convictions. It also clearly explained  the consequences  of failing to 
provide incomplete  information.
Mr W didnt contact Covea to let it know that his three SP30 convictions were missing  from 
the statement  of fact document. I understand Mr W has said he relied  upon  the information  
included in his paper counterpart to his driving  licence. However, he had a responsibility to 
take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation and Im not persuaded he did. As Ive 
explained above, although Im not aware of what was listed on his paper counterpart,  I think  
he ought to have remembered he had more recent convictions even if they werent included  
on the paper  counterpart. Furthermore,  paper counterparts of driving  licences were  
abolished by the Driver and Vehicle Licensing Agency  (DVLA)  in 2015  a couple of years 
before he took out the original policy. This is something Mr W would have been made aware  
of by the DVLA and so I dont think Mr W took reasonable care when he relied solely upon 
his paper counterpart instead  of checking his licence online.
When Mr Ws policy renewed in December 2018, he entered  into a new contract with Covea 
and once again he was required to take reasonable care not to make  a misrepresentation. 
Ive reviewed the renewal  documents  Covea  sent Mr W and these also asked him to check 
the information hed provided was correct and up to date.
The statement  of fact document at renewal again  only listed  his SP50 conviction:
I checked to see whether  any of Mr Ws convictions  had become  spent  by the time the policy 
renewed but they had not. So at renewal he ought to have made Covea aware  he had other 
convictions that werent listed on the statement of fact document.
I understand Mr Ws solicitors raised  concerns over the clarity  of the question being asked in the 
statement of fact document sent at renewal. They said the question  of motoring convictions 
wasnt sufficiently clear  for Mr W to understand that it included  fixed  penalty notices, such as 
speeding offences. Covea put the same  question to Mr W when he took out the first policy, so 
my response to this point  applies  to both statement of fact documents.  Whilst I agree Covea 
could have included  an explanation that motor convictions included  fixed  penalty notices, the 
key question is whether  Mr W understood what was been asked of him by Covea. 
Ref: DRN81483434As Ive previously mentioned, Im satisfied  that when Mr Ws broker asked him if he had any 
motor convictions  in the last five years, he understood  this included speeding offences  
because he responded with details  of his SP50 conviction. So when he was presented with 
the same  question by Covea, Im persuaded that he would have again understood motor 
convictions to include speeding offences.  His SP50 conviction, which  was a fixed  penalty 
notice, was listed on both documents  and so he ought to have known Coveas question 
included fixed penalty notices such as his other SP30 convictions. Mr Ws latest conviction 
also included a 28-day driving ban and so its fair to say Mr W should  have known  this was 
something hed need  to make Covea aware  of.  
Taking into account all of the above, Im satisfied  Mr W failed to take reasonable care not to 
make a misrepresentation when taking out the original policy  and again  at renewal. But to 
show Mr Ws misrepresentations were  qualifying ones under CIDRA,  Covea needs to show it 
would either  not have  offered the policy at all if the misrepresentations hadnt been made or 
that it would  have offered it on different terms. This applies to both policies.
It isnt for us to decide what an insurer should  and shouldnt  accept risk for. This is its 
commercial decision to make based  on their appetite for the risk involved. An insurers 
underwriting criteria is commercially sensitive and so cannot be shared. However, Covea 
has provided underwriting evidence to satisfy me that its decision to avoid Mr Ws policy  was 
fair and reasonable. 
I appreciate Mr W has questioned why a friend  of his was able to get a car insurance policy  
with Covea, despite having a similar amount of motor convictions. However, I must stress 
that Im only able to consider Mr Ws complaint. And having  done so, Im satisfied Covea 
wouldnt have offered him a policy in December 2017 or at renewal. 
Under CIDRA, a qualifying misrepresentation is either deliberate or reckless  or careless.  
Covea has avoided Mr Ws policy, refused all claims and refunded  his premiums. As this is 
the remedy allowed  when  a misrepresentation is careless, Im satisfied Coveas actions are 
fair and reasonable under  the circumstances. I appreciate Mr W felt his motor  convictions 
had no bearing  on the circumstances of his claim, since it was for theft and not driving 
related. However,  the rules under CIDRA apply regardless of the type of claim being  made.  
For these reasons, I dont  think  Covea  has done anything wrong. Im satisfied Mr W knew  
what his broker and Covea were asking for and so in failing to disclose all his previous 
driving convictions, he made a qualifying misrepresentation. Covea provided evidence  to 
show it would never have provided a policy if it had known about these further convictions, 
either in December 2017 or at renewal. So having  already issued a full refund  of the 
premiums paid - a remedy allowed under CIDRA  - I am satisfied Covea need not do 
anything further.
 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 May 2020.
Ref: DRN81483435Ben Waites
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8148343