K820x#14Complaint
Mr R has complained that TSB Bank  plc wont cancel a loan he says someone  else applied 
for in his name.
Background
A loan for £10,000 was taken out in Mr Rs name with TSB in January 2018 (the loan). The 
loan application  was processed  online and the loan agreement was electronically signed on 
26 January 2018.  The loan was paid into an account Mr R holds with another  bank on        
27 January 2018,  and TSB wrote  to Mr R on the same day to confirm the loan had been 
opened.
What has Mr R said?
Mr R has told us that hes received communication from TSB about the loan from the 
beginning of 2018. But someone  applied for the loan in his name, and the loan proceeds 
were spent in another country  after they were credited  to his bank account.
He says he complained to TSB,  but it didnt investigate in a timely manner. So he referred 
his complaint to this Service.
Mr R has also raised concerns about  the affordability of the loan. Hes said that if TSB had 
carried out standard checks when considering the loan application, it wouldve been clear  
that he couldnt afford any further  debt and the application wouldve been rejected. At the 
time that the loan was taken out in early 2018,  hes said that:
he had no job and no income  although  hes later said that his credit  file showed he 
had an annual income of £18,000  and hes explained that he was in and out of work.
he already had a loan with high monthly  repayments.
he was living with his parents and paid them rent in cash on a weekly  basis.
he had other commitments, such as paying for car insurance and childcare.
What has TSB said?
TSB says Mr R raised a complaint with it in May 2018, but it didnt get an answer to him 
before he referred  his complaint to this Service.
The loan proceeds were paid into Mr Rs bank account. It believes that Mr R took the loan 
out, and that he has had the benefit  of it. So it expects Mr R to make repayments  in line with 
the loan agreement.
A direct debit was set up to service the loan from Mr Rs bank  account,  but it was cancelled 
shortly after the loan was taken out and no contractual loan repayments  have  been  made.
What did our investigator say?
Our investigator thought that the loan was taken  out with Mr Rs knowledge or consent.  He 
concluded that Mr R should be responsible for repaying the loan, without  interest, under an 
affordable repayment  arrangement.
Mr R didnt agree with this outcome, so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
Ref: DRN82147022I asked TSB what affordability checks it carried out for the loan. It said that the loan was 
taken out before its systems were  upgraded, so it doesnt have access to the application 
details now. But the application would have been  processed based on the income and 
expenditure details it was given, and a credit  check wouldve been  undertaken.
My provisional decision
I issued my provisional decision on 8 April 2021.  I considered all the available evidence  and 
arguments to decide  what was fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I also looked at the evidence  and arguments  provided in Mr Rs complaints of a similar 
nature against  two other lenders.
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance  and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
Mr R has said that he didnt apply  for the loan, and I thought that was probably true. But from 
the evidence Id seen, I was persuaded  that he knew about  the loan. Looking  at everything,  
I thought it was most likely that he colluded with a third party and gave actual authority for 
them to take the loan out in his name because:
The loan proceeds were paid into Mr Rs bank account. I said this is a very unusual 
step for a fraudster  to take unless  they have access to their victims bank account; 
because theres no financial gain if the fraudster  cant spend the money.  I thought 
that whoever applied  for the loan was confident they could access the money once it 
went into Mr Rs account.
The loan was spent  in several transactions  over a few days. Mr R is already aware  of 
our ombudsmans findings in relation to how the loan proceeds were  spent  and his 
involvement in that, so I said I wouldnt repeat  all the details here. But from the 
evidence Id seen,  including Mr Rs banks technical reports, I was satisfied that Mr R 
gave a third party  access to his bank account,  and made  the facilities associated  with 
his account  including his bank  card and PIN  available to the third party so they 
could spend the loan proceeds in another country. Mr Rs genuine usage of his 
account in the United  Kingdom stopped at the time,  and I was persuaded that he 
knew what was happening.
TSB wrote to Mr R on 27 January 2018 to confirm  the loan had been set up. It wrote  
to him again  on 9 February 2018  about the direct debit set up to service the loan 
being cancelled.  Both of TSBs letters were sent to the same address as the one we 
hold on file for Mr R. Hes also told hes received communication  from TSB about the 
loan from the beginning of 2018. But he doesnt  appear to have raised any concerns 
at the time as I might have expected him to do if hed received  communication about 
a loan account in his name which he had no knowledge of. From  this, I thought  it was 
reasonable to conclude  that he was aware of what was happening  and authorised  
someone to take the loan out.
I said its unusual for a fraudster to use their victims actual contact details, as this 
increases the likelihood of being caught.
In the circumstances, I wasnt persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable for me to ask 
TSB to cancel the loan agreement. I said that TSB can reasonably  hold Mr R liable for 
repaying the loan,  with interest.
Ref: DRN82147023I went on to consider what Mr R has said about the loan being unaffordable when it was 
taken out.
I explained that TSB needed to make  proportionate  checks to determine whether  the credit  
was affordable and sustainable for Mr R before agreeing to lend. Theres no prescribed list 
of checks a lender  should undertake. But the kinds of things lenders should  consider include 
 but are not limited to: the type and amount  of credit, the borrowers income  and credit  
history, the amount  and frequency  of repayments,  as well as the borrowers personal 
circumstances.
I said its unfortunate that TSB cant provide the information it relied upon in approving the 
loan now. But it has said that it would have processed the loan application using the income  
and expenditure  details  it was given for Mr R, and it would  have  carried  out a credit check. 
TSB has provided a document  setting out the process it usually follows  in handling  loan 
applications from new customers, and this supports what its said about  the checks that it 
wouldve carried out at the time. So I was satisfied that its likely this is what  happened.
I said that the income and expenditure details given for Mr R in another loan application with 
a different lender at around the same  time would indicate that he had enough  disposable 
income to meet the loan repayments, and I thought it was likely  that TSB would have been 
given the same or similar details in the loan application it received.
I also said that Mr R has provided this Service with screenshots of his current  credit report  
which show that he did have one other  outstanding loan in early 2018 as he has said,  and 
that the repayments on that loan have always been  made on time.
Considering all of the above, I wasnt persuaded that TSB should reasonably  have been  
prompted to carry  out more checks  on Mr R than it says it did. And, in the circumstances, 
I thought the lending  decision TSB made was probably fair.
I acknowledged that TSB may have been  given falsified information  about Mr R during  the 
loan application  process. But I didnt think this should have been obvious to TSB. And 
I thought it was fair for TSB to rely upon  the information it was provided with in the loan 
application.
I invited Mr R and TSB to send me any further information  they wanted  me to consider in 
making my final decision.
Responses to my provisional decision
TSB didnt  respond  to my provisional  decision.
Mr R replied to let me know that he disagrees  with most of what Ive said and doesnt think  
my findings  are based on actual evidence or what really  happened. He said, in summary:
He had an existing  loan.
He contacted the creditor  much  earlier than it has said.
The creditor has zero proof of anything and its unfair that Ive taken its word for it.
His annual income of £18,000  was put on his credit file years ago and has never  
been changed, but he was in and out of work. Its clear  that affordability checks 
werent completed because it wouldve been  obvious that he couldnt afford the loan.
This matter has put him under a lot of stress  and has severely  affected  his life.
Ref: DRN82147024My findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R has said he contacted TSB much earlier than it has said, but I havent  seen any 
evidence of that. TSB has evidenced, through its customer notes for Mr R, that it opened an 
investigation about the loan application  in the early evening of 11 May 2018,  and I think its 
likely that this is when  Mr R raised  a complaint about the loan.
It is very unfortunate that TSB cannot  provide the information it relied upon in approving  the 
loan now. But I would  like to reassure Mr R that I havent simply taken TSB at its word.  
I have considered all of the available evidence and reached the conclusion  that its most 
likely TSB followed its process for handling loan applications for new customers. Ive 
reviewed the document setting out that process and it supports what TSB has said about the 
checks it would have  carried out during the loan application process.
TSB has said that it would  have  asked for Mr Rs income and expenditure details, and it 
would have carried out a credit check on Mr R. In another loan application with a different 
lender, made at around the same time, an annual income of £26,500  was declared for Mr R. 
As Ive said previously, I think  its reasonable to assume that the same or similar  income and 
expenditure details would have been given in the TSB loan application. The other lender 
carried out a credit check on Mr R which returned  a calculated net monthly income  of 
£1,775, and I think its likely that TSBs credit check would have returned the same or similar 
information too. The net monthly income  a credit check returns may be incorrect  it is an 
estimate based on the credits seen through an account and not all credits  are income. But a 
net monthly income of around  £1,775  equates to a gross annual income of around £27,000 
 roughly the amount  I think its likely TSB was told Mr R earned in the loan application. So 
Im still not persuaded that TSB should  reasonably  have been prompted  to carry out more 
checks on Mr R than it says it did. In the circumstances, I remain  of the opinion that the 
lending decision TSB made was probably fair.
Im sorry  to hear that Mr R doesnt  agree with my provisional findings. But in responding, 
I dont think hes given  me any new information  that would change my mind. And as TSB 
hasnt given me any new information  either, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions  
set out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 June  2021.
Kyley Hanson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8214702