K820x#14complaint
Mr G says Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold him a payment  protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr G bought the policy in 2000 at the same time as taking out a credit card. Mr G 
remembers things happened  by phone. But the evidence indicates  that Mr G applied for the 
credit card and PPI policy through the post  it appears he responded to a direct mailing.
At the time,  Mr G was employed  as an accounts  director. He has told us he was entitled to 
three months sick pay and six months  redundancy pay. He said he didnt have  any other 
means of repaying  his credit card should  he be unable to work.  Mr G has said he had a 
medical condition  some time before the time of the sale. Ill come  back  to this later on 
The policy provided  cover  for accident, sickness, and unemployment  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  10% of Mr Gs credit  card balance  in the event 
of a successful claim. At the time,  it cost 70p per £100 of the monthly outstanding balance. 
The premium would  continue to have to be paid during a successful claim and it did attract  
interest. 
Barclays has sent us screenshots  to show that the credit card account closed no later than 
May 2003.
Mr Gs representative has made lengthy and substantial representations on his behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr Gs representative says:
Barclays failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr G wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr Gs representatives 
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Barclays should have 
told Mr G about  the poor value;  
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Barclays should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr G and the 
impact they would have had on his chances of making a claim;  and
Ref: DRN87043142The information Mr G received was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr G disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Gs. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Gs complaint.
This sale took place  in June 2000 just before  the General Insurance  Standards  Council 
(GISC) published its code of practice  and before the sale of general insurance  products like 
this became regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and FCAs) 
overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBs) arent 
applicable to this complaint, nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance  (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  no later than 2003. That means the unfair relationship 
provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit  Act, the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin about s.140  of that Act and the rules and guidance made  by the FCA about the 
handling of complaints about the non-disclosure of commission in light of the Plevin 
judgment, arent applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
Ref: DRN87043143The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Barclays at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI code  and 
these other  publications into account when deciding, what  is in my opinion,  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Gs case.  
 
I have also taken account of relevant law in reaching  my decision, including: the law relating 
to negligence, misrepresentation and contract (including the express and implied  duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Barclays was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mr Gs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Barclays gave advice, whether it advised  Mr G with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him, given his needs  
and circumstances.  
-Whether Barclays gave Mr G sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to enable  
him to make  an informed  choice about  whether to take out the policy, including 
drawing to his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr G, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr G suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Ref: DRN87043144Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr G and 
Barclays, Ive decided  not to uphold Mr Gs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning  below. 
did Mr G know  he had a choice?
Barclays had to make it clear that the PPI policy  was optional.  
Barclays has provided a copy of Mr Gs postal credit card application  he completed and 
returned. Looking  at this I can see Mr G ticked a box to take out PPI  Yes, I do require 
Payment Protection  Insurance.  The form didnt say or imply Mr G had to have PPI. Im 
mindful too that he completed the form in his own time without any interaction  from a 
member of Barclays staff.  
So taking everything into account, I think its more likely  that Mr G knew the policy was 
optional and he agreed to take it out without undue  pressure. 
did Barclays provide  advice?
Barclays says it didnt  provide advice during this sale.  Mr G hasnt said either  way. Because 
this was a sale by post, Im satisfied Barclays had no opportunity to provide advice.
This means  Barclays didnt have  to check if the PPI was suitable for Mr G. Instead, it had to 
give him sufficient, appropriate  and timely information to enable  Mr G to make  an informed 
choice about whether  to take out the policy, including drawing to his attention and 
highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main provisions of the policy and 
significant limitations and exclusions. 
the information
Barclays has provided us with Mr Gs application  form or credit agreement  showing that 
PPI had been selected. It has also referred  us to a copy of the paperwork it says he wouldve 
received, including the policy terms and conditions   which I accept on a balance of 
probabilities  applied to policies like Mr Gs. 
Looking at the information provided to Mr G at the time, I dont think Barclays  gave Mr G the 
information he fairly and reasonably needed  to make an informed decision about  whether or 
not to take out the policy. 
This sale took place  by post. I can see the application form described the PPI policy as 
providing cover against unemployment and accident and sickness.  It also informed Mr G that 
there would be a monthly cost.
The information provided would have given Mr G a broad sense of what the policy covered. 
But it was Barclayss responsibility  to draw to Mr Gs attention the important information  i.e. 
the key information about the nature of the cover and any significant  exclusions and 
limitations which might be relevant to his decision. 
Im not persuaded Barclays did enough  to do this. For example, I dont think  the true cost of 
the policy was made  clear  to Mr G, including the need to maintain  premiums during a claim 
or that the payments would attract interest. In addition,  I cant  see that Barclays  adequately 
drew to his attention the main provisions  of the policy and significant limitations and 
exclusions. 
Ref: DRN87043145So I dont  think Barclays gave Mr G sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable  
him to make  an informed  choice about  whether to take out the policy, including drawing his 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.  
I have considered how my findings interact with the FCAs list of significant  failings  in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded that there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Gs representative has raised a number 
of general points about the requirements  on a business when providing information in PPI 
sales. It suggests these  points apply to all PPI complaints,  like Mr Gs. Ive considered these 
carefully and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr Gs representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-the common law duty of utmost good  faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr G about  the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Gs representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr G has suggested. And taking into account  the law, industry  codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Barclays ought to have  done  either. 
what effect did Barclays shortcomings have  on Mr G? To what extent did Mr G suffer 
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Barclays  didnt  do all it should  have done when it sold this policy  to Mr G. So 
Ive gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude  Mr G suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether  or not Mr G would have 
still taken out the policy,  had Barclays done  things properly. 
Mr G says he wouldnt have taken it out and believes that I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. 
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr G had to weigh up in his own mind  the cost of the policy  
against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if he didnt insure against the 
risk of being  unable  to work. 
Ref: DRN87043146As Ive found above, Mr G chose to take this policy out. So I consider that its reasonable to 
conclude he had some  interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But he made 
this decision based  on incomplete information.  So what Mr G thought he was getting is not 
exactly what he got. The extent to which this differed is a relevant consideration when 
determining if Mr G has suffered any loss or detriment.  
In relation to the costs, Im satisfied Mr G ought  reasonably to have known he would have to 
pay something for the PPI and that it would cover a portion of his outstanding balance   this 
was set out on the application form. But, I accept that Barclays didnt make clear  the on-
going cost information. So while Mr G didnt know some things, the ultimate position in the 
event of a successful claim was not dissimilar  to what he would reasonably have thought  
from the information he based his decision to take out the policy  on and found acceptable. 
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr G thought he had bought and 
what he actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions that Mr G knew  about 
before the start date of the policy, or for which he saw a doctor  about  in the 12 
months before the start date;  
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr G 
wasnt a permanent employee; and
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr G be unable  to 
do his own job or any paid work which his experience, education or training 
reasonably qualified him to do. 
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mr G pause  for thought  and may well have caused  him to conclude  that the policy 
was not as good as he thought  and he might have decided not to proceed.  The limitations on 
the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might have dissuaded 
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr G from taking out the policy. 
But the evidence  about Mr Gs circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the policy  wasnt 
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. He was eligible for its benefits and it provided 
cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved useful to him should the 
insured risks have  become a reality. Although Mr G says he suffered two injuries around six 
and seven years respectively before  the policy was taken out - and the policy  wouldnt  have  
provided cover had he needed time off work because of these - I dont think better 
information about this exclusion would have  put him off agreeing to it. 
I say this because  while Mr G said that he received treatment and needed some time off 
work at the time of his injuries, hes not said or implied that he suffered any lasting effects or 
that his ability to work was impacted after his treatment and recovery. These things  also 
happened some  years prior to the sale. 
So Im not persuaded that Mr G wouldve likely thought at the time that the main reason hed 
need time off work and want to claim  on the policy would be for his previous  injuries  / 
conditions. As such I dont think hed have been  put off by this existing medical condition 
exclusion.
In addition I havent seen any evidence to suggest  he wouldve been caught  by any of the 
other significant exclusions - so I still think he had some good  reasons to take the policy  out.
Ref: DRN87043147The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr G would have 
expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some  evidence to 
support that claim.
If Mr G had known he could only claim for disability if he was not only unable  to do his job 
but also unable  to do any job, which in the insurers  view he might  reasonably  be qualified 
for, it might have played into his thinking about what he would do. And I accept it may have 
given him pause  for thought  although  given  Mr Gs circumstances, on balance,  I still think  
he would  have been interested in taking out the cover.
So having  considered all of the evidence and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not that Mr G would  still have taken  out the PPI. The policy was sufficiently close to 
what he thought  he was getting and I think the policy could provide a useful benefit in a 
difficult time, despite his employment benefits. And in those circumstances I consider it more 
likely than not that he would have taken  out the policy in any event.   
Mr Gs representatives say the rules  about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
I have thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, I have found  it would be reasonable to conclude  there  
were substantial flaws  in the sales  process.  In those  circumstances, DISP App 3 says it 
should be presumed Mr G would not have  bought  the PPI he bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
I am satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude  the presumption  is rebutted 
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr Gs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr G 
found himself in as a result of the sale was the same  position he would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr G believes  the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I dont  consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr G in the position  he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
Ref: DRN87043148That is because,  while I accept it is possible that he would not have taken out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that he would still have 
taken out the PPI had he been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy he was buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude Barclays should  pay Mr G compensation, as that would put him 
in a better position  than he would have been in if everything had happened as it should  have  
done. 
Im also aware that Mr G thinks Barclays misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Barclayss statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why Barclays  
failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in the 
information it provided  but because the overall  information Barclays  gave Mr G, in the way 
it did, was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to 
have met in June  2000 when providing  information about an insurance policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Gs representative  says a court might take if it were 
to find Barclays negligently misrepresented  the contract to Mr G and about the remedy a 
court might award if it were to find that Barclays had been in breach of its duty of utmost  
good faith. But this doesnt persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint   including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr G in a better position than if everything had 
happened as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 August 2021.
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8704314