K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold his payment  
protection insurance (PPI) alongside  a store card.
background
FICL is neither the lender nor the seller of the PPI policy  complained about, but as the 
insurance underwriter of the policy it has taken responsibility for this complaint. So for 
simplicity Ill only refer to FICL in this decision.
In 2000 Mr M took out a high street store card during a store  visit. At the same time he also 
bought Account Cover  an element of which was PPI designed  to protect  his card payments 
in the event he couldnt work because of accident, sickness or unemployment.  The policy 
also provided purchase protection cover. But Mr M hasnt complained  about  this element of 
cover. So as it doesnt form part of this complaint I havent considered it. But for the 
purposes of the complaint I have attributed  the full cost of the policy to the PPI element 
which puts Mr M in the most favourable position, as it assumes the PPI is more expensive  
than it would have  been if somehow separated out from the other cover.  
The policy cost £1.00 for every £100  Mr M owed on the card. And it offered a monthly  benefit  
of 15% of the balanced owed until Mr M returned to work or the balance was paid off - 
whichever came first.
FICLs records  show that Mr M paid just over £100 in premiums during the life of the policy.
The adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint.  He said he thought  Mr M chose to take out PPI. 
And there was nothing  to indicate hed lost out as a result of taking it out.
 
Mr M disagreed with the adjudicators conclusions.  The complaint therefore comes to me to 
decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
handling complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken into account  whats  
relevant here in deciding Mr Ms case. 
There doesnt appear to be a dispute  that the PPI was bought  during a store  visit. Ive not 
seen anything to suggest FICL recommended the cover to Mr M  FICL says it didnt and Mr 
M doesnt  know or cant remember. So FICL didnt have to make sure the policy was right or 
suitable for Mr M. But it did have to give him enough  clear information about  the policy so he 
could make a properly informed decision about  whether to buy it or not. Ive kept this in mind  
in my consideration of the complaint.
Mr M says FICL didnt make it clear he had a choice  and that the PPI was added  without his 
knowledge. FICL says Mr M chose  PPI and it has provided a copy of the store  card 
application and agreement form completed  at the time.
I can see on the form that Account Cover (PPI) is one of three  extra items he can choose if 
he wants them, the other two being  a Card Protection Plan and an additional store  card. Mr 
Ref: DRN83141612M has signed alongside  a statement saying  yes, he wants the Account Cover (PPI). He has 
also signed to say he wants an additional card. But he has not marked the form in any way 
to say he wants the Card  Protection Plan.  Mr M has signed the overall  agreement.
So I think its more likely  than not that Mr M knew he had a choice about whether to take out 
the PPI and he chose to take it out.
But theres not enough evidence to demonstrate that Mr M was given all of the information 
he needed to make an informed choice about  the policy. For example it doesnt appear the 
costs and benefits were  made clear or that the significant exclusions and limitations  of cover 
were clearly brought  to his attention, such as existing medical condition exclusions.
I think Mr M was likely sent a policy document by FICL after he took out the cover  because 
this is what it was required  to do. But Mr M didnt base his decision on this information.  
So overall I dont  think it likely that Mr M got all of the information about the PPI in a timely  
manner which he needed to make a properly  informed  decision about whether to buy it or 
not. And I dont think that was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
However, in light of Mr Ms particular circumstances  at the time, I dont think hes lost out as 
a result of the things  FICL  did wrong. I say this because I dont think Mr M would have been 
put off taking out the policy if FICL had given him more  information  for the following reasons:
Mr M was eligible for the cover  and its benefits   for example he told us that despite 
working part-time he was working  at least 16 hours a week.
Mr M chose to take it out; albeit Im mindful  he did so with incomplete  information.
Based  on his circumstances at the time, I think Mr M would have found the PPI useful. 
He had no savings  but he did have six months of full sickness pay and six months  of half 
sickness pay entitlement from his employer. But the PPI would have paid out in addition  
to his sickness pay and also paid out if he lost his job. The policy provided a monthly 
benefit of 15% of the outstanding balance and had the potential  to clear  the entire 
account balance.  So it would have helped him manage what would have been difficult 
circumstances if he found himself  unable to work as a result of accident,  sickness  or 
unemployment. 
Mr M was employed and in good  health, so he wouldnt have been affected by any of the 
significant exclusions and limitations of cover   for example existing medical condition 
exclusions.
And theres nothing  to suggest  the policy was unaffordable for Mr M.
So overall I think Mr M chose to take out PPI because, when it was offered to him in the 
store card application,  it was something  that interested him. And despite  the fact that he 
didnt get clear information about  the policy,  for the reasons Ive set out above, I dont think 
hes lost out  I think Mr M would still most likely have bought PPI even if FICL had provided 
more information.
Ref: DRN83141613my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  Ive decided Mr M has not lost out as a result of buying 
PPI alongside  his store card, so I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 March  2019.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8314161