K820x#14complaint
Mr K has complained that Lloyds Bank  Plc (Lloyds) mis-sold a Select packaged bank  
account to him sometime before September 2001.
background
One of our adjudicators looked  at this complaint already and didnt think  Lloyds  had mis-sold 
the packaged account. Mr K disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans  decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mr Ks complaint.  
Having carefully thought  about everything  Ive been  provided with, I dont think  that Lloyds 
mis-sold the packaged  account to Mr K. Id like to explain the reasons for my decision.
Ive started by thinking about whether Mr K was given a clear  choice in taking this account.  
At this point, it may help for me to explain  that I have to make  my decision based  on what I 
think is most likely  to have happened  having  weighed up what Mr K and Lloyds have been 
able to provide  me with.  
Lloyds cant say for certain  when the account  was upgraded to a Select  account  but Mr K 
has confirmed that he did have a fee free account with Lloyds prior to the upgrade so I think  
that it is likely Mr K wouldve  known that Lloyds did free accounts  and that they were an 
option for him.
Mr K says he was told during a phone call that all accounts were being changed to a Select 
account and that he would need  to come  into a branch to change his account.  But Lloyds did 
not change all accounts at this point.  Given that Mr K would have reasonably been aware 
that free accounts were widely available I am not persuaded that this is likely to have 
happened or that Mr K wouldve proactively come into a branch to change his account had 
he not wished  to do so. I think that is more likely that Mr K agreed to this account because 
he was attracted to the benefits  and agreed  to the account after being  given  a fair choice.
Lloyds has said that it recommended  this account to Mr K so it had to ensure that the 
account was a reasonable fit for him given  his circumstances  at the time it was taken out. I 
cant say for certain what benefits the Select account came  with as Lloyds cant  say when 
this account was taken out but I think that is likely that when it was taken out the Select 
account wouldve  come  with breakdown cover. Mr K did drive  and has used the breakdown  
cover while he held the account.  This suggests  that he was relying on this benefit and the 
account was a reasonable fit for him.
Mr K has said that his understanding of English was not good and therefore he did not 
understand that free banking was available or what he was agreeing to. Firstly I should say 
that there  is no record of Mr K making  Lloyds  aware of this or asking that it communicate  
with him in a different way. In addition to this given that Mr K was able to manage  his 
finances and use the breakdown cover which was a benefit of the account then it would 
suggest that he was able to broadly understand the account and its features. In addition,  he 
Ref: DRN85944792has already said that he did have a fee free account,  so the evidence suggests that he did 
know that free banking  was available.
I accept that Mr K may not have  been  told everything about all of the benefits that the 
account came with but I cant see anything specific that he was not told that I think wouldve 
altered his decision to take out the account.
Mr K may now believe he hasnt benefitted  from the Select account as much as hed hoped  
and expected. But I think its most likely  Mr K upgraded  after having been  provided with a 
choice. And having  thought about  everything, Ive simply  not seen enough here to be able to 
say that Mr K was misled into agreeing to his account being changed or that Lloyds 
recommendation that he take out the account  was unreasonable. So I dont think Lloyds mis-
sold the Select account to him.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 July 2019.
Charlie Newton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8594479