K821x#15complaint
Mr K says Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance  (PPI) 
policy. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy Mr K took out in 2004. It was added to his 
account when  he applied for the card by post.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. Capital One disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ks case.  
There has been some conflicting information about  Mr Ks employment  circumstances at the 
time of sale.
On the one document that I think is likely  an accurate  reflection of his employment 
circumstances at the time of sale, Mr K has hand  written PROJECT WORKER and ticked  
Employed. On this form there was no option  for temporary or contract  worker.  
When we contacted Mr K to clarify  his employment  circumstances  as he indicated that he 
was not working  in his PPI questionnaire, he told us that he was employed as a project 
support workerby different agencies.. and this was temporary  work.  
Capital One correctly pointed out that the inconsistency in Mr Ks recollection of his 
employment circumstances. 
But, on balance, it seems  reasonable to assume, given the time thats  passed  since the sale 
(nearly 15 years) that Mr K may have failed to recall  an exact detail from so long ago or 
thought that he was unemployed given that periods of unemployment may not be uncommon 
given the nature of Mr Ks employment. Im satisfied that this likely explains the 
inconsistency in his testimony.
As Ive already  said, the one document  that each party  agrees is reliable evidence  is the 
credit card application and it shows Mr Ks employment as a project  worker.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Ks complaint because:
I dont think that Mr K was given  good  enough information  about the policy.
Whilst Ive noted  that the eligibility terms of this policy state that Mr K needed to be 
employed for a period  of at least 6 consecutive months, Mr K has told us that he cant  
recall his length of employment. So, in fairness to Capital  One, Ive assumed that 
Mr K was eligible for the PPI.
Ref: DRN82430882But I think that its more  likely than not that Mr K was a contract worker and that it 
would be have been more difficult for him to be able to claim on the policy than he 
may have  reasonably expected. 
Based on the information that Mr K was likely given at the time of sale, I dont think 
Capital One did enough to draw  this policy limitation  to Mr Ks attention.
So, in this particular  case, I dont think Mr K wouldve bought the policy if Capital One 
had given him good enough information  about  it. So, I think Mr K has lost out 
because of what Capital  One did wrong. 
Ive taken into account Capital Ones comments, but I still think I should  uphold the 
complaint.
putting things right
Capital One should put Mr K in the financial position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out 
PPI. The policy should be cancelled if it hasnt been cancelled already and:
A.Capital One should find out how much Mr K would owe on his credit card if the policy  
hadnt been added to it.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges.
Capital One should then refund the difference between what  Mr K owes  and what he 
would have owed.
If Mr K made a successful  claim under  the PPI policy, Capital One can take off what  he 
got for the claim from the amount it owes him.
B.If  when Capital  One works out what Mr K would have owed each month  without PPI 
 Mr K paid more than enough to clear his balance, Capital One should  also pay simple 
interest on the extra Mr K paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when 
Mr K wouldve  owed  Capital One something  on her credit card.  The interest rate should 
be 8% a year.
C.Capital One should tell Mr K what its done to work out A and B.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Capital One to take off tax from this interest. Capital  One 
must give Mr K a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN82430883my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr Ks complaint.
Capital One (Europe) plc should put things right by doing what  Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 May 2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8243088