K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a loan payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2009. 
Mr T says St Andrews  Insurance  Plc mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ts case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
On the balance of probabilities I think St Andrews wouldve made it clear that Mr T didnt 
have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it out. 
Mr T on his initial application for the loan was asked  if he wanted to take out PPI and he 
declined to do so. This shows  that Mr T knew he could choose  not to have PPI at this point.
Both parties  agree that after this a phone call occurred and Mr T took out the PPI. 
Unfortunately we dont  have  a recording of the call which isnt surprising given the time that 
has passed since the call. St Andrewss has provided a copy of its call script in use at the 
time. Whilst  I cannot be sure how closely this was followed, I can see that the call script 
made the optional  nature  of the product clear. And I think  its more likely than not that the call 
handlers wouldve  followed  what they were being told to do. So I think its more likely than not 
that the call handler  wouldve given Mr T a choice. And Mr T chose  to take out the PPI.
Mr T says that he was pressured  into taking out the policy and the call handler was pushing  
him to take it out. Ultimately I dont  know  what  was said at the time, but I think Mr T ought to 
have known that he had a choice,  as he was given the choice when he took out the loan 
which he declined. And whilst I can well believe that the call handler encouraged him to take 
out the PPI, I dont  think what  Mr T has described constitutes unfair pressure.
St Andrews  recommended the PPI to Mr T so it had to check that the PPI was right for him  
and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example he wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  and he 
seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Mr T says that he had steady employment and good sick pay, as well as a redundancy 
cover. Hes also said he had personal  items he couldve sold.  But the PPI wouldve paid out 
alongside any benefits he received from his employer. And if he was long-term sick or lost 
his job, the PPI wouldve meant that he might not have needed to sell his personal items to 
pay off the loan.
Its possible the information St Andrews gave Mr T about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover.  And 
it seems like it would have  been  useful for him if something went  wrong.  It also looks  like it 
was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put him off 
taking out the cover.  
Ref: DRN80296452Ive thought about everything Mr T has said but for the reasons explained,  I dont think the 
PPI was mis-sold.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained, I do not uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 April 2019.
Simon Hollingshead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8029645