K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains that Steven Barton  trading as Steven Barton Financial  Services  (SBFS) 
failed to provide  him with adequate advice about the transfer and subsequent ongoing 
investment performance  of his pension.
background
Mr C had used SBFS  over a number of years to provide  him with advice and support on his 
financial matters. Mr C says that, in 2015, SBFS advised him to move his pension savings to 
a new provider, and invest the funds into a single Absolute Return  fund. From the 
information we have received Mr C paid an ongoing  charge to SBFS that was taken from his 
pension investment each month.
Mr C says that he has recently started taking financial advice from a new advisor. As a result 
of that process  he says that he now understands that SBFS failed to undertake  a number of 
important steps  before  giving him advice  in 2015.  He says that SBFS didnt assess  his 
attitude to risk at that time, or provide him with a suitability report detailing  the pros and cons 
of moving his pension  savings.  He says that as a result of those omissions  the transfer and 
subsequent investment of his pension savings was inappropriate and that he has lost out 
financially.
It has proved difficult to get all the information  that wed normally  expect when assessing a 
complaint of this nature  from SBFS.  I will consider the reasons for that as part of my findings 
on this complaint. SBFS  has provided us with some  information about  its relationship  with 
Mr C and his wife. I should note that Mr C and his wife have also made an additional 
complaint about  an investment they made  jointly on the advice of SBFS   that complaint has 
been dealt with separately.
Mr Cs complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. He concluded  that he 
hadnt seen any clear reason for the switch of Mr Cs pension  savings to the new provider. 
And he thought  that the absolute return fund recommended by SBFS had been  unsuitable  
for Mr Cs ongoing financial situation. So he asked SBFS to pay Mr C some compensation.
SBFS responded  to that assessment almost three months ago by saying it disagreed with 
our adjudicators findings. It said that it intended to ask its actuaries to perform  some 
calculations to understand better what returns other investment strategies might  have 
provided. But since then,  despite requests for an update, SBFS hasnt got back in touch with 
our adjudicator.
So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved informally,  it has been passed  to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage  of our process. If Mr C accepts my decision it is 
legally binding on both parties.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time.
In deciding this complaint  I have taken account  of the submissions that have been made by 
Mr C and by SBFS. As I said earlier, we dont  have all the evidence  from SBFS that Id 
Ref: DRN86787222normally expect. So where  the evidence is missing,  unclear, or there are conflicts, I have 
made my decision based on the balance of probabilities.  In other words I have looked at 
what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me decide  what 
I think is more likely to have happened.
SBFS advised  Mr C to transfer  his pension benefits  to a new provider. When  receiving that 
sort of recommendation I would normally expect a consumer to be provided with a detailed 
report setting out the pros, and cons, of such a transfer. Mr C says that he wasnt  given any 
documentation like this by SBFS.
We have asked SBFS  repeatedly for a copy of the advice it gave to Mr C in 2015. It has 
failed to provide  this to us, or give any explanation  for not providing it. Of course there  might  
be a number of reasons  why SBFS hasnt given  us a copy of that information. It might  be 
that the documentation has been  lost, or destroyed, over the past years. Or, as Mr C alleges, 
it might  be that no such document was produced at the time.
As SBFS will be well aware  its regulator, the Financial  Conduct Authority, sets out how 
businesses should  deal with complaints in the DISP section of its handbook. In particular 
DISP 1.4.4 requires  a business to cooperate fully with the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
So I dont  think it unreasonable for me to conclude that the failure of SBFS to provide a copy 
of the suitability report supports Mr Cs recollection  that one was never produced.
From the limited information I have about  Mr Cs previous pension provider I can see little 
benefit or necessity  for him to move his pension  investments to the new provider. It doesnt, 
for example, seem that the previous provider had narrow choices of investment funds, or 
excessive charges that might have meant a change to the new provider was appropriate. So 
on balance I cant conclude that the advice  SBFS gave to Mr C about  transferring his 
pension benefits  was appropriate.
Ive gone on to consider the investment product that was recommended to Mr C. I dont have 
the benefit of understanding how, or indeed if, SBFS assessed  Mr Cs attitude to risk at the 
time this advice was given. In relation to Mr Cs other complaint I have seen that SBFS  
recorded Mr C and his wife as being low risk investors.  But I must treat that conclusion  with 
a degree of caution. The assessment that should have been performed here was in relation 
to an entirely different  product  and investment decision. It is possible that Mr Cs attitude  to 
risk on the joint investment might have been influenced by the amount of risk he considered  
he was taking on his pension savings  the two could have been  entirely different.
Mr C has told us that he has recently  undertaken some risk profiling  work  with a new 
financial advisor. He says that has resulted  in his risk appetite as being  measured on the 
low side of medium  and he thinks that would have been likely to be the result if a similar 
exercise had been undertaken in relation  to his pension in 2015. I havent seen anything  that 
makes me think that is unlikely to have been the case. The way in which  Mr C wanted to use 
his pension savings  would  make me think that he wanted to receive some  income  whilst 
protecting his capital  with some growth. To that that he would need to take some limited risk 
with his investment.
The absolute return fund that was used for the investment  of Mr Cs pension  savings does 
invest in a broad range  of asset classes. But by the time of this investment Mr C was already 
taking income drawdown from his pension and expected this to continue into the future.  
I dont think I can reasonably conclude that it is appropriate for a fund of this nature to be 
Ref: DRN86787223used for the entirety of Mr Cs pension savings given  the stage he had reached in the use of 
his retirement benefits.
So I dont  think that the advice SBFS  gave to Mr C in 2015 was appropriate.  I think that it is 
likely that Mr C has lost out as a result, and so SBFS should calculate  whether it needs to 
pay him some compensation. In addition this matter has been ongoing for some  time. I think 
it is likely  that Mr C has suffered a degree  of trouble and upset in taking the steps needed  to 
correct this error and move to his new financial advisor. I am therefore  directing SBFS to pay 
an additional  sum of £300  to Mr C in relation to that trouble and upset
putting things right
My aim is that Mr C should be put as closely  as possible into the position  he would probably 
now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I take the view that Mr C would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely  
what he would have  done differently. But Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and 
reasonable given Mr C's circumstances  and objectives when he invested. 
What should SBFS  do?
To compensate Mr C fairly, SBFS must:
Compare the performance of Mr C's investment with that of the benchmark  shown  
below. If the fair value  is greater  than the actual value there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value , no 
compensation is payable.
SBFS should  add interest as set out below. 
If there is a loss, SBFS  should pay that amount to Mr C. Given the time his pension  
has been in payment  I dont consider it reasonable to direct the compensation to be 
paid into the pension plan given the likelihood of it conflicting  with any existing 
protection or allowance. 
So SBFS  should  pay the total amount direct to Mr C. But had it been paid into the 
plan, it would have  provided a taxable income.  Therefore  the total amount should be 
reduced to notionally allow for any income  tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr C's marginal rate of tax. 
For example, if Mr C is a basic rate taxpayer, the reduction would equal the current 
basic rate of tax. However, as Mr C would have been able to take a tax free lump 
sum, the reduction  should be applied to 75% of the compensation.
Pay to Mr C £300 for the trouble  and upset this matter has caused.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If SBFS deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr C how much has been  taken off. SBFS should give Mr C a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN86787224investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom 
(start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
SIPP transferredFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return  Indexdate of 
investmentdate 
transferred8% simple  per 
year on any loss 
from the end 
date to the date 
of settlement
Actual value
This means  the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date. 
Fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
Any additional sum paid into the investment  should be added to the fair value calculation  
from the point in time when it was actually paid in. 
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from 
the fair value  at the point  it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue  any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there  are a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if SBFS totals  all those  payments and deducts that figure  at 
the end instead of deducting periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method  of compensation because:
Mr C circumstances warranted income  with some growth and so he would have  been  
willing to accept  some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices  
with different asset classes,  mainly UK equities  and government bonds. It would be a 
fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher  return.  
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr C's circumstances  and risk attitude.
The additional interest is for being  deprived  of the use of any compensation money 
since the end date.
Ref: DRN86787225My final decision  
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Steven Barton should pay the amount calculated  
as set out above.
Steven Barton should provide details  of its calculation to Mr C in a clear, simple format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 March  2020.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8678722