K821x#15complaint
Mr P complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (AMEX) have refused to 
honour a claim under  Section  75 of the Consumer  Credit  Act 1974 (section 75) for a 
damaged worktop  and costs incurred for a faulty  recycle bin.
background
Mr P paid for a new kitchen to be supplied in August.  He paid £7,916.47 of the bill using his 
AMEX credit card. But he later made  a section 75 claim to AMEX  because he said a recycle 
bin was faulty  and kitchen worktops had been  damaged. He said that under  section  75 
AMEX were jointly responsible for resolving the issue.
AMEX initially disputed  that there was a relevant relationship between  the debtor (Mr P), the 
creditor (AMEX) and the supplier,  as they said a payment terminal was used and this broke 
the chain between debtor, creditor and supplier. But they subsequently accepted our 
decision that this wasnt the case and they approved Mr Ps claim regarding the recycling 
bin.
However, Mr P was disappointed  that they hadnt approved his claim that the worktops 
supplied had been damaged in a couple of places. He explained that the supplier had tried 
to fix the problem but two chips still remained and he asked for our help resolving the issue  
with AMEX.
Our adjudicator provided his opinion on Mr Ps complaint. He explained  that the order was 
supply only and the installation wasnt part of the transaction Mr P had made  with his credit  
card. This meant his claim couldnt be successful unless there was evidence  of the damage 
before installation. But as the only pictures  the adjudicator had were of the worktops in a 
fitted state he didnt  have  sufficient evidence to uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Mr P was disappointed with the adjudicators view on this matter  so he referred it to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive reached the same 
conclusion as our adjudicator.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes  wrong  and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a credit card 
as is the case here, it might be possible to recover the money paid through  a section 75 
claim. This section of the Consumer  Credit  Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, a 
finance provider  can be responsible for a breach of contract  or a misrepresentation made by 
the supplier. 
Ref: DRN81615212Much of this complaint  has already  been resolved. I can confirm that Ive reviewed the 
findings of the adjudicator and those of the ombudsman and would agree with their findings. 
As the only issue outstanding relates to the worktops I will focus the rest of this decision on 
that.
The transaction that Mr P funded in August 2016 was for the kitchen appliances and delivery  
of the kitchen worktops. Ive not seen  evidence that the worktop  installation  was included in 
the price so any damage completed during the fitting would not be AMEXs joint 
responsibility under this transaction.
There have been  no pictures provided to show the worktops before  they were  fitted  so Im 
not able to evidence any pre installation damage. 
In fact, having reviewed  the pictures  provided  of the installed kitchen I cant see any damage 
there either: although  Im persuaded there is likely  to be damage as I can see the installers 
attended to remedy  it and explained  that two areas werent fully rectified.
Ive reviewed the email  trail between the suppliers and Mr P and I can see that he frequently 
referred to the damage occurring during installation. 
So overall, Im not persuaded that there was damage to the units  before they were  fitted  and 
I dont think it would  be reasonable to ask AMEX to take any additional action with regard  to 
this aspect of Mr Ps complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 July 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8161521