K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Ageas Insurance  Limited  has unfairly declined his claim under  his home 
insurance policy for internal damage  to his property.
background
In 2015 Mr H made a claim  under his home  insurance policy  with Ageas for damage to the 
roof of his property,  which was causing  water  ingress to the room  below it. Ageas appointed 
contractors (Company A) to carry out the work  to repair it. 
In 2017, Mr H says he noticed  dampness  in one of the rooms in his house. He suspected  
this was because  of a failure  in the repairs that Company A carried out in 2015, so he 
reported this to Ageas. The first note Ageas has of this is a letter it received from Mr H in 
July 2017, and it responded saying that Company A would be in touch directly to assess  
things further. 
In August  2017,  Company  A inspected Mr Hs roof and reported  back to Ageas that it 
thought the internal damage  was unrelated to the repairs it carried  out previously. It said the 
water ingress was because of a poor join on one of the gutters where water was tracking 
back into the property.  But as it hadnt made any repairs  to the gutters  in 2015, it didnt think  
it was liable for any damage related  to this. So it said this would need  to be logged  as a new 
claim. Ageas asked  Company  A to report this back to Mr H, but this didnt happen.
After receiving a letter  from Mr H in September 2017 about its lack of response,  Ageas got in 
contact with him to discuss  Company As findings. It said that it wouldnt cover Mr Hs claim, 
but agreed that thered  been delays in its communication with him. So Ageas offered £200 
compensation for the trouble and upset  caused by this. 
Mr H didnt accept Company As findings about the claim, so Ageas  appointed a new 
company (Company B) to survey the damage  and provide a second opinion.  Company B 
initially determined that the damage  was as a result  of poor workmanship to the exterior  of 
the property on the previous claim. It said:
Back in 2015 a repair was carried out to the roof which l can only assume  was placing a 
manufactured drip underneath the bottom row of tiles. This is a suitable  repair  as long as the 
manufactured drip is placed  under the roofing  felt also, so the rainwater can run down on to 
the drip and into the guttering.  I suspect that the roofing felt does not go onto the drip and 
therefore the water is allowed to ingress.
But Company B did note that the internal  damage seemed to have been  ongoing  for quite  
some time. It noted green moss and vegetation  around the gutters. It didnt  think  the damage 
was a result  of a one off event, and it noted that Mr H said the ingress  had been  a problem 
since the repair work in 2015. 
Company B didnt  think that the internal repairs  should be covered by Ageas as there was no 
insured peril in its opinion.  It explained its findings  to Mr H and took a verbal recording to 
confirm itd done this. 
On the back of this report, Ageas agreed  to cover the cost for the external repairs to put right 
the poor workmanship by its contractor   Company A. In September 2017 it offered a cash  
settlement for this which  Mr H accepted several months later.  
Ref: DRN83364072But Ageas still declined Mr Hs claim for the internal damage. It referred Mr H to the 
exclusion within his policy booklet which  states; "We do not cover  any loss or damage that 
happens gradually over a period of time,  such as rust, corrosion, fading  or shrinkage. As 
Company Bs report found that the internal damage had happened over a period of time, it 
said this part of the claim wasnt covered under the policy. 
Mr H disagreed with this. He says that he notified Ageas as soon as he noticed  any damage.  
And he says that had Company A carried out the repairs correctly in the first place, there 
would never  have been any problems  with the interiors. Mr H said he was willing  to accept 
£850 as settlement for this part of his claim  even though  hed received quotes  to repair it 
that were significantly higher than this. But Ageas maintained its position, so Mr H brought 
his complaint to this service.
During this time Ageas raised the finding of poor workmanship with Company A. But it 
disputed Company Bs findings by providing  an invoice that detailed the works it carried  out 
to Mr Hs property in 2015. The invoice showed that a manufactured drip hadnt  been 
applied.
Company B then reviewed its findings  alongside the invoice and Company As original report  
in 2015  which included photographs of the work carried out. It then concluded that the 
original diagnosis by its surveyor appeared to have been inaccurate.  It also said that the 
photographs itd seen didnt show any issues with the work carried  out by Company A. But 
without a more  invasive investigation  underneath  the roof tiles, it agreed  that the likely cause 
of the damage  was a result of the guttering, as originally diagnosed by Company A.
On this basis, Ageas argued that the claim for external repairs shouldnt have been covered 
either. But as this error was made  by its surveyor, it wouldnt seek to recover  the amount itd 
already paid Mr H for this. On balance of all of the information available in this case, our 
investigator thought  Ageas had acted  fairly  in how it handled Mr Hs claim, and didnt need to 
do any more. He agreed that it had, at points, failed  to communicate with Mr H as it 
shouldve. But he felt the offer of £200  fairly  compensated Mr H for this. 
Mr H still disagrees  with the way the claim was handled by Ageas, so the complaint has 
been passed to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint  and Ill explain  why.
Mr H has received a cash settlement for the external repairs to his property. And Im aware 
there was a lengthy delay in Mr H receiving the cheque  for £200 compensation from Ageas, 
which wouldve understandably exacerbated Mr Hs service concerns with it. But Ageas has 
apologised for this and now paid the money to Mr H. So I wont be asking it to do anything 
further in relation to this.
Ref: DRN83364073What I need to consider in this case,  is whether Ageas should cover the claim for the internal 
damage. In deciding  this, Ive considered whether the damage  happened as a result of poor 
workmanship by Company A  which would be a continuation of the claim in 2015. If its not 
a result of poor workmanship, I first need to look at whether the damage being claimed for 
would be a new claim and whether its an insured event thats  covered  under the policy.
is the damage a result  of poor workmanship?
Company B were not party to the works carried out to Mr Hs property in 2015  so Ive 
placed more weight on its findings  as a separate company. I understand it originally  
diagnosed poor workmanship  but this was on the basis of a manufactured drip being  
installed. When presented with evidence  that Company A hadnt in fact installed this  and 
after seeing  photographs of its work, Company  B changed its opinion. On balance of the 
information now available,  it thinks the water ingress  is likely  a result of issues with one of 
the gutters.
I have to base  my conclusion on what I think is more likely than not given the evidence and 
information available.  And Ive not seen enough supporting evidence to reasonably  dispute 
Company Bs findings. From what I have  seen, Company A didnt carry out work to Mr Hs 
gutters, so it wouldnt be fair to hold it accountable for poor workmanship on repairs  it didnt 
carry out. 
So I accept  Ageas conclusion that its unlikely the most  recent water  ingress was a result of 
Company As actions  in 2015. This means  that Mr H has likely benefitted  from having  the 
external repairs covered  under his policy. But I think its reasonable that Ageas isnt seeking 
to recover this from Mr H as this happened because of its error. And I dont  think it needs to 
do anything else in relation to this. 
is there an insured  event  for a separate claim?
From the information Ive seen, Mr H reported the internal damage to Ageas in July 2017. 
Company A visited Mr Hs property a few weeks later and noted the cause of damage to be 
related to an issue with the gutter  at the rear of the property. 
Company B visited the following month  and noted  that damage had occurred internally to the 
painted ceiling, causing staining and paint to crust. There was also crusting  of the painted  
plaster and the wallpaper was also stained.  It said that green moss staining was evident on 
the rear elevation stonework beneath  the guttering. So Im persuaded this wasnt a one off 
event and happened over a period of time,  as this sort of damage takes time to present in 
this way.
Ive considered Mr Hs point that there  was at least a two month gap between  him reporting 
the damage and Company Bs assessment being  made. So the damage  couldve worsened 
in that time. But I also have to consider that Company  Bs report  notes that Mr H said the 
water ingress had been an ongoing  issue since 2015. And in correspondence Mr H sent to 
Ageas at the beginning  of his claim, he said the damage had been made worse by weather 
conditions in the spring of 2017, but he didnt notify  Ageas of this issue until the summer  of 
that year. 
Ref: DRN83364074Finally, Company Bs latest  diagnosis suggests that it now believes the water ingress is likely 
a result of a long  term issue  with the old timber  guttering. The use of the phrase long term 
suggests the issue has been  going  on for quite some time.  And this is supported  by the 
green moss staining near the gutter. 
So on balance of the information available, Im persuaded by Ageas  findings that its likely 
the damage was apparent for some time before Mr H reported  it. And in line with the policy 
terms and conditions, the policy doesnt cover  damage that happens, gradually, over a 
period of time. So I wont be asking Ageas to pay Mr Hs claim for internal damage.
Mr H has raised  a further issue in that he was told the works carried  out to his property in 
2015 were guaranteed for 10 years. But hes since  been told by Ageas that he only had a 2 
year guarantee for this. I dont think this guarantee is relevant to this complaint, as Ive 
already set out why I think Mr Hs current claim is separate  to the works carried  out in 2015. 
So I havent made any finding  on this. But if Mr H is unhappy with what Ageas has said 
about the length of the guarantee  from 2015,  he should complain to Ageas in the first 
instance.
It follows that I dont uphold this complaint, so I wont be asking Ageas to do anything  further.  
I understand that this outcome will likely come as a disappointment to Mr H, but I hope he 
can understand why Ive reached this conclusion  for the reasons Ive explained  above.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 April 2019.
Rosie Osuji
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8336407