K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) policy  taken out in 
2001 to cover Mr and Mrs Bs joint mortgage, a new policy  was then taken out to cover 
additional borrowing  in 2003. Both policies covered Mr B for accident, sickness  and 
unemployment. Mr and Mrs B say Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) mis-sold them  the MPPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding this case.
Ive decided the policies werent mis-sold  and Ill explain why.
Ive seen the MPPI application forms Mr and Mrs B signed for each sale.  These forms were 
separate from any mortgage applications they completed, and included  the amount of the 
mortgage they wanted covered by MPPI,  as well as how they wanted the policy benefit split 
between them. Mr and Mrs B also signed separate direct debit mandates for each policy, 
giving permission for Lloyds to take payments for the PPI. These payments were separate to 
their payments for their mortgage.
Although I cant know exactly what was discussed  at the time,  with what Ive seen, I think it 
would have been clear that the MPPI was separate to the mortgages, and not a compulsory 
part of the lending. So I think its more likely Mr and Mrs B chose to take it out knowing they 
didnt have to.
Lloyds recommended that Mr and Mrs B take PPI to cover Mr B on both occasions, so it had 
to check that the cover  was right for him. And based  on what  Ive seen of his circumstances 
when they bought the policies, I think that it was. For example  Mr B wasnt  affected by any of 
the exclusions to or limits  on the MPPI cover and he seems  to have had a need for the 
cover.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs B about the MPPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But I think  the evidence shows they chose to take it out to cover  Mr B  so it 
looks like they wanted this type of cover. It also looks like it was affordable, and it seems like 
it would  have been useful for them. 
Mr B has said he would have got between 3 and 6 months sick pay if he had been too ill to 
work, but didnt have  any savings or other means  of meeting the mortgage repayments if he 
had fallen ill or become unemployed. 
The MPPI couldve covered the mortgage payments for up to 12 months - after an initial 
waiting period of 60 days. So the MPPI could have provided them with a useful benefit  over 
and above Mr Bs employment benefits  if something  went wrong  and in light of the serious 
implications of not keeping up repayments on a mortgage secured against  their home  
I dont think better information  about  the MPPI would have put Mr and Mrs B off taking out 
the cover.
my final decision
Ref: DRN87148782For the reasons  set out above I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 January 2020.
Sophie Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8714878