K820x#14complaint
Ms T complains that Lloyds Bank  plc, (trading as Cheltenham & Gloucester plc, (C&G)),  
mis-sold her a mortgage  payment protection insurance, (MPPI), policy.
background
C&G sold Ms T the monthly-premium MPPI during a meeting in 1998 at the same  time as 
she took out a mortgage. The policy covered  her for accident, sickness  and unemployment. 
And initially the premiums  were  about £15 a month.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  As Ms T disagreed, 
the matter has come  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of payment protection 
insurance on our website. Ive followed this in deciding  Ms Ts case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think C&G made it clear that Ms T didnt have to take out the MPPI  and that she chose 
to take it. I say this because Ive seen the loan assessment form recording C&Gs 
interview with Ms T. This has ticks on it showing that Ms T was interested  in MPPI,  as 
well as buildings and contents insurance.  (Whereas other insurance options have been 
left blank.) Ive also seen that neither Ms Ts mortgage application  form nor her mortgage 
agreement refer to MPPI  and that she signed  a proposal form for the insurance; 
Ms T says that she felt pressured into taking out the policy  because  she was told that 
she would have  a better  chance  of getting her mortgage if she did. Because the sale 
was face-to-face  I cant be sure what was said.  And as the meeting was many years  
ago I dont think  that I can fairly rely just on Ms Ts memory. And in the light of what Ive 
seen on the paperwork,  to which Ive referred  above, and in the absence of any more 
persuasive evidence,  I dont think that I can fairly  and reasonably  conclude  that C&G 
pressured Ms T to take out the insurance;
C&G  recommended  the MPPI to Ms T so it had to check  that the MPPI was right for her 
 and based on what Ive seen about her circumstances at the time,  I think  that it was. I 
say this because:
oMs T was eligible for the policy and wasnt caught by any of its main  limitations  and 
restrictions  such as those affecting someone with a pre-existing medical condition;
Ref: DRN80846822oMs T has told us that she was only entitled  to statutory redundancy pay. She has also 
told us that any sick pay from her employment was at her employers discretion and 
that her savings at the time of the sale were  equivalent to less than six months  of her 
salary. However, following a successful claim, the MPPI  would have paid out more 
than her monthly mortgage repayments  for up to 12 months. And this would have 
been in addition to anything her employer paid her. So I find that she had a need for 
the cover;
oThe MPPI was competitively priced by reference  to other policies available in the 
market at the time. And it had a reasonable benefit. And I havent  seen anything to 
suggest that Ms T couldnt afford the premiums.  In any event, as the policy was paid 
for monthly, she could  have cancelled it at any time if she had later felt that it was 
unaffordable or she no longer wanted it. 
Its possible the information C&G gave Ms T about the MPPI wasnt as clear as it should  
have been. But she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted  this type of cover. And it 
seems like it would have  been useful for her if something went  wrong.  So I dont think  better 
information about the MPPI would have  changed Ms Ts mind and stopped  her taking it out. 
This means  C&G doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the MPPI to Ms T.
But C&G has paid back some of the cost of the MPPI to Ms T because:  
C&G  got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the MPPI 
premium) - so it should have told Ms T about that. Because  C&G didnt tell Ms T, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, C&G has paid back the amount of commission and profit  share that was 
above 50% of the MPPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
As explained above, my decision is that the MPPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  
plc does not have to pay back  all of the cost of the MPPI to Ms T.
Bu Lloyds Bank plc does have to pay back to Ms T any commission  and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the MPPI  premium.  I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 May 2019.
Ros Barnett
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN8084682