K821x#15complaint
Mr E has complained following a claim he made to Ikano Bank  AB (publ)  (Ikano)  under the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974  (CCA).
background
In April 2017 Mr E met with a representative  of Green Energy Power  Solutions Ltd (GEPS) 
and was sold an air source heat pump  system, which  it supplied  and installed.  He paid for 
the system with a loan that GEPS arranged  with Ikano.  The cost of the system  was £11,800 
and the loan payments were due to be around £153 per month  for 10 years.   With interest 
the total amount to be repaid was £18,368.86.
Mr E says he was told the system would be self-funding  that the financial benefits  
provided by the heating  system would outweigh  the loan costs.  But Mr Es bills have actually 
increased in cost and so he says the system was misrepresented to him.
Under s.75 CCA a finance provider  can be responsible for any misrepresentation  or breach 
of contract  to the same extent as the supplier of the goods.  
Under s.56 CCA a finance provider  can also be held responsible  for what  the supplier says 
as its agent when arranging finance. 
So, Mr E made a claim to Ikano in respect  of the misrepresentations he says GEPS  made to 
him at the time of sale.
Ikano didnt uphold  Mr Es claim.  It said that hed already  complained directly to GEPS  
about being unaware a loan was being  entered into and it had paid him a lump sum in 
compensation.  Unhappy with the response, Mr E referred his complaint to this Service and 
asked for the loan to be cancelled and the system  removed.
One of our investigators  reviewed things and recommended the complaint be upheld.   She  
felt that GEPS previous  payment was not in relation to the system  being self-funding and 
given Mr Es circumstances  she didnt think he would have purchased  the heating  pump  and 
made such a financial  commitment unless he thought it would pay for itself.
The investigator concluded the promotional  material  was unclear and Mr E was likely told the 
installation would save him money.   Broadly speaking, to put things right she suggested 
Ikano arrange  for the removal of the heating system  and cancel the loan.
Mr E accepted the assessment  but Ikano didnt respond.  Eventually Ikano asked to see 
copies of some of the documentation the investigator had reviewed, which  she provided. But 
still no response was received from Ikano.
As Ikano  hasnt accepted the investigators  view or provided any response to her 
recommendations, the complaint has been  passed for an ombudsman to review  afresh  and 
decide.
Ref: DRN83859612my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Having done so, Ive reached much the 
same conclusion as the investigator.
I should say at the outset that I have  reviewed all the evidence provided  by both parties, and 
where there  is information which is missing or inconsistent, Im required to decide what  I 
consider to be most likely  on balance.
Im aware Mr E originally  claimed that he was unaware hed even entered  into a credit 
agreement for the system.  I think thats  something he would have queried with GEPS  when 
he complained  initially and so Im not covering it here.  Im aware GEPS  issued its response 
and made  a lump  sum payment to Mr E.
Ive reviewed the response letter  from GEPS  and it doesnt clearly  set out what  concerns it 
was addressing and how it arrived at the compensation it paid him.  The letter  just says 
further to recent conversations I am now in a position of offer specific  proposals  which  I 
believe are acceptable  to you.  
But from Mr Es s.75 claim to Ikano its clear  he wasnt happy about the cost of servicing  the 
loan each month, and the increase in his energy bills when he believed the system would 
pay for itself.   So, I believe this is the central  issue for me to address.
Given Mr Es circumstances at the time of sale I think its unlikely he would have been 
looking to enter a loan agreement  for such a significant sum over a 10-year term.  He was 
due to retire with a modest pension income, and so if he knew  the system wouldnt pay for 
itself, I doubt he would have agreed to the purchase.
Mr E says he was told the financial benefit  from the system would  make  the air source  heat 
pump self-funding by covering the cost of payments.   I dont have the promotional material 
from the sale, but the investigator identified online advertising used by GEPS  from around  
the same  time.
The financial  benefit of the heating pump system would come from two sources.  The  first 
being a reduction  in gas usage and bills, and the second from Renewable Heat  Incentive  
(RHI) payments  from the government.  The online  marketing that GEPS  was using around 
that time focusses heavily  on those benefits  and uses  statements such as Reduce your 
heating bills to ZERO! and EARN UP TO £1,445 RHI PER YEAR.
The marketing used  by GEPS  consistently  provides a similar message from what  Ive seen.  
This supports Mr Es version of events about  what he was told at the time.
A system  performance information sheet  was also produced for Mr E which sets out details 
of the heating pump he was buying  along  with its expected performance.  It refers to several 
benefits and estimated savings but isnt very clear about how they compare to the cost of 
servicing the loan.   The  sheet also refers  to the RHI benefits Mr E could expect but doesnt  
highlight they end three years before the loan term ends.
 
Given the complexity of the estimated benefits,  and lack of clarity comparing those to the 
loan costs, I consider  it likely Mr E would  have been  reliant upon the representative from 
GEPS to explain the overall situation.
Ref: DRN83859613Im satisfied the financial benefits  and savings were likely the main inducement for Mr E to 
buy the system.  And  its reasonable from what Ive seen for him to believe that it would be 
self-funding and so conclude  the benefits  were  misrepresented to him by GEPS.  This is also 
supported by the fact Mr E raised  his complaint so soon after the installation when the costs 
to him became  apparent.
Were it not for the misrepresentation, and if Mr E had been  advised of the real costs  to him, I 
dont think he would  have  gone ahead with the purchase at all.  Particularly as hes provided 
evidence to suggest not only did the system not save him money, but that it increased  his 
electricity usage from running the heating pump.
Putting things right
I consider each complaint on its own facts, and theres no exact  science to what is fair and 
reasonable.  In  this case, Ive considered that at the time of sale Mr E was signing  up for a 
system that he thought would pay for itself.  So, one option Ive considered is to ask Ikano to 
restructure the loan agreement and reduce the cost to ensure the system would be self-
funding.
But in this case, its a bit more complicated  to make the system self-funding because the 
heating pump has cost Mr E money  by increasing his electricity  costs. I think were it not for 
the misrepresentation, Mr E wouldnt have made the purchase or entered  the loan 
agreement.  So fair compensation  would  be to put him back  into that position.
I have taken account of the fact Mr E has already received some compensation from GEPS, 
but I dont think  that was for the same issues, and so Im satisfied its fair and reasonable 
overall to not make  any deduction now.
Ikano should do the following:
Arrange and pay for the air source  heat pump  system (including radiators) to be 
removed from Mr Es property.
Return Mr Es previous heating system to working order and make good any repairs  
or redecoration required.
Cancel the loan from its inception.  As Mr E hasnt made  any payments towards the 
loan there will be no refund due.
Calculate the increase in energy  bills Mr E has incurred since  installation  of the 
system, and refund  that amount to him less any RHI payments hes received for that 
same period.
Remove any reference to the loan from Mr Es credit file with all relevant credit 
agencies.
Pay Mr E £500 trouble  and upset for the distress  and uncertainty hes experienced.  
Ref: DRN83859614my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Es complaint against Ikano Bank  AB (publ)  and I direct 
it to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 July 2020
Ross Hammond
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8385961