K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy for a mortgage.
background
Mr and Mrs M took out a PPI policy with a mortgage  in 1994. Mr and Mrs M paid for the PPI 
with a regular  monthly  premium, which didnt attract interest. It covered them in case either 
of them  was off work  sick or lost their job.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs M disagreed  with the adjudicators  
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ms case. 
While I know this will disappoint Mr and Mrs M, I have not found that this policy  was mis-sold  
 Ill explain my reasons.
This sale was 25 years  ago and the account  has long since  closed, so understandably  
neither side still have the documents  from the time. Indeed, under data protection  
regulations Halifax  were required to dispose of Mr and Mrs Ms data rather  than hold onto it 
for too long. Mr and Mrs M dont remember choosing  PPI, which  I think is understandable 
either way, given just how long ago the sale was, and since buying insurance is not often 
memorable. Ive thought carefully about whats most  likely to have happened based  on the 
limited information I have.
It would have been a very serious  failing  for Halifax to have added  the PPI without Mr and 
Mrs Ms permission,  or to have misled  them into thinking it was compulsory. But I have no 
evidence which shows thats what Halifax did here. Nor have I seen  any wider problems with 
its sales process from the time or any indications that it would normally mislead customers in 
these sales. And the sale was too long ago for me to reasonably expect  Halifax to be able to 
produce evidence  to defend itself now. So on that basis, I dont think I can fairly conclude 
that its most  likely  Halifax misled Mr and Mrs M here. I think its more likely  that it gave them 
a choice about buying the PPI, and they chose to take it at the time  though I can certainly 
understand if they no longer recall  doing so after so long.
Its not clear whether  Halifax  recommended  PPI to Mr and Mrs M or not. The requirements  
were stricter  on Halifax  if it did recommend it, so to be fair to Mr and Mrs M, Ive assumed it 
did. That means Halifax had to check the policy was right for them  and based on what  Ive 
seen of their circumstances at the time,  I think it was.
Ref: DRN80278692For example, Mr and Mrs M dont seem  to have been significantly affected by any of the 
policys main exclusions  or limitations. While they said they had good benefits through work, 
the PPI wouldve paid out on top of those benefits,  and it offered them more comprehensive 
cover  especially  when  their work benefits  ran out or reduced to just half pay, a serious 
drop in income.  They also had some savings, though those  wouldnt  have  lasted that long if 
needed to cover Mr or Mrs Ms salary, or both. I also understand Mr and Mrs M felt secure in 
their jobs and felt they could survive on one income. But accidents, illnesses, and 
redundancies can and do happen, and if one of them had lost their income it couldve had 
potentially severe  effects on the household  budget. So it seems  sensible that they insured 
themselves. Ultimately, its worth  bearing in mind  that if Mr and Mrs M fell behind on their 
mortgage payments,  they risked losing their home.  It looks  like the PPI couldve been useful 
for them in protecting their home and giving some  peace of mind.  
Its possible that the information Halifax gave  Mr and Mrs M about PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  The question, then,  is whether  I think better information was likely to have 
changed their minds. But as I explained above,  Mr and Mrs M werent affected by any of the 
main things the policy didnt cover, and it couldve been useful for them in case  something 
went wrong. The policy was not bad value  given how much it would pay out in a claim, and 
Ive not seen any indications it was unaffordable.  And the PPI was paid on a rolling  monthly 
basis, so Mr and Mrs M could cancel it at any time without  a penalty. Overall,  I dont think  
that better  information  was likely to have put them  off taking out the cover.
my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 July 2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8027869