K820x#14complaint
Mrs C says that Lloyds Bank  PLC (Lloyds)  mis-sold her a payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) policy.
background
Mrs C took out a loan with Lloyds in 1999.  At the same  time she was sold a PPI policy  which 
wouldve covered  the repayments on her loan for up to 12 months at a time if she lost her job 
or until the end of the loan if she couldnt work  because she was unwell.  The cost of the 
policy was added to her loan and she paid interest on it.
Mrs C says she didnt need  the policy and the full cost wasnt  explained.
The adjudicator thought  that Mrs Cs complaint shouldnt  be upheld.  Mrs C disagrees, so her 
case has been passed to me to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of her complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website  and Ive taken 
this into account  when deciding her case.  Having done so, Im not upholding Mrs Cs 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
Over 19 years has passed since the loan and PPI were  sold,  so unsurprisingly  neither party  
can provide much evidence about  the sale. Lloyds has provided a sample copy  of the loan 
agreement that was in use at the time. I can see from it that the PPI is shown separately  to 
the loan and is described as optional. There is also a separate box where the customer has 
to tick yes or no for the PPI.
I think its likely Mrs C saw and signed her form, or a form very like it. I dont think its likely  
that the loan couldve been  completed without her loan agreement. And I think its likely she 
opted for the PPI. So, on balance, on the limited information available  to me I think Mrs C 
chose to buy the PPI knowing she didnt have  to.
Lloyds advised  Mrs C to buy the policy, so it had an obligation to take reasonable steps  to 
make sure it was suitable for her. It also had an obligation to make sure Mrs C had all the 
information she needed to make her decision.
Looking at Mrs Cs circumstances at the time I think it was suitable.  I say this because:
Mrs C was eligible for the cover and wouldnt have been affected  by any of the terms 
which mightve made it more difficult for her to make a successful claim, such as 
those relating to existing medical conditions or self-employment;
Mrs C had some substantial  sick pay, but the policy wouldve paid out in addition to 
that and potentially for longer,  to the end of the loan;
Mrs C has said she had some savings she couldve used to meet the cost of the 
repayments. But I think she wanted to either retain those savings or use them for 
Ref: DRN89750462another purpose or she wouldnt  have taken  out the loan.  And taking out the PPI 
would have enabled her to do so if things went wrong. 
The cost of the policy was comparable with other  similar policies on the market  
around the same time;
If Mrs C had wanted the cancel the PPI policy its likely she wouldnt have received a 
proportionate refund of premiums. But I havent  seen  anything to suggest  that was 
something Mrs C intended to do.
Its possible Mrs C didnt get all the information  she shouldve done.  For example I dont 
know how the interest payable on the premium was explained to Mrs C. But it was a 
relatively small amount   less than £30. So I dont  think if shed understood this it wouldve 
made a difference to her decision  to buy it. And Ive explained why I think the policy  was 
suitable  so I dont think more information about  the terms and conditions wouldve changed 
Mrs Cs decision  either.
So, on balance, on the limited information  I have,  I dont think Mrs C lost out as a result of 
anything Lloyds did wrong.
my final decision
Im not upholding Mrs Cs complaint, so it follows that Lloyds Bank  PLC doesnt have to pay 
any compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 April 2019.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8975046