K820x#14complaint
Miss B is unhappy that she was advised  to contract  out of the State  Earnings  Related 
Pension Scheme (SERPS) by the Prudential Assurance Company Limited. She is also 
concerned that her signature may have been forged  on a disclaimer  form used to support 
her application  to contract out.
background
Miss B contracted out of SERPS  in January 1989 when she was 25 years  old and earning 
£4,500. She took out a personal pension plan with Prudential. She stopped making 
contributions to her personal pension in May 2000, when she was 36 years old. Miss B took 
the benefits from her personal pension in March  2019 at age 55, as a lump sum.
At the time of contracting out, Miss Bs annual earnings were  £500 less than the minimum 
salary required by Prudentials guidelines to be considered  suitable  for contracting out. 
Notes provided by Prudential suggest that Miss B told Prudentials representative that her 
earnings would increase  by £500 in the following year. Miss B disputes this. Prudentials  
notes also indicate  that Miss B still wanted  to contract out of SERPS. So she was invited to 
sign a disclaimer form which confirmed that Miss B was aware that her pension could be 
lower by contracting out, but she still wished to do so. Miss B says that her signature was 
forged on this disclaimer form. 
Miss B believes that she has been incorrectly advised to contract out of SERPS and 
complained to Prudential. She also made  Prudential  aware  of her concerns about the 
potential forging of her signature on the disclaimer form.
In its response,  Prudential  said it didnt have proof that Miss Bs signature had been forged 
on the disclaimer form. Nor did it believe the policy had been mis-sold. But it did accept that, 
although there was a signed disclaimer, Miss Bs earnings were  below the minimum required 
by Prudentials guidelines. Prudential said that not meeting the salary requirement whilst  
having a signed disclaimer wouldnt be grounds to uphold Miss Bs complaint. However, 
given that there is a dispute about the disclaimer, Prudential looked at the case  as if there 
wasnt a disclaimer. And without the disclaimer  it would have upheld the complaint. As a 
result, it offered a goodwill gesture to try and contract Miss B back  into the state  pension  
scheme. This would  put her back to the position  she would have been in, had she not 
contracted out of SERPS. Miss B declined  this offer. 
Miss B says that she has been  considerably distressed and upset by what she believes is 
Prudential forging her signature on the disclaimer form. Prudential said that, whilst  it didnt 
have any evidence that Miss Bs signature was forged on the disclaimer form, it 
acknowledged that the issue  was distressing  to Miss B. It has offered £100 in recognition of 
the upset Miss B had suffered. Miss B didnt accept this payment.
Miss B remained unhappy and complained  to us. Our investigator didnt uphold  Miss Bs 
complaint. He concluded that:
The disclaimer was only one part of the application process. In order  to continue  the 
application to contract  out, the disclaimer form had to be signed. As Miss B had made it 
clear that she wanted to contract out of SERPS,  our investigator considered that Miss B 
was most likely to have signed the disclaimer form.
Ref: DRN85584392One of the benefits of contracting out of SERPS  was the option for Miss B to take her 
benefits as a cash lump sum and earlier than state retirement age, which  Miss B has 
done. She wouldnt have been able to do this had she remained in SERPS.
The advice to contract out was suitable in Miss Bs circumstances.
Because Miss B had taken benefits  from her plan, Prudentials offer to reinstate Miss B 
into the state pension scheme would no longer be possible.
Miss B didnt agree with our investigators findings and asked for an ombudsman to review  
her case.  It has now come to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its worth  noting that we are an informal dispute  resolution service, acting as an alternative to 
the courts. We dont  consider complaints  on the burden of proof, as a court  might. Where the 
evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive or contradictory, decisions are reached on the balance  
of probabilities. In other words, what is most likely to have  happened  in light of the available 
evidence and the wider circumstances. I should  also say that that our service  isnt the 
industry regulator; our role isnt to make  rules for financial businesses,  punish or fine them,  
or direct them to change  their processes.
When the Government decided to allow individuals to contract  out of SERPS (and offered 
incentives to do so), it didnt give advice about who should be advised to remain in SERPS  
and those for whom  it was anticipated  that contracting out would be beneficial. To provide 
clarity, pension providers made comparisons  of the projected benefits from SERPS with 
those from a personal pension. These calculations were based  on what were felt to be 
conservative assumptions of likely future investment returns  at the time.  In drawing up these 
comparisons, two key criteria were considered; age, and earnings.
One of the attractions of contracting  out of SERPS  at an early  age is that the younger 
someone is, the longer there is until retirement. So there is a greater  chance  that a personal 
pension could perform  better than SERPS over this longer period. The age, where the 
providers advice as to whether to contract  out or not changed, is known as the pivotal age. 
Miss B was 25 years old when she contracted out and was under Prudentials pivotal age. 
Miss Bs annual earnings were £500  less than Prudentials guidelines for contracting out. 
Despite this, Miss B still had the option of contracting out of SERPS by signing a disclaimer. 
This highlighted that Prudential  would  be prepared to accept Miss Bs application (although 
she was just outside Prudentials guidelines) so long as she accepted  that her total pension  
may be lower. This appears to be signed  by Miss B. But she is adamant she didnt sign the 
disclaimer form and her signature has been forged. Miss B says another reason for her to 
believe the signature is forged is that the form was signed on a different date from that on 
the application form. Prudential says its representative would have had to revisit Miss B as it 
was something that couldnt have been signed at the same time as the application form. I 
think this sounds  plausible.
I wasnt present when the disclaimer form was signed so I cant  be certain  whether
Miss Bs signature was forged. Nor am I a handwriting expert; and this service doesnt  have  
access to the forensic expertise needed to determine if a signature has been forged. So, 
although Miss B is convinced her signature has been forged, Im not able to determine  
whether it has. Im conscious that Miss B feels very strongly about this issue.  So much so 
Ref: DRN85584393that she is considering  employing a handwriting expert to assess  whether her signature was 
forged on the disclaimer form. Whilst this is for Miss B to decide, whether the signature was 
forged or not doesnt alter my decision.  Let me explain  why.
If the signature had been forged, I considered  whether this resulted in any disadvantage to 
Miss B. I thought about this in the context  of her long-term plans.  Miss B says her planning 
was based around  taking  the benefits from her personal pension  as a lump  sum. This is so 
that she could  relocate  for her retirement.  Contracting out has been beneficial  to Miss B for 
two main reasons.  First, she has been  able to take the benefits  as a cash  lump sum; she 
wouldnt have been able to do this had she remained contracted  in to SERPS. Second,  she 
was able to take her benefits at age 55. This would not have been possible had Miss B 
remained contracted in to SERPS; she would have had to wait until the state pension age to 
take her benefits.
Whilst contracting out of SERPS  has been advantageous to Miss B, I can understand and 
sympathise with her sense of injustice as she is convinced that her signature  on the 
disclaimer form has been forged. I accept  how strongly  she feels about  this. Prudential  
hasnt seen any evidence  that Miss Bs signature  had been forged, but has accepted that the 
issue has caused distress  to Miss B. In these  circumstances, without evidence of forgery  I 
think Prudentials suggested  £100 payment in recognition of this upset is fair and 
reasonable.
Even if the signature  has been forged (and I havent  seen any evidence that it has) it isnt 
our role to punish a business for a criminal offence. Wed ask Prudential to put Miss B back  
into the position she would be in had she remained  in SERPS.  I can see that Prudential  
offered to do this  which I think is fair and reasonable. Since  the offer was made, Miss B 
has taken her benefits as a lump sum, so reinstating her benefits in SERPS (or Second 
State Pension as its now known)  isnt possible.  But even if it was, I dont think  this is what  
Miss B would have  wanted as it would mean she couldnt access the SERPS part of her 
pension as a lump sum and not before her state  retirement age.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Bs complaint.  If it hasnt already done  so The 
Prudential Assurance  Company Limited  should pay the £100 it offered to Miss B. It doesnt 
have to do anything  else.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 April 2020.
Geoff Pearson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8558439