K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs V complain  that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold them a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs V took out a mortgage with BoS in 2003. At the same time they bought a Total 
Mortgage Protection Plan (TMPP).  This included accident, sickness  and unemployment 
cover (also  known as PPI) as well as critical illness and life cover.  Mr and Mrs V have only 
complained about the PPI elements, so I havent  looked at their critical illness  and life cover. 
The insurance only covered Mr V.
Mr and Mrs V say that they didnt know the policy was optional.  They  say they didnt need it 
and that BoS didnt  explain  the terms and conditions to them.
The adjudicator didnt think Mr and Mrs Vs complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs V 
disagree, so their complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website  and Ive taken 
that into account when deciding this case. Having done so, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Vs 
complaint. Ill explain  why Ive reached this decision.
Mr and Mrs Vs recollections of the sale are hazy. When they first complained they didnt 
know when or where the policy was sold or who it covered. After  BoS provided  them  with 
these details Mr and Mrs V say they didnt understand the policy  was optional and that it 
wasnt explained to them properly.
Neither party has been able to provide the documents  used  in the sale.  This isnt surprising 
given the length of time which has passed since  then. But this service has seen the types  of 
documents that were in use by BoS at this time.  They make it clear  that the PPI is optional  
and Mr and Mrs V would  have had to specifically opt in to buy it, including  completing a 
separate direct debit  mandate to pay the premiums. I dont think the sale could have  taken 
place without this process  being completed.
Mr and Mrs V have  said they were led to believe it wasnt optional.  They  havent said what 
happened to make them think that. And they havent  had a very good recollection of the 
sale. So I dont think I can safely rely on their statement.
On balance, on the limited  information  I have, I think its most likely Mr and Mrs V bought  the 
PPI knowing they had a choice about  it. 
BoS recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs V so it had a duty to take reasonable steps  to 
make sure it was right for them. Looking at Mr Vs circumstances  at the time (the policy only 
covered Mr V0) I think that it was suitable. I say this because:
Ref: DRN87068852Mr V was eligible  for the policy and wasnt affected of the terms which might have 
made it more difficult for him to make  a successful claim, such  as those related to 
existing medical conditions or self-employment;
Mr V would have received sick pay from his employer. But the PPI would have paid 
out in addition to this and for longer than his sick pay would have lasted  potentially  
for up to two years at a time;
Mr V would likely  have  been entitled  to some redundancy pay. And Mr and Mrs V had 
some savings.  But, again, the PPI would  have paid out in addition to these, leaving 
any redundancy pay and savings to cover other uninsured expenses;
The cost of the policy was comparable with other  similar policies on the market  
around the same time. It was flexible  as it could be amended  or cancelled  at any 
time; and I havent seen anything to suggest it was unaffordable  for Mr and Mrs V.
Its possible BoS didnt  provide Mr and Mrs V with all the information  they needed about the 
policy. But I dont think more, or better, information would have made a difference to their 
decision to buy it because  it was suitable for them in the way Ive described above. 
So I dont  think Mr and Mrs V lost out as a result of anything BoS might have done wrong.
my final decision
Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Vs complaint, so it follows  that Bank  of Scotland plc doesnt  
have to pay any compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs V to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 November  2019.
S.Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8706885