K820x#14complaint
Ms and Mr J say Lloyds Bank  PLC mis-sold  them a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
background
Ms and Mr J took out a mortgage and PPI through  Lloyds  in 1997. The policy  covered 
Ms J only for accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Ms and Mr J didnt accept our adjudicators 
view, so their complaint  was passed to me. Ms and Mr J said they werent aware that 
PPI had been added.  They  also said the policy was unsuitable for them because, in 
summary, it was Mr J who wouldve  benefitted  from PPI as he had no benefits through  
work. Ms J said she had sufficient work benefits and savings, so she didnt need PPI. On 
that basis, they said, the advice given by Lloyds couldnt have  been  correct.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our general approach to complaints about PPI is on our website and Ive followed it 
here. Ive decided not to uphold Ms and Mr Js complaint. Ill explain why.
I cant know exactly what was discussed when the insurance was added. Lloyds no longer 
has a copy of Ms and Mr Js paperwork from the time of sale.  Based on whats available, I 
cant fairly conclude, on the limited  information I have, that they were  not told that PPI was 
optional and they were not given a choice about  it being added.  I think  it just as likely they 
were. So, I cant reasonably uphold their complaint  on this basis.
Lloyds recommended Ms and Mr J take PPI, so it had to consider whether it was suitable  for 
their needs.  In addition,  it had to give them information that was clear,  fair and not 
misleading about the PPI so that they could make an informed choice about whether it was 
right for them and they wanted to buy it. If there was a problem with the sale, then I need to 
consider whether I think Ms and Mr J have lost out because of that.
Lloyds no longer has a copy of the policy document that applied  at the time of sale. I 
have seen a copy  of a policy  document from after the sale. Based on what we know  
from dealing with other cases, I think the terms and conditions were likely  to have been 
similar when  Ms and Mr J took out PPI.
Although only Ms J was covered under the policy, because this was a joint mortgage, I have 
taken into account  Mr Js circumstances too, to decide whether the policy was suitable  for 
them in their circumstances. Having done  so, I cant see that this policy  was unsuitable.  Ill 
explain why.
 Ms J accepts  she was eligible to take out PPI given her circumstances.
 Ms J said she wouldve got around six months  worth of sick pay at full pay, and 
six months at half pay through work. She also said she had some savings. I cant 
Ref: DRN89387812see that this wouldve made the policy inappropriate for them.  The policy  
wouldve paid their mortgage repayment in full for up to 12 months per 
successful claim. So, I think  this couldve provided  Ms and Mr J with a valuable  
benefit to protect their home. It wouldve allowed them to keep hold of their 
savings to meet other household expenses at what  might be a difficult time 
financially for them, particularly if Ms J was on half pay. The policy wouldve also 
covered Ms J if she lost her job unexpectedly. Mr J said he wouldnt have got any 
benefits through work if he was off sick. So, I think it wouldve been important to 
them to be assured that their mortgage repayments could be met if they ended  
up with Ms J being out of work. 
 I cant see that Ms J wouldve been affected by any of the main things the 
policy didnt cover at the time she took out the policy, so I dont think  having  
better information about these things wouldve made any difference to their 
decision to take out PPI. Ms J likely couldve benefitted from everything  the 
policy offered.
The premium was paid monthly so they couldve cancelled PPI at any time 
without losing out financially. They didnt have to pay interest  on the premiums. 
Ms and Mr J agree  the policy was affordable. 
Its possible the bank  couldve given Ms and Mr J clearer information, particularly about 
the costs and benefits. But, for the reasons explained, I think they wouldve likely still 
taken out the policy  because of the protection it afforded them and it appeared suitable  
for their needs and affordable.
Ive taken into account what Ms and Mr J have  said about  Mr Js circumstances at the time 
of sale; that he was self-employed, so in a more vulnerable position. I cant say whether he 
wouldve been eligible for cover or not. But, even  if he was, I cant see that taking out the 
policy in Ms Js name only meant that they received unsuitable advice from Lloyds. I dont 
know why they didnt take out cover for Mr J, or whether  they were advised  to. But what  Im 
considering here is the mis-sale of PPI to them, rather than whether PPI shouldve been 
recommended and sold to Mr J. I cant see that Lloyds  did anything  wrong  by selling a PPI 
policy to them covering Ms J.
Which means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms and Mr J. 
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms and Mr J because:
 When the policy was sold, Lloyds  expected to get a high level of commission  and 
profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Ms and 
Mr J about that. Because Lloyds didnt tell Ms and Mr J, that was unfair.
 To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission and profit  share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank PLC does not have to pay back  all of 
the cost of the PPI to Ms and Mr J.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have to pay back to Ms and Mr J any commission  and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont  award any further compensation.
Ref: DRN89387813Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms and Mr J 
to accept or reject my decision before 24 February 2020.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8938781