K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that National  Westminster  Bank Plc transferred money from their 
sons account into their account without instructions to do so.
Mrs D brings this complaint on behalf  of herself  and her husband so I will only refer to Mrs D 
in this decision.
background
In October  and November  2017, money from Mrs Ds sons account was transferred into her 
account and on the second  occasion, his account  was closed.
Having initially suspected fraudulent activity, it was soon discovered  that errors had been  
made internally by NatWest.  When it carried out an investigation, NatWest  said it had, in 
error, actioned a request from Mrs Ds account to close her sons account.  But  Mrs D says 
she never made that request.
NatWest offered £50 for its failings and corrected  the position with regards  Mrs Ds account.
Mrs D then came to this service.  She insisted she had not made  the request to transfer.
Our adjudicator did not think she could ask NatWest  to do anymore  and she explained why 
to Mrs D.  Mrs D did not agree.  She said she was not after financial compensation here  
she simply wanted NatWest to admit it had done something wrong and not her.
The matter  was then passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mrs Ds frustration  we dont expect actions and transactions  to go on in 
the background of our bank accounts.
But my role here is an informal one  to look at what NatWest  has done  wrong  and what it 
did to make things right.  This service  does not have  the resources of a court where  it can 
order extensive evidence  and examine the same   such as the subject access request which  
Mrs D is making.
Mrs D wants NatWest to accept that it made the mistake here  and it seems  to me that it 
has done that. It cant say where the request came  from and why it was actioned  but it 
accepts it made the error.
For the purpose of this complaint however, NatWest  quickly returned the accounts back  to 
their original positions.  There was no financial loss to Mr and Mrs D and I think  the offer of 
£50 is a fair one in the circumstances.
I know Mrs D is pursuing  her subject access request and will raise any further  issues of 
breach with the relevant  bodies.  But as I have said before, that it not a matter for this 
service.
Ref: DRN81527532my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 March 2020.
Shazia Ahmed
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8152753