K820x#14complaint
Miss K says Yorkshire Building  Society (YBS) mis-sold her a payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Miss K bought  the policy  in 1990  at the same time as taking  out a mortgage.  She applied  for 
the mortgage and PPI policy in branch. 
The policy provided  cover  for Miss K for accident, sickness, and unemployment   subject to 
its exclusions and limitations.  It offered to repay  £200 a month towards Miss Ks mortgage 
balance in the event of a successful claim. At the time, it cost £9 a month.  
At the time,  Miss K was employed  as a Office Manageress. she has told us she was entitled 
to 12 months work of sick pay, death in service and redundancy pay which she could use to 
repay her mortgage if she couldnt work.  Miss K has said she was in good health at the time 
of the sale. 
YBS has sent us screenshots  to show that the mortgage account closed in 2007.
Miss Ks representative has made lengthy  and substantial  representations on her behalf.
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Miss Ks representative says:
 
YBS failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Miss K wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Miss Ks 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means YBS should have told 
Miss K about the poor value;  
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means YBS should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Miss K and the impact 
they would  have had on her chances  of making  a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Miss K received was misleading. These  policies were promoted  as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Miss K disagreed with the adjudicators opinion for 
several reasons.  
Ref: DRN85858062As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Miss Ks. I dont  intend  to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Ks complaint.
This sale took place  in 1990 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2007. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like YBS at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI Code  and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Miss Ks case.  
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
Ref: DRN85858063professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Building  Societies 
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Building  Societies  Ombudsmans terms of reference  the Ombudsman  
was required to decide complaints by reference to what  was, in his opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances.
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so YBS 
was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Miss Ks complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If YBS gave advice,  whether it advised  Miss K with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether YBS gave  Miss K sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable  
her to make an informed choice about  whether to take out the policy,  including  
drawing to her attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Miss K, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Miss K suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Miss K and 
YBS, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ks complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Miss K know  she had a choice?
YBS had to make  it clear that the PPI policy was optional.  
Ive seen a copy  of Miss Ks mortgage application.  I can see on it she was given the choice  
to take PPI by either ticking a box for yes or no. I can see she ticked  the yes box to take 
PPI. If she didnt want PPI she couldve ticked the box to decline the policy. 
Ive also seen paperwork to show me that Miss K then went  on to complete a separate 
application for PPI and that her mortgage  offer confirms that Miss K has elected to take out 
the Key Payment  Protection Plan to provide a monthly benefit of £200.
Ref: DRN85858064So, taking everything  into account, I think its more likely  that Miss K knew the policy was 
optional and she agreed to take it out without undue  pressure. 
did YBS provide advice?
Both YBS and Miss K agree that advice wasnt provided during this sale.  
This means  YBS didnt  have to check if the PPI was suitable for Miss K. Instead, it had to 
give her sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable  her to make  an informed 
choice about whether  to take out the policy, including drawing to her attention and 
highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main provisions of the policy and 
significant limitations and exclusions. 
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Miss K was given a broad  description of what  the policy 
was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect her payments if Miss K was 
unable to work through accident,  sickness or unemployment) and of the approximate costs  
because I can see this information was on the PPI application and mortgage offer. And I 
think its unlikely Miss K would have  taken out the policy without any sense of what the policy 
was for and of how much  the premium  might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  YBS gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit or about the exclusions or limitations  before 
Miss K agreed to take out the policy. 
So I dont  think YBS gave Miss K sufficient,  appropriate and timely information to enable her 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including drawing her 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.  
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Miss Ks representative has raised  a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Miss Ks. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Miss Ks representative considers to be poor  
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Miss K about the limitations and exclusions,  it should  have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Miss Ks representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith 
in insurance law imposed  a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material facts and 
Ref: DRN85858065not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Miss K has suggested.  And taking  into account the law, industry codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that YBS ought to have  done  either. 
what effect did YBSs shortcomings have  on Miss K? To what extent  did Miss  K suffer  
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that YBS didnt  do all it should  have done when it sold this policy  to Miss K. So 
Ive gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude  she suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether  or not Miss K would 
have still taken out the policy, had YBS done  things properly. 
Miss K says she would not have taken it out and believes I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Miss K had to weigh up in her own mind the cost of the 
policy against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if she didnt insure  
against the risk of being unable to work.  
As Ive found above, Miss K chose to take this policy out. So I consider that its reasonable 
to conclude she had some interest in the benefits  offered by this type of insurance.  But she 
made this decision  based  on incomplete information. So what Miss K thought she was 
getting is not exactly what she got. The extent  to which this differed is a relevant 
consideration when determining if Miss K has suffered any loss or detriment. 
The information Miss K was given about  the cost was clear. But the information  about other 
aspects of the policy, such as benefit  and exclusions] wasnt as clear as it should  have been.  
Im not persuaded YBS made  clear  exactly what Miss K would get back  in return  in the event 
Miss K made a successful claim. But I think its unlikely Miss Ks expectations about what the 
policy would pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient to meet her mortgage 
payment) were significantly  different to what the policy  actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Miss K thought she had bought and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions that Miss K knew  about  or 
ought to have known about  in the 12 months before the start date of the policy  and 
occurred within the first 12 months; 
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Miss K 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Miss K be unable to 
do her own job, a similar job or any paid work  which her experience qualified her to 
do.
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
Ref: DRN85858066I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Miss K pause for thought  and may well have caused her to conclude that the policy  
wasnt as good  as she thought and she might have decided not to proceed. The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Miss K from taking out the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Miss Ks circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong for her. Miss K was eligible  for its benefits and it provided cover 
that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable to her should the 
insured risks have  become a reality. I also havent  seen any evidence to suggest Miss K 
wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions  Miss K didnt have any pre-
existing medical conditions and was in permanent employment. So, I still think she had some 
good reasons  to take the policy  out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Miss K would have 
expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some  evidence to 
support that claim.
If Miss K had known  she could only claim for disability if she was unable to do both her job 
and any similar gainful occupation  which in the insurers view she might reasonably become 
qualified for, it might  have  played into her thinking about what  she would have done.  And I 
accept it may have given  her pause  for thought  although its possible she may not have 
been overly concerned given that if Miss K was unable  (through disability) to carry on her 
own occupation the chances  that she would be able to take up a similar occupation  would 
also, in all probability, be limited.
YBS may not have  told Miss K that any claim she made would be limited to a 12-month 
period. This may have  differed from what she expected and might have hoped  for. But 12 
months was likely a longer period  than Miss K would have  received  full sick pay for and her 
statutory redundancy entitlement was also significantly less than 12 months income.  
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Miss K would still have thought a policy that paid 
up to 12 monthly mortgage  payments would have  been of benefit to her and would help her 
manage the consequences  should  Miss K be unable to work in the circumstances covered 
by the policy.  The policy allowed for multiple  claims to be made, it could help reduce her 
outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time,  ensure her home  was not placed at risk and might 
potentially help preserve  Miss Ks sick pay or redundancy money for other  use.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Miss K would still have taken out the policy. The policy  was sufficiently close  to 
what its likely she thought  she was getting and provided benefits that would help her 
manage the consequences  if Miss K was made  redundant,  or unable  to work through  
accident or disability.  In the circumstances I consider  it more  likely than not that Miss K 
would have taken  out the policy  in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Miss Ks representatives say the rules about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
Ref: DRN85858067That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Miss K would not have bought the PPI she bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted  
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Miss Ks 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Miss K 
found herself in as a result of the sale was the same position  she would have been in had 
the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Miss K believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Miss K in the position she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept its possible she wouldnt have taken out the policy, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that she would  still have taken 
out the PPI had she been given clear,  fair and not misleading information about the policy 
she was buying.  So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude YBS should  pay Miss K compensation, as that would put her in a 
better position than she would  have  been  in if everything had happened as it should have 
done. 
Im also aware that Miss K thinks YBS misrepresented the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
YBSs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why YBS failed to 
act fairly and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  YBS gave Miss K, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
1990 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Miss Ks representative says a court  might  take if it 
were to find YBS negligently misrepresented the contract to Miss K and about the remedy  a 
court might award if it were to find that YBS had been in breach of its duty of utmost good 
faith. But this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what is fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Miss K in a better  position  than if everything had happened as it 
should have done. 
Ref: DRN85858068my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 September 2020.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8585806