K820x#14complaint
Mr A says Canada Square Operations Limited (then trading as Egg)  mis-sold him a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy in connection with a credit card in 2001.
background
Egg was an internet based account. Mr A applied online  for his credit card with PPI via the 
Egg website.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr A disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. 
Mr A is mainly  concerned  that he didnt choose PPI and didnt know he had it. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr As complaint. 
I think Egg made Mr A aware that the PPI was optional and he chose to take it. On the 
online application form Mr A completed he had to select the Yes option to include PPI. 
There was an option to say No and his application  wouldve continued  without PPI being 
included if hed done that. Mr A had to select one of those options to proceed with his 
application. So I think he wouldve been  aware  that it was up to him to say if he wanted the 
PPI at the time - even  if hes forgotten this now. 
On balance, I find Mr A knew he had a choice about  protecting his repayments  and the PPI 
was added to his account when he indicated he wanted it. 
Egg didnt  recommend the PPI to Mr A so it didnt  have to check if it was suitable  for him.
Ive taken into account what Mr A has told us about his financial circumstances. The policy  
wouldve protected him if hed lost his job as well as paying out if he was disabled or too sick 
to work. It wouldve paid out on top of his sick pay and for longer than hes mentioned he 
couldve depended on getting pay from his employer if he was off sick. So I think  the PPI 
couldve given him a useful benefit  at what mightve been  a difficult time  especially if he 
had extra costs  as a result of being  off work sick. 
Ive taken into account that Mr A had some savings  at the time. But I dont know if he 
wouldve always had savings to rely on if hed needed to make  a claim. 
Relying on someone  else to help out in the event  of money problems isnt as dependable as 
taking out PPI as everyones circumstances can change unexpectedly.  
And although Mr A mentioned having other  cover  in place, this doesnt affect my decision. 
Its likely  that a health care policy provided  a different sort of benefit and paid out in different 
circumstances to PPI. 
Ref: DRN81001112The PPI wouldve more  than covered  his Egg card monthly repayments  and cleared his card 
balance if hed needed to claim for the full 12 months. So I think  Mr A couldve benefitted 
from having the policy.  
It doesnt look like Mr A wouldve been caught  by any of the conditions  which  limited  the 
policys cover for some  people.  So, I dont  think that knowing  more  about things the policy  
didnt cover wouldve  made any difference to Mr As decision to take it out. 
Next to where Mr A was asked to decide about  the PPI on the application he completed, the 
purpose of the cover  is broadly  described, the cost is set out and theres some information 
about the benefits it offers. The policy provided Mr A with the protection  broadly  described 
on the website  which hed indicated he was willing to pay for. Ive seen nothing to suggest  
the policy was unaffordable for him.
Overall its possible there  may have  been  some failings  in the way this policy  was sold.  But 
I think Mr A still wouldve  decided  to buy the policy if hed been better informed as PPI gave 
him useful  protection in his particular  situation.
This means  I dont  find that Mr A has lost out as a result of anything that Egg mightve  done  
wrong. So it doesnt need to do anything to put things right. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr As complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 September 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN8100111