K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  that Prestige Finance Limited acted  unfairly and unreasonably when 
dealing with their mortgage and the amount owed. They want some of the interest refunded 
or written off to be in the position that they shouldve been in all along.
background
Mr and Mrs S took out a secured  loan with another lender in 2006  (Prestige  took over 
administration in 2014-15). The original  contractual monthly payment was £289.67. Early 
within the life of the loan,  they got into financial difficulties  and arrears.  Court proceedings 
followed, and the court ordered  Mr and Mrs S to pay £853.24 a month. A repayment plan 
was agreed as Mr and Mrs S couldnt  pay this amount. Mr and Mrs S since 2010  have  paid 
£300 a month but pay more when they can, while Prestige agreed not to enforce the court  
order. 
But Mr and Mrs S said that they werent  told that they werent  paying  the full contractual 
amount and hadnt realised that this meant  the mortgage wouldnt be paid off in full at the 
end of the loan term in 2031 or theyd be paying  interest on the arrears.  They  accepted 
Prestige confirmed the loan wouldnt be repaid when it ended in writing in 2017  but said the 
information given,  including  in the annual statements sent since  2014,  wasnt  clear  enough.
Mr and Mrs S complained to Prestige.  It said that the original lender had told Mr and Mrs S 
that paying £300 a month  wouldnt  clear  the loan balance when that was all Mr and Mrs S 
would pay after the court order had been made. Prestige  said that the original lender and 
itself had tried repeatedly  to work with Mr and Mrs S and discuss repayments, and noted 
Mrs S had previously worked  in the mortgage  industry so should understand how loans 
worked. It pointed out that Mr and Mrs S accepted that theyd received the annual 
statements, which showed the repayments werent  going to pay the balance.  Prestige also 
reviewed the whole account and rectified  an issue about interest  caused  by the original 
lender (which wasnt part of the complaint brought to this service).
Mr and Mrs S complained to us. The investigators  view was that the complaint  shouldnt be 
upheld. He explained that when the loan was taken out, it was unregulated and its 
administration only came into this services jurisdiction since  1 April 2014.  The investigator 
said the annual  statements  showed that the arrears were reducing over time, but the actual 
overall debt was increasing. While  he accepted the statements didnt say Mr and Mrs S 
wouldnt pay off the loan when it ended, the investigator thought there  was enough 
information in the statements for Mr and Mrs S to reasonably have been expected to realise 
this. He added that in 2009 the evidence showed Mr and Mrs S had been told on the phone  
that they wouldnt pay off the loan, so he didnt think Prestige needed to keep saying this, 
especially once it was sending yearly statements.
Mr and Mrs S disagreed. They felt that the investigator was vague and said that they werent 
given any notification that they werent paying  enough to pay the loan off in full when it 
ended. Mr and Mrs S said Prestige shouldve given  them an amount to pay each month.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN83144352Its important to bear in mind that the loan wasnt within this services  jurisdiction until 1 April 
2014, so I cant  deal with a complaint about anything before this date (which also seems to 
be when Prestige took over the loan).  
When taking out the loan,  Mr and Mrs S agreed  to repay the loan each month. When  they 
got into financial difficulties, they breached the terms of the loan, which is why the court  
issued an order. It seems  that Mr and Mrs S couldnt  afford  to comply, but ultimately  rather  
than repossessing the property, the lender agreed to accept  what  Mr and Mrs S could afford. 
This is fair and reasonable, and the contact  notes indicate Mr S was warned in 2009 they 
wouldnt repay the whole loan if they didnt pay more as the interest wouldnt be paid. Its 
worth noting  that the court ordered Mr and Mrs S to pay significantly more each month, 
which indicates again that the amount they were  paying wasnt enough.
The notes show a pattern of the lender asking Mr and Mrs S if they could  pay more, and 
them explaining  that it wasnt possible (with  the exception of a conversation  in February  
2016, where Mr S did agree to pay more after staff explained to him the situation). The 
financial position was reviewed repeatedly and Prestige took a pro-active role in ensuring 
this happened  as shown by its letters. In December 2017, the notes show Mr S said that he 
was aware that he needed to pay more to clear the loan by the time it ended. I place  weight 
on these notes as they were  written at the time and before the complaint was raised.
Annual statements  were sent from 2014  onwards. The balance  was shown as increasing,  
not reducing. Critically, a letter in November 2017  said in order  to fully repay your loan 
within the original  term your monthly payment will need to increase to £632.87. 
Mr and Mrs S may feel the warning could have been  clearer,  but it is difficult  to think  of a 
clearer warning, other than perhaps  you will not pay the full balance when the loan ends 
unless you pay £x or you will still owe us money when the loan ends.  Lenders are required 
to act fairly  and reasonably, and I think Prestige  so acted, given the history of this matter and 
the information it did give Mr and Mrs S. I dont  accept that they werent  warned the loan 
wouldnt be repaid  when it ended. The letter  of November  2017 gives  the information 
Mr and Mrs S said in response to the investigators view that they needed  how much to 
pay  but they didnt  act on it.
Mr and Mrs S had said that they hadnt  realised theyd have to pay interest on the arrears. 
Given arrears  are money that shouldve been  paid to the lender and hasnt been paid, and 
Mr and Mrs S knew from taking out the loan (and its terms and conditions  section 7) that 
interest would  be charged on the loan, it isnt clear  why Mr and Mrs S feel that they werent 
told. It may be that they feel that this information shouldve been repeated but the annual 
statements show the additional interest added  specifically in some years,  and interest 
generally in other years. The balance due increased each year.  The arrears statements also 
show the interest charged and the balance.  Its fair and reasonable to expect  consumers to 
read the statements, and either understand them or contact the lender if they dont.
I dont think Prestige has acted unfairly  or unreasonably in dealing with Mr and Mrs S 
secured loan or failed to give them the information  they needed to understand the position.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to accept or reject my decision 
before 24 March 2021.
Ref: DRN83144353Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8314435