K821x#15complaint
Ms W complains about the way Bank  of Scotland plc have  administered  her mortgage 
account. Specifically,  she complains that they included  her mortgage arrears  balance when 
calculating her contractual monthly payments (CMP) but also reported the arrears 
separately. 
background
Ms W has an interest only mortgage with Bank of Scotland, the term of which  ended  in 2018. 
In 2012 Ms W began having  difficulties meeting the CMP every  month  and the mortgage 
account fell into arrears. 
In September  2018 Bank of Scotland wrote to Ms W to explain her CMP was increasing to 
£1,643.10 and her arrears  balance was £22,228.42. The letter  said this change was being 
made to exclude  the arrears from the monthly payment amount. It also said the bank would 
complete a full review  of the account  in light of recent  guidance issued by the Financial 
Conduct Authority  (FCA)  and they would be in touch with her about this once it had been 
done.
In March 2019 Bank of Scotland wrote to Ms W again to explain that the review had been 
completed, and her monthly payment would still be £1,643.10 moving forward  but her 
arrears balance was now £27,995.13. 
Ms W has complained about the way shes been  treated by Bank of Scotland for several 
reasons over the years, and she believes the bank are responsible for the arrears that 
remain on the account. She brought several complaints to our service, and we issued a 
decision to explain which of Ms Ws complaints we could consider. The ombudsman decided  
the only complaint  our service could consider was Ms Ws complaint about the way Bank of 
Scotland had automatically capitalised the arrears on her account, and what  theyd  done  to 
put this right.
Bank of Scotland told us that following another review, they found theyd remediated Ms Ws 
account incorrectly. They proposed to re-work the mortgage account  again, which  would 
leave Ms W with a monthly payment of £623.83, and an arrears  balance of £33,336.88. 
Although they also noted that the term had expired and so the full balance was due. 
Our investigator considered this part of the complaint and found that whilst Bank of Scotland 
had made  an error, their new proposal  to put things right would put the account back  in the 
position it should have been  in. He also felt this mistake had caused Ms W unnecessary  
trouble and upset  and so he recommended the bank pay her £200 to compensate for this. 
Bank of Scotland accepted the investigators view, but Ms W didnt. She wanted the 
investigator to consider  the wider circumstances  surrounding how the arrears built up in the 
first place, and she didnt think it was fair for the bank to issue  legal proceedings as a result  
of those arrears. She also wants the bank to extend  her mortgage term to allow her time to 
repay the arrears  on the mortgage.
The investigator explained he was only able to look at the automatic capitalisation of the 
mortgage arrears, as our service had decided the rest of Ms Ws complaints had been made 
out of time, or hadnt yet been  made to the bank. He was satisfied that even though the 
Ref: DRN83073912arrears balance technically wasnt always correct  over the years  as a result  of the automatic 
capitalisation, this wouldnt have affected  the banks decision to take legal action. 
Ms W has since raised other complaints about how the bank are treating her, but these are 
being considered separately. 
Ms W asked  for an ombudsmans decision,  so the complaints been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I firstly want to explain that whilst its clear Ms W remains unhappy with a number of issues 
to do with how Bank of Scotland  have  treated her, within  this decision I will only be 
considering her complaint about  the way Bank of Scotland automatically capitalised  her 
arrears, and how theyve  proposed to put things  right. 
Ms W has sent us a lot of information about  whats happened over the years and the impact 
the banks actions have had on her. Im sorry to hear about the difficulties shes had, and 
that she remains unwell.  Whilst  I wont be commenting on Ms Ws other areas  of complaint, I 
want to assure her that I have reviewed everything  both she and the bank have sent us, and 
have considered this when  deciding  a fair outcome  for this complaint.
Ms W is concerned about the fact the bank were automatically capitalising her mortgage  
arrears, and the impact  this had on the action  taken by the bank to recover the arrears. 
Ms W is right in saying that the bank should  not have been  operating  the mortgage in this 
way, and the Financial  Conduct Authority (FCA) has issued guidance for lenders to follow 
which sets out what  they need to do when this has happened. This is what led to Ms Ws 
account being reviewed in 2018 and 2019. 
Bank of Scotland have said they made  an error in the account adjustments  they made  to 
Ms Ws mortgage  in both September 2018  and March 2019. It is accepted here that things 
havent happened as they should have. So it remains for me to decide whether what  Bank of 
Scotland have  now offered to do to put things right is fair.
Bank of Scotland have sent us their revised  calculations to show  how they now plan to re-
work Ms Ws mortgage  account so that its put back in the correct position. This shows  that 
her new monthly payment  will be £623.83,  and her arrears balance  will be £33,336.88,  
although those  figures were correct as of September 2020  so its possible theyve changed 
since then. Its disappointing  that Bank of Scotland werent able to carry out these 
calculations correctly initially,  but having  carefully considered these calculations and the rest 
of the information provided, Im satisfied Bank of Scotlands new proposal will put Ms Ws 
mortgage account back into the position  it would have been,  had they done things right. As a 
result, Bank of Scotland will need to carry out this remediation if they havent done so 
already.
But whilst that will put the mortgage account back how it should  be, I still need  to think  about  
whether theres  been any further  impact  to Ms W of firstly, the bank automatically capitalising  
the arrears in the first place, and secondly, the error theyve made when  reviewing the 
account.
Ref: DRN83073913Unfortunately Ms W hasnt been able to pay the full CMP on the mortgage  for quite some 
time. Whilst  I appreciate  Ms W has told us the reasons  behind  this, and she feels  the bank 
have made  the situation worse  ultimately there has been an arrears balance  on the 
mortgage since 2012. When a lender automatically capitalises a borrowers  arrears,  this 
leads to the CMP being higher than it should  be. So Ive thought about whether Bank of 
Scotland need to compensate Ms W further because of the impact  of this. 
Within their calculations,  the bank have sent us information about what  Ms Ws CMP would 
have been, had they not automatically  capitalised her arrears.  Whilst this does result in a 
lower CMP of around £40 for the majority  of the term, Im not satisfied  this has resulted in 
any consequential loss, or additional distress or inconvenience for Ms W. This is because for 
the majority of the time since  2012 Ms W has been unable  to meet  the CMP (even at the 
lower, correct figure), and for significant  periods she hasnt paid anything at all. I appreciate 
Ms W says that if the arrears had been  reported correctly the bank might not have taken 
legal action. But based on the arrears  position  on the account even after the proposed 
calculations the bank have done, Im not persuaded this would have made a difference to 
the banks decision  to start legal action.
However, I do think Ms W was caused distress  and inconvenience by the errors  the bank 
made in 2018  and 2019 following their review  of her account. Before Ms W received  the 
letter in 2018,  her CMP was around £600.  So I think the fact that Bank of Scotland told Ms W 
that this was going to increase by over £1,000 per month would  have been  distressing for 
her. The bank told her they would be doing  a full review of the account  and they would be 
back in touch when  this was done,  but in March  2019 they told her the same information 
about her monthly  payment. This information hasnt  been corrected by the bank until Ms W 
brought her complaint  to us and they reviewed things again  confirming the correct  position 
in September  2020. So I think Bank  of Scotland should compensate Ms W for the distress 
this incorrect information caused.
When deciding a fair amount of compensation, Ive kept in mind  that at the time the bank 
increased the CMP in error, Ms W had not been making her monthly payments. So whilst the 
information would have come as an unwelcome  shock to Ms W, it didnt affect  her ability  to 
make payments to the mortgage, as she hadnt been able to do this even at the lower  
amount. Also  the term was due to end at the end of 2018,  so arrangements  were going to 
need to be made regarding  repayment  of the full balance. As a result, Im satisfied £200 is a 
fair amount of compensation for Bank of Scotland to pay Ms W.
I understand Ms W has raised  other  concerns about  the way the bank have treated her at 
the end of her mortgage term. Its unclear whether Bank of Scotland have issued their final 
response on those matters, but if Ms W remains unhappy with the banks  response,  she can 
refer the complaint to us and our service can consider these issues separately.
my final decision
Considering everything, for the reasons Ive explained, I uphold  this complaint and instruct  
Bank of Scotland plc to:
Re-work the mortgage account  as theyve  proposed to do if they havent done so 
already
Pay Ms W £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Ref: DRN83073914Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 January 2021.
Kathryn Billings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8307391