K820x#14complaint
Mrs S says Barclays  Bank UK PLC mis-sold her a payment protection  insurance  (PPI)  
policy. 
background
Mrs S bought the policy in 2000  at the same time as taking out a credit  card.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ss case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ss complaint because:
 Mrs S ticked a box on her credit card application to indicate that she wanted  the PPI. 
So I think Barclays made Mrs S aware that she had a choice about buying  the PPI, and 
that she chose  to take it. 
 Barclays didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs S so it didnt have to check if it was right for 
her. 
 Its possible the information Barclays gave Mrs S about  the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But Mrs S doesnt  appear  to have been affected by any of the main  
things the policy  didnt cover  and based on what I know about  her circumstances it 
looks like the policy couldve been  useful to her. While she had some sick pay through  
her work, the PPI wouldve paid out on top of this and for longer. This wouldve left her 
sick pay available for other  things.  So I dont think better  information  wouldve stopped  
her buying it. 
 In 2017, following  a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA), 
issued some rules about how businesses should deal with complaints about  the non-
disclosure of commission where  PPI was sold. But these rules and the Supreme Court  
judgment relate to the unfair relationship  provisions in the Consumer Credit  Act 1974. 
Those provisions only apply to credit  agreements taken out on or after 6 April 2007,  or 
agreements taken  out before then, which were still running on 6 April 2008. Barclays 
has provided evidence showing Mrs Ss credit card agreement  started in 2000 and 
ended in 2003. So I dont think the unfair  relationship provisions in the Consumer 
Credit Act, the Supreme  Court judgment, or the rules and guidance made by the FCA 
in relation to the non-disclosure  of commission  apply  here. 
Ive taken into account Mrs Ss comments.  But these points dont change my conclusion.
Ref: DRN88447942my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 August 2019.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8844794