K820x#14complaint
Mrs P complains she made an application for an online loan with Marks & Spencer  Financial 
Services Plc (trading as M&S Bank) at 3.6% interest  but itd increased the rate to 6.6% when 
it sent her the paperwork to sign.
 
background
Mrs P said M&S Bank told her in an email she was successful when she made her 
application for an online loan at 3.6% interest. But when  it posted her a copy of the loan 
agreement to sign it said the rate was 6.6%. She said she phoned M&S Bank and it told her 
it was possible the higher  interest rate was influenced by her having  a high limit on her credit 
cards. But she said she was just trying  to pay them off at a lower  rate of interest.
M&S Bank said the rates given online were only representative rates. When  a customer 
makes the full application it uses  a credit scoring system to see if the application meets  its 
criteria for lending. And when M&S Bank did that, Mrs P didnt meet its lending criteria for the 
lower rate.
Our investigator thought M&S Bank  had dealt  with Mrs Ps complaint fairly. He said the 
interest rate is a commercial decision by M&S Bank  and we cant  ask it to change it. And he 
said Mrs P didnt have to sign the agreement if she wasnt happy about  the interest rate.
Mrs P wasnt  happy with this. She said that anyone  receiving  an email saying their 
application was successful would assume  this referred to the lower interest rate. She said 
she had to sign the credit agreement  because  if shed applied elsewhere  it wouldve 
damaged her credit rating by having  another credit search made.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to hear about Mrs Ps bereavement  towards the end of last year. And Im sorry I 
am going to have to disappoint her when I say that I dont think M&S Bank  has done 
anything wrong.
As part of its online  lending process  M&S Bank quotes a low interest rate but refers to it as a 
representative rate. It has an information  section which explains about credit  scoring  and 
interest rates and states  that the rate may vary depending  on the applicants personal 
circumstances. And it explains that by clicking  on the start of the application process  the 
applicant is confirming they have read that section. So I am satisfied it doesnt guarantee the 
lower rate and that it did enough to draw that to Mrs Ps attention. 
But Mrs P said she had an email  confirming her successful application. And she feels most 
strongly about that because she assumed that her application  was successful at the lower 
rate. And she said that anyone would have  assumed  the same. But I can see from the email 
that M&S  Bank says the agreement which it was sending out in the post would give the 
interest rate it could  offer her. And although  I know Mrs P wont  agree with me I think that 
was enough to make her aware that her loan application had been successful but not 
necessarily at the lower  interest rate.
Ref: DRN87319912M&S Bank said Mrs P still accepted  the loan even though it was at the higher  rate. And Mrs 
P has given  her reason for doing  that. But I dont think this is relevant  to Mrs Ps complaint 
about the difference in interest rate or to her complaint about the information in the email  
following on from her application.  
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2020.
Linda Freestone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8731991