K820x#14complaint
Mr Cs complaint is that Clydesdale Bank Plc (trading as Yorkshire Bank) werent able to 
recover his funds after he was scammed.
background
On 1 November  2018 Mr C authorised a transfer via mobile  banking  of £105 to a scammer 
for what he thought  was a jacket.  He contacted  Yorkshire Bank on 9 November after he 
received an empty box in the post and was no longer  able to contact the scammer. 
Yorkshire Bank contacted the beneficiary bank on 9 November to try and recover  Mr Cs 
funds. Unfortunately, the beneficiary bank responded  to advise no funds remained. 
Yorkshire Bank informed  Mr C that as he authorised the payments and Yorkshire Bank  
followed his instructions, it hadnt made an error in sending the £105 and wouldnt be 
refunding this. Mr C referred  his complaint  to our service.   
Our adjudicator assessed the complaint and didnt  think Yorkshire Banks system failed in its 
obligations when  it didnt flag the payment as potentially fraudulent.  And he felt that 
Yorkshire Bank had done enough  to try and recover the funds from the beneficiary bank.   
Mr C disagreed with the adjudicators assessment, so the case has been passed  to me for a 
final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators' rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  what I consider to have been good  industry  
practice at the time. 
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank  is expected  to process  payments 
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make, in accordance  with the Payment  
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions  of the customers  account. And I have 
taken that into account  when deciding  what is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story:
The law recognises that a bank may be liable to its customer if it makes  a payment in 
circumstances where  it has reasonable grounds  (although not necessarily proof)  for 
believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate  the funds  of its 
customer (known as the Quincecare  duty).    
Regulated firms like Yorkshire  Bank are also required to conduct their business with due 
skill, care and diligence (FCA  Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to the 
interests of its customers (Principle  6).  
And as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have  taken 
proactive steps  to: 
Ref: DRN83095742identify and assist  vulnerable consumers  and consumers in vulnerable  circumstances, 
including those  at risk of financial exploitation  (something recognised by the FCA in 
recent years and by the British Bankers Associations February  2016 report improving 
outcomes for customers in vulnerable  circumstances);  
look to identify and help prevent transactions - particularly unusual or out of character 
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam (something also 
recognised by the British Standards Institutes October 2017  Protecting Customers from 
Financial harm  as a result  of fraud  or financial abuse  Code of Practice , which a 
number of banks  and trade associations were involved in the development of); and
 
in relation to branch transactions  follow  the Banking Protocol when available.     
This means  that there are circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, where a 
bank should, in my opinion,  fairly and reasonably take additional steps, or make additional 
checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make  a payment 
altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.  
This is particularly so considering the environment  created by the increase  in sophisticated 
fraud and scams in recent  years  - which banks are generally more familiar  with than the 
average customer. 
In this case, I need to decide  whether Yorkshire Bank acted fairly and reasonably  in its 
dealings with Mr C when  he transferred £105, or whether  it should  have done more than it 
did.
Ive thought about all the above carefully. Looking at the statements for the account, I dont 
think the type of payment or the amount was particularly unusual or suspicious in 
comparison to Mr Cs normal account activity.  There isnt anything remarkable about  this 
payment in terms of either its value or payment type.  Mr C made card payments and bill 
payments for similar or higher amounts on a regular  basis.  So, I think the fact that Yorkshire  
Banks systems didnt  flag this payment as suspicious was fair and reasonable given  the 
circumstances.
Mr C contacted Yorkshire Bank on 9 November 2018 when he became aware hed been the 
victim of a scam. Yorkshire Bank raised a scam  complaint  and contacted the beneficiary 
bank on the same day to request a return of the funds. So I think  it did all it could to try and 
recover Mr Cs funds. Unfortunately, the beneficiary  bank explained that no funds  remained.  
Mr C says Yorkshire Bank told him when he first notified it of the scam that he would get a 
refund of his money. There isnt a recording of the specific call in which  Mr C reported the 
scam, so I cant know exactly what was said. I have seen the report  that was completed 
following the telephone call. This says a request  was sent to the beneficiary bank for a 
refund, but this wasnt a guarantee that Mr C would get the £105 back. All Yorkshire Bank  
was able to do was request a refund of the funds if they were remaining in the beneficiary 
account, which I can see it did. While its possible there was a miscommunication when Mr C 
reported the scam, I dont think this means  Yorkshire Bank should prove Mr C with a refund 
in this instance and from what Ive seen,  its followed the correct  process to attempt a 
recovery of Mr Cs funds.  
After carefully considering  everything available to me, I think  that Yorkshire Banks decision 
not to refund  Mr C in this instance was fair and reasonable in the circumstances, though I do 
Ref: DRN83095743empathise with Mr C as hes unfortunately been  the victim of a scam. From what  Ive seen, 
Yorkshire Bank followed Mr Cs instruction to make the £105 transfer and I havent  seen any 
reason why it shouldnt  have  done this. And I think it took sufficient steps to try and recover  
the funds in a timely manner once it was notified of the scam.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 July 2020.
Rebecca Norris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8309574