K822xcomplaint
Mr M complains that the vehicle he acquired  on a conditional sale agreement financed by  
Close Brothers Limited trading as Close Brothers  Motor Finance (CBMF) was not of 
satisfactory quality. He wants to reject  the vehicle and end the agreement.
background
Mr M tells us that in July 2018 he acquired  the vehicle from a dealer Ill refer to as B. But 
shortly after driving it away he says the vehicle broke down and had to be recovered by a 
breakdown service, a company Ill refer to as R. He states that a fault with the alternator 
was diagnosed as the cause of the breakdown. Mr M says he then rang B and it told him the 
work would be covered  under warranty. He said B requested him to find a garage  to do the 
repairs. Mr M says he tried four garages before finding one that was able to do the work, a 
firm Ill refer to as S. Mr M says he collected the vehicle on 26 July, after the work  had been 
done, but within a few miles the vehicle again broke  down. Mr M says that at this point he 
told B that he wanted to reject the vehicle but B asked him not to do so and that it would 
repair the vehicle  within two days. Mr M told us there were then weeks of delays and 
excuses made by B as to why the vehicle had not been repaired and so he complained  to 
CBMF. Mr M says that as far as hes concerned R diagnosed the vehicle as needing  a new 
alternator - but having been  returned  to B, its now a write off. He doesnt think  it was fit for 
purpose from the start.
CBMF told us that the vehicle had been examined  by an independent vehicle inspector, a 
company which  Ill call D. He said D had found  the damage to the vehicle had been  caused 
by a screwdriver bit being left in the engine after the latest repairs  by S. It said that as the 
damage was caused by S, it (CBMF) wasnt able to assist.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 26 September  2019. I said I intended to 
uphold the complaint and recommend  that Mr M should be able to reject  the vehicle. Mr M 
indicated his acceptance of my provisional decision.  CBMF said it didnt  agree  and said that 
Mr M should challenge the repairing  agent.  I thank both parties for their replies. But as no 
new information has been provided Im not going  to change my provisional view which  is 
largely repeated  in my final decision which is set out below.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  that Mr M has experienced problems with this vehicle from such  an early stage. 
And Im aware that the loss of the vehicle has caused him serious inconvenience due to his 
health.
Mr Ms conditional sale agreement is a regulated consumer credit agreement  - similar  to a 
hire purchase agreement - and our service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
CBMF supplied  the vehicle and its therefore responsible for a complaint about  the quality of 
the vehicle. Whilst  I dont apply the law - directly - I do take it into account. And relevant law 
here includes the Consumer Rights Act of 2015  (CRA).
Ref: DRN87432412In order to fully explain  the reasons for my decision I need  to summarise the structure of a 
conditional sale agreement. In practical terms theres a transaction  going on in the 
background. The dealer (in this case B), sells the vehicle to the supplier  of finance (in this 
case CBMF).  The supplier of finance sells it to the consumer (in this case Mr M), on the 
condition that he pays for it over a certain  period  of time. But the finance supplier retains  
ownership of the vehicle  until the full price  is paid.
The essential facts  in this case arent really in dispute. The vehicle broke  down on the day it 
was supplied to Mr M. The CRA  requires  goods  to be of satisfactory  quality when supplied.  
And although this was a used vehicle, with over 97,000 miles covered at the time Mr M 
acquired it, he was entitled  to expect it would last more than a few minutes before a serious 
fault led to a breakdown. And whilst I note the vehicle had passed an MOT  test on 19 July 
2018, I dont think  this vehicle was of satisfactory  quality when supplied.
As the vehicle was found not to be of satisfactory quality within the first 30 days following 
supply, Mr M would have been  able to reject it. But very reasonably,  he agreed to allow it to 
be repaired. CBMF is the supplier of finance, and I wouldnt  normally expect it to undertake 
the repairs itself.  As the owner  of the vehicle Id have  expected  CBMF to require B to do this. 
But it appears B asked  Mr M to make the arrangements on its behalf. CBMF questions if B 
specifically asked Mr M to do this or whether he might  not have asked to do so himself  as he 
lived about two hours  or so away from B. I can only say that this is what  Mr M told us and 
Ive no reason to doubt his word. The vehicle  had broken down and it seems  the recovery  
service had been able to temporarily charge the battery sufficiently for Mr M to get home.  As 
he lives a considerable distance  away from B it was presumably more  convenient for repairs  
to be arranged locally to Mr M. And Mr M arranged for these to be carried out by S. Ive seen 
confirmation that S contacted B and was given details of the warranty  under which  the 
vehicle was to be repaired. So I dont think theres any doubt that B was aware and was 
happy for S to do the repairs.
S fitted  the vehicle with a new alternator but unfortunately the vehicle  broke down again 
almost immediately afterwards. Ive seen reports from R which  confirm  that it recovered 
Mr Ms vehicle  on two occasions, latterly on 26 July 2018. Ive also seen the confirmation of 
details of the work carried out by S and the subsequent report of D. Ds report concluded 
that damage had been caused  by a screwdriver bit being erroneously  left in the engine after 
Ss repairs. After S fitted the alternator and the vehicle broke down again, it was recovered 
to B which started  to examine the vehicle - and strip it down - with a view to finding the 
cause of the latest breakdown. Its at this point that B says it found the screwdriver  bit that D 
subsequently confirmed was the cause of the engine  failure.
Where a customer asks for repairs to be done  - and those repairs  are not successful  - the 
customer usually then has the right to reject the goods. And understandably, Mr M told B 
and CBMF after the second breakdown,  that this is what  he wished to do. But B - and CBMF 
has since adopted the same line - said that because the damage had been caused by Ss 
error, they werent  responsible for this. And so they refused to accept Mr Ms rejection of the 
vehicle.
Its important that I explain that I cant make  any formal findings against  S or make any 
award directly against it, as its not a party to this complaint. But, based on the information 
with which  Ive been supplied, I think its more likely than not that the damage resulted from 
an error made by S in fitting the alternator.
Ref: DRN87432413Ordinarily, if a customer employed  a third party to do repairs,  Id think it was fair and 
reasonable for the customer to seek redress from the third party  repairer if things went  
wrong with that repair. But the situation here is not so straightforward.
Im aware CBMF says that the arrangements  for the repairs and the resultant damage were 
made before it became  aware of the problems. But I believe Mr M was simply following the 
request of B, which  both supplied the vehicle to CBMF and acted as credit  broker  for the 
regulated agreement that financed it.
CBMF was responsible to Mr M for having the repairs  done  to the vehicle after the first 
breakdown. And as B had sold the vehicle to CBMF - and it had proved not to be of 
satisfactory quality - Id expect CBMF to require  B to repair it before returning it to Mr M. I 
think that in reality thats whats happened.
In opting to have repairs  done  - as opposed  to rejecting the vehicle - Mr M was exercising 
his rights under the CRA. In my provisional decision I said the vehicle being  repaired under 
warranty presumably relieved B of the potential costs. CBMF doesnt  think  that was a fair 
comment. But as the vehicle had broken  down  almost immediately it left Bs premises there 
cant be any serious dispute that B wouldve ordinarily been liable for the repair costs.
It seems  unlikely  that Mr M was concerned about  whether the vehicle was being repaired as 
a consequence  of his CRA rights or under warranty. His main concern was to get the vehicle 
repaired as soon as possible. So the arrangement  with S suited both parties. Mr M as it was 
a local garage  and B as a repair under warranty saved its costs. Ive seen confirmation that 
B supplied  S with details of the warranty under  which the work was carried out and Ive no 
information to say itd offered to the work itself. So its a reasonable inference that B was 
happy for S to do the work it would otherwise have been liable  for. 
I dont think that should  now be used to penalise Mr M. I think its probable that B tacitly 
agreed for the work  to be done by S, on its (B) behalf, to save B the time and expense  of 
doing the repairs itself. And when those repairs subsequently led to the second breakdown I 
think Mr M was then entitled to reject  the vehicle in just the same  way as if B had done  the 
work.
I find it disappointing that CBMF should  now seek to pass  the financial burden  of those failed 
repairs to Mr M. As part of the conditional sale agreement Mr M was required to maintain the 
vehicle in good condition. So - apart from it being  in his own interest  to have  it repaired  - it 
was required under the terms of the finance  agreement. In my opinion,  all Mr M has done is 
to follow  the request that I find was made of him by B to assist  with making the 
arrangements for those  repairs to be carried out. 
I dont think it fair and reasonable that he should be expected to bear the cost and/or the 
inconvenience of taking action against  S. Or alternatively the cost of further repairs.  It 
shouldnt be forgotten  that ownership  of the vehicle remains with CBMF. And Id also point 
out that if the vehicle had been  of satisfactory  quality  when supplied  this situation wouldnt 
have arisen.
Mr M complained to CBMF  in September 2018  when he thought  he wasnt  getting  anywhere 
with B. And CBMF had all the relevant information prior to issuing its final response letter in 
November. So I think it had every  opportunity  to offer to put things right before this complaint 
was made.
Ref: DRN87432414my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is I uphold this complaint.
In order to settle this complaint I require Close Brothers Limited  trading as Close  Brothers 
Motor Finance to take the following action:
1.End the agreement with nothing for Mr M to pay and accept rejection of the vehicle;
2.Refund the deposit of £500;
3.Refund all other  payments made  under the agreement;
4.Pay £300 for the distress and inconvenience  caused to Mr M for the loss of use of  
the vehicle;
5.Arrange to have  details of the agreement  removed  from Mr Ms credit file.
Simple interest at the rate of 8% per year should  be added to payments to be made  under  2 
and 3 above from date of payment to date of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 December  2019.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8743241