K821x#15complaint
Ms Hs complaint is about the service  provided  by Alliance Trust Savings Limited  (ATSL)  in 
terms of its handling  of a transfer of shares  into her Individual Savings Account (ISA) and 
then the proposed transfer of a separate set of shares. Ms Hs claim is for financial loss, loss 
of investment opportunity and distress  caused  by the matter.
background
Ms H planned two transfers  of shares into her ISA in order  to use her 2017/18 allowance.
Transfer 1
In late October 2017 Ms H requested the first transfer.  The transfer was completed by early 
November but its completion does not appear  to have been confirmed to her at the time. 
During a telephone call between both parties  in January 2018 Ms H displayed an 
assumption that the transfer was completed. However, in March  2018 ATSL contacted  her 
with a concern  about there  being no record of the transfer  despite  written evidence from 
October 2017 confirming  ATSLs  receipt of the transfer documentation and share certificate. 
It took around a day, between 12 and 13 March,  to have this concern investigated and 
resolved. The outcome  was that the transfer  was identified and confirmed as being  in Ms Hs 
account and she was promised a valuation.  Nevertheless, email and telephone call evidence  
has been presented to this service, from which there is information about the level of upset 
and distress caused to Ms H when she says she considered that ATSL had lost her shares. 
Transfer 2
The call between the parties in January 2018  included Ms Hs request to transfer the second  
set of shares, based on a share  certificate(s), into her ISA. In response  ATSL  directed her to 
the relevant form online and offered  to send her the form in the alternative. She preferred to 
have the form sent to her and ATSL agreed  to do so. The form was not sent and Ms H did 
not use the online option. She followed up on the matter in March, when she was told that 
ATSLs service no longer included the handling  of share certificates.  The change in service 
had taken place  on 28 February and ATSL appears to concede  that Ms H was not one of the 
customers who received  prior notice  about  it  notice was limited to customers  who had 
traded in the preceding  three months. Ms H managed, through another provider, to transfer  
the shares into an ISA in April  in a new (2018/19) tax year.  Her complaint  is about the lost 
opportunity to fully use her 2017/18 ISA allowance.
One of our adjudicators considered both issues. In summary, she concluded as follows:
Evidence, showing the extent to which Ms H was distressed during ATSLs inability to 
identify and confirm  the first transfer,  supports an award of £300 to her for the trouble 
and upset she was caused.
Prior to the period of uncertainty in March 2018, evidence  from the telephone  call in 
January suggests  that Ms H assumed the transfer had been  completed at the time. 
There is no evidence of her attempting any action on the transferred shares around 
that period, so there is not enough  to support a claim for financial loss in this respect.
Inaction on Ms Hs part in relation to the second (attempted) transfer  in terms of not 
chasing the unsent form earlier  than she did  could be a basis  to not uphold  her 
complaint about it. However, ATSLs change of service and failure  to give her notice,  
as it was required to do, is more relevant. If Ms H received such  notice it is more 
Ref: DRN83131992likely (than not) that she would have followed up on her January request earlier than 
she did  which, in turn, was likely  to have achieved the transfer she sought within 
the 2017/18 tax year.  On this basis, this part of the complaint is also upheld.
The adjudicator proposed  a formula to compensate Ms H for the lost opportunity  to use her 
2017/18 ISA allowance and suggested a separate payment of £250  for the trouble and upset 
caused by the second  (attempted)  transfer  matter.
Ms H considered that the adjudicators proposals  did not go as far as she initially  sought  but 
they are acceptable  to her as a compromise  and she accepts them.  ATSL accepted  that it 
did not confirm  completion of the first transfer  in November 2017 but says in any case Ms H 
assumed that it had been completed so, in the absence of a financial loss, it considers the 
proposal of £300  compensation to be excessive  it counter offered £150. With regards to 
the second (attempted) transfer, it acknowledged that Ms H was not on the mailing list for 
notice about the change  in its service but it considers the proposal for lost opportunity 
related compensation to be hypothetical   an approach it disagrees with. Instead it offered 
separate compensation of £300.
Ms H declined ATSLs counter proposals and provided evidence  that the adjudicators 
proposal is not as hypothetical as ATSL alleges.  The matter was referred  to an ombudsman.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The adjudicator presented  a commendably thorough and complete view letter on this 
complaint. I do not consider that I can add anything meaningful to the information and details 
she captured about the facts and available evidence in the complaint  so I will not attempt 
to do so. Having  said this, my decision has been  reached independently and both parties are 
entitled to know  the basis upon  which it has been reached. I endorse  and incorporate the 
adjudicators findings  into this decision but I also confirm below the core basis  on which I 
have reached each conclusion. The main dispute  appears to be compensation.
Trouble and Upset for the Transfer 1 issue
I understand ATSLs point about  Ms Hs assumption, as of January 2018, that the transfer 
had been completed. However,  I consider it irrelevant to the award given by the adjudicator 
 which  I support. The basis for awarding  Ms H £300  is limited to the trouble and upset she 
experienced in March  2018  that is, beyond any arguments about  what happened in 
January. The event in March also nullified the assumption she had in January, before the 
matter was subsequently resolved. The period of distress, before the resolution,  was 
relatively short  the concern was resolved a day after it was brought  to her attention.  
However, evidence  broadly  supports  the conclusion that Ms H experienced close to extreme 
levels of distress, fear and upset in that relatively  short period of time. £300 is not 
inconsistent with the sort of award that would apply to complainants with comparable trouble 
and upset. Ms H should receive it for the trouble and upset caused  to her in this issue.
Financial Loss for the Transfer 1 issue
ATSLs argument about Ms Hs assumption in January becomes relevant in this respect. 
Primarily, I have not seen evidence of an actual  financial loss arising from the issue. If an 
Ref: DRN83131993argument is to be made  for lost opportunity it is defeated by Ms Hs assumption  seemingly  
up to March 2018  that the transfer had been completed and by the absence  of evidence  of 
an attempt to follow-up  the transfer with a particular opportunity.  If such  an attempt had 
taken place shortly after the transfer the events  in March might  still have occurred, earlier,  
but such a consideration goes beyond the facts and the outcome would have  been  
confirmation that the transfer was completed in November 2017.
Trouble and Upset for the Transfer 2 issue
The award in this respect has a different basis to that in the Transfer  1 issue. Whilst the 
trouble and upset  caused to Ms H was immediate in the Transfer  1 issue, it could be said 
that the effect was somewhat latent in the Transfer 2 issue.  Ms H had a definitive plan for 
her shares and ATSL was aware  of that. Unknown to her, notice  about  a change  of ATSLs 
service which  affected her plan was given but not sent to her. By the time she learnt about it 
in March 2018 time available  to her to mitigate  the matter appears  to have been limited  and 
her ability to address  the matter appears  to have been clouded  by the problem she faced, at 
the same  time, with regards to Transfer 1. Overall,  I am satisfied that an additional payment 
of £250 reflects  fair compensation  for the trouble  and upset caused to her in this respect.  For 
the sake of completeness,  I retain  the same conclusion in the context of the obvious  point  
about contributory fault  that is to be made  about Ms H not following up on the form before 
March. I consider her unawareness of notice of the change  in service to be, on balance, 
more relevant and to be the main basis for the £250 award.
Financial Loss for the Transfer 2 issue
The premise  for the adjudicators proposal is evidence that Ms H habitually used her ISA 
allowances in the past when she had available cash or assets  to do so and she would have 
done the same with the second  (attempted)  transfer  but for her unawareness of ATSLs 
change of service (for which ATSL is responsible); that despite  eventually transferring the 
second set of shares into an ISA, in the 2018/19 tax year, she still lost the opportunity to use 
the remainder of the 2017/18 ISA allowance (around  £8,000);  that a knock-on effect has 
flowed from that lost opportunity because the 2018/19  ISA allowance has been reduced by 
the transfer she had to make in April 2018  and that  based  on evidence  about assets 
already set aside  for the use of the allowance  spare capacity in 2018/19,  which might have 
rectified the lost opportunity in 2017/18,  is unlikely. 
The adjudicators proposal extended the above by saying that spare capacity in future ISA 
allowances appears  unlikely beyond the 2018/19  tax year.  I agree. Ms H has presented  
evidence of a release,  in 2017, of a large  shareholding  that she planned/plans  to allocate 
towards her future ISA allowances. This is in addition to cash savings which share  the same  
plan. Her argument,  which I accept,  is that full use of her future allowances  is critical to her 
plans. This suggests  the absence of spare capacity in the foreseeable future  and supports 
the adjudicators  use of our general approach in calculating redress,  in cases  like this, over 
10 years   over which an investment outside an ISA could be expected to remain as such.
what must  ATSL do?
Financial Loss for the Transfer 2 issue
The aim of redress  in this case is to compensate  for the opportunity  Ms H lost  to use the 
remainder 2017/18  ISA allowance through the second (attempted) transfer. I refer to and 
endorse the unknown and known  considerations noted by the adjudicator.  Beyond  them,  
Ref: DRN83131994redress can reasonably  and fairly be calculated to compensate Ms H for the tax payable on 
dividends from the second (attempted) transfer over 10 years. 
I appreciate that the specific holding was placed  into an ISA for the 2018/19 tax year and 
has not since sat outside of an ISA. However,  but for ATSLs failure to notify Ms H about  the 
change in its service the holding  would  more likely (than not) have been placed in an ISA for 
the 2017/18 tax year.  This is the root for redress in this case and in this context the holding  
sits outside what could  be referred to as the 2017/18 ISA. I share the adjudicators  
pragmatic use of the start date of 5 March  2018 (based on the allowance  of 35 days  from 
when notice of the service  change should have been given to Ms H).
Ms H pays  higher rate tax. The resulting formula for redress is therefore as follows:
The value of the holding in the second  (attempted) transfer x the dividend distribution  rate for 
the holding x Ms Hs higher tax rate x 10 (years).
ATSL must pay compensation to Ms H based  on this formula.
Trouble and Upset for the Transfer 2 issue
ATSL must pay Ms H £250  in this respect.
Trouble and Upset for the Transfer 1 issue
ATSL must pay Ms H £300  in this respect.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold Ms Hs complaint and I order Alliance Trust Savings 
Limited to pay her compensation as detailed  above. Under the rules  of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or reject my decision before 
21 March 2019.
Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8313199