K820x#14complaint
Mr K is unhappy with the amount of compensation offered  to him by Lloyds Bank PLC
(Lloyds) following a complaint he made  about payment protection  insurance (PPI).
background
I issued a provisional decision in April 2018  to explain  why I thought Mr Ks complaint 
shouldnt be upheld. And I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted  to give me.
This is an extract from that provisional decision:
In March 2017, Lloyds made Mr K an offer of £123.65 to settle his complaint. This offer was 
made up of PPI costs  incurred by Mr K from May 2004 onwards. Mr K wasnt  happy  with this 
offer. He thought hed been  paying for PPI for a longer period. So he contacted Lloyds and 
asked them to look at it again.
In May 2017, Lloyds agreed  to refund Mr K an additional £577.97. It said there had been 
an error in its first calculation and it had now recalculated the offer using a start date of 
May 1998. But Mr K still didnt think Lloyds  had worked out compensation in the way it 
shouldve done.
He said he originally took out this card with another credit card provider and the 
account was changed into a Lloyds  account  some years after it had been taken out.
Mr K has said Lloyds  refund  only amounts  to the PPI premiums and interest that were 
charged to his account while his card was held with the other  provider. He doesnt think  
Lloyds has refunded the PPI premiums and interest  that were charged  when  the account 
was held with them.
Mr K has also told us that when the account  was held with Lloyds, his credit  limit and 
spending increased significantly.  So he thinks hes due much  more in compensation.
One of our adjudicators  looked into Mr Ks complaint and asked Lloyds if this account had 
ever been  held with another  credit  card provider. Lloyds said it held very little information 
about Mr Ks credit  card account. So it couldnt say for certain.  But it thought if the account
had been held with another provider, it would  be able to tell.
Based on the limited  information available, our adjudicator thought that the offer made to
Mr K was fair. Mr K didnt agree. So the complaint has been  passed to me for a decision.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Lloyds has made Mr K an offer to settle  his complaint, Im not going  to look at how
PPI came to be sold to him. But I do need  to consider whether Lloyds offer is fair.
At the moment, I think the offer is fair. And Id like to explain  why.
Ref: DRN80073072what Lloyds should  do
If I think  a business has mis-sold PPI Id expect  it to put the consumer in the position 
theyd be in now if they hadnt  had PPI on their account. So Id expect it to work out and 
refund what the consumer  had paid for PPI premiums and the extra interest  charged  
because of them.
If, when this is taken  off, the consumer paid more than they wouldve needed to without 
PPI, Id expect  a business to pay 8% per year simple interest  on the extra  they paid for the 
time they were out of pocket.
what Lloyds has done
Lloyds holds very little information about Mr Ks credit card account  and PPI policy. Its told 
us it doesnt know  when the credit  card or the PPI policy were taken out. And it doesnt 
know when the credit card account was closed, or the PPI cancelled.
Lloyds does have  copies of Mr Ks credit card statements from May 2004  to August 2005. 
The statement  from August 2005 shows that Mr K paid off his balance  in full in that month. 
And Lloyds  has no record  of the account  after August 2005.  So its assumed Mr K paid off 
his balance and closed his account in August 2005.
Lloyds also doesnt  know when Mr Ks credit  card account was opened or when PPI was 
added to his account. The earliest  available statement it does have, from May 2004, shows 
PPI is already being charged to the account.  But it doesnt know exactly  when the PPI was 
added.
Ive considered what Mr K has told me about this account being held with a different credit 
card provider either before, or after, the account  became a Lloyds account. And our 
adjudicator asked Lloyds to provide us with all the information it had about  Mr Ks account.  
She also asked Lloyds whether the account was transferred from another account, such as, 
but not limited  to, the provider Mr K says his card was originally with.
Lloyds has told us it doesnt have anything to suggest that the account  was previously held 
with another provider. And its also told us that if the account was changed  into another type 
of account with Lloyds  in 2005,  it would  have a record of this. And it doesnt.
Our adjudicator also asked Lloyds  if it had a record of any other credit card accounts  that 
were opened  in Mr Ks name either before  this account opened or around  2005, when it 
was closed. Lloyds  told us Mr K did have  another credit card account. But this account 
was opened in 2004 and it didnt have a PPI policy attached.
So, whilst  Ive taken  into account everything Mr K has said, without any evidence to show  
me this account was transferred from or to another type of account or provider, I cant say 
that it did. So Ive had to look at the assumptions  Lloyds has made about when PPI was 
added to Mr Ks credit card and the length of time the policy was in place.
When working out when  the policy was added to the account, Lloyds has assumed  that the 
credit card opened six years before the earliest  known statement date  in May 1998. And 
its assumed that PPI was added to Mr Ks account  on this date too.
Ref: DRN80073073There isnt anything in the rules about calculating PPI compensation to say Lloyds should 
assume the card was opened six years before the first available information. And so it 
seems to me that this is an assumption Lloyds has come up with in order to work out when 
PPI mightve  been added  to Mr Ks account.
Its possible that Mr Ks PPI policy was added to his account much  earlier  than May 1998.  
But its also possible that it was taken out many years later. And in the absence of any 
evidence to tell me when the policy was actually added to Mr Ks account, I think Lloyds 
assumption that the policy was taken out six years  before the earliest available statement, 
is a fair one to make  in this particular case  given that only very limited  information is 
available.
Lloyds doesnt  have records of how much Mr K was charged for PPI on his credit card from 
May 1998 (when its assumed  that the card and PPI policy were taken out) to May 2004 
(when its records begin).
So Lloyds has used  the records it does have (from  May 2004 onwards) to help it work out 
how much  it thinks  Mr K wouldve been charged for PPI between  May 1998 and May 2004.  
To do this, Lloyds has looked at what Mr K was charged for PPI in the first twelve months it 
has records for and worked out the average  monthly  charge. It has then assumed Mr Ks 
PPI charges wouldve gradually  increased  to this amount from 1998 to May 2004.
Ive looked at how Mr K actually used his credit card between  May 2004 and August 2005 
and his balance  seems to me to be broadly increasing. And I think  this is a good indication 
of how he was likely to be using his card between 1998 and May 2004. Its the closest  data 
we have to that period  and his credit limit was likely  to be around  the same  amount or less. 
So I think assuming that Mr Ks spend gradually increased is a fair approach to take.  And I 
think the assumptions Lloyds have made about the PPI premiums and interest charged to 
his account during this period are fair.
Lloyds also doesnt  know when PPI premiums stopped being charged  to Mr Ks account  or 
when the account was closed. Mr Ks statement from August 2005 shows  that he paid off
his balance in full in that month. And Lloyds has no record of the account after August 2005.  
So its assumed  Mr K paid off his balance  and closed his account in August  2005.
Ive looked at all of the evidence  Lloyds  has provided and I havent seen anything  to 
suggest that this account was changed  into another type of account in 2005. And I think if 
the account had remained open, Lloyds would have a record  of it. So without any evidence 
that suggests otherwise,  I think Lloyds assumption  that the account closed in 2005  is a fair 
one to make.
I understand Mr K doesnt think this approach  is right, but without  any further information I
dont think it would be right to tell Lloyds to do anything  differently. If Mr K is able to give me 
any more information  I will of course take that into consideration before I issue a final
decision.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN80073074Lloyds didnt respond to my provisional  decision with any additional points. Mr K responded 
and provided me with some further information that he asked me to consider.
Mr K sent me a copy of a Lloyds credit card. This card had an issue  date of May 2006 and 
an end date of May 2008. Mr K told me this card was attached  to the Lloyds account  
transferred from the other credit card provider. This card detailed an account  number ending 
in 7979. 
In my provisional decisional, I said Id asked Lloyds to look for any other accounts Mr K held 
with it alongside  the account that is subject to this complaint. This was so I could see if Mr K 
had confused the account in question with another account that might have been  transferred 
to Lloyds from the other provider. Lloyds came back to me and said Mr K did have  another  
credit card account but this account  was opened  in 2004  sometime after the account  in 
question. And this account didnt have  a PPI policy attached to it. Lloyds told me this account 
had a card number ending in 7979.
So I thought  Mr K may have confused the account  that is subject to this complaint with his 
account ending  7979. And it may have  been this account that was transferred from the other 
credit card provider rather than the one were referring to here.
I spoke to Mr K about this and he said account ending 7979  and the account in question are 
one and the same. But Lloyds has confirmed that the two accounts are not connected in any 
way. And regardless,  account ending 7979  didnt  have a PPI policy  attached to it. So Mr K 
wouldnt be due a return of PPI premiums and interest for this account  none were  charged.
So whilst Ive taken into account  everything Mr K has told me, I think its more  likely account 
ending 7979  is a separate account to the one were looking at here. This account  may well 
have been transferred from another provider. But, regardless of whether it was or not, it 
doesnt appear that this account had a PPI policy attached to it. And Ive seen no evidence  
that the account in question was transferred to or from another  credit provider either. 
Because of this, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional 
decision. 
I think the offer made by Lloyds  Bank  PLC is fair. And I wont  be asking it to do anything else.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above,  I think  Lloyds  Bank  PLCs offer is fair. I direct  it update  
its offer and pay Mr K compensation,  if it hasnt done so already.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 March  2019.
Ref: DRN80073075Emly Hanley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8007307