K820x#14complaint
Mrs D says she was mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI).
Mrs D has been represented throughout her complaint.
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint.
background
I issued my provisional decision on 24 July 2019.  A copy of my provisional  decision is 
attached and forms part of my final decision.
My provisional decision sets out the background to this complaint. It explains why I 
provisionally decided  the complaint shouldnt be upheld. 
Neither party responded to my provisional  decision with any further  comments  or information 
that they wished for me to consider.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has given  me anything else to consider, I see no reason to depart from my 
provisional findings. So I now confirm those findings.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above and in my provisional  decision, the PPI policy  wasnt  mis-sold.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 October  2019.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN88400962Copy of Provisional Decision
complaint
Mrs D says she was mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI).
Mrs D has been represented  throughout her complaint.
Its been  agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL), as the insurer, should  
accept responsibility  for the complaint.
background
In July 1999  Mrs D took out a store card.  In April 2001 PPI was added  to her account following  a 
phone call. 
The policy cost no more than £1.00 per £100 Mrs D owed  on her store  card.  The PPI protected Mrs 
Ds store  card monthly repayments if she couldnt work  because  of an accident or sickness or if she 
lost her job. 
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. He considered  that as Mrs D had a medical  condition at the 
time of sale,  she might not have been able to claim for everything she would  expect to. So he thought 
Mrs D, had she been  made  aware of this, wouldnt have taken out the PPI. 
FICL disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive provisionally considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Mrs Ds case.  
Im not intending to uphold Mrs Ds complaint. Ill explain  why.
Mrs D has said that PPI was never mentioned during the application for her store  card  and had it 
been mentioned she would have refused it.
FICL has provided a copy of Mrs Ds application from July 1999   and Mrs D didnt opt for PPI at this 
time. Mrs D took the store  card without  PPI. PPI was added  two years later in April 2001 and FICL 
says its records show that it was sold over the phone.
FICL hasnt been able to provide a call recording or a copy  of the call script used at the time.  But that 
is understandable as it was 18 years ago. So I dont know what  it may have said to Mrs D when the 
policy was sold. But based  on what this service knows about the sales process, and given that PPI 
was added  some time after shed made her store  card application and had the account, I think  there 
was most  likely a conversation about PPI and Mrs D wouldve been aware that the policy  was 
optional. 
Ref: DRN88400963Where theres only limited information and disagreement about what  happened I have to look at all 
the available information  and decide  what I think is most likely.  I dont think its reasonable to expect  
Mrs D to remember exactly what might have happened so many years ago. Its unsurprising,  and 
completely understandable, that Mrs D told us she doesnt recall PPI ever being mentioned. But Im 
not persuaded  that Ive seen enough information  overall  to be able to uphold  Mrs Ds complaint that 
the policy  was added to her store card account without her knowledge  or consent.  On balance,  I think  
its likely  that Mrs D decided she wanted to have the benefits the policy could offer - and the policy 
was added  to her account  at her request when  she chose to buy it.
It was up to FICL to provide  Mrs D with clear information about the policy so she could  decide if she 
wanted to take it out. Mrs D was eligible for the policy  and it doesnt look as if she was affected by any 
of the main things the policy didnt cover. 
The adjudicator considered that as Mrs D suffered from a medical condition  at the time, it was 
possible that she would  have been  affected  by the exclusions relating to pre-existing medical 
conditions. The adjudicator considered that had Mrs D been made sufficiently aware of this, then she 
might not have taken out the policy.
Having thought about this and what I currently know about Mrs Ds medical condition  I disagree  with 
our adjudicator. 
While Mrs D mentioned her medical condition,  she has also said within  our PPI questionnaire that she 
was in good health at the time.  So it seems that the condition Mrs D suffered from didnt affect her day 
to day life and she hadnt had prolonged periods off work because of it. 
So, whilst Mrs D could have possibly been affected  by the exclusion   meaning she couldnt  claim  for 
her condition, I dont think Mrs D would  have  thought at the time that she would  have actually  needed 
to claim for that condition. Or that she would  be off work  for 30 days, which was the excess (waiting) 
period before a claim  could be submitted.
In response to this provisional decision if Mrs D wants to provide any further information about her 
medical condition she can do so.
As it stands,  I dont think having more information about the policy exclusions and limitations wouldve  
made any difference to Mrs Ds decision to take out PPI. 
Mrs D says she received  good  sick pay from her employer if she was unable  to work  because  of an 
accident or sickness so she didnt need the PPI. But the PPI policy would  have covered 15% of what  
Mrs D owed on the card at the point of claiming  and would have carried  on paying this amount each 
month until Mrs D returned  to work  or the outstanding balance had been cleared . This could have 
been a useful  benefit at whats likely to have been a difficult time if Mrs D needed  to claim as she 
might have had extra costs if she was ill or disabled.  So I think Mrs D would  have found the PPI 
useful. 
Mrs D also says her husband would  have covered any repayments if needed, and she had a third 
party insurance  policy as cover for any repayments.  
I appreciate Mrs D says her husband would have helped her meet the repayments if she wasnt able 
to. I dont doubt that he would have  wanted  to help. But his own circumstances may have changed  
and he might  not have been able to help when Mrs D needed it. The PPI provided her with a security 
and the peace of mind that meant she wouldnt have to rely on anyone to help meet  her own 
contractual card repayments.
While Mrs D has said she held a third party insurance  policy that would have covered  repayments  
she hasnt provided any details about this policy. I dont know what type of policy  it was, when  it was 
taken out and what benefits it provided. Without any information I cant  fairly uphold her complaint that 
the PPI wouldnt have been of use to her.
Ref: DRN88400964I dont know if FICL explained the cost of the policy clearly enough for Mrs D to understand what  the 
real cost of the policy was for her. But I think if Mrs D had properly understood the cost and benefit  
provided she still would have thought the policy potentially useful.  Ive seen nothing  to suggest  that 
paying for the PPI was a problem for Mrs D  and Im satisfied that its likely she took it out when she 
didnt have to. 
Looked at overall, I dont think having clearer information would have put Mrs D off taking out the 
policy, given her situation at the time.
This means  that, even  if FICL didnt give Mrs D all the information it should  have done when it sold 
her the policy,  I dont  find that Mrs D has lost out as a result of anything  that FICL  did wrong.  So it 
doesnt need  to do anything to put things right. 
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not currently intending  to uphold Mrs Ds complaint.
I am provisionally minded  to say the PPI policy  wasnt mis-sold.
I invite both parties to respond with anything further that they wish for me to consider. 
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8840096