K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs I complain that Santander  UK Plc (trading as Abbey National) mis-sold them a 
monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  in 2004 when they applied for a 
joint mortgage.
background
Mr and Mrs I complained  to this Service. They said PPI was never  mentioned; they didnt 
know they had it and so they conclude it was added without their knowledge  or consent. 
They also said they were  not told about the commission paid on the PPI.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should  be rejected because  there  wasnt enough 
evidence to show the PPI had been  mis-sold. Mr and Mrs I disagreed  with our adjudicators 
view and asked for the matter to be looked  at again.
The policy only covered  Mr I, so sometimes, I will only refer to him where appropriate. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Is case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
 I think Santander made it clear that Mr and Mrs I didnt have to take out the PPI and 
they chose to take it out just to cover Mr I  although I can understand why they may not 
be able to remember this.
 Santander and Mr and Mrs I both say the PPI was recommended to them so 
Santander had to check that the PPI was right for them  and based on what Ive seen of 
their circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For example Mr I wasnt  affected  by 
any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover and they seem to have had a need  for 
the cover.  
 Its possible the information Santander gave  Mr and Mrs I about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve  been.  But they chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted this 
type of cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for them  if something  went  
wrong. It also looks like it was affordable.  So I dont think  better  information  about the 
PPI would have  put them off taking  out the cover.  
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs I has said - including what they have said about 
having savings  to call on and not being aware the PPI had been added to the mortgage 
account. But these  points dont change my decision.
Ive also thought about whether Santander  needs to give Mr and Mrs I some of the 
commission they paid back. The Supreme Court ruling and rules  and guidance  dont apply to 
certain types of mortgage agreement  including a regulated mortgage.  As Mr and Mrs Is 
mortgage became  a regulated mortgage  before 6 April 2008 they dont apply. So Santander 
Ref: DRN89225692doesnt need to refund any of the commission Mr and Mrs I paid for the PPI they had with 
that mortgage.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs I to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 August 2019.
Amrit Mangra
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8922569