K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs E are unhappy with how Santander UK Plc has treated them whilst theyve been 
struggling to pay their mortgage.
background
Mr and Mrs E have  a mortgage with Santander. From 2015 Mr E was unable  to work (I wont 
go into any detail about that to protect  his privacy).  They managed  to maintain the payments 
for a while, but then contacted Santander in January 2016 to say they were  struggling and 
were going  to claim on a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  they held.
The PPI policy paid out for a year until April 2017. In the meantime Mr E had another health 
concern that led to him making  a successful claim under a critical illness cover (CIC) policy. 
In December 2016 Mr and Mrs E paid £25,000  off their mortgage which was part of the 
proceeds of the CIC policy claim.
There were a lot of discussions over the years about  the options  available, and eventually in 
May 2018 Santander put a package  together to try to help Mr and Mrs E on a long term 
basis. This meant;
In May 2018 the term was extended to 19 years and 9 months.
In June 2018 it was moved onto a rate fixed at 2.99% until 2 September  2021.
In July 2018 the arrears were capitalised.
Mr and Mrs E complained to Santander about  how theyd been treated. Santander didnt 
uphold the main thrust of the complaint, but it did pay £250 compensation. Unhappy  with this 
Mr and Mrs E referred the complaint to our service. They  said the compensation they were  
looking for was:
The £60 fee refunded  that they were charged by their home insurance provider when a 
direct debit  wasnt paid from their Santander bank account in March  2016.
£300 they say they were back charged  on their council tax because they had the 
£25,000 CIC claim payment in their current account for three months. They  say they 
wanted to pay this to the mortgage  account  sooner  but Santander wouldnt let them.
The interest charged on the arrears to be waived  from when the PPI claim ended  until 
when the new deal was put in place.
£500 compensation.
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mr and Mrs Es complaint. Mr and Mrs E didnt agree and so 
its been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ours is an informal  dispute resolution  
service, and Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint. If I dont  
comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but because I dont 
think I need to comment  on it in order to reach the right outcome.
Ref: DRN87976532This service is impartial between, and independent  from,  consumers and businesses. What  
this means is that we dont represent  either party. Were required to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable having assessed all of the available  evidence  from the parties.
Wed expect a lender  to look at offering help to consumers going through a temporary 
problem, especially in situations where  it can be seen their situation is likely to improve.  The 
difficulty here is that Mr and Mrs Es financial difficulties were  anything but temporary.  
Theres no doubt theyve  gone through very difficult times, and continue to do so. Mr E has 
been very frank about his health, and I thank  him for that honesty. As I said, Ive not gone 
into detail about  Mr Es ill-health to respect  his privacy, but I understand Mr E is not 
anticipating a return to full-time paid work.
The pressure to make  their mortgage  payments  against such a backdrop must have been  
immense for Mr and Mrs E, and Im not unsympathetic towards them  in that regard. But my 
impartiality means I must also have regard  for Santanders point of view. 
Everything has a context. Mr and Mrs E have,  as I said, been very frank  about their 
circumstances. But from Santanders side, Mr and Mrs E owed it money and they hadnt  met 
all their contractual repayments. 
Ive reviewed all the contact notes and listened to calls between the parties.  Having done  so 
Im satisfied Santander discussed various  options  with Mr and Mrs E over the years. Whilst 
none of these were  put in place that wasnt due to any fault on the part of Santander. Its 
clear that Mr and Mrs E didnt want to commit to making any major changes at various  times  
as they were looking at other options, such as Mr Es pension  provisions and a possible 
remortgage to another lender.
I understand Mr and Mrs E feel Santander  should have offered them  a switch to 
interest-only. Ive considered this point carefully but having looked at the overall picture Im 
satisfied the package put in place by Santander is a better long term plan for Mr and Mrs E. 
Any change to interest-only would normally only be considered as a short term measure, for 
example for a consumer that was briefly out of work  just to give them  a month or so 
breathing space. Its not normally  considered  a long term option for financial difficulties, as it 
just moves the problem  further down the line. Here, for example, it would have meant  Mr E 
would have had to take a significant lump sum from his pension  fund to repay the 
interest-only debt which would then reduce  his income in retirement.  
Instead Mr and Mrs E still have a repayment mortgage, but with a lower monthly payment. If 
they want to use part of Mr Es pension to repay  the mortgage in the future, they can look at 
doing so. But if they choose not to the mortgage  debt will still be decreasing month on month 
(so long as the payments  are made  in full and on time).
Mr and Mrs E have  said that Santander stopped  them  paying  £25,000  off their mortgage 
which led to them incurring a larger  council  tax bill as their discounts were removed. But that 
claim isnt supported by the evidence. In fact Santander was encouraging Mr and Mrs E to 
pay the lump sum off their mortgage  and explained  there may be consequences to their 
benefits if they didnt do so. It was Mr and Mrs E that stalled and wanted more  time to decide 
what to do. So I cant hold Santander  liable  for the cost consequences of that delay.
Its also clear  that the direct debit Mr and Mrs E have referred  to as being frozen or cancelled  
by Santander  was in fact simply returned  as unpaid due to there  being insufficient  funds 
Ref: DRN87976533available in the account. So again,  I cant hold Santander liable for any costs  Mr and Mrs E 
incurred due to that.
Finally, Mr and Mrs E are unhappy that Santander  paid £250 compensation into their 
account without  letting them know. Id like to reassure them  that its not at all unusual  for a 
business to do that. In fact when businesses dont do so, they get complaints that money 
has been offered  and hasnt been paid. It has no effect  on the complaint process and 
doesnt mean Mr and Mrs E are forced  to accept the outcome, as shown here by the fact 
Mr and Mrs E have  got the compensation but were  still able to refer their complaint to our 
service. I can only consider it to be good  customer service from Santander to pay the money  
without delay.
Having considered everything  Im satisfied Santander has acted reasonably  and so I make  
no order or award of compensation.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  My final decision concludes  this services consideration of this 
complaint, which  means well not be engaging  in any further consideration or discussion on 
the merits of it. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 January  2020.
Julia Meadows
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8797653