K820x#14complaint
Mr G has complained that Allianz Insurance Plc paid too much  for the other  drivers  claim 
following an accident.  This has meant his motor insurance premium  then increased  too 
much.
background
Allianz received  notification on 23 April 2018  from another driver that Mr G had collided  with 
the rear of their car. Mr G confirmed this happened but he didnt think  either car was 
damaged.
Allianz paid the other drivers claim for the damage  to their car. It didnt tell Mr G what was 
happening. And when Mr G found out he thought the amount of the claim paid was far too 
much and that it was likely to be a fraudulent  claim.
As a result of this fault claim, Mr Gs premium increased on renewal. So he complained to 
Allianz. It agreed its claim investigation was poor and it failed to keep Mr G updated. So it 
paid him £75 compensation. But it couldnt remove the fault claim from his records. 
Mr G remained  unhappy and brought his complaint to us. The adjudicator  didnt think Allianz  
had done anything wrong.
Mr G disagreed so his complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint. Ill now explain  why.
Mr G has several  issues, but primarily hes understandably upset that his premium 
increased, as he believes  this was potentially a fraudulent claim, although he does admit his 
car touched  the rear of the other drivers  car. Hes also of the view that the amount  of the 
claim was excessive given his previous experience of running garages. 
First, the amount of the other drivers  claim has no direct bearing on the amount by which  Mr 
Gs premium increased. For example, if the other drivers claim had been say £900 instead 
of over £3,000,  Mr Gs premium would  have still increased by the same  amount. Whilst 
obviously if insurers generally dont  appropriately  investigate any claim properly and ensure 
theyre not over-inflated,  consumers  generally will bear mostly,  costly premiums, but here in 
Mr Gs case the actual  amount of the other drivers  claim makes no difference  to the amount 
of premium Mr G was asked to pay on renewal.
Thats because as the adjudicator said its the fact that Allianz agreed to settle the other  
drivers claim  because Mr G confirmed his car had hit it. That then means Mr G has a claim 
on his policy  record for which Allianz  couldnt  (obviously)  be reimbursed for. So its called a 
fault claim the fault element merely meaning Allianz remained out of pocket, not actually 
that Mr G was liable (even though here he was).  It would be the same  if Mr G claimed 
damage for the repair of his own car, if say he nudged a gatepost causing that damage 
where no other car was involved. That in turn changes  Mr Gs risk profile, which  in turn 
increases his premium  on renewal.
Ref: DRN87198502Further given Mr G confirmed he hit the other  car, there was no point in Allianz disputing it 
and increasing  its costs further. As the adjudicator explained  in Mr Gs policy  (and almost 
every other motor policy),  theres a clause  which permits  Allianz  to take over, defend or 
settle any claim as it thinks fit. We look to ensure Allianz does that reasonably and here on 
the basis of the fact Mr G confirmed he had hit the other car, I consider it was reasonable for 
Allianz to seek to settle the other drivers  claim.
Theres no dispute that Allianz should have investigated the actual costs  of that claim more 
carefully as Allianz  agreed it ought  to have done this. But that doesnt  have any detriment for 
Mr G, as whatever the amount of the claim, it would have still meant Allianz  would have paid 
something based on the repair invoice,  which in turn would have  meant Mr G would have 
always had a fault claim on his policy. The issue with the costs isnt the parts  needed to 
repair the car, but more the labour charge of the other drivers repairer.
Allianz also admits it should have  kept Mr G informed of what was happening  with the other  
drivers claim  and that it didnt. Thats why it paid Mr G £75 compensation, which  I 
understand Mr G hasnt cashed  yet. Should  he now wish to do so, it might be out of date so 
he should return the cheque to Allianz  so it can reissue it.
Finally turning to the amount by which Mr Gs premium increased,  its fairly standard for 
premiums to rise following a fault claim because as I said above,  that changes  Mr Gs risk 
profile. As the adjudicator  explained, this service  has no power  to tell insurers what 
premiums to charge,  or what factors they should consider in deciding  the cost of any risk. All 
insurers are entitled  to decide what risks they want to cover and what  premium  to charge for 
it. 
However we look to make sure a consumer such as Mr G here wasnt singled out from 
Allianz other  customers and make  sure it applied its underwriting  criteria correctly  and fairly. 
Allianz has shown  me that it has. However,  I cant share that with Mr G, as its commercially 
sensitive and we publish our final decisions.  
So therefore  whilst Allianz could have done  a better  job in assessing the costs of the other 
drivers claim  and keeping Mr G informed, I dont think its done  anything wrong in the 
premium increase it asked Mr G to pay. I also think its payment of £75 compensation for its 
failings is adequate compensation and in line with what  I would have  awarded,  had it not 
already paid Mr G.
my final decision
So for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 August 2019.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8719850