K821x#15complaint
This is a complaint  that Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold payment  
protection insurance (PPI) to Mr S. FICL didnt actually sell the policy,  but it has taken 
responsibility for the sale. So Ill refer to it as the seller. 
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out in 2001 alongside a store credit account. 
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint be upheld.  FICL didnt agree with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
Ive decided to uphold Mr Ss complaint. This is because Mr S had, the year before taking 
this card,  been  diagnosed  with a serious long term medical condition.  It was the type of 
condition that had a reasonable chance  of leading to further complications. If hed needed  to 
make a claim under the PPI policy as a result, its unlikely  hed have been  covered. 
I dont think FICL gave Mr S enough information  about this restriction  in the policy.  If it had, I 
dont think hed have  thought the PPI worth  taking. So I think he lost out as a result of the 
shortcomings in the sale of this PPI policy. 
fair compensation
Financial Insurance  Company Limited should  put Mr S in the financial position hed be in 
now if he hadnt taken  out PPI.
A.FICL should find out how much  Mr S would have owed when he closed his credit  
account if the policy hadnt  been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mr S owed when he closed his 
account and what  he would have owed if he hadnt  had PPI.
If Mr S made a successful  claim under  the PPI policy, FICL  can take off what  he got for 
the claim from the amount it owes him 
B.FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Mr S would have owed 
when he closed his account,  from when he closed it until he gets the refund. The 
interest rate should  be 8% a year.
Ref: DRN88946572C.If  when  FICL works out what Mr S would  have owed each month without  PPI  Mr S 
paid more than enough  to clear  his balance, FICL should  also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mr S paid. And it should  carry on paying  interest  until the point when Mr S 
wouldve owed FICL  something on his credit.  The interest rate should be 8% a year.
D.FICL should tell Mr S what  its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give 
Mr S a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
If the lender has already repaid any commission amount to Mr S that relates to this PPI sale,  
that sum can be deducted by FICL  from the redress shown above.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im upholding Mr Ss complaint. I require Financial Insurance  
Company Limited  to pay compensation  as set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 April 2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8894657