K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold him payment  protection insurance 
(PPI) with his mortgage.
background
Mr K took out a mortgage in 1997  which was set up without PPI.
In 2009 Mr K took out PPI cover to protect  his mortgage repayments  in the event of accident, 
sickness and unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold his mis-selling complaint. Mr K didnt agree with this view. 
Mr K mainly  told us that he was unaware he had PPI. He said that in the meeting, when it 
was sold to him, he wasnt provided  with any information about it and it wasnt explained.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ks complaint. Ill explain why.
I cant know exactly what was discussed  about the PPI when Mr K took it out. It wouldnt be 
reasonable to expect  him to recall  in detail precisely what was said at the time. So what  Mr K 
says now isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold this complaint. I must  look at 
everything and decide  what I think is most likely. 
Normally, Id expect the paperwork to show whats likely to have happened at the time and 
how the PPI was likely to have been  presented. The bank cant  provide anything  signed by 
Mr K from the sale. This isnt surprising, given how long ago this sale happened.
But, based on what we know  about the way Barclays sold PPI to mortgage customers  
around this time, I dont  think its likely  that PPI wouldve  been  added to his account unless 
Mr K had asked for this to happen.  Having  PPI wasnt a requirement  of the mortgage  and 
as his mortgage had been running  for some years  without it, Mr K wouldve known this.
Barclays has provided a record of a discussion it had with Mr K about MortgageCare 
payment protection insurance (this is what Barclays called its PPI) when it identified a need 
for the cover based on the information he had supplied about his circumstances. So, even if 
hes forgotten now, it seems likely that PPI was something he had at least discussed, and 
possibly expressed  an interest in having.
Ive also seen an example of the sort of PPI application Mr K wouldve filled in. It included 
options to accept or decline  the protection offered. So I think it wouldve been clear  to Mr K 
that he had a choice about  having PPI.
Ref: DRN88349452And it appears that Mr K must have decided he wanted PPI because Barclays then sent him 
a letter  acknowledging  his application  and setting  out details of the cover.  It also sent Mr K a 
written record  of the discussion hed had about his financial situation  and his needs - so hed 
have been able to see that it said:"MortgageCare payment protection insurance is optional,  
and not a condition of taking a mortgage". 
Overall, I dont  find the evidence is strong enough  for me safely to say that Barclays  didnt 
make it clear  that it was open to Mr K not to choose  PPI if he didnt want to have it. On 
balance, I think its more  likely that Mr K decided he wanted to have  the benefits and security  
that PPI offered and he chose to buy the policy. 
Barclays advised Mr K to buy the PPI. If a financial business makes  a recommendation 
about PPI it has to take reasonable steps to make  sure the cover it recommends is suitable 
as well as giving important policy information  in a clear  way.  
Barclays told us that it doesnt  any longer have a policy document from the date Mr K took 
out PPI. But it has provided information  which shows  the sort of terms and conditions that 
policies like this offered. And based  on what weve seen when dealing with complaints, 
I think its likely that in all main respects the policy that Mr K took out wouldve had similar 
terms and conditions.
I dont see any reason why a PPI recommendation for Mr K wouldnt have been suitable  
based on what Ive seen of Mr Ks circumstances at the time. Theres  nothing  to suggest that 
Mr K wasnt  eligible for the policy. Its likely the policy wouldve paid a monthly benefit for up 
to 24 months per claim  in the event of accident,  sickness and unemployment. 
This provided Mr K with significantly better  cover  than he would've had if hed just been  
relying on sick pay from his employer. 
Although Mr K mentioned having  substantial  savings at the time, I think  he might be 
mistaken about this. I say this because Mr K told Barclays different information  when he 
applied for the PPI. He said then that he didn't  have  any other income or savings to rely on 
if he wasnt able to work. I think the information he provided about his circumstances at 
the time is more likely to be correct.  
And Ive taken into account  that he also had life insurance. But this provided a benefit  in 
different circumstances and wasnt the same as having PPI. So, looking at Mr Ks situation at 
the time,  I think the PPI was suitable. 
Some of the information Barclays gave Mr K about  the PPI mightnt have been as clear as it 
shouldve been.  So its possible  there may have been some  failings in the way this policy 
was sold. But the policy gave Mr K useful protection  in his particular situation  and Ive seen 
nothing to suggest the PPI was unaffordable for him. Taking everything into account, I think 
Mr K still wouldve  decided  to buy the policy even if hed been given clearer information. 
Ive also thought about the commission Mr K paid on his policy   and whether Barclays 
treated him unfairly. 
Barclays has told us that the commission for Mr Ks policy  was less than half of what they 
paid for each premium.  Weve looked at how Barclays has been working this out and based 
on what weve seen it looks like its right  Mr Ks commission was less than half the cost of 
the policy. 
Ref: DRN88349453As thats  the case, I dont  think it needed  to tell Mr K about the commission  so I dont think  
Barclays treated him unfairly. 
This means  it doesnt need to pay Mr K back any of the commission he paid for the PPI. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 July 2019.  
Susan Webb
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8834945