K821x#15complaint
Ms A complains  that Assurant General Insurance Limited (Assurant) turned down her claim 
when her mobile phone  was stolen. 
background
Ms A left her phone  in her car while it was in a private parking area outside her daughters  
nursery. She said she put the phone in her handbag, placed it out of sight under the 
passenger seat and locked the car. After Ms A had been in the nursery for a few minutes, 
a member of staff told her the car had been  broken into. When  Ms A went  outside, she found 
the passenger  front window had been smashed and her handbag taken. 
Ms A contacted her insurer to make  a claim. Assurant  declined the claim because they 
thought Ms A hadnt  take enough  care of her phone. They said it was likely  the thief had 
seen an iPad that was left in the car. When they saw the iPad was damaged, they would 
have looked for other valuables and found  Ms As handbag. 
Our investigator looked into Ms As complaint.  She didnt think it was fair and reasonable for 
Assurant to decline Ms As claim on the grounds  they had. She said Assurant  should  
reconsider Ms As claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of her policy.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms As policy said she wouldnt be covered for loss, theft,  damage or breakdown  as a result 
of not taking care of your mobile  phone
It goes on to say: taking care of your phone  means: 
Not knowingly leaving your mobile  phone somewhere it is likely to be lost, stolen or 
damaged, just think would you leave your wallet or purse there?
If you need to leave your mobile phone somewhere then we expect you to lock it 
away out of sight  if at all possible. If you cannot  lock it away  then you must leave it 
with someone you trust or concealed  out of sight in a safe place.
If you knowingly leave your mobile  phone where  others can see it but you cannot and 
your mobile phone is then lost or stolen we may not pay your claim.
 
We will always take into account where  you are and what you are doing when we assess  
whether you have taken  care of your phone. If we believe you have not taken  care of 
your mobile phone,  and have knowingly taken a risk with it, we may decline  your claim.
Assurant have said that by leaving an iPad on show in the car, Ms A didnt take reasonable 
care to prevent  a theft occurring.  They  say that if the iPad hadnt attracted the attention of 
the thief, its unlikely that Ms As phone would have been stolen.  Assurant have also said 
Ms A could have taken  steps to prevent  her car being broken into, by taking her handbag 
with her or putting  the iPad out of sight in the boot or glovebox.  
Ref: DRN84986992Ms A has said the broken  iPad was securely  attached to the passenger seat, facing the back  
seats. Shes said she couldnt  have taken her bag with her because  she had to carry her 
daughters bag and hold her hand. Ms A has also said the car glovebox  was faulty, and the 
thief would  have been able to access anything put in the boot by unlocking the car in the way 
he did. 
Assurant rejected the claim  on the grounds that Ms A didnt take reasonable care of her 
phone. Where a claim has been declined for that reason,  wed expect there to be evidence  
to show the consumer had acted recklessly.  In other words, the consumer had recognised  
there was a risk but took no measures at all to lower the risk, or they knew  the measures 
taken were inadequate. 
In this case, I think Ms A was aware there was a risk. And she took measures to lower  the 
risk by putting her bag out of view under the seat,  and locking the car. 
 
Ms A did however leave a broken iPad visible in the car, attached to the passenger seat. 
I cant be sure if it was the iPad that attracted the thief, or whether Ms As phone would still 
have been stolen if the iPad hadnt  been visible. But on balance, and given the other  steps 
shed taken, I dont  think Ms A was acting recklessly and failing to take reasonable care of 
her phone. 
Ms As policy says that Assurant will take into account where  you are and what you are 
doing when assessing a claim.  Having  taken account of the circumstances of Ms As case, 
I dont think its fair and reasonable for Assurant to say she didnt take reasonable care of 
her phone.
Assurant have referred to other cases where an ombudsman has agreed that a consumer  
failed to take reasonable care of their phone. But we make decisions based on the individual  
circumstances of each  case. And in this case, I dont think its fair and reasonable for 
Assurant to decline Ms As claim on the grounds  they have. So I think  they should reconsider 
Ms As claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that I uphold Ms As complaint against  
Assurant General Insurance Limited. Assurant should settle Ms As claim for her stolen 
phone in line with the remaining terms and conditions of her policy.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 October  2019.
Matthew Young
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8498699