K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Santander  UK plc mis-sold them a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy  (when Santander was trading as Abbey National).
background
This complaint is about a mortgage PPI policy taken out in 1995. The policy  was taken out in 
Mr Cs name  only and provided him with cover for accident, sickness  and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  Mr and Mrs C didnt 
agree. Mr C said, in summary, that:
Hed been subject  to a hard sell  he is sure he was told he had to have the PPI for his 
and his wifes mortgage  application to be successful.
Looking back, he was in a period of excellent employment which continued throughout 
the term of the mortgage   so he didnt  need the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Cs complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Cs complaint for the following  reasons:
Mr and Mrs C say they thought they had to have  the PPI for their mortgage  application  to be 
successful and that it was never made  clear  that the policy was optional. They clearly feel 
strongly about this and Ive carefully  considered all that theyve said. The bank advised 
Mr and Mrs C to take out the policy because it had concluded they had a need  for the policy.  
I dont find it follows that, because they were  told they had a need for the policy,  that they 
thought that meant they had to have it.
Ive considered the paperwork that was completed at the time. The mortgage application 
included a separate section about  insurance  and included equally clear options  to accept or 
decline the PPI. The Yes box has been ticked, showing that Mr and Mrs C had confirmed 
they wanted it. A separate  application  form and direct debit mandate  was then completed 
and signed by Mr C. So I think Santander made it clear the PPI was a separate product. And 
I havent seen  anything in the paperwork to persuade me that Santander  didnt present the 
policy as optional. Overall, I think it more likely than not that Santander made  Mr and Mrs C 
aware that the PPI was optional and that they chose to take it. 
The bank advised Mr and Mrs C to take out the policy and it doesnt look like it was 
unsuitable for them based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time. I say this 
because:
The policy was taken out in Mr Cs name  only. He was eligible for the policy  given his 
circumstances and the terms and conditions.
Ref: DRN83765222Mr C told us he wouldve received  three to six months pay from his employer if he 
couldnt work due to sickness  or an accident  and that he and Mrs C had some savings. 
Hes also told us that  with hindsight  he was in secure employment. But the mortgage  
was a significant long term financial commitment and Mr and Mrs Cs home was at risk if 
they didnt keep up with the repayments. The PPI would have paid out for up to three  
years in the event of a successful claim for accident or sickness. So I think the PPI 
couldve been  a useful  benefit,  in addition to Mr and Mrs Cs existing arrangements.  It 
also covered Mr C if hed become unemployed.
Mr C wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys  main benefits  such as 
those affecting  self-employed  people or people with pre-existing medical conditions. As 
he couldve  benefitted from the full extent of the cover  I think  it unlikely he needed  better 
advice or information about the policys exclusions and limitations.
I cant  see that the cost of the policy was clearly communicated  to Mr and Mrs C before 
they agreed to purchase it. I dont think they were  told it would cost £20.85  each month 
until after the mortgage  had started. For this reason I have considered whether clearer 
information about  the cost would have affected Mr and Mrs Cs decision to purchase the 
policy. They had chosen to take out the policy, knowing they would have to pay 
something for it. The policy was competitively priced and apparently  affordable. So 
I think it unlikely they would have made a different decision if better information about 
the cost had been provided.
Its possible the information the bank  gave Mr and Mrs C about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
should have been. But, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think Santanders 
recommendation was unsuitable and I dont think Mr and Mrs C would  have made a different 
decision about taking  out the policy if better  information had been provided  to them   overall, 
I think they would still have taken out the policy.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 June  2019.
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8376522