K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W say Lloyds Bank plc (trading as TSB) mis-sold them a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs W took out a PPI policy when they took out a mortgage in 2001. Then in 2009 
they took out a further advance and another PPI policy to cover  this additional borrowing. 
Both policies  were taken  out in Mr Ws name  only. They paid a monthly amount for the 
policies.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs W disagreed  with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ws case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold, and Ill explain  why.
TSB have  provided evidence from both the 2001  and the 2009 sale which show  the PPI was 
displayed as optional  and Mr and Mrs W chose  to take it out. 
From 2001  Ive seen  the mortgage  application form which was completed and signed in 
branch. Within in this there is a yes or no box for PPI. The yes box has been ticked, and a 
further PPI application has also been completed. This application is separate  from the 
mortgage application. In this Mr and Mrs W stated that they wished to have 100% cover for 
Mr W and 0% cover for Mrs W. They  then signed this form, and completed a separate  direct  
debit mandate  to give TSB permission to debit the PPI premiums from their account.  
In 2009 Mr and Mrs W completed  another separate PPI application form in addition to their 
further advance  documents.  Again they chose to take the PPI out in Mr Ws name only and 
he completed and signed  another direct  debit mandate.
Mr W has recently told us that that he suffers from a condition  which  wouldve made reading 
the documents difficult. He said that having been given documents to sign, he was under the 
impression that failure  to sign these would result in them not being able to take out the 
mortgage. Ive thought  about this carefully.  While I can appreciate that there  wouldve been  a 
lot of information involved in both sales which may have been  difficult for Mr W to read, 
Mrs W was present for both sales.  And both applications have been signed by both Mr and 
Mrs W. I also have  to place responsibility on Mr W to be aware  of what  he is signing for, and 
to ask questions  if anything is not clear.  
So I think TSB made Mr and Mrs W aware  that PPI was a separate and optional product, 
and they decided to take it out in Mr Ws name only in 2001 and in 2009. 
Ref: DRN82234062Both Mr and Mrs W and TSB have said the PPI was recommended. This means TSB had to 
check it was suitable  for Mr W (as the person who the insurance covered). And it seems to 
have been right for him based on what hes told us about his circumstances in both 2001  
and in 2009. He was eligible for cover under the policies  and there is nothing  about his 
employment status which was unusual or wouldve excluded him from making a claim. Mr W 
has also told us he didnt  suffer from any pre-existing  medical conditions  in 2001, so he 
wouldnt have been affected by these  terms of the policy  either. 
Ive seen a summary of your needs  & our recommendations document from 2009.  From 
this it looks like Mr W was asked about being effected by any medical conditions in the last 
12 months, to which he answered yes. But this document  also sets out what  it means  for 
Mr W making an accident and sickness claim for a reoccurrence of this condition. It 
explained that Mr W would not be able to claim for the first 24 months of this policy  for time 
off work as a result of this pre-existing  medical condition.  But after the first 24 months,  he 
wouldnt have been affected any restrictions on the cover. This borrowing  was for a period  of 
10 years,  so after the first 24 months,  Mr W would have had cover for his pre-existing 
medical condition  for 8 years.  Although  this document isnt signed by Mr W, I think  it 
wouldve been discussed in the meeting  and I think its likely TSB drew  this exclusion to his 
attention  so I dont  think this made  the recommendation  unsuitable.  
Mr W has told us that he wouldve been entitled  to sick pay from his employer if he had to 
stop working because  of illness or injury. So he doesnt feel he needed  these policies. But 
the policies wouldve paid out on top of any sick pay or other benefits Mr W may have  had at 
the time,  and couldve done so for longer  than his full sick pay  for up to 24 months. The 
PPI policies would also have paid out on top of any redundancy  pay Mr W may have been 
entitled to if he had lost his job. So I think it was suitable for them and they wouldve found  
these policies useful  if they was to fall on hard times.
In addition to making  sure the PPI was right for him, TSB also had to give Mr and Mrs W 
clear information about the PPI policies. And its possible  that for both sales  TSB didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs W everything they needed  to know about them.  For example, its unclear how 
well TSB explained  the cost of the policies.  So its possible it couldve explained the cost 
better than it did. But even if it had, I dont  think  this wouldve made a difference  to their 
decision to take out the cover on each occasion   bearing in mind the importance of keeping  
up with their mortgage repayments.
This means  that, even though TSB didnt  do everything it shouldve done,  I dont  think
Mr and Mrs W have  lost out because of this.
Ive also thought about whether TSB needs  to give Mr and Mrs W some of the commission  
they paid back. The Supreme Court ruling and new rules and guidance  dont apply to certain  
types of mortgage  agreement   including a regulated mortgage. As Mr and Mrs Ws 
mortgage became  a regulated mortgage  before 6 April 2008 they dont apply. So TSB 
doesnt need to refund any of the commission Mr and Mrs W paid for the PPI they had with 
that mortgage.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 April 2019.
Ref: DRN82234063Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8223406