K820x#14complaint
Mr L has complained  about  the compensation MBNA Limited (MBNA)  has offered him in 
relation to the mis-sale  of a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy he had with his 
credit card. 
background
Mr L took out the policy in November 2002.
In 2018 Mr L complained  to MBNA  that he had been mis-sold the policy.  MBNA agreed and 
calculated the total compensation due to Mr L was £5,829.51. But it then deducted the 
benefit he received  from a successful claim in 2016/2017 of £2,637.93. So it offered to pay 
him the balance of £3,191.58.
Mr L rejected the offer. He said that the claim he had made was part of the LifestyleProtect  
element of his policy which had been introduced in 2015. It was not part of the PPI policy he 
originally took in 2002. So he said the benefit he had received should  not be set off against 
the mis-sale compensation. 
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint but thought what  the business had done  
was fair so didn't uphold the complaint.  
Mr L disagreed. So as the complaint  remains unresolved  it has been passed  to me for 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
MBNA has agreed the policy  was mis-sold to Mr L, so Im not looking at how the policy  was 
sold. I am only looking at whether it is fair for MBNA to deduct the claim amount from Mr Ls 
offer of compensation and the concerns Mr L has around this. 
When Mr L took the policy the benefits  did not include LifestyleProtect.  This was introduced 
in 2015. It provided  cover  for Life Events  including graduation, bereavement, marriage,  
divorce etc. The letter  confirming the change  said the enhanced  benefit was being  included 
at no extra  cost to the policyholder. It also said that the cost of the cover  was being reduced  
from 19p per £100 of the monthly  credit  card statement balance to 11p per £100.
The formal  changes made to the policy would take effect from 28 April 2015. 
Mr L has said that because he made  a claim under  the LifestyleProtect  part of the policy, as 
he had experienced a Life Event, then the successful claim should  not be off set from his 
compensation as this element of the policy was added years  after he took the policy.  The  
claim itself fell under the new provisions MBNA made to the policy  Mr L says that the 
amended policy terms were an agreement between MBNA and the insurer,  and not part of 
the agreement  he had with MBNA. 
But I disagree. The PPI policy  was a continuing  contract of insurance, albeit with the terms 
and conditions amended in April 2015,  about which Mr L was informed. There  wasnt  a break 
Ref: DRN83581512in the contract, or a new contract issued  in 2015.  So the original  contract of insurance stood, 
but with the terms  being changed. 
When a business  mis-sells a PPI policy we expect it to put the consumer in the financial 
position they would be in if they hadnt taken  it out  as far as is possible. 
If Mr L hadnt bought  the policy, then he wouldnt have been  able to claim on 
LifestyleProtect. 
For this reason, I think its fair for MBNA to take off Mr Ls successful claim. It wouldnt be fair 
for Mr L to have received the benefit  of the claim and then also receive back all of the money 
he paid in premiums.  So I dont think MBNA needs  to do anything  further. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint.
It was fair for MBNA Limited  to deduct the claim amount from Mr Ls compensation. If Mr L 
accepts my decision then MBNA  Limited  should recalculate and pay the compensation if it 
hasnt already done so. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8358151