K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs F are unhappy that Ageas Insurance Limited will only pay a reduced amount  for 
their contents insurance claim for theft,  due their being underinsured.
background
In April 2018 Mr and Mrs F made  a claim to Ageas following a burglary at their property. A 
substantial amount of items were stolen,  including a large amount of cash  and jewellery.  
Ageas appointed loss adjusters to investigate and the claim was accepted. Mr and Mrs F 
advised that the total value of the items stolen was over £22,000.
Ageas advised  that Mr and Mrs F only had cover under their contents policy for £16,390. It 
further told them that there was a policy limit of £300 for cash  stolen, a limit of £819.50 for 
each single item and an overall policy limit for valuables including  jewellery of 33% of the 
total sum insured amounting to £5,463.33. Other items stolen amounted  to £6,738.98. Ageas 
said the maximum claim if it applied those policy limits, including  the cost of the general  
contents stolen,  would  be £11,593.48. 
But Ageas further  pointed  out that Mr and Mrs F were  substantially  underinsured and that it 
therefore said it could  reduce the claim proportionately (averaging).  It assessed  that if 
Mr and Mrs F had insured their contents  for their full value, this would have  been  about 
£35,000. So it said that Mr and Mrs F had only insured 46% of the value of their contents,  so 
it said that it was only obliged to pay only 46% of the claim figure  subject to the policy limits. 
It was however prepared  to pay the total valuables limit for the policy ie £5,463, as a total 
figure.
Ageas said that if it had applied the averaging clause to the whole claim, the proportionate 
amount would have  been  £5,335 30, calculated at 46% of the claim value as it had assessed 
it, applying the various  policy limits.  
Mr and Mrs F were  sold the policy by their letting  agent and say they werent told about the 
policy limits  nor asked for a valuation of their items.  They also say they werent  told about 
the consequences of underinsuring. Ageas said that the letting agent  was responsible for the 
sale and explained  that it wouldnt have expected Mr and Mrs F to have had the term in the 
policy allowing it to reduce the claim  proportionately highlighted to them. But it would expect 
the agent to ask questions to obtain a quote.  It clarified that the letting  agent  didnt act as its 
agent. It advised us that the policy schedule and booklet are sent out by it. A key facts 
document is handed over at inception (when  the policy started).
We also contacted  the letting  agent. It appears the policy  was first sold to Mr and Mrs F in 
December 2015.  It said the policy was sold non-advised. It can only provide  us with a 
policy quotation and an email to say the policy had gone on risk. It has no other  details but 
does say there wouldnt have been any in branch discussions about the level of cover 
needed  the customer is expected to provide the details.
Our adjudicator pointed  out that Ageas had advised that said it could reduce the claim by the 
amount the contents were underinsured when  in fact the policy  allows for the claim to be 
reduced proportionately by the amount the premium  was underpaid. Ageas advised that 
Mr and Mrs F had paid about 55% of the premium  they should have done. So based on that 
if the averaging term applied this would  be 55% of the assessed claim. 
Ref: DRN84545792He wasnt satisfied however that it was fair for Ageas  to apply the averaging clause as it 
wasnt drawn to Mr and Mrs Fs attention, nor was it made clear to them the consequences 
of being underinsured.  He said that Ageas should pay the claim as assessed  within  the 
policy limits,  and add interest. He further proposed that it pay compensation of £150.
Ageas was prepared  to revise its offer to pay to 55% of the general contents  and the policy 
limits for the valuables  and the cash,  meaning the settlement would  be:
£   300.00 Money - as per the limit applicable
£5,408.70 Valuables - as per the limit applicable
£3,706.44 General contents - 55% of the claim.
£9,415.14 total offer
Ageas didnt think it should pay compensation  as it had done  everything to progress the 
clam and had offered more than Mr and Mrs F were entitled to. It has now paid £5,413 (net 
of the £50 excess)  as an interim payment. 
Mr and Mrs F werent happy with the settlement, and our adjudicator pointed out that he still 
didnt think it fair to apply  averaging.
The matter  has been passed to me for further  consideration.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the sale of the policy
Mr and Mrs F advise  that they were  sold the policy over the phone  by the letting agent. 
Ageas has explained that the letting  agent doesnt  act as its agent. But it nevertheless  
expects the agent to go through with the customer the level of cover  they require.
As Ive set out above, the agent has told us that it was a non-advised sale and the level of 
cover wasnt  discussed. The customer is expected  to give the details for that. Having said 
that, I think Ageas did send the policy schedule to Mr and Mrs F at renewal, as it has shown 
us the letter  enclosing it. Ageas has sent us a copy of the key facts document which  is 
branded with the letting agents name, so I would have expected  the letting agent to send  
that to Mr and Mrs F.
The essential points  here are that firstly the agent  acted independently, secondly the 
schedule clearly sets out the overall  policy limit and thirdly the key facts document  sets out 
the limits  for valuables,  individual  items  and cash.  Im satisfied the policy  schedule  and 
booklet were sent to Mr and Mrs F. Ageas has said that the policy limits are a market  
average and it wouldnt  expect them to be discussed  with the customer, as they are set out 
in the policy   booklet. I think  such limits  should have been brought to Mr and Mrs Fs 
attention. Nevertheless  as Ageas  expects  the key facts document,  which clearly sets out 
such limits  to be given/sent to the customers,  I dont think its Ageas fault if Mr and Mrs F 
didnt in fact receive  that document.
So Im satisfied that Ageas did enough  to bring  the policy limits to Mr and Mrs Fs attention.  If 
they are unhappy  that the information wasnt given to them or that the amount of insurance 
Ref: DRN84545793they needed wasnt discussed  with them, that's a matter they should take up with the letting 
agent.
But, as regards the underinsurance term, Im not satisfied that this was discussed with 
Mr and Mrs F. Ageas has made it clear that it wouldnt expect this to be discussed  as it is a 
standard term in most policies. And I agree that most but by no means all policies will have 
some form of averaging  clause, although this one is unusual.  But this service takes the view 
that policyholders  must be clearly told about the consequences of not insuring their 
belongings for the full amount that theyre  worth.
I dont think that happened  here, nor that Ageas required the letting agent to explain the 
consequences of underinsurance. And there  is nothing about it in the key facts document. 
So I dont  think it was fair for Ageas to apply the averaging" clause to reduce the claim.
claim settlement:
In those circumstances I do think that Ageas should pay Mr and Mrs Fs claim, subject to the 
policy limits.  As it offered to settle  the claim on the basis of the total valuables and cash 
limits, I think  it should do this, adding the general contents claim as follows:
Cash limit  £    300.00 
Valuables limit £  5,463.33*
Balance of claim £  6,738.98
Total payable           £12,502.31
*Ageas calculated  this at £5,408.70. The difference is accounted  for as it said the limit is 
33% of the sum insured, whereas I have used the limit set out in the policy  which is one 
third. Its a small difference  but it should  be accurate.
Ageas has paid an interim  payment of £5,413. The balance, net of the excess, is £7,039,31. 
Ageas should  pay that figure  plus 8% interest from the date of the claim until the date it 
repays Mr and Mrs F.
compensation
I think Ageas  should pay compensation.  Whilst it has progressed the claim and paid an 
interim payment I dont think it took enough account  of the information  given (or not given) to 
Mr and Mrs F when  buying their policy. In particular  I dont think  it was fair to reduce the 
claim settlement on the basis of the underinsurance. A figure of £150  was put forward by our 
adjudicator and I think that is fair and reasonable.
overall
In conclusion I dont  think that Mr and Mrs F were  given information about  the consequences  
of underinsuring  their contents when taking  out the policy.  So I dont of think its fair to apply  
the averaging  clause.  I think  Ageas  did enough to ensure that they were aware of the policy 
limits, but if Mr and Mrs F think the letting agents didnt give them the necessary information, 
they should take it up with those agents. Ageas should settle the claim, as Ive set out 
above, within the policy limits, and pay compensation.
Ref: DRN84545794my final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Ageas Insurance Limited to:
pay to Mr and Mrs F the balance of £7,039.31, as calculated above,  to settle their 
claim plus simple  interest at the rate of 8% from the date of the claim until the date of 
settlement.
pay to Mr and Mrs F £150 compensation.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 August 2019.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
*HM Revenue and Customs requires Ageas  Insurance Limited to take tax off any interest it pays to 
Mr and Mrs F. Should Mr and Mrs F request  it, Ageas Insurance  Limited should  give Mr and Mrs F a 
certificate showing  how much tax it has taken off so they can reclaim it if appropriate. 
Ref: DRN8454579