K822xcomplaint
Mr M complains that his current account was blocked by Bank of Scotland plc, trading as 
Halifax. And that the only way he could then unblock his account was by visiting a branch.
background 
In 2018 Mr M made an online bank  transfer from his Halifax account. He then realised that 
itd been for the wrong amount. So he attempted to make  a second transfer for the remaining 
balance at which point  his online banking facility was suspended and his account was 
blocked. 
Mr M spoke  to Halifax over the phone  on several occasions trying  to get his account 
unblocked. During the calls, Halifax asked him to verify some personal information  and 
asked a number  of questions about Mr Ms account and the payment.  Mr M explained that 
his son had transferred  the money  to him so that he could then send it onto the recipient. So 
he needed the block removed urgently. But Halifax said it could only unblock Mr Ms account 
if he went to a branch  with his photographic identification (ID).  
Mr M explained to Halifax  that he was currently  abroad  where he lived for part of the year. 
So going  to a branch  would mean travelling back to the UK, as Halifax has no branches 
abroad, which he hadnt been planning to do for a few months  yet. He gave details of several 
medical conditions  that meant he shouldnt fly unnecessarily. And that he also shouldnt fly 
unaccompanied, which is what hed have to do if he wanted to return to the UK at short 
notice. But Halifax told him that there was still no other option but to go to a branch. 
So Mr M made a one day return trip to the UK, presented his ID in branch and unblocked his 
account. He then complained to Halifax and said it should reimburse  him the cost of his 
flights, taxis and the numerous international calls hed had to make  to Halifax in order to try 
and resolve the matter  over the phone. 
In response, Halifax explained that it blocked Mr Ms account in order to protect it. And that 
itd followed its security  procedures to try and unblock the account over the phone.  This 
hadnt been possible so Halifax had done  nothing wrong in asking Mr M to visit a branch. But 
it accepted that this had caused Mr M inconvenience so it offered him £50 for this. It later 
offered an additional £120 for the cost of the international calls. 
Mr M remained unhappy and brought his complaint to us. 
Halifax told us that Mr Ms attempts to make  two consecutive online transfers, the first for a 
small amount and the second for a much larger amount,  can be an indicator of fraudulent 
activity. This is why his account was initially blocked.  
Halifax subsequently remained  concerned  about  the security  of Mr Ms account  so decided  
not to unblock the account  over the phone. In particular, it had evidence  that Mr Ms online 
banking had been accessed through a UK based IP address,  even though he was abroad.  It 
also had concerns over whether Mr M was being unduly influenced by someone  to spend his 
money in a certain way.  
In response, Mr M explained that he used  a Virtual Private  Network, which  was why some  of 
his online  banking activity  appeared to originate from the UK. 
Ref: DRN85412282Our investigator said that, under the circumstances, it had been reasonable for Halifax  to ask 
Mr M to present  his ID in branch in line with its security procedures.  So she didnt think it 
needed to do anything further. Mr M disagreed  so the matter was passed onto me for a 
decision. 
my provisional decision  
Having considered the complaint I was minded  to reach a different outcome to the 
investigator. So I sent Halifax  and Mr M a provisional decision, for their comments, in which I 
said the following:
Ive first considered whether the initial block placed on Mr Ms account was a reasonable 
action to take. And I think it was given what Halifax has explained about the way in 
which Mr M tried to make the transfers  being  indicative of potential  fraudulent  activity. 
So Ive next considered whether Halifax should have unblocked Mr Ms account  over the 
phone. In particular, Ive noted an event log that shows  the UK based IP addresses 
that Halifax was concerned  about.  Ive also listened  to all of the calls between  Mr M and 
Halifax. And in one of those, Mr M is unsure what the money transfer is for and pauses 
to ask his son. 
Given this, I think that Halifax had valid reasons to remain concerned. Thats  not to 
suggest that there was anything untoward  going on. Or that Mr M was being unduly  
influenced by a third party. In fact, it seems clear to me from Mr Ms communications  
that he has a very good handle on his finances. But Halifax nevertheless has a 
responsibility to safeguard  its customers against any potential  risk. And I think  there was 
enough evidence  here, as outlined  above, that justified  a cautious approach and a 
refusal to unblock  the account  over the phone.
That being  said,  I dont  think  that what transpired after this was fair or reasonable. And I 
think that this is the crux of this complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive noted Halifaxs  explanation that its standard security procedure, in cases where 
blocks cant be removed over the phone, is to require a customer to present ID in 
branch. And as it only has branches  in the UK it had no other option than to require 
Mr M to fly back to the UK. I think that Halifaxs standard procedure is a perfectly  
reasonable one. But a standard procedure has to be applied to standard  circumstances. 
During one of the calls with Halifax,  Mr M clearly outlined his extensive  medical  
conditions and the impact that flying back to the UK would have on his health. Theres 
no doubt in my mind  that he was being entirely genuine during the call. So I accept 
everything he explained to Halifax. Clearly, Mr Ms circumstances were anything  but 
standard. And Halifaxs standard procedure was clearly going  to have a disproportionate 
impact on Mr Ms wellbeing.  
Under the particular  circumstances  of this case,  I think that Halifax  should  have done 
more to try and find an alternative  way of verifying Mr Ms ID. The most obvious  option 
would have been to ask Mr M to get a local, qualified  solicitor to provide a certified  copy  
of his ID. This would  have  achieved Halifaxs aim of verifying Mr Ms ID in person, whilst 
causing Mr M minimal inconvenience. Of course this option  would have cost Mr M 
money. But I think its likely that he would have far preferred to pay a local solicitor than 
Ref: DRN85412283to fly back to the UK for just a day. Especially  given that Halifaxs option was going  to 
cost him money too in terms  of flight cost. 
For all of these reasons, I dont think it was fair or reasonable for Halifax to insist on 
Mr M travelling back to the UK. It follows that if Mr M had been offered the alternative 
option Ive outlined he wouldnt have incurred the flight  costs he did. Mr M has provided 
a receipt evidencing the cost of the flight at €216.58.  So I think Halifax should  reimburse  
him for this cost.
Similarly, Mr M wouldnt have incurred the cost of taxi transfers to and from the airport  
abroad and the airport  in the UK. In relation to the latter, Mr M has provided a receipt 
evidencing a cost of £15, which Halifax also needs  to reimburse. But in relation to the 
former, Mr M has only provided a private  transfer information leaflet  about  potential 
costs. So I dont think itd be fair to ask Halifax to reimburse for the taxi transfers abroad 
until Mr M provides evidence of what he actually  ended up paying.   
In relation to the international calls, I think that several of these could have been avoided  
if Halifax had made  an alternative proposal as Ive suggested. So Im glad to see that 
Halifax has already  offered  £120  for the cost of the calls. In the absence  of evidence on 
precisely how much the calls cost, I think that this is a fair amount. 
That leaves the remaining  issue  of compensation for Mr Ms trouble and upset. I think 
that the £50 already offered by Halifax is far too low. Its clear from the calls that Mr M 
was very distressed  by the worry  of the impact  that flying back  to the UK would have on 
his health. Medical  advice  hed received was to keep flying to a minimum. He was also 
distressed by the thought  of having  to fly alone and he had very good medical reasons 
for needing to be accompanied on a flight.  Not to mention the fact that he then 
undertook the return trip all in a single day, which would have been a very unpleasant 
and tiring experience  for him. 
In considering the appropriate amount of compensation Ive reminded myself  that, as 
outlined above,  Mr M would have had to pay for a solicitor  to certify his documents. I 
cant now know how much this would  have cost him. And I dont want to cause  him any 
further inconvenience by asking him to get quotes as evidence.  So I think that the fairest 
solution is for me to reduce the compensation award  to take the cost of a solicitor  into 
account. As it wouldnt be fair to expect Halifax to cover that cost given that Ive 
concluded it did nothing  wrong by wanting to verify Mr Ms ID before unblocking the 
account.
Overall, and having incorporated  that reduction, I think that Halifax  should pay Mr M a 
total of £400 for his material distress and inconvenience. 
As an aside,  there has been some confusion caused by Halifaxs  reference to Mr M 
being unable to pass  the security checks during the phone calls. To clarify, having 
listened to the calls,  its undeniably  clear that Mr M didnt fail any of the initial caller 
verification security questions. Thats because if he had failed those questions  then the 
agents wouldnt have  been able to proceed to discussing his account with either him or 
his son. So Im satisfied  that this reference  was in relation to the concerns that Halifax 
has outlined to us. 
Ref: DRN85412284the response to my provisional  decision 
Halifax accepted  my provisional decision.  And explained that it has already paid Mr M the 
£120 for the telephone calls and the £50 offered for his distress and inconvenience. 
Halifax also said that its unable to pay euros  into a Great British Pound  (GBP) bank  account  
 which  Mr Ms is. So it offered to pay Mr M £205  for the flights instead of €216.58.
Mr M also accepted my provisional  decision. He was informed of Halifaxs offer of £205  for 
the flights and confirmed his acceptance of that too. 
my findings
Although both parties have accepted my provisional decision, Ive nevertheless 
re-considered all the available evidence and arguments  to decide whats fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ive seen nothing  to change my mind so Im upholding this complaint for the reasons outlined  
in my provisional decision.
To clarify the proposed  redress:
As outlined in my provisional findings,  I think that a total of £120  for the telephone calls is 
a fair amount. So if that has already been  paid to Mr M then there is nothing further to 
pay. 
Similarly with the compensation for distress and inconvenience, £400 is the total amount 
awarded to Mr M for the reasons already given. That includes any amounts already paid 
to him. So if £50 has already been  paid,  Halifax  only has to pay the remaining £350.  
Finally, Ive considered  Halifaxs offer of £205 for the flights. I accept the explanation about  
why it cant pay euros.  And as Mr M has accepted that offer Halifax must now pay Mr M 
£205 for the flights  instead of €216.58. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Bank  of Scotland plc 
must pay Mr M: 
1.£205 for the cost of the flights.
2.£15 for taxi costs  plus any further taxi costs  subject  to evidence from Mr M.
3.A total of £120 for telephone  call costs, unless  this has already been paid to Mr M.
4.A total of £400 for Mr Ms material distress and inconvenience. Any amounts already paid 
to Mr M for his material  distress and inconvenience can be deducted from this total.
5.8% annual  simple interest on the amounts awarded at points 1 to 3 above inclusive, 
payable from the date that Mr M incurred the costs  up until the date of settlement or 
repayment*.
Ref: DRN85412285Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 November 2019
Sim Ozen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8541228