K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs K are unhappy with the time taken for their mortgage money to reach their 
solicitors account from Hinckley and Rugby Building Society (Hinckley and Rugby). 
background
Mr and Mrs Ks solicitors  asked Hinckley and Rugby to release their mortgage money, so 
that it arrived on 5 October 2018. This was so Mr and Mrs K could complete on a home 
purchase that day. Mr and Mrs K, and their solicitors,  expected  the money to arrive by 14:00.  
When the solicitors didnt receive the money  they emailed Hinckley  and Rugby at 14.42pm  
explaining theyd  spoken to their bank but the payment couldnt be located. The solicitors 
continued to email and ask for updates, and it wasnt until 16.26  when Hinckley and Rugby 
confirmed that the funds  had left their intermediary  bank.
Mr and Mrs K complained to Hinckley and Rugby about the delays and the poor service 
theyd received.
In its final response letter  Hinckley and Rugby said whilst the instructions stated the funds 
would normally reach the client account  by 14.00,  the actual CHAPS system was operative 
from 6am to 6pm, so there  were  no guarantees for when the funds would reach  the client. It 
said that once  it had initiated  payment, it had no control over the payment passing through  
the CHAPS system.
Hinckley and Rugby  also suggested the solicitors  shouldve asked for the money earlier  if 
timing was so critical. It didnt think it had done anything wrong but agreed to make  a gesture 
of goodwill  for £200, to cover the additional removal charges, Mr and Mrs K incurred due to 
the delays.
Unhappy with its response Mr and Mrs K referred their complaint to our service. Our 
investigator said Mr and Mrs K were caused  considerable  stress and worry, due to the 
unexpected delays and the lack of updates. He accepted the £200 payment paid by 
Hinckley and Rugby  meant Mr and Mrs K hadnt  lost out financially. But, he felt it should also 
compensate Mr and Mrs K for the stress and worry caused to them.  He recommended £250.
Mr and Mrs K accepted the investigators view but Hinckley  and Rugby didnt.
It said the delays  were due to the third party banks  internal system, which wasnt in its 
control, so it shouldnt be held responsible. It also remained of the opinion  that the solicitors 
shouldve asked for the money earlier.
As an agreement couldnt  be reached the case has now been  passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On the certificate  of title form, it says please forward the mortgage funds in time for 
completion on the date shown which in this case was stated as 5 October 2018.
Ref: DRN85278182 
Under Completion Arrangements it also said:
Funds released electronically will normally reach your client  bank account by 14.00  hours  
on the Completion Date unless requested by you
Whilst Hinckley and Rugby has explained  that there were no guarantees given for when the 
transfer would be completed,  I consider based on what was written  on their form above,  that 
there was a clear  expectation that the money  would arrive by 14:00.
Hinckley and Rugby  has accepted that there  were  delays in dealing  with the transfer. Whilst 
there may have been delays by a third party business, that was a business  which
Hinckley and Rugby  had chosen to delegate  the transfer to. So ultimately the third party  
business was acting on behalf  of Hinckley and Rugby, and so I think Hinckley  and Rugby is 
responsible for its actions.  
In terms of Mr and Mrs Ks solicitors, I appreciate what  Hinckley  and Rugby has said about 
how the solicitors couldve  requested the funds to be released before the completion date to 
guarantee it. But as Ive already mentioned, the wording  on the form said the money would 
be sent in time for completion, on the completion  date given.  So the payment being made 
and arriving on the day, the money was needed, seems to be standard  practice.  And there 
was nothing to suggest that the transfer  wouldnt happen on time, or that the funds should be 
requested earlier to guarantee it.
I also note that the solicitors specialise  in property purchases. I suspect if asking for money 
on the day it needed regularly led to these  sorts  of problems  theyd do things differently, 
such as asking for it earlier. Overall, I dont  consider  the solicitors  to be responsible  for the 
delays or inconvenience caused  to Mr and Mrs K.
Ive considered what impact the delays had on Mr and Mrs K, and I agree with what our 
investigator has said about this. Mr and Mrs Ks solicitors  first emailed Hinckley and Rugby 
at 14.42, and it wasnt until 16.26 that they confirmed the funds had left the third party bank 
used by them. In between that time, there was no confirmation around  where  the funds were 
exactly, and no information was forthcoming about  when the transfer would be completed or 
when the funds would be made available.
Given that it was a Friday  and an additional  £200 had already been paid to the removal 
company, because of the delay, it was reasonable for Mr and Mrs K to believe that the move  
may not go ahead. They had to consider making  alternative arrangements to stay 
somewhere for the weekend, which wouldnt have been a pleasant  (or cheap) prospect. This 
only added  to Mr and Mrs Ks worry at what mustve already been a stressful and worrying 
time.
The £200  Hinckley  and Rugby paid covered the extra  removal costs. And in the end the 
move went  ahead, so there are no accommodation or storage costs  for me to consider. But I 
do think Mr and Mrs K should be paid some compensation  in recognition  of the stress  and 
worry they were caused. In my view £250 represents a fair amount in the overall 
circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN85278183my final decision 
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I require Hinckley and Rugby Building  Society to pay Mr and Mrs K compensation of £250 (in 
addition to the £200 its already paid)  for the stress and worry caused to them.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 June  2019.
Farhana Akhtar
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8527818