K820x#14complaint
Miss C has complained that Bank  of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold her a credit card payment  
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Miss C took out the PPI in June  2005 at the same time as she arranged  the credit card in 
branch.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Miss C disagrees with the adjudicators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of Payment Protection Insurance on our website and Ive taken  
this into account  in deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Miss Cs complaint and Ill explain why.
Miss C says that there  was no mention of PPI during the meeting, therefore it must  have 
been automatically added to the credit card account without her knowledge or consent. 
Looking at the paperwork from the sale, I think there would have been some conversation 
about the policy  in particular BoS has provided  a demands and needs statement which 
indicates that the suitability of the policy  was discussed. The credit  card application form has 
a separate section for PPI. A box in that section has been ticked  to request the policy and 
then Miss C has signed to confirm  the request. She has then signed the form again to agree 
to the credit  card. There was another type of insurance available but Miss C hasnt opted for 
that. If, as Miss C has said, the adviser  automatically added the PPI to her account, I might 
have expected her to end up with all of the available insurance options.
The sale happened a long time ago, so it wouldnt be surprising if Miss Cs recollection  of the 
sale has faded. Ive thought very carefully about  what Miss C has said,  but looking at the 
evidence, I think it is more  likely that the optional nature  of the policy was explained. It 
seems to me that Miss C decided to buy it, knowing that she didnt have to, even if she no 
longer remembers doing  so.
BoS advised Miss C to buy the policy. Therefore in recommending the PPI to Miss C it 
needed to ensure that it met her needs.  And from what I know of Miss Cs circumstances  at 
the time,  it was suitable for her.
Miss C would have received six months  full pay, followed by six months half pay, if she was 
off sick from work. But the policy would  have paid out in addition  to this and potentially  for 
longer than Miss C would have received full pay for. And Miss C didnt have any other  
means, such as savings, to fall back on. Miss C has said that family would have helped, but 
other people  cant  always  be relied  upon  as their circumstances  can change.  Shes also 
talked about selling her car, but presumably that would have been a last resort, so I dont  
think that made the policy unsuitable. I think the policy could have provided her with a useful 
benefit at what  would  have been a difficult time.
Ref: DRN81574242Its possible that BoS didnt provide as much  information as it should have about the policy,  
particularly about  the things it didnt  cover. But Miss C wasnt  affected by any of those  things. 
As I think  that Miss C had an interest  in the PPI and decided to buy it, I dont think  that 
further information would have caused her to change her mind.
This means  that I dont think that the PPI was mis-sold. So Bank of Scotland  plc doesnt 
have to refund everything Miss C paid for it. But Bank of Scotland  plc has already paid Miss 
C back some of the cost of the PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything  more. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  Miss Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 February  2019.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8157424