K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) turned down Mr Cs claim 
under their travel insurance policy. 
My references to IPA include its agents. 
background
Mr and Mrs C have travel insurance with IPA. On the first day of a cruise  Mr C experienced a 
twinge in his neck, which started  to get worse until he couldnt move  his arm. 
Mr C says the ships doctor couldnt confirm a diagnosis or offer treatment (other  than 
suggesting pain killers). So the doctor suggested  that Mr C visit the on-board acupuncturist  
and/or chiropractor to see if they could  help  as the problem might have been a trapped  
nerve and there was little the doctor could do for Mr C. 
Mr C explains  he had several visits to both the acupuncturist  and chiropractor, which helped 
ease the pain. Both practitioners were based in the ships spa. The total bill was around  
£1,000. 
Mr C made  a claim for the treatment costs. But IPA said the claim wasnt covered  because 
he hadnt called it to authorise  the treatment, and because the treatment had been provided 
by a health spa. Mr C said his options  had been  very limited on board a cruise  liner,  and 
came to us. 
Our casework manager didnt uphold the complaint,  because he said the claim simply wasnt  
covered under the policys terms and conditions.  Mr C asked for a review. 
developments
Our casework manager asked IPA what it would have done had Mr C called it before having  
the treatment. IPA said that for a trapped nerve  it wouldnt have covered the type of 
elective osteopathic treatment that Mr C had received, which it said wasnt covered under 
the NHS.  
We put this to Mr C. He said his pain in the neck had been a symptom  and not a diagnosis, 
and he didnt agree  this type of treatment  wasnt available  under the NHS.  He pointed out 
that around six years previously hed had a stiff neck and his doctor referred  him to hospital 
as an outpatient. Hed then had several courses  of massage treatments and neck exercises 
to follow  at home. He also said he didnt elect  the treatment. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  it. 
Under Emergency medical  and other  expenses IPA covered  emergency medical, surgical,  
hospital, ambulance and nursing fees and charges incurred as a result  of Mr C suffering an 
unforeseen bodily injury . 
Ref: DRN87930022I understand that IPA doesnt  dispute  Mr C suffered  an unforeseen bodily injury as defined  in 
the policy. But IPA turned down his claim because its policy  excludes  Treatment  or services 
provided by a health spa, convalescent or nursing home or any rehabilitation centre unless 
agreed by the Emergency Assistance Service.
We asked IPA what its Emergency Assistance Service would have done had Mr C called it 
to agree the treatment. IPA has told us that it wouldnt  have  covered  Mr Cs treatment even if 
he had called it. If a trapped nerve  had been diagnosed then it wouldnt have covered the 
type of elective  treatment hed had in a health  spa, which it said also wasnt covered under 
the NHS.  Mr C has told us the doctor  couldnt  give him a diagnosis. In that case, IPA says it 
would have arranged  for Mr C to disembark at the next port for an x-ray at a hospital.
I find that under the strict policy terms Mr Cs claim isnt covered. He didnt call to authorise 
the treatment and it was provided by a health spa. So IPA was entitled to reject it. 
I can see Mr Cs options were  very limited. He sought out the treatment at the suggestion of 
the ships doctor. He points out that the treatment was carried  out by medical practitioners, 
even though they were based in the ships spa. 
Ive carefully considered  whether I could  fairly  require IPA to pay the claim outside the strict  
policy terms. But I dont think this would  be a fair outcome. Mr C hadnt  received a diagnosis  
and the treatment he received wasnt the type IPA would ordinarily have covered even if hed 
called to try to authorise it. 
Ive read Mr Cs comments about  therapeutic massage under the NHS, following a hospital 
referral. But on the ship hed not had a diagnosis for his injury. And even  if the treatment was 
available under the NHS this doesnt mean,  of itself, that IPA had to authorise it outside the 
policy terms.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given I dont intend to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 February  2019.
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8793002