K820x#14complaint
Mr W says AIB Group (UK) Plc mis-sold  him a payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr W bought the policy  in 1997 at the same  time as taking out a loan. He applied for the loan 
and PPI policy in branch.  
The policys  one-off upfront  premium of £424.92 was paid in advance by being  added to the 
loan (a single premium)  where it attracted interest  over the term of the loan. The loan was 
repayable over a 48-month term and the policy term matched that of the loan.  The monthly 
loan repayment  was £84.69 with the PPI costing an additional £12.29  making the total 
monthly repayment £96.98. 
The policy provided  cover  for Mr W for accident,  sickness, unemployment and life  subject 
to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay Mr Ws monthly loan repayment for up to 
the remaining  term of the loan in the event of a successful disability claim and 12 months  in 
the event of unemployment. 
At the time,  Mr W was employed as an HGV driver. He has told us he was not entitled to any 
sick pay and didnt  have  any other  means of repaying their loan should he be unable  to 
work. He wouldve been  entitled to some redundancy pay but didnt specify  how much. Mr W 
has said he was in good health at the time of the sale.  
AIB has sent us screenshots to show that the loan account closed in 2001.
Mr Ws representative has made  lengthy  and substantial representations on his behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr Ws representative says:
AIB failed to meet  the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  APP 3, it should be presumed  Mr W wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr Ws 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means AIB should  have told 
Mr W about the poor value; 
The cancellation terms  were  unfair;
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means AIB should  have explained  
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr W and the impact 
they would  have had on his chances  of making  a claim; and
Ref: DRN84349372Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr W disagreed with the adjudicators opinion for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ws. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here, but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ws complaint
This sale took place  in 1997 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2001. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like AIB at the time. So, Im satisfied I should  take the ABI code and these 
Ref: DRN84349373other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr Ws case. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost  duty of good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so AIB 
was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Mr Ws complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If AIB gave advice, whether it advised  Mr W with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him, given his needs  
and circumstances.  
-Whether AIB gave Mr W sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable him 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including drawing to 
his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr W, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr W suffered  loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr W and AIB, 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ws complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below.  
did Mr W know he had a choice?
AIB had to make it clear  that the PPI policy was optional. 
Mr W wouldve  had to actively select PPI during the application process,  which made  clear  
that it was optional.
Ref: DRN84349374Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr W knew  the policy  was optional 
and he agreed  to take it out without undue pressure. 
did AIB provide advice?
Both AIB and Mr W agree that advice wasnt provided during this sale. 
This means  AIB didnt  have to check if the PPI was suitable for Mr W. Instead, it had to give 
him sufficient, appropriate and timely  information to enable Mr W to make an informed 
choice about whether  to take out the policy, including drawing to his attention and 
highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main provisions of the policy and 
significant limitations and exclusions. 
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr W was given a broad  description of what the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect his payments if Mr W was 
unable to work through accident,  sickness and unemployment.)  I have reached this 
conclusion because I think  its unlikely  Mr W would have taken out the policy  without any 
sense of what the policy was. And I think Mr W knew that the single premium being added  to 
the loan was £424.92, the interest added to the premium was £165.33, the total cost was 
£590.25, and the monthly  cost was £12.29 (as this information was, in my view, sufficiently 
clear on the loan agreement Mr W signed.)  
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  AIB gave sufficient information 
about the actual monthly  benefit or about  the exclusions or limitations before Mr W agreed  to 
take out the policy. 
So, I dont think AIB gave  Mr W sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable him 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including drawing his 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.  
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Ws representative  has raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Ws. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr Ws representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr W about the limitations and exclusions,  it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to him. 
Ref: DRN84349375Im not persuaded by Mr Ws representatives views on this. The duty of utmost  good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr W has suggested. And taking into account  the law, industry codes and standards  of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that AIB ought to have done  either. 
What effect did AIBs  shortcomings have on Mr W? To what extent did Mr W suffer 
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that AIB didnt do all it should  have done  when  it sold this policy to Mr W. So, Ive 
gone on to consider whether it would  be fair and reasonable to conclude  Mr W suffered loss 
and damage as a result.  To answer  this, I must  decide whether or not Mr W would have still 
taken out the policy,  had AIB done  things properly.  
Mr W says he would not have taken it out and believes I should presume this to be the case 
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr W had to weigh  up in his own mind(s) the cost of the 
policy against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if he didnt insure  against  
the risk of being  unable to work. 
As Ive found above, Mr W chose  to take this policy out. So, I consider  that its reasonable to 
conclude he had some  interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But he made 
this decision based  on incomplete information.  So, what  Mr W thought he was getting  is not 
exactly what he got. The extent to which this differed is a relevant consideration when 
determining if Mr W has suffered  any loss or detriment. 
As Ive already  said, the information Mr W was given  about the cost was clear.  But the 
information about other aspects of the policy, such as the benefit,  limitations  and exclusions 
wasnt as clear as it should have been. 
Im not persuaded AIB made clear exactly what Mr W would get back in return in the event 
he made a successful claim. But I think its unlikely Mr Ws expectations about what  the 
policy would pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient to meet his loan payments) 
were significantly  different to what the policy actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr W thought  he had bought  and 
what he actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions that Mr W had suffered or 
sought treatment  or advice in the 6 months  before  the start date of the policy;  
The policy excluded claims relating to mental  health conditions and it contained 
limitations on claims relating to back conditions placing more onerous evidential  
requirements to support  a claim on those grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr W 
wasnt a permanent employee.
The policy did not provide a pro-rata  refund if Mr W repaid the loan early and the 
policy was cancelled,  so it wouldve been more expensive for Mr W to have  done  so.
Ref: DRN84349376I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mr W pause for thought  and may well have caused him to conclude that the policy  
wasnt as good  as he thought, and he might have decided not to proceed.  The limitations on 
the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might have dissuaded 
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr W from taking out the policy.  
But, the evidence  about Mr Ws circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. he was eligible  for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable to him 
should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence to suggest 
he wouldve been  caught by any of the significant  exclusions   Mr W didnt have any pre-
existing medical conditions and he was in permanent  employment. So, I still think  he had 
some good  reasons to take the policy out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems. In this case the 
policy excluded claims for mental health conditions and the steps required to make  a 
disability claim for back related conditions were more onerous than Mr W might reasonably 
have expected. But its unlikely he would have expected to be able to make a disability claim 
without having  to provide some evidence to support  that claim. And while this exclusion and 
limitation might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances to Mr W 
from taking out the policy,  Mr W, in his circumstances, still had some good reasons to take it 
out.
To make a disability claim, Mr W needed to be totally  unable  to do his normal job and not be 
doing any other work for which he was receiving  payment. I dont think this is likely to be too 
different to what he would  have  expected  to be able to make a claim. So it seems  unlikely he 
would have thought hed be able to make a successful claim if he was still working,  whether 
that be in his normal job or any other  job. 
Although a pro-rata refund  would not have been  paid if Mr W cancelled the policy  early,  
there is nothing to suggest  (at the time) that Mr W had plans to repay  the loan early. The 
purpose of the loan was not debt consolidation or anything else which might suggest a need 
to repay  the loan early, or that this was likely  to happen.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr W would still have taken out the policy. The policy was sufficiently close to what 
its likely  he thought he was getting  and provided  benefits that would  help him manage the 
consequences were  Mr W made redundant, or unable to work through  accident or disability. 
In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not that Mr W would have taken out the 
policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr Ws representatives say the rules  about  how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ref: DRN84349377Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr W would not have bought the PPI he bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted  
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr Ws 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr W 
found himself in as result  of the sale was the same  position he would  have been  in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr W believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales process  
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr W in the position he would have  been  in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
That is because,  while I accept its possible he wouldnt have taken out the policy, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that he would  still have taken 
out the PPI had he been given clear,  fair and not misleading information about the policy he 
was buying.
So, Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those circumstances, to conclude 
AIB should pay Mr W compensation, as that would put him in a better position than he would 
have been in if everything had happened as it should have  done.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Ws representative says a court  might  take if it were  
to find AIB had been  in breach of its duty of utmost good faith. But this doesnt persuade me 
to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the circumstances of this case. For 
the reasons Ive already  set out I dont  think  it would be fair and reasonable to put Mr W in a 
better position than if everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 May 2021.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8434937