K820x#14complaint
Mr A, as acting attorney for Miss P, complains  that a loan granted by Clydesdale Financial 
Services Limited (trading  as Barclays Partner  Finance)  was unethical as Miss P was 
vulnerable at age 83, when the loan was granted. Hes also complained  that its doubtful the 
work Miss P took the loan for was completed.
background
Miss P entered into a loan agreement on 24 November  2009. The loan was for £6,201  over 
a term of 10 years, so will finish when she is 93. The APR for the loan was 21.9%. 
Mr A obtained a lasting  power of attorney to handle Miss Ps affairs  in June 2017. He 
complained to Barclays about the loan but it didnt respond to Mr A as it didnt have the right 
authority. It wrote  to Miss P instead, explaining it had carried  out the necessary credit checks  
and she met the criteria at the time. It also said the amount, term and APR applicable were 
set out in the loan agreement which Miss P had signed. And it believed if the work hadnt 
been carried out this is something Miss P ought  to have  realised  much  sooner. 
Mr A referred the complaint to this office. When sending its file, Barclays said the complaint 
had been made too late and so it didnt consent  to us looking at it. It said the loan had been 
taken out more than six years ago and M P ought to have been  aware  of cause for complaint 
over three years prior to the complaint being made.   
During the course of looking into that Mr A confirmed:
Miss P had recently  been diagnosed with Dementia  although she appears to have 
suffered with it for at least two years.
Miss P was 83 when  the loan was agreed.  When  pressed on what it was that made 
Miss P vulnerable in 2009, Mr A couldnt  point  to anything  specific but has told us 
Miss P was found to have been paying  for duplicate services and other services she 
didnt need when he started  to look after her affairs. 
I issued a provisional decision on 1 August 2018 explaining why I was minded to find this 
complaint hadnt  been made  out of time. Barclays agreed and so there  was no need for me 
to issue a further decision finalising our position  on whether or not this complaint had been 
made in time. 
Our investigator proceeded to consider  the complaint. She concluded there was insufficient 
evidence that the work  hadnt  been  carried out; Miss P had completed a satisfaction  note to 
say the work had been completed  to a satisfactory standard. There was limited  information 
about what checks were conducted  when the loan was agreed  because of the passage of 
time, but could see Miss P had largely made all payments on time.  She explained she didnt  
find the lending  unethical simply because of Miss Ps age and no other evidence had been 
provided to show she couldnt afford the lending when  it was agreed. 
Mr A is extremely unhappy with the outcome.  In summary he has said:
We have taken the existence of signed  documents to infer Miss P was capable of 
assessing the loan was in her best interest.  It appears we are saying that an 
exorbitant loan is in the best interest of an 83 year old so long as there  is a signed 
document. 
Ref: DRN88540972Is an unethical loan ethical if the documentation has been  signed? 
The existence of the loan itself shows Miss P was vulnerable at the time. 
He doesnt  understand  the findings  about Barclays discriminating due to age and 
says it did discriminate as Miss P was vulnerable. 
He finds the findings  about affordability  interesting and although he agrees the loan 
didnt fall into arrears  he questions  whether this is the only measure of affordability.  
He considers his submission that he could see no evidence of the work  being done 
more compelling  than the satisfaction  note completed by Miss P at the time. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I explain why below. 
I appreciate and understand Mr A feels  very strongly  about this matter.  But I can only uphold  
a complaint if Im satisfied  something  has gone wrong. Mr A has complained about two 
issues  the granting  of the loan and whether  or not the work  the loan was for has been  
carried out. 
At the heart  of Mr As concerns is his belief that Miss P was vulnerable at the time the loan 
was agreed and the work carried out. He says this is due to her age and because  of the 
terms of the loan itself.  Im afraid  I dont  consider  this sufficient evidence of Miss Ps 
vulnerability in 2009.  
I know Miss P was 83 at the time the loan was agreed. I accept that some people reaching  
that age might not be able to deal with their affairs in the same way they used to. But I dont 
think it is fair to assume that all people of that age are the same. Many people reaching  that 
are age still able to function  normally  and without any impairment  to their ability to deal with 
everyday and financial matters. To agree that all people of a certain  age are vulnerable  
could be considered discrimination. 
Mr A feels  the loan terms are unethical  and this is sufficient evidence Miss P was vulnerable.  
But just because a loan is subject to a high interest rate doesnt  make it unethical. It is true 
loans and other forms of credit are offered by various lenders at lower rates. But it is also 
true that some lending is offered at higher rates than Miss Ps. Indeed there  is a whole area 
of the market which is directed to people with impaired credit who still need access to 
borrowing, where the interest rate is typically  higher than here. 
In order to agree Miss P was vulnerable  in 2009 I would need to see some persuasive  
evidence relating to her individual  circumstances, such as a medical  assessment  or some 
such other information to show  she wasnt capable of handling her financial affairs.  Mr A has 
told us Miss P was diagnosed with Dementia and she had been showing signs  of difficulties 
for the two years prior to this  so about  2015.  But he hasnt been able to provide anything  
from around 2009. And I note that he has told us that when the loan was agreed  Miss P was 
still helping  meals on wheels and was a secretary of a club.  I dont  think  someone who is 
incapable of handling their financial affairs would be able to continue carrying out secretary  
duties for a club. Overall,  and on balance, Im not persuaded  Ive seen sufficient evidence 
that Miss P wasnt able to handle her financial  affairs in 2009.
Although I have reached that finding  there  is still an obligation on lenders to lend 
responsibly. So I have  considered whether Barclays did that here.
Ref: DRN88540973When a lender receives a credit application, it should carry out sufficient checks to establish 
if the loan is affordable to the borrower. There is no set list of checks that need to be carried 
out but we would usually  expect to see a credit  check  with a credit  reference agency, to 
establish credit worthiness, alongside  information of the applicants income and, if that leads  
to concerns, possibly obtaining a copy of bank statements  so the applicants  income and 
expenditure can be assessed  more  in depth.  
Its unfortunate Barclays no longer has the information it assessed when agreeing  to lend. 
But I dont draw any negative inference from that given  this took place over nine years ago. 
Data holders are not required  to hold information indefinitely;  under the law they arent 
supposed to hold it for longer than necessary.  So the information I do have is limited  to the 
running of the account. And having  seen this, there is no indication Miss P was struggling to 
repay the loan  the majority of payments having  been made  on time when due. I havent 
been provided with any evidence to show Miss P had other  debts at the time which may 
have made  this lending unaffordable,  or that she was going without essentials or getting into 
arrears elsewhere, to enable her to repay this loan. 
I do agree  with Mr A that having a signed  document isnt evidence  a loan is affordable.  But it 
is evidence Miss P was aware of the terms of the loan when  she agreed to it. And having  
considered the matter  carefully, and recognising that Mr A is unlikely to accept this, I dont 
find Barclays was acting  irresponsibly when it agreed to lend nor do I find the loan was 
unaffordable. 
I turn now to the work  the loan was taken  out for. 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  says:
(1)If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within  section 12(b) or 
(c) has, in relation  to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against the 
supplier in respect of a misrepresentation  or breach of contract, he shall have a like 
claim against the creditor who, with the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly and 
severally liable to the debtor. 
This means  Miss P has a like claim against Barclays as she does  against  the home 
improvement business for a misrepresentation or breach of contract.  Mr A has argued that he 
doesnt believe the work has been carried out, which would be a breach of contract. 
In order for someone to claim  under S75 of the Act, they would need  to show that a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation has occurred. As Mr A has alleged the work hasnt been carried  
out, it would  be for him to provide evidence of the breach of contract.  
I understand he has visited Miss Ps property and cant see evidence  of the work for himself.  
But given it was carried out in 2009/2010, Im not satisfied that is persuasive evidence.  And I 
note Mr A admits he is unsure. What I do have is a satisfaction note that was signed by Miss P 
in 2009/2010 to say the work had been  completed to her satisfaction. And it was only after this 
note was signed that repayments started. This note is contemporaneous evidence  from the 
time, which I consider  to be more persuasive  than Mr As opinion of the property now, which  
isnt supported by expert evidence. 
As I find there  isnt persuasive evidence the work  wasnt completed,  I dont find Barclays  has 
unfairly declined  Mr As claim for a breach of contract. 
Ref: DRN88540974Overall, Im not persuaded Barclays has done anything  wrong  and so I dont  uphold  this 
complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A, on behalf  of 
Miss P, to accept or reject my decision before 23 February 2019.
Claire Hopkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8854097