K821x#15complaint
Mr J and Mrs J complain that Kensington Mortgage Company Limited havent clearly 
explained the changes they made  to their secured loan account in 2018, after Kensington 
told them  there were some errors in the way theyd administered the account.  
Mr J and Mrs J complain about the conflicting  messages Kensington have given about the 
changes, the redress  theyve offered, and the outstanding balance they still owe. Theyre not 
satisfied the mortgage has been  corrected properly.
background
In 2007, Mr J and Mrs J took out a second charge secured loan with Kensington for £50,000. 
Over the life of the loan,  arrears built up when Mr J and Mrs J fell into financial difficulty.  
However, they cleared the arrears  in 2016  following  the successful completion of a 
repayment plan.
In June 2018, Kensington wrote to Mr J and Mrs J to tell them that, following guidance from 
the Financial Conduct Authority  (FCA)  they accepted they had been  incorrectly administering  
their loan.  They said theyd included the arrears  balance when calculating the monthly 
payments on the account. As a result, they had adjusted their loan account, and paid 
compensation of £37.60 (less income tax).
Mr J and Mrs J called Kensington to ask for clarification of what  the letter meant for them  
and their loan. They  said they were told different things by different departments and were 
unclear what had happened. So they complained.
In response to the complaint Kensington  explained  how the redress amount had been  
calculated, and provided a statement showing the position of the account before the 
adjustments, and afterwards. They  also apologised  for the fact Mr J and Mrs J had to call 
them multiple times asking for a breakdown, and offered  £100  to compensate for the 
inconvenience caused.
Mr J and Mrs J still werent happy with the explanation provided  and brought  their complaint 
to our service. Our investigator looked  into things, and upheld the complaint. He said that 
whilst it looks  as though  Kensington  have adjusted Mr J and Mrs Js loan account in line with 
the FCAs guidance, he thought they could have  explained things more clearly  than they did. 
So he asked Kensington to increase their offer of compensation to £200 to reflect  the 
additional trouble and upset he felt theyd caused.
Kensington agreed to increase their offer, but Mr J and Mrs J asked for an ombudsman to 
review the complaint. So the complaints been  passed to me to issue a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand why Mr J and Mrs J are concerned about whats happened on their loan 
account. After receiving the letter  Kensington  sent them in 2018,  it took them a while to get a 
clear explanation of what  had happened, and what the refund was for. And given the 
Ref: DRN80010762conflicting information they received from Kensington in the meantime, I appreciate why they 
may not have been confident this had been calculated  correctly.
Kensington have  explained that they didnt administer Mr J and Mrs Js loan account as they 
should have done. So Ive considered whether what theyve done  to put things right is fair, 
given Mr J and Mrs Js individual circumstances.
Kensington have  sent us their calculations  to show how they reached the refund amount that 
they said Mr J and Mrs J were  due. Having carefully considered all the information provided 
by both parties, Im satisfied Kensington have put the loan account back  into the position it 
would have been, had they done things right, following  the FCAs guidance. Considering 
everything, Im satisfied  that re-working  the account  in line with the FCAs guidance  is a fair 
way to put things  right in the individual  circumstances of this case.
I know Mr J and Mrs J were still concerned the outstanding  balance  was incorrect,  but  
bearing in mind were  not an auditing service - I havent seen anything  to suggest this was 
the case. However, I do agree that Kensington should have explained  what had happened 
more clearly to Mr J and Mrs J, as it took multiple phone calls and a response to their 
complaint to get an accurate explanation of the refund theyd made, and the reasons why. 
Considering everything  thats happened, Im satisfied £200 is a fair amount of compensation 
to reflect  the trouble and upset this caused. 
my final decision
Considering everything, for the reasons Ive explained, I uphold  this complaint in part. I 
instruct Kensington Mortgage Company Limited  to pay Mr J and Mrs J a total of £200 for the 
distress and inconvenience theyve caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 January 2020.
Kathryn Billings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8001076