K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  about how Lloyds Bank PLC treated him when he attended a branch.
background
Mr L attended a Lloyds branch and says he was treated badly by its staff. He says a Lloyds 
manager walked  away from him and the overall experience was awful. Mr L says he followed 
up his complaint a number of times  and would like a formal apology  from the staff member 
involved.
Lloyds says it spoke  to Mr L about his complaint and apologised for what happened. It says 
it paid Mr L £8 for his call costs and £40 for his distress and inconvenience.
Mr L brought his complaint to us and says the £40 payment was for a different issue.  Our 
investigator looked into the complaint  and thought  Lloyds had dealt fairly with it by paying a 
fair and reasonable amount of compensation. The investigator didnt think Mr L had suffered 
any financial  loss as a result of what took place.
Mr L doesnt accept  that view and says the investigators conclusions  are contradictory. He 
says he made three complaints about  this to Lloyds and his complaint is about what  took 
place in the branch and how his complaint was then dealt with. He also says he didnt 
receive a final response letter from Lloyds and should have been  told when he called what 
the outcome was. Mr L says Lloyds has harmed the investigation and wasted his time.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the overall 
view that Lloyds has paid a fair and reasonable amount of compensation. I appreciate that 
Mr L will be disappointed by my decision and I also appreciate how strongly feels about 
whats happened.
I accept there may be some confusion between the parties about if the complaint was 
resolved. Ive looked at Lloyds records and can see that it paid Mr L £48 compensation and 
recorded that Mr L was happy with that. But I can see that Mr L was expecting  a final 
response letter from Lloyds and says that he called it a number of times to find out what  was 
happening. So its difficult  to be certain what the correct  position was or if there was a simple 
misunderstanding.
But I think on balance Lloyds has accepted that Mr L wasnt treated appropriately in the 
branch and I think thats the main issue here. So I have considered if the compensation paid 
by Lloyds is fair and reasonable.  And having  done  so Ive come  to the overall  view it is. I say 
that as Im satisfied Mr L didnt suffer a financial loss as a result of what  happened in the 
branch apart from his call costs which Lloyds has paid. And I think the compensation paid 
fairly reflects the level of Lloyds  mistake  and the impact  it had on Mr L.
I appreciate that Mr L would like the Lloyds member of staff to make  a personal apology  to 
him. But I cant fairly order that to take place  and in any event this complaint is against 
Lloyds and Im satisfied its apologised to Mr L.
Overall Im satisfied the compensation paid by Lloyds is fair and reasonable and I cant fairly  
order it to increase that amount or do anything further in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Ref: DRN81969302Ive not seen any evidence that Lloyds harmed this investigation as Mr L believes and whilst 
I accept Mr L may have made follow up calls to Lloyds I dont think  that justifies  any further 
compensation. 
my final decision
My final decision is that Lloyds Bank PLC has paid a fair and reasonable amount of 
compensation and I dont  require it to do anything further in the circumstances of this 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 September  2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8196930