K820x#14complaint
Ms A complains  that Nationwide Building  Society (Nationwide) mis-sold her a regular 
premium mortgage payment protection insurance  (MPPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a regular premium  MPPI  policy taken out by Ms A in 2003. Neither 
party are sure where the policy  was sold. The policy and mortgage ended  in 2005.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Ms A disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms As case.
I have decided not to uphold Ms As complaint. Here  are my reasons:
 I cant be sure what was discussed  between Ms A and Nationwide. But based on what  
I have seen, Ms A would have had to sign a separate  MPPI application form after the 
mortgage had been  arranged, agreeing to have the policy.  I can see on this occasion 
that she did this. 
 Its completely understandable that Ms As recollections are not detailed as the sale 
took place a number of years ago. And because of this and the detail given in the sales 
documentation including the separate MPPI application form, I dont think the evidence 
is strong enough  for me safely  to say Nationwide didnt  explain that PPI was an 
optional feature. So I dont uphold Ms As complaint on this point.
 Moving on, I need to consider next whether Nationwide provided  advice to                 
Ms A or not during the sale. If it did, it would have had an additional responsibility to 
ensure the policy  was suitable  for Ms A. But on looking at the documentation  of the 
sale and also taking  into consideration  of what I know of Nationwides sales during this 
time, I dont think advice was given.  Nationwide still had to ensure that it provided 
information to Ms A in a clear, fair and not misleading way however, so that she could 
make an informed decision  on whether she wanted  the policy. 
 And based on the information Ive seen,  I cant be entirely  sure that Nationwide  did 
provide clear  information to Ms A. That said I am not sure she would have acted 
differently that is, not taken out the policy out if she had been properly informed.
 I say this because  I think Ms A would have found some use in obtaining the policy to 
cover her against  sickness and accidents. Having it in place would mean  Ms A could 
use any other  provisions she may have  had (3 months worth of savings)  to cover her 
other expenses. I am persuaded she would have found some value in having the policy  
at least enough that better information wouldnt have put her off from having it. 
Ref: DRN80567072 I can see that the policy contained a clause about pre-existing medical conditions.    
Ms A couldnt claim under this policy for the medical condition she had for the first 
12 months. But this condition only applied for the first 12 months  and this cover was for 
Ms As mortgage  a long term commitment. So I think  shed have had a reasonable 
benefit from it over the term of the mortgage agreement.  With that in mind,  I dont think  
the pre-existing medical condition would have  put Ms A off from buying this cover. 
There were no other  significant or limiting terms  that would  have put Ms A off from 
buying it either  that I can see. 
Overall, even though  I know  it will be a disappointment to Ms A, I dont think  she has been 
mis-sold MPPI for the reasons given.
my decision
I do not uphold  Ms As complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 May 2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8056707