K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a credit 
card in 2005. Mrs W says Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ws case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold for reasons that Ill now explain.
Capital One has provided a copy of the postal application form that Mrs W completed and 
signed for her credit card.  Theres a section on this headed Insure Your Payments. And I 
can see that Mrs W has ticked the box provided  to confirm she wanted to protect her 
monthly card repayments. Theres an equally prominent box she could have  ticked if she 
hadnt wanted this cover. So I think Capital One made it clear to Mrs W that she didnt have 
to take out the PPI and she actively chose  to do this. And nothing on the application form 
suggested taking  the PPI would affect  the credit card application in any way.
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI policy to Mrs W. So it didnt need  to ensure that it 
was suitable for her. But it did need  to give her enough information for her to decide if she 
wanted to take it. I think its likely that the information Mrs W was given by Capital One could 
have been better than it was. But I dont think better information would have changed her 
mind about  taking it. I say this because:
Mrs W appears to have been eligible for the policy  and not affected by any of its main 
exclusions or limitations.
Mrs W says she didnt need  the PPI cover  because she had a generous  sick pay 
entitlement and savings at the time of the sale. But she hasnt responded to our latest  
request for further details of these. 
So, on all the information available, I dont think it would be fair for me to conclude  that 
she didnt need  the PPI policy because  she had adequate other means of making her 
card repayments if she wasnt able to work. In any case, this policy would  have paid out 
in addition to such other  means, allowing these to be used for other essential spending. 
So I still think she would have found  the policy useful. And she chose to take it out, so it 
seems she valued this type of protection.
Ive no reason to think the policy was unaffordable for Mrs W. And as the premiums were  
paid monthly, she could have cancelled it if it no longer met her needs.
So I dont  think that Mrs W has lost out by anything that Capital One may have done wrong 
when it sold her this PPI policy.
This means  Capital One doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs W.
Ref: DRN87980972But Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs W because: 
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs W about  that. Because  Capital One didnt tell 
Mrs W, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Capital One has paid back  the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc doesnt have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs W.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have  to pay back to Mrs W any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 May 2019.
Simon Furse
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8798097