K821x#15complaint
Ms H complains about the information on her account that Barclays Bank UK PLC has 
recorded on her credit  file. Ms H wants her credit file amended.
background
Ms H had difficulty paying her mortgage but agreed an arrangement  to pay with Barclays 
from December 2017 to December 2018  with quarterly reviews. Barclays said that for some  
months Ms H asked for a review after the quarter ended and so there wasnt an arrangement  
in place. It recorded payments for these  months  as late payments. After  December 2017 Ms 
H says that she asked for a concession for a further  three months which she says she got 
subject to a condition which she says she satisfied. 
Our investigators view was that this complaint should be upheld in part and that her credit  
file be amended to show  that an arrangement was in place for June 2018 and in early  2019 
and she receive £100  compensation. Barclays disagreed  saying in summary that although  
Ms H applied for a further concession that there  was no guarantee that her application would 
be accepted.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms H lost her job and made an arrangement to pay off less on her mortgage than the 
contractual monthly payments.  She agreed a series of quarterly arrangements  from 
December 2017  over the next year. When an arrangement came to an end Ms H was to 
contact Barclays about the next arrangement.  Barclays says that because  Ms H made  
contact late for a number  of the reviews it was right to record  on Ms Hs credit  file that her 
payments were late on two occasions -June  and September 2018 - rather  than subject  to an 
arrangement. The reason  for those is that Barclays would say that when  one quarterly 
arrangement had ended that a follow-on one was not yet in place  so when it submitted its 
report to the credit reference agencies it was factually recording what  the position was. 
Our investigators view was that Ms H contacted Barclays  before the end of June that it 
should not have recorded a late payment for that month but that it would be fair in 
September because  the renewal of the arrangement for the following three month period 
hadnt yet been put in place. Im inclined  to agree with our investigator as if I look at the 
account objectively over the year it seems fairer to consider that Ms Hs account  was in an 
arrangement for that period as she made each payment on time under the terms of an 
arrangement. But Im prepared to accept that the payment in September should be recorded 
as a late payment  as Ms H was late in applying  for a continuation of the arrangement for that 
month.
The last payment arrangement ended in December 2018. On 28 January 2019  Ms H 
contacted Barclays  about a further  arrangement. The contact notes  indicate  that Barclays  
was reluctant to agree  this but accepted that if Ms H provided evidence  that the property was 
up for sale that the arrangement would  be renewed for another three  months. About a week 
later Ms H produced the evidence to show  the property was for sale. Ms H assumed that 
Ref: DRN83058102was sufficient and that she could continue  with the arrangement. Although I appreciate that 
there wasnt the normal correspondence from Barclays  formally accepting  the arrangement  
as occurred the previous year, there  was no indication  at the time that Barclays  didnt accept 
this or asking for more information  from Ms H. So, I believe it was reasonable for Ms H to 
believe that shed  been granted a further  three month arrangement  and made the payments 
as she assumed were  agreed and so the credit file should reflect this.  
So for the reasons set out I uphold this complaint and will direct  Barclays to amend Ms Hs 
credit file accordingly. I will also order  Barclays to make a payment to Ms H of £100 in 
recognition of the trouble  she has been put to have her credit  file rectified. I note that Ms H 
says that Barclays hasnt amended her credit file to show the mortgage as redeemed  but 
that more recent issue lies outside  the scope of this complaint.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and require Barclays Bank  UK PLC to amend Ms 
Hs credit  file to record that Ms H made  her payment in June 2018  and in January, February 
and March 2019 under the terms of a payment arrangement.  I also require Barclays to pay 
Ms H £100.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2020.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8305810