K820x#14complaint
Mrs C complains Southern Rock Insurance Company (Southern Rock) charged  her too 
much when she cancelled  her motor insurance policy early. Our service has already looked 
into a complaint about some of the charges taken by the broker.  This decision is only about 
the cost of the premiums for the time Mrs C was covered. 
Any reference to Southern Rock  includes its agents.  
background
Mrs C took out a motor  insurance policy in March 2018 for around £1369. In June 2018, she 
changed the car the policy covered online which meant she needed to pay an additional 
premium of around £756. This amount was added  to her instalments. Around a week later 
on 29 June 2018,  Mrs C called Southern  Rock  to cancel her policy as her new car was being 
returned for repair work. 
The policy wasnt initially  cancelled but after Mrs C made a complaint about this, the 
cancellation date was backdated to 29 June 2018. Mrs C was told amongst other charges, 
she owed £520.53  for the time she had the policy. But as shed already paid some of this in 
her monthly instalments and she had other charges which were also outstanding, she was 
told she needed to pay £193.08. 
Mrs C made  a complaint  as she felt the amount she was being charged for her time on cover  
was too high. She also complained about the other charges applied which have  been  looked 
at separately.  Southern Rock said the broker was responsible for all charges and thought 
wed already looked  into everything. So it didnt give us anything  the investigator  asked  for.
Our investigator upheld  Mrs Cs complaint. He accepted several  of the charges were  applied 
by the broker  but without  further information,  he thought  Southern Rock was responsible  for 
calculating the premiums and they seemed high. In response, Southern Rock said it thought 
the broker was responsible for all charges. So the complaint was passed  to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on this case in November 2020. In summary I thought the 
case should be upheld  because:
Under the terms and conditions  of the policy, I thought it was more  likely Mrs C was 
expected to pay for the time she had the policy  when she cancelled it  and not for the 
remaining, unused time.  
Id completed approximate calculations and I thought Mrs C shouldve paid around £443 
in total for the days she was covered for her initial car and her new car. 
I didnt think Southern Rock had explained clearly why it had charged more than this 
amount. 
Ref: DRN84479932To put things right, I thought Southern Rock should:
-recalculate and give a clear breakdown of the cost of the time Mrs C was on cover ;
-reimburse the difference if the cost was less than shes  already paid (if shed done so);
-add 8% simple interest  to this amount from the date Mrs C made the payment until the 
date Southern Rock settles  it*;
-pay Mrs C £75 as compensation for the trouble and upset shes  been caused
If Mrs C hadnt  paid the outstanding amount, I thought Southern Rock should  let her know 
how much  she now owes based  on its new calculations. I understood the debt Mrs C owed 
was passed to a collections agency.  And I didnt think it would be fair to tell Southern Rock 
to pay the associated fees and charges added by the collections agency  because most of 
the debt passed on was from broker fees. 
I asked both parties to make any further  comments before I reached a final decision. Mrs C 
didnt make any further comments. Southern  Rock  initially  provided some details of its 
calculations and said there wouldnt be anything due back to Mrs C. It said my calculations  
were likely different as interest  and commission wouldve been charged   and I hadnt 
included that. It also said the cancellation  fee wasnt charged.  
I asked for further clarification as I thought the calculations our service and Mrs C had been 
provided since July 2018 had differed each  time.  Southern Rock explained to me over the 
phone this was because there  are several  agents  of Southern Rock involved who had 
charged different  fees. So it hasnt always been made clear what  was charged and by who.  
After it provided further calculations, I explained  in summary:
From  the latest information, I thought it was likely the calculations  hadnt accounted for 
the policy cancellation being  backdated to 29 June 2018 as agreed.  So I thought it was 
likely Mrs C was charged for more days on cover than she shouldve been.
I still thought Mrs C shouldve been charged around £443  for her time on cover.  
I could see there  were some refunds paid on 17 July 2018 and 4 February  2019.  But I 
couldnt see what they were for. So I asked Southern Rock to tell me if they were to 
make up for the cancellation not being  backdated. 
In reply, Southern  Rock  told me it had no further  comments to add. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on the further information  Southern Rock has given me and my approximate 
calculations, I think its more likely its charged  Mrs C more  than it shouldve. And I dont 
think its explained clearly  why. It seems possible to me Southern Rock charged too much as 
it didnt backdate the cancellation date to 29 June  2018 as agreed.  And its not given me 
anything to make me think its likely the refunds  it paid in July 2018  and February  2019  were 
to reimburse her for this. 
So, overall, having looked carefully  at the responses and further  information  Ive received, I 
havent changed my conclusions  set out in my provisional decision. 
Ref: DRN84479933putting things right
To put things right in this case, I think Southern Rock should:
-recalculate and give a clear breakdown of the cost of the time Mrs C was on cover  up 
until 29 June 2018 only;
-reimburse the difference if the cost is less than shes already paid (if shes  done so);
-add 8% simple interest  to this amount from the date Mrs C made the payment until the 
date Southern Rock settles  it*;
-pay Mrs C £75 as compensation for the trouble and upset shes  been caused
I understand Southern Rock has said Mrs C mightve been  charged more than she expected  
due to commission and interest charged  on her policy. So I think  it would be fair for it to 
provide a clear  breakdown of what was charged to her and who by to enable her to pursue a 
complaint elsewhere  if she thinks necessary and hasnt already done  so. 
*If Southern Rock  considers its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax 
from that interest, it should  tell Mrs C how much its taken off. It should also give her a 
certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue  & 
Customs.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I intend  to uphold Mrs Cs complaint and direct 
Southern Rock Insurance Company to put things right as Ive said above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 June  2021.
Nadya Neve
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8447993