K820x#14complaint
Mr A has complained that Nationwide Building  Society has wrongly  failed to credit his 
account with £235. 
background
Mr A says another person  tried to credit  his account  on his behalf  with £500 cash  via an 
ATM at a Nationwide branch. £25 was returned  by the machine but the rest got jammed  in it, 
wasnt returned and wasnt credited  to Mr As account.
Mr A asked Nationwide to investigate. Nationwide found the ATM  was over (ie had an 
excess balance) by £240  for that day and ultimately  paid this sum into Mr As account. 
However, the Society refused  to pay the further  £235 that Mr A said he was owed.
Our investigator concluded Nationwide hadnt treated Mr A unfairly.
Mr A, via his representative,  said he didnt agree  with the investigators  conclusions. He said 
Nationwide had assured him he would get his money back. He thinks  his money could  have 
been taken by a member  of Nationwides staff or by the person who serviced the ATM at the 
time. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im sorry to disappoint Mr A but I too have 
concluded Nationwide hasnt acted wrongly  or unfairly in this case.
As the independent body with the responsibility of deciding  this complaint, we act impartially  
and we base our decision on the available  evidence. Nationwide  has shown  us its records  
and the results of its investigation. These  show the ATM cash  excess of £240 for the day in 
question, which has been refunded to Mr A. It is of course possible that dishonesty  by the 
staff or contractors of Nationwide took place, but theres no evidence of that and I think  it 
unlikely. I dont think Nationwide  has acted wrongly or unfairly by not paying Mr A the further  
£235 hes claimed. 
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr As complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 March  2020.
Roger Yeomans
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8248220