K822xcomplaint
Following a non-fault road traffic accident, SGS  Business Process  Services (UK) Limited 
(SGS) valued Miss M and Mr Ws car at £2,216. Miss M and Mr W are unhappy that, despite 
this valuation, the third party insurer (TPI) only paid them £1,000.
background 
Following an accident in June 2018, SGS was instructed to deal with the repairs to Miss M 
and Mr Ws car (the car). They arranged for an independent engineer to inspect the car. In 
June 2019, the engineer said the car wasnt economical to repair,  and said the pre-accident 
value (PAV)  was £2,216. 
SGS let the TPI know what the engineer  said, but the TPI didnt agree with the PAV.  The TPI 
initially paid £376.96 in August 2018. SGS disputed  this and the TPI initially increased their 
offer to £750.  This was further increased  to £1,000 in November 2018. The TPI then paid 
Miss M and Mr W an additional £624.
Miss M and Mr W are unhappy with the valuation they received for their car. Theyre  also 
unhappy about how long it took.
The investigator thought SGS had acted reasonably by getting  the car independently  valued  
and sending this to the TPI. She also thought theyd acted reasonably by disputing  the TPIs 
offer and arguing  this should  be increased. But she couldnt hold SGS  responsible  for the 
TPIs eventual decision  this was something that was outside their control.
However, the investigator thought SGS  had delayed in telling Miss M and Mr W that the 
matter had been closed, and there was nothing further they could do. She recommended  
that SGS paid Miss M and Mr W £50 to compensate them  for the impact of this delay.
SGS agreed with the investigators recommendations, but Miss M and Mr W didnt. They 
believe SGS should pay them  the difference in valuations because it was their mistake to 
use their own engineers to provide [the £2,218  valuation].  
Theyve also said they pay their car insurance  so they wouldnt be out of pocket after an 
accident, which is exactly whats happened. So they think  SGS  should  be taking legal action 
against the TPI on their behalf.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have reached the same 
overall conclusions  as the investigator, and for broadly the same reasons. I can understand 
this is likely to come as a disappointment to Miss M and Mr W, but I hope my findings go 
some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision.  Ive focused my comments on what  I 
think is relevant. If I havent commented on any specific  point, its because  I dont believe its 
affected what I think is the right outcome.
When someone has a non-fault road traffic accident, they have the option to claim through 
their insurance company,  or use an accident management company (AMC) like SGS. The 
advantage of using an AMC is that they dont have  to pay their excess  and it wont  affect 
their no-claims discount.  Miss M and Mr W chose to use SGS to deal with their claim.
Ref: DRN87020722What Id expect SGS to do is arrange for the car to be assessed by an independent engineer 
and then either arrange for repairs to done or, if the car is uneconomical for repair, claim the 
PAV from the TPI. The engineer they used was independent of Miss M, Mr W and the TPI, 
and the engineers duty is to the courts not to SGS. So I dont  agree  SGS made a mistake 
by using the engineer to value the car.
Ive seen SGSs case  notes and these show the car was inspected by the engineer on 12 
June 2018. Because liability for the accident  was accepted by the TPI, SGS  asked them  to 
pay the PAV, and chased them for this. Miss M and Mr W received £376.96 from the TPI on 
14 August 2018.
The case  notes also show SGS chased  up the shortfall in payment on 23 August and were 
told that the TPI didnt  accept the PAV. SGS challenged the TPIs decision and provided 
further information from the engineer  to support  the PAV. On 14 September  the TPI 
increased their offer to £750  and on 1 November the TPI increased their valuation to £1,000. 
The same day SGS  told Miss M and Mr W they would  continue to dispute  the TPIs decision.
SGS sent further  challenges to the TPI on 3 and 12 December. But the TPI rejected these 
and didnt increase their offer.  While  the case notes show  that SGS  spoke to Miss M and Mr 
W about their hire car in early January 2019  theyd purchased a replacement car on 16 
July 2018 but still had the hire car SGS had provided after the accident  - theres nothing to 
show SGS ever told them the TPI had rejected the challenge and the claim was effectively 
finished. Its unclear  from the case notes but it couldve been  as late as June 2019 when 
Miss M and Mr W became  aware  their claim had ended.
I agree  that SGS  couldve done  better, and told Miss M and Mr W the £1,000 was the TPIs 
final offer,  much  sooner. For the period  of this delay, Miss M and Mr W believed SGS were  
still chasing the TPI for the £1,216 difference between SGSs  engineers  valuation  and the 
amount the TPI had already paid out. So it wouldve come as a shock to them  to learn the 
TPI has refused to increase their offer some  time before.  So I agree SGS should  pay Miss M 
and Mr W £50 for the trouble and upset they were caused by this delay.
But I dont agree that SGS should challenge  the TPIs  decision through the courts,  as this 
isnt their role. This is something an insurance company may be able to do, but Miss M and 
Mr W chose to use SGS  instead of their insurance  company. Miss M and Mr W can ask their 
insurance company  if theyd be prepared to fight this on their behalf,  and they could use any 
legal expenses insurance they may have to do this. I would  recommend  they seek  
independent legal advice on their options.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above I uphold Miss M and Mr Ws complaint. SGS Business  
Process Services (UK) Limited must pay them  £50 to reflect the trouble and upset caused by 
the delay in telling them their claim had closed.
Ref: DRN87020723Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 16 May 2020.
Andrew Burford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8702072