K821x#15complaint
Ms J has complained that Greenlight Credit  Limited trading as Varooma lent to her 
irresponsibly.
background
Ms J was given a loan of £4,000 by Greenlight in July 2013. The loan was due to be repaid 
in 24 monthly instalments  of about  £370.  The total amount payable, including  interest  was 
just over £8,869.  The loan was secured against  a vehicle that Ms J owned,  and I understand 
the account was settled  in 2015. 
Greenlight had initially  offered  to refund some additional interest and charges but Ms J 
wasnt happy with this offer and she brought her complaint to this Service. One of our 
adjudicators looked into the complaint. She didnt think Greenlight  should have provided Ms 
J with the loan and she asked Greenlight  to put things  right. Greenlight didnt appear to 
respond to the adjudicators assessment. So, the complaint  was passed to me for a final 
decision.
It appears that Greenlight might now agree with the adjudicators findings. But as this is 
unclear, I am making a final decision in order to finally resolve  the matter.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to considering unaffordable and irresponsible  lending complaints  
on our website - including the key relevant rules, guidance, good  industry  practice and law. 
And Ive considered this approach when deciding Ms Js complaint.
I think there are some overarching  questions  I need to consider in order  to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this particular  complaint:
Did Greenlight complete reasonable and proportionate  checks  to satisfy  itself that Ms 
J would  be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way? If not, what  would 
reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time?
Ultimately,  did Greenlight make a fair lending decision? 
Did Greenlight act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Greenlight needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend to Ms J 
irresponsibly. The lender  was required to carry out a borrower  focussed  assessment or 
affordability check. The checks had to be borrower focussed  so Greenlight had to think 
about whether  repaying the loan sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse  
consequences for Ms J. 
Greenlight had to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Ms J 
would be able repay her loan sustainably. There was no set list of checks that Greenlight 
had to do, but it could consider a number of different things such as the loan amount, the 
Ref: DRN86519842length of the loan term, the repayment amounts,  and the borrowers overall  financial 
circumstances.
I think that a reasonable and proportionate  check ought generally  to have been more  
thorough:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the longer  the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit  is 
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make  payments for an extended  
period).
Greenlight was required  to establish  whether Ms J could sustainably repay her loan  not 
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.  Of 
course, the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a consumer 
could sustainably make  their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. 
This is because the regulations define sustainable as being  without undue difficulties and in 
particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments; as well as without having  to borrow  to meet  the repayments. And 
it follows that a lender  should realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Ms Js complaint.
I have seen only limited  information about what happened when Ms J applied for her loan.  
This is understandable given the amount  of time that has passed. In the absence of any 
other information, I have  made my decision on the information that I do have about this 
matter.
Greenlight asked Ms J for information  about  her income and expenditure and it asked to see 
her payslips. Given the extended  loan term and the cost of the loan, I would have expected 
Greenlight to want to obtain  an in-depth  understanding of Ms Js financial circumstances  to 
ensure that she could  sustainably repay  the loan over the entire loan term. From  the limited  
information Ive seen, I cant fairly say that I think Greenlights checks were reasonable or 
proportionate, in the circumstances. 
However, Ive considered  the information  that Greenlight did gather, and I dont think  it made 
a fair lending decision on this occasion.
Ms Js loan application suggested  that her net monthly income  was around £2,500 and her 
expenditure was recorded  as £1,700. But Greenlight  was aware  from the information that it 
had gathered that Ms Js combined  net monthly  income was nearer £1,700  rather than 
£2,500 as she had estimated on her application form. 
Given that Ms J had estimated her regular  monthly outgoings as also being around £1,700, I 
think Greenlight ought to have realised that Ms J would  not have sufficient disposable 
income every month to repay  her loan sustainably over the extended  loan term. I havent 
seen anything which shows  that Greenlight  queried  with Ms J why her income appeared to 
Ref: DRN86519843be less than she had estimated  on her loan application. Or that the lender looked more  in-
depth at her regular  expenditure.  From  what Ive seen, I think  Greenlight should reasonably 
have concluded  that it was not appropriate  to lend to Ms J as on the face of it, the loan was 
not affordable  for her. 
So, I am upholding Ms Js complaint that she should not have been given the loan.
I havent seen  anything which makes me think that Greenlight acted unfairly or unreasonably 
towards Ms J in some other way. But taking  everything into account,  I dont think Greenlight 
should have agreed to provide the loan to Ms J. So, Greenlight needs  to put things right.
Putting things  right 
I think it is fair and reasonable for Ms J to have repaid the principal  amount  that she 
borrowed, because  she had the benefit of that lending.  But she paid interest  and charges on 
a loan that shouldnt have  been  provided to her.
Greenlight should:
Remove  all interest, fees and charges on the loan and treat all the payments Ms 
J made  as payments towards the capital. 
If reworking Ms Js loan account results in her having effectively made payments 
above the original  capital borrowed, then Greenlight should refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments,  from the 
date the overpayments would have arisen,  to the date the complaint is settled*. 
Remove  any adverse information recorded on Ms Js credit  file in relation  to the 
loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Greenlight to deduct tax from this interest. Greenlight 
should give Ms J a certificate  showing how much tax its deducted, if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold this complaint  and direct Greenlight Credit  Limited  to 
put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 March 2021.
Sharon Parr
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8651984