K821x#15complaint
Mrs and Mr C complain,  with the help of a representative Mrs R, that Canada  Life Limited 
didnt provide them with a cash-in value for their mortgage endowment  plan when they 
cancelled this in 1992.
background
Mrs and Mr C took out a Mortgage  Manager  Plan in 1990 (the 1990  plan)  but stopped 
paying the premiums  so that the plan became paid up at the end of 1992. Mrs R has said 
that affordability was an issue  with regard to the plan.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint a copy of which  is attached and forms part 
of this final decision. I upheld the complaint  and in short made  the following key findings:
The 1990 plan became paid up at the end of 1992 but Mr and Mrs C then took out 
another Mortgage Manager Plan (the 1992  plan) for the same cover  at a higher 
premium.
It is more likely than not the 1990 plan became paid up because they missed a 
payment and didnt  rectify this in time. 
The letter of December 1992  informing them the 1990 plan was paid up didnt need 
to refer to the cash-in value.
It isnt possible to consider if Canada Life did anything wrong  with regard to the 1990 
plan without considering the advice to invest in the 1992 plan.
It is clear the 1990 plan wasnt cancelled by Mr and Mrs C because they no longer 
had a need for it given they took out the 1992 plan almost  immediately providing the 
same cover.
I accept Mrs Rs explanation that they had moved in with relatives to save costs but 
had kept the mortgage.
They didnt need both the 1990  plan and 1992  plan.
I wasnt satisfied they will have understood what had happened to the 1990 plan, and 
that they could  receive the cash-in  value, from the documents.
I wouldve expected  the adviser to have considered their needs  when  advising  them  
about the 1992 plan and advised  that they didnt  need both plans. 
If they werent able to pay outstanding  premiums  to reinstate the 1990 plan I 
wouldve expected  the adviser to advise them about cancelling  the 1990  plan and 
getting back the cash-in value. I wasnt satisfied he did so as I think  they wouldve  
cancelled the 1990 plan if he had.
 
I gave both parties the opportunity of responding and providing further information they 
wanted me to take into account.  Mrs R said she had nothing further to add on behalf of 
Mrs and Mr C. Canada Life didnt agree with my provisional decision  and raised the following 
issues:
As previously stated it no longer has copies of the files for the two plans so cannot 
say what its adviser  did or didnt  discuss.
Mrs and Mr C had two children aged  four and five in December 1992.
There could well have been  discussions  about surrendering the 1990  plan but that 
Mrs and Mr C wanted to keep  the plan for the extra life cover provided  especially as 
Mrs C was a housewife  and dependent on Mr C.
Ref: DRN83895972Without paperwork it is impossible  to say what recommendations were or werent 
made.
The letter of 6 December 1992 clearly stated  that the 1990 plan had been paid up.
The letter may not have said the plan could be encashed but did confirm the value of 
the plan could increase or decrease and if Mrs and Mr C were suffering financial  
hardship they couldve approached it to discuss the options.
The paperwork they wouldve received when the 1990 plan started confirmed the 
plan could be surrendered.
It finds it strange that the ombudsman has commented on what the adviser should or 
shouldnt have  advised as it isnt known  what the adviser  discussed. He could well 
have advised  Mrs and Mr C to surrender  the 1990 plan but they decided  not to.
It notes what has been said about Mrs and Mr Cs lack of education but the 
statement in the policy provisions  about surrendering  the plan for cash value was 
clear. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have taken account of everything that Canada  Life has said and having done  so I still think 
this complaint should be upheld.
I note what it has said about  my provisional  findings about what the adviser did or didnt do 
in 1992 when advising Mrs and Mr C about the 1992 plan. But my findings are based on a 
balance of probabilities  what  is more  likely  than not. 
And whilst I acknowledge  there is no documentary evidence to show what the adviser 
discussed in December 1992, there is not a complete lack of evidence.  And I dont  think that 
it is impossible  to make findings on a balance of probabilities as to what happened  based on 
the information that is available.
I think the starting point  is that the 1990  plan was taken out specifically to provide cover for 
the mortgage as was the 1992 plan. So as of December 1992 Mrs and Mr C had twice the 
amount of cover they needed  for the mortgage.  The only basis on which  it could be argued  
that Canada Life hasnt done something wrong is if Mrs and Mr C decided for some  reason 
in 1992 that they wouldnt  use the 1990  plan for mortgage cover but would have it as 
additional cover.
I accept it is possible that the adviser did discuss surrendering the 1990  plan and Mrs and 
Mr C chose to keep  it going to provide additional  life cover as they had children and Mrs C 
was a housewife.  But I dont think it is more likely than not he did so for a couple of reasons.
Firstly I think it is clear that Mrs and Mr C were  struggling financially. There is evidence  they 
missed a number of payments for the 1990 plan and it is more likely  than not the plan 
became paid up because they didnt pay and werent able to rectify this in time. 
It is also more likely than not they were  not able to make good the missed premiums  after 
the plan had become paid up. If they had been I can see no reason they didnt do this and 
reinstate the 1990 plan rather then being  advised to take out a new plan with the same cover 
but a higher premium.
Ref: DRN83895973I have also accepted what Mrs R has said about  Mrs and Mr C moving  to live with family to 
reduce costs.
So I think it is reasonably  clear on the evidence available that they were not in a particularly 
good financial position in 1992. And I think their priority is much more  likely to have been 
their finances rather than additional life cover.
Secondly, and I think perhaps more importantly, the adviser wouldnt have been able to tell 
them how long the 1990 plan wouldve continued  to provide cover. I think it is very unlikely 
they wouldve  wanted additional cover  for an unspecified period of time. We now know  the 
1990 plan only provided cover  for around  a further three years.
Given these two factors I think it is unlikely  that Mrs and Mr C wouldve chosen to keep the 
1990 plan because they wanted additional  cover  instead of cashing  it in and having the 
benefit of the money. 
In the circumstances the fact they did keep  the 1990 plan I think  makes it more likely than 
not the adviser didnt discuss cashing in the 1990  plan as I think he shouldve done. If he 
had done so I think Mrs and Mr C are likely to have accepted that advice and taken the 
money.
I note what Canada Life says about the information in the documents Mrs and Mr C wouldve 
been given. But Im not persuaded that they wouldve paid very much attention to the 
documents. They are much more likely to have relied on what  the adviser said than on the 
documents, especially given what Mrs R has said about their lack of education. 
And I note the explanation of what happens if the plan is paid-up says nothing  about 
surrendering or the cash-in  value anyway.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  for the reasons set out above and in my provisional  decision. Canada 
Life Limited has to pay Mrs and Mr C the cash in value of the 1990  plan as at 1 January 
1993 together with interest on that amount at 15% from 1 January 1993 to 1 April 1993 and 
at 8% thereafter until settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 October  2019.
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN83895974COPY  PROVISONAL  DECISION
complaint
Mrs and Mr C complain, with the help of a representative Mrs R, that Canada Life Limited  didnt 
provide them with a cash-in value for their mortgage  endowment plan when they cancelled  this in 
1992.
background
Mrs and Mr C took out a Mortgage Manager Plan  in 1990 (the 1990 plan) but stopped paying  the 
premiums so that the plan became paid up at the end of 1992. Mrs R has said that affordability was 
an issue with regard to the plan.
Canada Life didnt uphold the complaint.  It said due to the time since Mrs and Mr Cs plan had come 
to an end it didnt have a file with the point of sale documents.  But it said they wouldve  been given an 
illustration of benefits with product particulars and brochure. It said the product particulars confirmed 
the plan could  be made paid up but that charges would still be taken. 
Canada Life also made reference to the cash  in value of the plan on termination. It said the policy 
provisions which Mrs and Mr C wouldve had with the policy document also made reference to the 
cash-in value.  
One of our investigators considered the complaint  but didnt think  it should be upheld.  He said the 
documentation provided at the time of sale showed the difference between terminating  the plan and 
making it paid- up. He said the plan was converted to a paid up plan which  meant Mrs and Mr C 
benefitted from the life cover provided  by the plan until the units remaining within the plan were no 
longer enough to cover  the costs.
Mrs R didnt agree with the investigator. She provided evidence that Mrs and Mr C were  struggling to 
fund the plan before they stopped paying  premiums  which she says shouldve raised  alarm bells with 
Canada Life. She said the adviser put his own interests  and those of Canada Life over the interests of 
vulnerable customers  because he failed  to explain  that the plan had a cash-in value and then sold 
Mrs and Mr C a further plan which cost more.
Mrs R also said that the complex documents that explained how the plan worked  werent understood 
by Mrs and Mr C who had no formal educational qualifications and she said they were  vulnerable 
customers.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs and Mr C clearly had some difficulty with regard  to payment  of the premium for the 1990 plan as 
they seem to have been late in making  premium payments  more than once before  the plan became 
paid-up at the end of 1992.
But they then took out another Mortgage Manager Plan (the 1992 plan)  for the same amount of cover 
with a slightly higher premium almost as soon  as the 1990 plan had become  paid up, and this was 
maintained until 2001 when the plan was surrendered and they received  payment of the surrender 
value.
It isnt entirely clear why they would stop paying the premium for the 1990 plan only to take out 
another plan providing the same cover but costing more. But I think it is more likely than not that what  
Ref: DRN83895975happened is they missed  a premium payment for the 1990 plan and didnt rectify this in time by 
paying the premium and it became paid-up  before they took any action. 
I dont think the letter of December 1992 that informed  them that the 1990 plan was paid-up  needed to 
explain the plan had a cash-in value. Mrs R has suggested the letter lacked  openness and the terms 
werent expressed fully and clearly. But the letter wasnt advice about what they could do as a result 
of the plan now being paid-up. It was simply  telling them about the consequences of not having paid 
their premiums. In the circumstances I dont  think there was anything  wrong with the letter.
But I dont think it is possible to decide whether Canada  Life did anything wrong with regard to 
discussing the cash-in value of the 1990  plan without considering the advice to invest  in the 1992 
plan. This provided  the same cover as the 1990 plan but at a slightly higher cost and the advice to 
invest in it was given almost immediately  after Mrs and Mr C were told the 1990 plan was paid up.
I note that in its letter  of 3 October  2018 in response to the complaint Canada Life stated that Mrs and 
Mr C no longer had any need for the 1990 plan as they had moved to live with family and this is why 
they cancelled the plan in November  1992. 
But I think it is clear that the plan wasnt cancelled  because  Mrs and Mr C no longer had any need for 
it - given they took out the same type of plan with the same amount of cover only a short  time later 
after seeing its adviser.
I think  this only makes sense if account is taken of what Mrs R has said about  Mrs and Mr C moving 
to live with relatives.  She said this was to reduce costs but didnt include getting  rid of the mortgage 
which they still needed  cover  for. If that wasnt  the case, and they no longer had a mortgage, there 
was no basis for the adviser recommending  a replacement plan. 
So the position Mrs and Mr C found themselves in at the end of 1992 was that they had one existing 
plan that was paid-up, but would still provide cover  as long as there was enough value in the plan to 
cover the costs, and a second plan providing  the same amount of cover for the mortgage. 
They didnt need both plans, although  it was more likely than not that the 1990 plan would come  to an 
end in a few years  as it did - when the charges became more than the value left in the plan.  
A lot of emphasis  has been  placed on what is set out in the documents  Mrs and Mr C wouldve 
received when the 1990  plan was sold to them. But Im mindful of what Mrs R has said about  them  
being vulnerable customers. I make no finding on that particular point but I accept  what she has said 
about their lack of education  and overall lack of understanding of the documentation. Im not satisfied 
they did understand from the documents what had happened to the 1990 plan and that they had the 
option of cancelling this and receiving the cash-in value.  
I wouldve expected  the adviser to have considered their needs and taken account  of the 1990  plan 
when advising them to take out the 1992 plan. The product particulars  make clear  that a paid-up plan 
can be reinstated within  13 months of the first missed premium as long as outstanding premiums are 
paid. So it was an option for Mrs and Mr C to do this rather than start a new plan for a higher 
premium.
The adviser  may have discussed this and Mrs and Mr C werent able to make good the missing 
premium payments due to their financial  circumstances. If he didnt discuss this then I dont think he 
provided suitable  advice.
If he did discuss it and Mrs and Mr C were unable to make up the unpaid premiums I wouldve 
expected the adviser to then discuss what they should do with the 1990 plan - given this actually 
continued to provide cover  for the mortgage which they no longer needed  as they were taking out a 
new plan.
Ref: DRN83895976I think  it is unlikely there was such a discussion  because if there had been  I can see no reason why 
Mrs and Mr C wouldve continued the 1990 plan. They didnt need it for the mortgage and it was likely 
to come to an end in few years once the charges outweighed the remaining value in the plan. And I 
dont think it is likely  they wouldve decided to continue it simply because  they wanted an additional 
amount of life cover for a few years.
In short I think the adviser either  didnt  discuss the possibility of reinstating the plan or didnt discuss 
cashing in the 1990 plan. In either case I dont think he provided the information  he shouldve done to 
Mrs and Mr C to allow them  to decide what they wanted to do with the 1990 plan.
I think  Canada Life should pay Mr and Mrs C the cash in value of the 1990 plan as at 1 January  1993 
together with interest  on that amount at 15% from 1 January  1993 to 1 April 1993 and at 8% 
thereafter until settlement.
my provisional  decision
I uphold this complaint for the reasons  I have  explained and Canada Life Limited has to pay the 
redress due calculated as set out above. 
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8389597