K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Acromas Insurance Company Limited has settled a claim made  against 
his motor insurance by a third party unfairly.  He doesnt think  the claim was valid or that 
Acromas did enough  investigation before settling it. 
background
In November 2017, Mr H was driving his car in a large car park when his wing mirror  hit the 
hand of a third party. There  were  no witnesses to the incident and the third party became 
aggressive. Because of this the police were called to attend and details exchanged.  
The third party contacted Acromas via a solicitor to claim against Mr Hs policy. Acromas  
contacted Mr H to get his side of what happened. He admitted hitting the third partys hand  
and he was told the claim would be recorded  as a fault claim against him. 
Mr H wanted Acromas  to obtain the police report as it would show  the third partys 
aggressive nature and he believed the claim was fraudulent. Acromas settled the claim by 
making an offer to the third partys solicitor which was accepted.  But Mr H didnt  become  
aware of this until it came time to renew  his insurance and his premium  had increased. 
Following enquiries about  that he discovered the claim had been  settled out of court  for a 
sum over £2,000.  
Mr H complained to Acromas as it didnt  believe it had carried out sufficient investigation into 
the claim.  He didnt  believe  the third party was injured and believed the claim to be 
fraudulent. He was also unhappy the police report wasnt obtained as this would speak to the 
third partys  character. 
Acromas didnt uphold  the complaint. It explained it settles claims quickly to keep costs down 
and in this case  the police  report wouldnt have  made any difference to whether or not it was 
liable, and it received information showing the third party did seek  medical treatment.  It also 
pointed to the terms of the policy which allowed it to take over a claim.  And although it did 
make a payment,  it said this was made up of several  different types of cost,  not just a 
payment to the third party. 
Not happy with that, Mr H asked us to look into his complaint.  Our investigator explained the 
terms of the policy  allowed Acromas to decide  whether to defend or settle a claim. He was 
satisfied that Acromas had done that fairly. Mr H asked  for his complaint to be reviewed by 
an ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I explain why below. 
I would firstly like to reassure Mr H and Acromas that also though I have only summarised 
the background and arguments above, I have considered everything I have been provided 
with in its entirety.
What Im being asked  to decide here is whether  Acromas has acted  in accordance  with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and whether it has dealt with the claim fairly.  
Ref: DRN80052682The starting point  is the agreement  between  Mr H and Acromas   the policys terms and 
conditions. These include  a provision that entitles Acromas to take over and deal with a 
claim in a policyholders  name. Similar provisions are found in all motor insurance  policies 
Ive seen and I dont find it unusual or surprising.
So under the terms of the policy Acromas can decide whether to defend  a claim or settle  it. 
That might mean Acromas makes  a decision Mr H disagrees with, as has happened here. 
But the terms and conditions of the policy allow Acromas to make  such a decision. I dont 
find it was wrong of Acromas to settle  the claim as it did. Mr H had admitted  hitting  the third 
partys hand and so it was liable for any claims made  against  the policy by the third party.   
And being in the business of providing insurance and handling claims, I consider it would 
have experience of how courts would view circumstances such as these. By settling the 
matter when it did, it saved incurring court and other costs.  
I turn now to whether Acromas has dealt  with Mr Hs claim fairly and reasonably. And having 
considered everything  available,  I think  it did.
Acromas was contacted  by the third party shortly  after the event to inform  it they would be 
making a claim. Acromas contacted Mr H for his version of events, as I would expect  it to do. 
Mr H admitted hitting the third partys hand and so Acromas explained this would be 
recorded as a fault claim against him. Given the circumstances  and Acromas  experience  of 
these matters, I dont think Acromas was acting  unfairly in reaching  that decision.  
Mr H believes  Acromas should  have  obtained the police  report.  In some situations, I would 
expect this to done  in order for the insurer to fairly  assess  whether or not it would be liable to 
meet a claim made  against it. But that wasnt in question here  Mr H had already admitted 
hitting the third party. So Im not persuaded Acromas was acting unfairly when deciding not 
to ask for this; police reports  can sometimes take a long time to obtain  and the report is 
unlikely to have  added  anything further  to the circumstances of the claim. So obtaining  it 
would only have increased the time taken to settle  this matter and the cost, something 
Acromas is fairly entitled to limit. 
I know Mr H believes  the claim is fraudulent as he doesnt think  the third party was injured. 
But Acromas records show the third party did receive medical  treatment for their hand, even 
if this wasnt extensive.  And Im not persuaded the third party being aggressive is evidence  
of a fraudulent  claim or necessarily sufficient  grounds to consider that it might be, such that I 
would expect Acromas to have carried out an in depth investigation into that. 
I know Mr H feels  strongly  about  this matter. But given the circumstances, I dont find 
Acromas has handled  the claim  unfairly. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Claire Hopkins
Ref: DRN80052683ombudsman
Ref: DRN8005268