K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs T say Yorkshire Building  Society (YBS) mis-sold them  a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs T bought the policy in 1998  at the same time as taking out a further advance  to 
their existing mortgage  the existing mortgage had been in place for a couple of months. 
Due to the time that has passed,  its not clear how Mr and Mrs T applied for the PPI policy   
although it appears the further advance application  was likely carried  out in-branch.  Because 
the two things happened around the same  time,  it seems reasonable to assume therefore 
that the PPI policy  was also taken out in-branch. 
While the lending was in joint names,  the policy provided cover for Mrs T only for 
unemployment (not accident or sickness)   subject to its exclusions and limitations.  It offered 
to repay  around  £315 a month towards  Mr and Mrs Ts mortgage  balance in the event of a 
successful claim. At the time, it cost £10.84 a month after an initial six-month  free period. 
At the time,  Mrs T was employed as an input clerk at an insurance firm. She has told us she 
was entitled to six months  full pay followed by six months half pay and had several  
thousand pounds  in savings she could have used  to help make the payments on their 
mortgage should she be unable to work. She has also said she was entitled to some  
redundancy pay. Finally Mrs T has said she was in good health at the time of the sale.  
YBS has sent us screenshots  to show that the mortgage account closed in 2004.
Mr and Mrs Ts representative  has made  lengthy and substantial  representations on her 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Ts representative says:
YBS failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs T 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr and 
Mrs Ts representatives believe  there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means YBS should have told 
Mr and Mrs T about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means YBS should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr and Mrs T and the 
impact they would have had on her chances of making a claim;
Ref: DRN80938432The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long-term transaction   cover would stop just at 
the time it would  be most needed;  and
The information Mr and Mrs T received was misleading. These policies were 
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs T disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. 
Mr T has recently  sent us some further submissions  for my consideration. In summary he 
has said:
PPI was not mentioned or discussed;  
he was self-employed  at the time as an independent financial adviser and so
questions whether the cover would have been  of benefit; and
as an adviser he says that had he wanted or needed PPI he would have  purchased 
the policy through his own agency therefore enjoyed  the commission the policy  would 
have earned.
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ts. I dont intend  to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ts complaint.
This sale took place  in 1998 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
Ref: DRN80938433The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2004. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like YBS at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI Code  and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ts case.  
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Building  Societies 
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Building  Societies  Ombudsmans terms of reference  the Ombudsman  
was required to decide complaints by reference to what  was, in his opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. 
This sale took place  before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so YBS was 
required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  guidance when  
considering Mr and Mrs Ts complaint. 
key questions
Ref: DRN80938434Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If YBS gave advice,  whether it advised  Mr and Mrs T with reasonable care and skill  
in particular, whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for them, given their 
needs and circumstances. 
-Whether YBS gave  Mr and Mrs T sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to her attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading 
way  the main  provisions  of the policy and significant limitations and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr and 
Mrs T, I must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr and Mrs T 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs T 
and YBS,  Ive decided  not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ts complaint. Ive set out my reasoning 
below. 
did Mr and Mrs T know they had a choice?
YBS had to make  it clear that the PPI policy was optional.  Mr and Mrs T have  said that PPI 
was mentioned or discussed at the time.
YBS has provided copies  of some of the paperwork from the time of sale. And this includes 
their PPI application from. Looking at this I think its more likely  than not that some kind of 
discussion took place.  I say this because the PPI application shows  Mrs T only as the 
required insured  person   this was not a joint application. Its also the case that the 
application required choices  to be made  (a tick in the relevant boxes)  for the monthly benefit 
amount, what type of cover was required (disability and unemployment, disability only or 
unemployment only),  the benefit period and the excess  period. 
By having to complete and sign a separate application Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs T 
would have been under  the impression they had to take out PPI  theres nothing on the 
application which says or implies  they had to take it out. And the offer letter  they received 
granting the further advance said nothing about  PPI being a condition  of the lending.
So taking everything into account, I think its more likely  that Mr and Mrs T knew the policy 
was optional and they agreed  to take it out without undue pressure. 
Ref: DRN80938435did YBS provide advice?
YBS says it didnt provide advice during this sale.  Mr and Mrs T havent said whether  they 
were advised or not. 
Looking at the evidence available, Im not persuaded that YBS provided advice  Ive seen 
nothing to suggest that YBS considered Mr and Mrs Ts needs and circumstances and then 
recommended the cover  to them.
This means  YBS didnt  have to check if the PPI was suitable for Mr and Mrs T. Instead, it 
had to give them sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable them to make an 
informed choice about whether to take out the policy, including  drawing to their attention and 
highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main provisions of the policy and 
significant limitations and exclusions. 
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr and Mrs T were given a broad description  of what  the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect their payments if Mrs T was 
made unemployed) and of the approximate costs. Ive reached this conclusion  because I 
think its unlikely Mr and Mrs T would have  taken out the policy  without any sense of what  
the policy was for and of how much the premium might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  YBS gave sufficient 
information about the exclusions  or limitations before Mr and Mrs T agreed to take out the 
policy. 
So I dont  think YBS gave Mr and Mrs T sufficient,  appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  including 
drawing their attention  and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Ts representative has raised  a 
number of general points with regard  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and 
Mrs Ts. Ive considered these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Ts representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs T about the limitations and exclusions, it should  have  gone  further  
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Ref: DRN80938436Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Ts representatives views on this. The duty of utmost  good 
faith in insurance  law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material 
facts and not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what a court  
would say  I think  its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer having to 
disclose the claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and 
exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs T have suggested. And taking into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that YBS ought to have done either. 
what effect did YBS shortcomings have on Mr and Mrs T? To what extent did Mr and 
Mrs T suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that YBS didnt  do all it should  have done when it sold this policy  to Mr and Mrs T. 
So Ive gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude they 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Mr and 
Mrs T would have still taken out the policy, had YBS done things properly. 
Mr and Mrs T say they would not have taken it out and believe I should presume this to be 
the case given  the significant failings identified above. Ive considered the representations  of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr and Mrs T had to weigh up in her own minds the cost of 
the policy against the benefits offered and the potential  consequences if they didnt insure  
against the risk of Mrs T being unable to work.  
As Ive found above, Mr and Mrs T chose to take this policy out. So I consider that its 
reasonable to conclude  they had some  interest  in the benefits offered by this type of 
insurance. But they made this decision based on incomplete information. So what Mr and 
Mrs T thought they were  getting  is not exactly what they got. The extent to which this differed 
is a relevant consideration when determining if Mr and Mrs T have suffered any loss or 
detriment. 
The information Mr and Mrs T were  given about  the benefit, the benefit period and the 
excess period was clear. On the application the benefit amount of £350 is handwritten;  there 
is a tick in the 9 months benefit period box (a choice between  9 and 12 months);  and there 
is a tick in the 30 days excess period box (a choice  between 30 and 60 days.) But the 
information about other aspects of the policy, such as the limitations and exclusions wasnt 
as clear as it should have  been.  
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs T knew they would have to pay 
something for the policy, it doesnt appear from the available evidence  that YBS told them 
the exact premium  at the point they applied for the policy. Having said that, it seems likely Mr 
and Mrs T would have been  told the cost before the policy  started and they paid for the 
policy for a number of years, so if the costs were  significantly at odds with their expectations  
at the point of sale, its possible they might have raised that with YBS at the time or 
reconsidered her decision.
Overall, I am not persuaded Mr and Mrs T would have found the cost unacceptable  if they 
had been given the exact figure during  the meeting in which  they agreed to the policy.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs T thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
Ref: DRN80938437The policy excluded claims relating to any physical or mental  condition  that Mrs T 
knew about or ought to have known about  on the start date of the policy (including 
chronic conditions), or for which  shed  received  advice or treatment about during the 
12 months before the start date; and
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mrs T 
wasnt a permanent employee.
 
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mr and Mrs T pause for thought   and may well have caused them to conclude that 
the policy wasnt as good as they thought and they might have decided not to proceed. The 
limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have 
dissuaded some  consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs T from 
taking out the policy.  
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Ts circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  for them. 
In their latest  submissions, Mr T has said that the cover might not have been of benefit  
because he was self-employed  at the time of sale. But notwithstanding  the fact that the 
documentary evidence  from the time records  Mr T as being retired, the policy  was in Mrs Ts 
sole name only - so Mr Ts employment  status  isnt relevant to the policys appropriateness  
for them.
Mrs T was eligible  for its benefits  and it provided  cover that, despite  its limitations  and 
exclusions, couldve proved useful to them should  the insured risk have become a reality.  I 
also havent seen  any evidence to suggest Mrs T wouldve been caught by any of the 
significant exclusions  she didnt have any pre-existing or chronic  medical conditions  and 
was in permanent  employment. So, I still think they had some good  reasons to take the 
policy out.
Mr and Mrs Ts representative  has argued  that the policy  excluded  or limited claims for back 
pain and mental health conditions for disability. But Mrs T was insured for unemployment 
only, so this argument isnt relevant to this complaint.
So having  considered all of the evidence and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs T would still have taken  out the policy. The policy  was sufficiently close 
to what its likely they thought they were getting  and provided benefits that would help them  
manage the consequences  if Mrs T was made  redundant. In the circumstances I consider it 
more likely than not that Mr and Mrs T would  have taken out the policy  in any event 
notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr and Mrs Ts representatives  say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 
3) make it clear  that, where  a significant failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ref: DRN80938438Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs T would not have  bought  the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted  
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr and 
Mrs Ts circumstances  as detailed above,  I consider it reasonable to conclude the position 
Mr and Mrs T found themselves in as a result  of the sale was the same  position they would 
have been in had the breach or significant  failings  not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs T believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including her own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs T in the position they would  have been  in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept its possible they wouldnt have taken out the policy, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that they would still have taken  
out the PPI had they been given clear, fair and not misleading information about  the policy 
they were buying.  So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude YBS should  pay Mr and Mrs T compensation, as that would put 
them in a better position than they would have  been in if everything  had happened  as it 
should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs T think YBS misrepresented  the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of YBSs  
statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why YBS failed to act 
fairly and reasonably was not because  of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  YBS gave Mr and Mrs T, in the way it did, 
was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect it to have 
met in 1998  when providing information about  an insurance policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Ts representative says a court  might take 
if it were to find YBS negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr and Mrs T and about the 
remedy a court might award if it were to find that YBS had been in breach  of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs T in a better  position  than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
Ref: DRN80938439my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 February  2021.
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8093843