K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that Lloyds Bank  PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold them two payment 
protection (PPI) insurance policies in 1995.
background
In January 2019 I issued my provisional  decision. In it I explained why I wasnt intending to 
uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint. A copy of my provisional decision is attached  and forms 
part of my final decision.
I asked both parties to come back to me with any further information or comments  before I 
made my final decision.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account  in deciding
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.
Both Lloyds  and Mr and Mrs R received my provisional decision and had nothing further to 
add. As neither  party has provided any further  information for me to consider, I see no 
reason to depart from my provisional findings. With that in mind, I dont uphold  the complaint 
for the reasons set out above  and as explained  in my provisional decision. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 March  2019.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
COPY OF MY PROVISIONAL DECISION 
complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold them two payment protection
insurance policies in 1995.
background
Ref: DRN83328992In January 1995 Mr and Mrs R took out a joint mortgage.  They also took out a PPI policy
which covered Mr R only if he was unable  to work through  accident or sickness or if he lost
his job.
In November 1995, Mr and Mrs R took out a further mortgage in joint names. They also took
out another PPI policy. Lloyds is unable  to clarify  who this policy  covered in view of the time
that has passed  since  the sale.
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld.  Mr and Mrs R disagreed  with
this view. They said that it wasnt fair to decide this complaint in favour of Lloyds  in the
absence of any relevant information or proof. They also told us they still felt that they were
mis-sold the PPI because they werent told it was optional.  They asked for the complaint to
be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account  in deciding
this case.
Taking everything into account, Im not intending to uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint. I
appreciate Mr and Mrs R will be disappointed  with my decision but I will explain why below.
Given the length  of time since the sales  Lloyds doesnt have  the paperwork  relating to the
sales of the PPI. This isnt surprising  as the sales happened over 20 years ago and
businesses arent required to keep records indefinitely.  But where the evidence  is
incomplete, I will make my decision on the balance of probabilities, that is, what is more
likely to have happened.  I will take into account of what each  party has told me, the evidence
we do have and what we know  generally  about these types of sales.
In January 1995 Lloyds has told us that the mortgage was in joint names  but the PPI was
taken out in Mr Rs sole name. Lloyds has also confirmed that the mortgage was in joint
names in November  1995  but it cant say exactly who the second policy  covered when  it was
taken out in November  1995. But I think its more  likely that it still covered Mr R only.
I say this because the mortgage was in joint names from the time they took it out in January
1995. In January 1995  the PPI covered Mr R only.
If Mrs R had wanted  to add her name to the PPI cover in November 1995, I think she would
have had to make  an application for the insurance  by completing various  forms. And I think
they would more likely have had to complete  a direct  debit mandate  to Lloyds for the
premiums. I dont think the PPI in either January or November 1995 would have likely been
added automatically.
Mrs R has told us she wasnt  working  in November. So I dont think its likely that the policy
would have been changed  to cover  Mrs R as well as Mr R as I dont think  it would have been
something she wanted or needed if she wasnt working - so there was no reason to change
the cover from Mr Rs sole name to Mr and Mrs Rs joint names  around ten months later.
Taking everything into account, I think its likely both policies covered Mr R only.
Ive next thought  about  whether Mr and Mrs R were  given a fair choice about taking out the
policies or declining  them.  There  isnt any paperwork  from the time for me to know exactly
what was said to Mr and Mrs R when  they applied for the PPI. But I think its more likely  in
order to get both policies, Mr and Mrs R would  have had to complete  an application form for
the PPI.
Ref: DRN83328993Mr and Mrs R have told me the Lloyds  representative was very persistent  so they didnt  feel
they had a choice but they havent given  me any detail about how the representative was
very persistent. It could be that the representative told them it would  be a good idea to take
out the policies but thats not the same thing as saying they had to have them.
And I can see that the policy in January 1995 was in Mr Rs sole name which indicates to me
that there was likely  a discussion with Mr and Mrs R about what cover they needed and
whose income needed to be protected.
I think  the premiums would  either have appeared on Mr and Mrs Rs mortgage statements or
been taken from their bank account by direct debit. If Mr and Mrs R hadnt wanted the cover,
or only took it out at the time as the advisor was persistent,  Id expect them  to have
questioned it at an early stage, but Ive not seen any evidence they did.
And I have also thought  about what we know about these types of sales at the time.  Taking
all of these things  into account,  I think its more  likely that Mr and Mrs R chose the cover for
the benefit  it gave for both policies, knowing they could refuse it if they didnt want  it.
I will look at this complaint  as if Lloyds  advised Mr and Mrs R to take out the PPI. I think
thats fair to Mr and Mrs R as this placed more responsibility on Lloyds for how it sold the
PPI. This meant it would have to take reasonable  steps to make sure it was suitable for their
circumstances as well as giving  Mr and Mrs R clear enough information  so that they could
decide for themselves  whether or not they wanted the policy.
Looking at Mr and Mrs Rs circumstances  and the terms and conditions of the policies I cant
say they were unsuitable and I think they had a need for the cover.
I say this because Mr R the person who was covered  by the policies was working and in
good health in January 1995 and in November 1995.  So I dont think he was affected  by any
of the main limitations or restrictions which might have made it more difficult for him to make
a claim.
Mr and Mrs R have told us that Mr R would have received some sick pay from work but was
unsure of the amount. He also said he had some savings. Both policies would  have paid out
in addition to any other means  Mr and Mrs R had. As their mortgage was secured over their
home if Mr and Mrs R couldnt meet  their repayments it would have been a significant risk.
And if Mr R lost his job it would have meant  he could have used any savings  he had to meet
other essential expenditure. And as Mr and Mrs R took out a further advance  in November
1995 it looks  like they wanted to keep any savings  they had intact. The PPI would have
meant they didnt have  to use them to pay the mortgage if things went wrong.
Theres nothing to make me think the policies  were  unaffordable.
Lloyds still had to give Mr and Mrs R clear enough information about the PPI policies so they
could decide for themselves  whether it was a good fit for their needs.  Its possible  Lloyds
didnt tell Mr and Mrs R everything it should have done. But I dont think more or better
information would have put them off buying the cover either in January 1995 or November
1995. I think  they chose to buy PPI so I think they probably wanted this sort of policy. And
overall, I think it probably would have been helpful  for them if Mr R lost his job or couldnt
work.
Overall, I dont think Mr and Mrs R lost out as a result of something Lloyd  did wrong, so I
dont intend to uphold this complaint.
my provisional  decision
Ref: DRN83328994For the reasons  Ive explained above Im not intending to uphold this complaint
I now invite  the parties to provide me with any further information they want me to consider
before 16 February  2019 after which I will issue my final decision.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8332899