K821x#15complaint
Mr K complains that Blackfriars  Insurance Brokers Ltd (BIB) failed to disclose two 
additional fees before he renewed  his professional  indemnity  (PI)  insurance. He also 
complains that BIB refused to send him hard copies of his policy  documents unless he paid 
them a £10 fee.
Mr K has referred this complaint to our service both in his sole capacity and as a director  of a 
limited company, J.
background
In April 2018, BIB wrote  to Mr K (via his wifes  email  address)  to inform him that his PI 
insurance renewal was due on 1 May.  The policy is in the joint names of Mr K and J. A few 
days later,  BIB emailed  the renewal proposal, informing Mr K that the gross  renewal  
premium would total £304.98.
Mr K chose to renew his policy  and on 17 April, BIB emailed Mr K his new policy  documents. 
On 29 April, Mr K emailed BIB to ask for hard copies of the documents.  In his email, he said 
he was just back from holiday and his printer had stopped working.
BIB emailed Mr K to say that they operated  a paperless office.  They  said they would  only 
print hard copies of the policy for him if he paid £10, as set out in their terms of business.
Mr K corresponded with BIB for some  time on this point and ultimately made  a complaint, 
which BIB didnt uphold.  In January 2019, he referred his complaint  to this service.  In his 
letter to us, he also complained about two additional  fees, an administration fee of £25 and a 
handling fee of £5.98. He said that BIB hadnt  disclosed  these fees until after hed renewed. 
BIB agreed to us looking into the part of the complaint about  the additional fees as well as 
the part about hard copies, to which theyd already replied.
I issued a provisional decision on 12 December. I provisionally upheld the part of the 
complaint about  the hard copies and said, in summary:
On 17 April 2018, I thought Mr K was effectively putting BIB on notice that the 
provision of information to him by email was no longer appropriate for him.
I didnt think it would  be fair to require Mr K to pay to get his policy information in a 
format that was accessible for him. 
Since October 2018, the Financial Conduct  Authoritys handbook  had made it clear 
that firms must  provide a paper copy on request, free of charge. This was after the 
date complained of, but I thought it was a reasonable interpretation of the pre-
existing rules anyway.  
BIB should  therefore  provide Mr K with a paper copy of his policy, should  he still 
require it. 
I didnt uphold the part of the complaint  about the additional fees.  My provisional findings  
were:
BIBs email made it clear  what  the total amount  to pay was, in plenty of time before 
the renewal.
Ref: DRN84792062Both the administration fee and the handling fee were in line with the terms of 
business BIB had sent to Mr K.
I therefore didnt  think that BIB had tried to hide their fees.  
Mr K had time to query the charges  or seek quotations elsewhere. 
Mr K wrote  out a cheque for the correct amount  so he had clearly understood how 
much this was.
I didnt think that a more detailed itemisation of the charges  would  have changed 
Mr Ks actions.  
When Mr K spoke  to the managing director of BIB, BIB offered  to cancel the policy  
and give him a full refund. In other words, they offered to put him back in the position 
hed have been in if hed never  taken the policy. This is what I would direct a 
business to do, if I found that it hadnt  fairly  disclosed all fees. But Mr K chose not to 
take this option.
BIB accepted my provisional conclusions and said they would provide Mr K with one paper 
copy of his policy. They thought more than one copy wouldnt be fair. 
Mr K didnt accept my findings.  He made the following points:
He had specifically  asked me to confirm how long Id spent investigating  his 
complaint and I hadnt answered  this.
He noted the part of the complaint Id upheld and said he awaited in triplicate pristine 
copies of the policy schedule  and wording to complete his file. 
He said it was untrue that BIBs managing director  had offered  to cancel the policy 
and give him a full refund. He provided another copy of his handwritten  notes of the 
conversation as evidence of this. 
He asked me to explain a method  of payment for the policy  that would avoid incurring 
a fee. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I havent  been 
persuaded to change  my provisional view.  So Im upholding  one part of the complaint, but 
not the other. Ill explain why below. 
First, Im not going to answer Mr Ks question  about how long I or this service as a whole 
have spent investigating his complaint, as I dont think its relevant to this decision. Neither 
am I going to answer his question about  payment methods. His complaint about the handling 
fee was that it wasnt properly  disclosed and that is what  Im addressing here. 
On the subject of the hard copies,  I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to require BIB 
to provide copies  of Mr Ks policy in triplicate. Whilst Im satisfied that Mr K should  be 
provided with a copy in a medium accessible to him, there are costs  associated with printing 
copies for BIB. And I think one copy is sufficient to meet Mr Ks information needs. So I wont  
be directing BIB to provide three. 
Theres clearly  a profound  disagreement  between BIB and Mr K as to what  was said in the 
telephone conversation with BIBs managing director.  BIB has said that they offered  to 
cancel the policy and refund the costs.  Mr K says that no such  offer was made. Ive thought 
about this, and Ive concluded that my decision  on the charges  wont  change  whether or not 
Ref: DRN84792063an offer was made.  So, as the evidence  is unclear  and my decision doesnt turn on this 
point, Im not going to make a finding on what I think happened. 
In my view, the evidence  doesnt support the view that BIB misled, or attempted  to mislead, 
Mr K about  the fees. BIB told Mr K quite clearly what the full amount to pay was, and 
provided their one-page terms of business, which listed all their charges. Its clear that Mr K 
was in no doubt about how much  he had to pay, since he made out his cheque correctly.  
Mr K chose not to ask for further information,  such as a more detailed breakdown of the 
charges, although  he had enough time to do so before his renewal was due. He also chose 
to accept the quotation promptly  rather than seek alternatives. I dont think a more  detailed 
itemisation would have changed  his actions. So Im not going to direct BIB to do anything  
more.
my final decision
I uphold the part of the complaint about hard copies  and direct Blackfriars Insurance  Brokers 
Ltd to provide Mr K with one paper  copy of the schedule and wording for the policy taken  out 
in May 2018.
I dont uphold the part of the complaint  about the fees.   
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2020.
Louise Bardell
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8479206