K820x#14complaint
F a limited company complains about  how The Royal  Bank of Scotland Plc dealt with several 
cheques. It also complains about  the customer service it has received from the bank on a 
number of occasions and the banks complaint handling.
Mr B, a director  of F, represents it in its complaint.
background
In 2006, 2009 and 2011, F wrote  cheques which RBS didnt honour. F suggested  this was 
due to the banks mistake. F told us RBS had told it that it (RBS) couldnt honour the 
cheques because it had no mandate to do this. But F said the mandate  was in place.
Fs position  is that it had to spend  time sorting this out. This time could instead have been 
used attending  to Fs own business.  F sees this as a business loss. On that basis,  it wants  to 
charge RBS for the time spent on the complaint.  It initially asked for £5,000.
F also had difficulty activating a business  credit card account.  It indicated RBS is at fault for 
this too and didnt provide enough assistance. Further, F was not told when local bank 
branches were closed, and its stance  was that it ought to have been told in advance. 
Especially given the way RBS markets itself as being a bank that provides good and 
personal customer service. F suggested  RBS ought  not to have put any money  into its 
account to compensate it for the parts of the complaint it upheld. In its opinion this was 
tantamount to bribery.
RBS wasnt able to provide  any substantive  information about why it declined  to honour the 
cheques. It accepted that it had not always provided  the level of customer  service  that F is 
entitled to expect. It also had a complaint  from Mr B in his personal capacity. It dealt with 
both complaints together and overall paid £550.
F came to our service  as it didnt accept RBSs  response went  far enough.  F also raised  a 
new point about  RBS not closing its account when asked to do so
Our investigator looked at Fs complaint. He didnt  recommend upholding it. In summary, he 
thought the award RBS had made was sufficient and he had no proper basis  for asking it to 
do anything more.
RBS accepted our investigators recommendation, F did not. In short,  it did not agree that we 
had taken proper  account of the loss revenue  that it said flowed from RBSs mistakes. It 
gave further detail about the incidents with the cheques. It suggested  it had not been given 
enough information by RBS to work  out which part of the £550  related to its complaint and 
which related to Mr Bs separate complaint.  F assumes that the majority of the £550 relates  
to Mr Bs complaint. It said,  on the basis of thisRBS has hardly  paid anything  [in] 
compensation to the company at all.
F asked that an ombudsman review  its complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN83022322First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail  than the parties 
and Ive done so using  my own words. Im not going  to respond to every  single  point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal  nature  of our service  as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres  something Ive not mentioned,  it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every  individual  argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
I want to underline that I am only dealing with Fs complaint not Mr Bs separate complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider  is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
F mentions  a number  of things that it wants to complain about, but it has been  clear that the 
main focus  of its complaint is what happened  to the cheques and the compensation it wants  
for this. So that is the area I have given the most attention to in this decision.
I can well understand  that F does not find it acceptable that RBS can tell us so little about 
the cheques. But the difficulty is, although F has given us its recollections of the events, this 
all happened  so long ago that RBS no longer  has a record of it. I know  F suggest  that this 
means RBS is washing  its hands  of the matter on the basis  that it no longer has the records.  
But I dont see it like that. Banks are not required to retain records of transactions 
indefinitely. In general banks are required  to keep a record for up to six years  for most 
transactions. So, I do not find it surprising that RBS has been  unable to provide the 
information.
That said,  RBS seems  to agree that it did not always act correctly towards F and the £550 it 
has paid, is meant to cover what went wrong  here. Fs point seems to be that the 
compensation it has got is insufficient.  It says this because  F spent time dealing  with this 
complaint and this led to what  it sees as a loss in revenue. To calculate  this loss, it has 
added up the number of hours it spent on the complaint and charged out this time at an 
hourly rate. I dont  think this is an appropriate  way of calculating the compensation. F in this 
instance was a customer of RBS.  It was not providing professional  services  to RBS. 
Moreover, I dont agree  that F has shown it made  a loss that is directly attributable to what 
RBS did wrong. It follows Im not going to ask RBS to pay F anything more in relation to this 
part of its complaint.
The remainder of Fs complaint concerns  both the customer service that F received in 
relation to activating its credit card account  and in relation to the branch closures, and a 
complaint about  RBSs  complaint handling.  
As to the customer service, RBS has accepted it came up short here. F hasnt  shown what 
loss (if any) it made because of this. Rather, again  it has just tried to charge RBS an hourly 
rate for the time spent on the complaint. Ive already  explained why I dont think  this is 
appropriate. I see no fair and reasonable grounds here for me to say RBS ought to increase 
the compensation it has paid. 
Ref: DRN83022323Ideally RBS would have dealt with both complaints  separately. That way F would have 
known what proportion of the £550 relates to its complaint. But looking at the information 
RBS has sent us about this complaint and why it paid compensation. It does seem that the 
£550 does relate to this complaint to a greater extent than F suggests. Even if only 50% of 
the £550 that is £225 relates  to this complaint, I dont agree this means that RBS has paid F 
nothing. Neither  do I agree that this means  the compensation  is not enough.
RBS paid F compensation because it agreed  it ought to do so in response to Fs complaint. 
It did this as part of its complaint  handling process.  This service does not have the power to 
look at this activity and Ill make no further comment on this point.
F has now also raised a complaint about RBS not following its instruction to close  its 
account. This appears to be a new matter and has not been considered by RBS in its final 
response to F. It follows  that I am unable  to look at this matter in this final decision.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B on behalf  of 
F to accept or reject my decision  before 17 July  2020.
Joyce Gordon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8302232