K821x#15complaint
Mr S says he shouldnt have been  given loans by Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending 
Stream) because the repayments for these loans  took up a significant  amount of his wages 
which meant he had to borrow from other payday  lenders. 
background
Mr S took 6 loans from Lending Stream between June 2012  and September  2013. A 
summary of Mr Ss borrowing,  based  on the information given to us by Lending Stream can 
be found below:
loan 
numberloan 
amountreceived dateactual repayment 
datenumber of 
instalments
1 £210.00 22/06/2012 04/10/2012 6
2 £210.00 12/10/2012 07/01/2013 6
3 £350.00 16/05/2013 23/08/2013 6
4 £80.00 01/08/2013 06/01/2014 6
5 £150.00 07/09/2013 14/02/2014 6
6 £90.00 10/09/2013 14/02/2014 6
Our adjudicator thought Lending Steams checks before providing  loans  1  3 went  far 
enough, so he didnt think Mr S had been treated unfairly. However, he didnt think  the 
checks Lending Stream carried  out were sufficient for the remaining loans. And, based on 
the information the adjudicator had, he thought,  further checks wouldve likely shown 
Lending Stream that Mr S could take on loan 4, but he wasnt in a position to take on loans 5 
and 6. 
Lending Stream accepted the adjudicators  findings.
However, Mr S didnt agree with the findings. In response, Mr S said that at the time of 
taking these loans  he was bouncing  between various  payday  lenders and had Lending  
Stream taken a closer  look at his credit  file it wouldve seen this and not provided him with 
the loans. 
No agreement could  be reached,  so the case  has been passed to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Both Lending Stream and Mr S appear to accept  that loans 5 and 6 shouldnt  have been 
provided. So in this decision I wont be focusing on these loans, as they are no longer in 
dispute. Instead, Ill be looking at loans 1  4. 
Ref: DRN85391502Lending Stream needed  to take reasonable steps to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out reasonable checks  to understand 
whether Mr S could  repay his loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks  could take into 
account a number of different things, such as how much  was being lent, the repayment 
amounts and the consumers income  and expenditure. 
Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of 
how much  information  it gathers and what it does to verify that information  in the early  
stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, the consumers income  was low or 
the amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the 
risk of it becoming unsustainable  and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed 
expect a lender  to be able to show that it hasnt continued to provide these loans to a 
customer irresponsibly. 
Lending Stream says it agreed to Mr Ss applications for loans 1  4 after he provided details 
of his monthly income, which  he declared  to be £700. Lending  Stream  also took details of 
Mr Ss expenditure, which he declared to be between £100  - £450  per month.  And,  based  
on what he declared, Lending Stream believed Mr S would be able to make the repayments 
he was committing to.  And in these  circumstances it wasnt  irresponsible  of Lending Stream  
to have provided loans 1  4. 
I accept that Mr Ss actual  full circumstances may not have been  reflected in either the 
information he provided, or the other information Lending Stream  obtained such  as via a 
credit check.  And Mr Ss actual financial position might well have been apparent if further 
information  such as bank statements had been  obtained. 
But Lending  Stream could  only make  its decision based on the information it had available at 
the time.  I dont think for the first three loans it had reached the stage where there was a 
greater risk of these loans  being unsustainable  for Mr S. In these circumstances, I dont  think  
Lending Stream needed  to take further steps  to verify the information Mr S provided, such as 
asking him for evidence  of his income and outgoings. So I dont think  Lending Stream was 
wrong to have provided the first three  loans. 
However, I do accept, like the adjudicator, that by loan 4 Lending Stream  ought  to have had 
some concerns about Mr Ss financial position, considering  the number of loans Mr S had 
taken over the past 14 months and how much  time he had spent indebted to Lending 
Stream.  And like the adjudicator, I think it wouldve  been reasonable at this time to have 
made some further enquires with Mr S about  whether he had any outstanding  short  term 
credit commitments  with any other lenders.  
Mr S has provided us with his bank statements, so Ive taken a look at these to see whether, 
had Lending  Stream  carried out further checks, it wouldve been apparent to it that Mr S 
couldnt take on this loan.  While there is evidence in the bank statements of outstanding  
short term loans with other lenders, I dont think this on its own wouldve prevented Lending 
Stream from providing this loan considering what it knew of Mr Ss income and expenditure.  
So I dont  think further checks for this loan wouldve prevented Lending Stream  from 
providing it. 
Ref: DRN85391503Ive also thought about Mr Ss comments in relation to the credit checks that Lending Stream 
carried out. He says that, had Lending  Stream taken a closer  look at his credit report  it 
wouldve realised he couldnt  afford  to take on any of his loans. 
Lending Stream hasnt  been able to provide us with the results  of its credit checks  for any of 
the loans  so I dont  know exactly what it wouldve seen. However,  its my understanding  
that Lending Stream mainly gathered information  concerned with defaults  and delinquent  
accounts. 
Having looked  the credit file Mr S has provided, I can only see two defaulted accounts 
recorded. Both of which occurred after the final loan was approved.  So, based on the 
information I have  to hand, it seems  unlikely that Lending  Stream  credit checks  wouldve 
prevented it from providing loans  1 - 4. 
It is important  to note that at the time, there  was no requirement for Lending Stream to carry 
out a credit check before any of the loans were approved.  Neither is there nor has there  
been any regulation or rules that set out exactly what sort of credit  check  should be carried 
out and what information should  be gathered.  So the fact that Lending Streams credit  
checks dont appear to be as detailed as Mr S would like, is not something  that I can say is 
an error. 
So in conclusion, I accept,  as Ive explained  above, that for the first three loans Mr Ss 
financial position may not have been  reflected in the information he provided  
Lending Stream. But I dont  think,  at that point in the lending relationship that it wouldve 
been proportionate for it to have gathered information from him about any other  payday  
loans he may have had at this time.  
And at the point,  when I think further checks ought  to have been carried out, I dont think the 
information that Lending Stream  is likely to have seen wouldve prevented  it from approving 
the fourth  loan. 
putting things right
As already mentioned,  Lending Stream agreed  to uphold Mr Ss complaint about loans 5 and 
6. So, to confirm,  it should  do the following to put things right for Mr S:
refund  all interest and charges Mr C paid on loans 5 and 6;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loans 5 and 6 from Mr Cs credit file
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Lending Stream to take off tax from this interest.  
Lending Stream must give Mr S a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks 
for one.
Ref: DRN85391504my final decision
My final decision is that Im partly  upholding Mr Ss complaint.
Gain Credit LLC should  put things right for Mr S as set out above.   
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 October  2019.
Robert Walker
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN8539150