K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs O have complained that The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc (RBS) mis-sold them a 
mortgage payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs O were sold the PPI at the same time as they arranged their mortgage with RBS 
in December 2010 (with the mortgage  and PPI going live in January 2011).
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs O disagree with the adjudicators 
view and so the complaint  has been passed  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of Payment Protection Insurance on our website and Ive taken  
this into account  in deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Os complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs O say that they didnt know the PPI was optional. Looking  at the paperwork from 
the sale, there are quite  a few references to the policy. The mortgage  application  has a 
section for insurance  and within  that it is stated that the couple wish to apply  for 
unemployment cover. There was another section below where the couple could have 
declined the policy by putting  their initials in that section.
The mortgage offer form has a heading that says:  Optional insurance  that you do not have 
to take out with The Royal Bank of Scotland plc. Beneath this it shows  that the PPI has 
been opted for, at a cost of £9.07  per month.
The Giving  Your Agreement form has a statement saying You want to apply for Mortgage 
Loanguard as part of this application. The form also notes that Mr and Mrs O do not want to 
apply for life assurance or home insurance.
Mr and Mrs O have said themselves that they cant remember how they took out the 
mortgage and PPI, which is not surprising  given how long ago it took place.  Looking  at the 
evidence, I think it is more  likely than not that Mr and Mrs O would have known that they had 
a choice about buying the PPI. It seems  to me that they decided  to buy it, knowing  that they 
didnt have to, even if they no longer remember doing so.
There is disagreement between RBS and Mr and Mrs O about whether the sale was advised 
or not. If it was an advised sale, RBS had to ensure  that the policy  met the couples needs. 
And from what I know of Mr and Mrs Os circumstances at the time, the PPI was suitable.
Mr and Mrs O would have received sick pay from their jobs. Their  representative has said 
that it understands the policy would have paid out in addition to any sick pay but that the 
RBS adviser should have  ensured that the couple were  fully aware of that, so that they 
would understand that they would  be paying for something that they didnt essentially need. 
However, Mr and Mrs O didnt take out accident  and sickness  cover,  they bought 
unemployment cover  only. This suggests that there was some discussion about  their needs 
Ref: DRN84112592and that the adviser did take their circumstances into account. A mortgage  is a significant 
financial commitment and so it wouldnt be surprising if Mr and Mrs O had an interest  in 
protecting their repayments.
Its possible that RBS didnt provide as much information as it could have about the PPI, 
especially about the things that it didnt cover. But Mr and Mrs O werent  affected  by any of 
those things. As I think that Mr and Mrs O had an interest in the policy and decided to buy it, 
I dont think that further information would have caused them to change  their minds. It 
follows that I do not uphold this complaint.
As I understand it, the PPI policy is still active.  Mr and Mrs O should consider whether they 
still wish to protect their mortgage repayments and if not, arrange to cancel it.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  Mr and Mrs Os complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 February  2019.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8411259