K820x#14Complaint
Mr A complains Tesco Personal Finance PLC (Tesco Bank) turned down a claim he made 
under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  (CCA).
Background
In 2010 Mr A entered into a contract  for an apartment purchase  in Turkey. He was 
introduced to the purchase by a company Ill call C, which  was working with an associated 
company which  I will call P and some property developers in Turkey.
Mr A says C assured him it would be no problem to get a mortgage so he could purchase 
the apartment, and that it would assist him in obtaining one. Mr A says this played a key role 
in his decision to go ahead with the purchase. 
C (or P) arranged for Mr A to enter  a contract  for the purchase  from the property developer 
in Turkey, at a price  of £99,950, on 24 August 2010.  The payments were to be made in 
instalments and the contract said P would be responsible for handling (i.e. receiving) the 
payments required.  The contract  further  said that the developer could terminate it and retain  
30% of the sale price  in the event  Mr A was more  than 60 days late in paying an instalment.
Mr A paid a reservation  deposit on his Tesco Bank credit card of £5,000  to P on 
24 August 2010,  and made further payments to P via bank transfer totalling £34,980 
between September  and December 2010. The final stage payment for the property was to 
be paid in February 2011, totalling £59,970. However, Mr A was unable to obtain  a mortgage 
and the sale fell through. On 19 June  2012 he signed an agreement  with the developer  
formally ending the contract and accepting a partial  refund  of £9,950  of what  he had paid to 
date.
In December 2017 Mr A complained to Tesco Bank that he had been the victim of a 
misrepresentation by C. He said he had been incorrectly  told it would be easy to get a 
mortgage when  this wasnt true, and that he could have  four people on a mortgage,  which  
was also false.  He said he had also been  subjected to high pressure selling techniques. Mr 
A brought  his claim to the bank under section 75 of the CCA.
Tesco Bank rejected  Mr As claim.  It said he wasnt eligible to make  a claim because of the 
value of his purchase. Mr A complained about this decision, but Tesco Bank  maintained that 
it had been right to reject  the claim because the contract it was in relation  to had to be for no 
more than £30,000, but in his case it was nearly £100,000. Dissatisfied with this response, 
Mr A referred his complaint to this service for an independent assessment.
One of our investigators  considered Mr As case. She concluded there wasnt  enough  
evidence there had been a misrepresentation about the mortgage and, in any event, it was 
likely by the time Mr A had brought his case to Tesco  Bank, it would have been too late for 
him to bring a successful claim against C, P, or the developer.  So it wouldnt have been fair 
or reasonable for Tesco  Bank to uphold his claim.
Mr A appealed against the investigators findings,  and so the case  has been  passed to me to 
decide.
Ref: DRN81184162My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A brought a claim against Tesco Bank under section 75 of the CCA. This law allows a 
consumer who has paid for goods  or services on certain types of credit, to bring a claim 
against their lender for any breach of contract  or misrepresentation  by the supplier of the 
goods or services,  subject  to specific criteria being met.
Section 75 doesnt  apply  to Mr As purchase
Tesco Bank says Mr As claim doesnt  meet one of these criteria  specifically that his claim 
relates to a purchase  which  has too high a value. The law says that a section 75 claim has to 
be in relation to a purchase which has a cash price  of at least  £100,  and no more than 
£30,000. Mr A was purchasing a property with a cash price of £99,950, so his claim clearly  
fell outside of the criteria. As a result, the protection provided by section 75 of the CCA  
simply doesnt apply  to his purchase and I cant therefore say the bank was wrong to decline 
his claim.
Section 56 does apply to Mr As purchase
There is another section  of the CCA which I considered might  apply  in Mr As case,  and 
would provide him some limited protection. This is section 56 of the CCA. Section 56 has the 
effect of making  P the agent of Tesco Bank for the purpose of the negotiations leading up to 
the point Mr A made his credit card payment. While  this section of the CCA is not often 
mentioned in the context of credit card transactions, its clear enough from the examples 
contained in Schedule 2 to the CCA  that it is intended to apply to such  transactions.
What this means in practice is that Tesco  Bank could be held responsible  for any 
misrepresentations made to Mr A by P (or any associated company) prior to him paying the 
£5,000 reservation deposit.
One of the other criteria  which  must  be in place  for either section 75 or section 56 to apply is 
what is known as a debtor-creditor-supplier (DCS) agreement. What this means is that the 
owner of the credit  card account  (Mr A in this case) needs to have used their credit card to 
pay the company  they have a legal  claim against,  or an associate of that company  as 
defined in section  184 of the CCA.  This is not always  straightforward  to determine and I have 
concerns that such an agreement may not be in place in Mr As case.
This is because Mr A has used his credit card to pay P (which was an associate of C, who 
he says made the misrepresentations  to him), but I havent seen he has any contract with P 
(or C) in relation  to which he could make a claim. His contract was with the developer  and all 
the payments  he made were in relation  to that contract, albeit made  to P who were  
responsible for collecting the payments on the developers behalf.
But I dont think I need to unravel these contractual relationships because,  like our 
investigator, I think there are other reasons  why Mr A is very unlikely to have had a valid 
claim against the bank.
Ref: DRN81184163There isnt enough  evidence that a misrepresentation occurred
I dont think the evidence is strong enough to show that a misrepresentation was made to 
Mr A in relation to the mortgage arrangements. A misrepresentation is a false  statement of 
fact which  someone relies on when making  a decision (such as entering a contract) which is 
to their disadvantage.
I have no doubt  that conversations were had about  using a mortgage to fund the purchase,  
as Mr A signed a document  confirming  he wanted assistance from C in obtaining  a 
mortgage, and there  is evidence  he provided his family financial information presumably to 
support that process.
Mr A has said he was told a mortgage would be easy to obtain. This appears to have been 
the opinion of C or P at the time. An opinion is not a statement of fact and cannot not 
normally amount to a misrepresentation,  unless  it can be shown that a person was stating an 
opinion they did not actually hold,  or could not reasonably have held.  I think it would be very 
difficult for Mr A to prove this. It is conceivable  that C or P genuinely believed Mr A would be 
able to obtain a mortgage at the time,  but the situation subsequently changed. Mr A has 
referred to rapidly sinking into a recession, making it harder to acquire  a mortgage in Turkey 
or the UK, so it does  seem either Mr As circumstances or the general economic outlook 
was changing  for the worse at around this time. Ultimately it is difficult for me to conclude  the 
likelihood of obtaining a mortgage was misrepresented to Mr A. 
The other statement  Mr A has said was made to him which  was false,  that he was told four 
people could  be put on the mortgage. I havent  been  supplied with evidence  that this was 
untrue, so Im unable  to say this amounted to a misrepresentation either.
Its probable a claim for misrepresentation would have failed in any event as it was out of 
time
Claims in relation to misrepresentation are subject to time limits  usually set out in national 
legislation. These  are called limitation periods. In England and Wales a person generally has 
six years  to bring a claim in relation to misrepresentation,  from the point the 
misrepresentation caused them  a loss. 
The alleged misrepresentations in Mr As case caused him to enter a contract  he wouldnt 
have otherwise on 24 August 2010,  so that is the date the clock would have started running. 
It means he would  have had until August 2016  to bring his claim to C, P, or the bank.  If he 
brought his claim  after this point I think it is likely it would have been defended on the basis  it 
had been brought too late. Mr A brought his claim to the bank in late 2017, by which point it 
was out of time.
Finally, Ive also considered that a claim for misrepresentation under section 56 is, in 
essence, a claim for misrepresentation against Tesco Bank  directly.  This means  instead  of 
national legislation  relating to limitation, the equivalent  rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service (known as the DISP rules)  might  apply instead. These rules would give Mr A the 
longer of six years from the date of the alleged misrepresentation, or three years from when 
he knew, or ought reasonably to have known  he had a cause to complain. 
Ref: DRN81184164Mr A brought his complaint to the bank  more than six years after the alleged 
misrepresentation occurred, and more  than three years after he ought reasonably have 
known he had a cause to complain, which would have been  between February 2011 when 
he was meant to make the final stage payment, and June 2012  when  the sale formally fell 
through.
Bearing this in mind, I think that even if Mr A had been able to provide stronger evidence to 
support a claim for misrepresentation, and a valid DCS agreement could be established with 
reasonable certainty, he would have been unlikely to be able to bring a successful claim 
against any of the parties involved in the matter. Its further possible that I would  not be able 
to make any award or direction against  Tesco Bank due to the section 56 aspect of Mr As 
complaint falling outside of the Financial  Ombudsman Services own time limits. In other 
words, even if I concluded a misrepresentation had occurred, there wouldnt be anything  I 
could tell Tesco Bank to do about  it.
Other issues  raised by Mr A.
Mr A has highlighted concerns he and others  have had about Cs sales practices. He has 
said he was subjected to a highly pressured  sale for example, and hes given examples of 
other consumers stories.  I have to focus on Mr As specific set of circumstances and cant 
attach much weight to accounts  of others experiences.  And while I am sure the salespeople 
would have been persuasive,  I dont  find Mr As recollections of the process specific  enough 
for me to be able to make a finding  that he was put under pressure. It is something which in 
any event would have  been subject to the same time limits Ive referred to above.
My final decision
I have considerable  sympathy for Mr A. He has lost a large amount of money and did not get 
his apartment  in Turkey. But Im limited to considering whether Tesco Bank  treated him fairly 
in declining his claim for reimbursement. For the reasons  explained above, I dont think it 
acted unfairly in doing so.
It follows that I do not uphold Mr As complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 June  2021.
Will Culley
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8118416