K821x#15complaint
Mrs A has complained that Bought By Many  Ltd (BBM) didnt deal with her queries about her 
cover under her pet policy properly. 
background
Mrs A had her pets insured under the Regular policy provided by BBM. This provided 
£7,000 worth of cover  per year.
Mrs A was concerned this wasnt enough  and wanted to transfer to the Complete policy  
which provided £15,000 worth of cover per year.
She discussed this with BBM in several calls. One of her pets had some  genetic issues 
which it was born with and there were also several claims in the process of being  dealt  with.
BBM said all pre-existing  conditions wouldnt be covered if she changed policies as 
effectively she would  be cancelling one policy and starting another policy.  Mrs A said she 
would ask her vet about her pets conditions and wanted BBM to talk with her vet. BBM said 
this wasnt possible.  Eventually the matter became quite fraught  for Mrs A. As a 
consequence BBM cancelled her policy  as it felt it could no longer help her and that it didnt 
permit its representatives  to be abused. 
Mrs A complained but BBM wouldnt change its stance. So Mrs A bought her complaint to 
us.
The investigator thought it should  be upheld for compensation only and that BBM should pay 
Mrs A £100  compensation. BMM didnt  agree  and neither did Mrs A. So Mrs As complaint  
has been passed to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im upholding this along  
the same  lines as that of the investigator.  Ill now explain why. 
I understand and appreciate why Mrs A wanted to change  her cover limit for her pets  
policies. But I dont  consider BBM did anything wrong in explaining  how that change in cover  
would affect Mrs As cover for her pets. 
Its not unusual  for pet insurers to refuse to cover any pre-existing illnesses of the pet. Its 
also not unusual  for pet insurers to refuse to talk to vets before deciding if they will offer a 
policy to cover a pet. Instead they rely on the questions they ask the consumer in the 
application and then also rely on the terms and conditions of the policy  when a claim is 
made. All pet policies are sold on whats called an unadvised basis. That means  the pet 
insurer is under no duty to tell Mrs A which policy might suit her circumstances better. Thats 
only a decision Mrs A could make for herself on the basis of the cover provided by each 
policy. So I dont think BBM should have made contact with Mrs As vet, as Mrs A wanted it 
to do. 
Ref: DRN82569662I dont think Mrs A would  have ever changed her policy because she had already made 
claims on the policy she had. That would have meant none of those conditions for which she 
had would have  been covered by any new policy if the condition was ongoing.
I think BBM  could have helped Mrs A more to understand the limits of the advice it could 
give her about her wish to change her policy. This might have meant  things would not have 
got so frustrating for Mrs A, which also then might  have defused the situation  better. Instead 
BBM told Mrs A to talk to several  different departments and she understandably felt pushed  
from one person to the other.  
Therefore I think that BBM caused  Mrs A some unnecessary  distress  and inconvenience. I 
think because of this it needs to pay her compensation. The £100 suggested by the 
investigator is reasonable in my view and what I have awarded in similar circumstances.
Given the extent  of the frustration expressed  by Mrs A to the various  BBM representatives, 
and its duties to its employees,  BBM took the decision to cancel her policy.  As it did this with 
proper and indeed  extended notice, so I dont consider it did anything wrong here.
my final decision
So for these reasons its my final decision that I uphold this complaint for compensation only.
I now require Bought  By Many Ltd to pay Mrs A the sum of £100 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask [insert anonymised  
name here] to accept  or reject my decision before 1 January 2021.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8256966