K820x#14complaint
Mrs C complains that she was mis-sold  a monthly  premium payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy. 
Although the policy was sold by another business, Financial Insurance  Company Limited 
(FICL) have  accepted  responsibility for the sale and by extension  this complaint.
So Ive only referred to FICL during  this decision.
background
Mrs C took out a store card in 2001. She was sold the PPI in connection with this card at the 
same time in store.
The PPI cost £1 per £100  of the monthly outstanding balance.  And as I understand it, 
wouldve covered  15% of the monthly  outstanding  balance if Mrs C was off work sick or lost 
her job until the outstanding  balance  had been cleared. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mrs Cs complaint should be upheld.
Mrs C didnt agree with our adjudicator and the complaint has been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Cs case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Cs complaint. I will go on to explain why.
Im satisfied Mrs C was eligible for the PPI based  on her age and circumstances at the time 
of the sale. 
FICL had to make it clear to Mrs C that the PPI was optional and needed  Mrs Cs consent 
before it could be applied to the account. Mrs C says PPI was added to her account without 
her knowledge.
I cant know for sure what happened  during the sale and so Ive thought about what  Mrs C 
and FICL  have told us and looked to the information  available to help me decide  what  is 
more likely to have  happened.
In particular, Ive seen a copy of the application  form Mrs C completed at the time of the 
sale. I note that Mrs C signed separately to take PPI. I havent seen anything on this form 
which suggests PPI would  have been applied to her account if she hadnt separately  
requested it. 
So while I appreciate what Mrs C has told us, I think its more likely that the optional nature 
of the policy  was made clear to Mrs C and that it was applied to her account because  she 
chose to take it out.
Ref: DRN89691642From the information available  to me and what I know  of their sales  practice at the time, I 
dont think FICL advised Mrs C to take the policy out. This means  they didnt have to take 
adequate steps to ensure  the policy was suitable for Mrs C. So for example, they didnt  have 
to ask about or take into account  Mrs Cs existing  provisions or assess  if the PPI was 
affordable for Mrs C.
But FICL did have  to give Mrs C clear information so that she could make a proper choice 
about whether  or not to take the policy out. I cant say that FICL gave Mrs C all the 
information as they shouldve about the costs/benefits of the policy  or the main exclusions 
and restrictions. 
So I have  to go on and consider whether better information wouldve put Mrs C off taking  the 
policy out. I dont  think it wouldve.  I say this because:
-The PPI would have  paid out in addition any employee benefits Mrs C may have 
been entitled to from her employer. And for a longer period  of time. 
-Mrs C didnt appear to have been  affected  by the more restrictive terms in the policy 
which could have  made it difficult for her to make  a successful claim under the policy.  
For example, terms relating to pre-existing medical conditions and unusual working 
arrangements.
-Mrs C couldve  cancelled the policy at any time without losing out financially if she 
thought she could no longer afford  it or no longer wanted it.
-I havent seen  sufficient evidence to conclude  that the PPI was unaffordable  to Mrs C 
at the time of the sale.
So based  on what Ive seen, I dont think Mrs C was mis-sold this PPI policy.  
my final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Cs complaint against  Financial  Insurance  Company Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs C to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 April 2019.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8969164