complaint
The complaint is about the transfer  of benefits from an Occupational Pension  Scheme (OPS)
to a Section  32 pension  plan.
Mr T complains the advice to transfer from Turner Scott Partnership (TSP) was unsuitable 
and he should  have been advised to retain his preserved benefits in the OPS.
background
Our adjudicator summarised the background to this complaint in his assessment. The 
background has not been disputed by either party.
Mr T had deferred benefits in a former  employers  OPS. It is these benefits that were 
transferred to a personal pension and are the subject of this complaint.
In summary,  our adjudicator noted  that Mr T at the time of the advice complained  of, was 
aged 34 and married  with three  dependent children.  He planned to retire  at age 60. He 
was in full time employment,  a member of his employers money  purchase  OPS and his 
attitude to risk was noted as medium  I balanced.
The fact find was completed in January 1999, the notes about  retirement advice leading 
to the recommendation were dated July 1999  and a transfer  analysis report  was dated 
January 2000.  The latter noted that:
The revalued  preserved benefits from the AFPS at age 60 were expected to be:
 Tax free cash  of £6,420.05
 Annual pension of £2,381.54
The report said that for the transfer value (£10,228.49) to replace the benefits of the OPS  
within a Buy Out plan would require a critical  yield,  of 7.0% per annum.  Potential  benefits 
were illustrated on assumed growth  rates of 5%, 7% and 9% per annum.  The 
recommendation letter was dated a week after the transfer analysis report.  It said:
 TSP recommended the transfer to the Section  32 Buy Out plan. The critical  yield 
of 7% per annum to match benefits was quoted.
 Past performance of the provider's Pension  Managed Fund  over the last five 
and ten years was noted. These figures were in excess of the critical  yield.
 The benefits from the OPS were guaranteed and the transfer to the Section 32 
plan carried a higher level of risk. There was no guarantee about future investment  
performance.
 It was noted that benefits could  be taken  at age 60 provided  that the guaranteed  
minimum pension at State Retirement age could be provided for within  the fund.
Ref: DRN8812515 A product justification report had been provided, together with the transfe r analysis  report 
and key features document
Mr T completed the application  to transfer his benefits from the OPS to the Section 32 
Buy Out plan.
Mr T complained  to TSP in May 2018.  It rejected  his complaint  on the basis  that both the 
advice  and the process  leading  to it had been  suitable  and compliant  with then prevailing  
regulatory  obligations.  
TSP later questioned  (following  referral  of Mr Ts complaint  to this service)  whether  Mr Ts 
complaint  had been  made  within  the relevant  time limits  as set out in the handbook  of the 
industry  regulator,  the Financial  Conduct  Authority.
Through  his representative,  Mr T referred  his complaint  to this service.
Our adjudicator  concluded  that the complaint  should  not be upheld  on its merits.  In 
summary,  his reasoning  was that:
Both the fact find and report  indicated  that Mr T was a balanced or medium risk investor.  The 
risk scale  on the fact find was from 1 to 5 and 3 was marked  as Mr Ts risk attitude. This was 
consistent with his status as a balanced  or medium risk investor.  
Given he had some 25 years to his planned  retirement age of 60 and was in full time 
employment and his employers pension plan was invested in a managed fund, he did 
not consider that an inappropriate risk rating.
The deferred  OPS  benefits were for six years service. In the expectation of a 40 year 
working life perhaps  15% of retirement provision would be exposed  to risk by the transfer. 
Mr T was a member of his new employers OPS at the time of advice (albeit a money 
purchase scheme) so at the time of the advice the deferred OPS benefit  from his previous 
employer were reasonably thought to represent only a small proportion of his overall  
retirement provision.
The transfer analysis  report  noted a critical yield of 7% per annum would be needed to 
match the benefits given up. At that time this equated with the regulators prescribed middle 
rate of growth used  on illustrations.
TSP evidenced that the recommended fund had grown faster in the past. As the past growth 
could be checked  this was reasonable. The documentation provided  also included the 
relevant risk warnings about past performance.  
The adjudicator had not seen any misleading  statements  made to Mr T about the transfer, for 
example that the recommended plan would definitely give greater benefits  than the OPS. 
The sales  process  was not rushed. The transfer  analysis report  was completed a year after 
the first meeting and around  six months after retirement planning was being considered by 
Mr T. So Mr T had ample time to consider his options.
Mr Ts representative  did not agree. In summary, he reiterated that the critical yield was 
unlikely to be met; that the consequences  of the Section 32 plan, for example  tax free cash 
would not be available  if the fund value did not meet the Guaranteed Minimum Pension 
(GMP), was not clearly explained to Mr T and that his life cover would be compromised. 
Ref: DRN8812515K820x#14As agreement was not reached the matter has been referred to me.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide a fair and reasonable 
outcome in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have noted the exchanges between our adjudicator and TSP about our jurisdiction to 
consider this complaint in the context of our time limit rules.  I note that TSP said that as Mr T 
received further  financial  advice  in 2008,  which it says would have alerted him that his 
Section 32 Plan was unlikely to match the deferred  benefits of his OPS,  he then ought 
reasonably to have  complained. 
That may or may not have  been the case.  I agree with our adjudicator that there  is no 
documented evidence this matter  was discussed in 2008 and so Mr Ts complaint cannot be 
time barred  on this basis.
But I note that in these exchanges, no reference was made to the annual  statements Mr T 
presumably received  from his Section 32 plan provider. These would  have set out the 
benefits Mr T could expect to receive,  on retirement,  from his plan. 
TSP did not question why Mr T had apparently not compared the benefits of the plan to the 
deferred benefits statement he received from his OPS before transferring those benefits to 
the Section 32 plan.
In my view, if the statements between  2000 and 2018 showed lower  benefits would be 
realised from the Section  32 plan than those of the OPS deferred  benefits then it is likely I 
would have concluded Mr T ought  reasonably to have then complained within  three years of 
that realisation. As I have not seen the statements, I cannot  say whether or not Mr T has 
complained within three  years.
However, as TSP subsequently confirmed it was content for an ombudsman to consider the 
merits of this complaint,  I do not intend  commenting  further on the issue  of jurisdiction. 
I am sorry  to disappoint Mr T and his representative. But I agree with the conclusions of our 
adjudicator and for the same  reasons  as set out in his assessment of Mr Ts complaint.
I should say at the outset that transfers from defined benefit  or OPS schemes are now 
regarded, in most circumstances, as being  unsuitable. The industry regulator, the Financial  
Conduct Authority,  has frequently reiterated  this. 
But that was not the case  in 2000.  It would not be fair or reasonable to apply todays 
knowledge and experience of investment returns to advice  that was given in 2000. To do so 
would be to apply  the benefit  of hindsight. Rather, I must reach my decision on the basis  of 
knowledge and circumstances  that applied  when Mr T was advised  to transfer.
I have not seen evidence that Mr T was misled - the documents are clear that guaranteed  
benefits were being given  up and the Section 32 plan did not have those  guarantees.
The Suitability Letter  of January 2000 said:
Ref: DRN88125154Risk  -I pointed  out to you that the level of your future  benefits from your existing  scheme are 
guaranteed  and  that  transfer to the Buy Out plan will be undertaking  a  higher  level of risk because 
benefits  cannot  be guaranteed  and will depend  on invest ment performan ce to retirement age.  I also 
pointed  out that whilst  this has been significantly  better  during  the past 5 and 10 year periods past 
perform ance is no guarantee  to the level of future  performance.
In respect of life cover, the Suitability Letter  said:
We examined  the levels of life cover/spous es benefit  currently  and in the future  and I pointed out that 
there  would  be a significant  drop in the level of such cover at time of transf er and for a number  of 
years after.  Such  cover would  probably  not equal ise for about  10 years.  This you were willing to 
accept as you have additional  life cover  provided  within your employers Group  Personal Pension.                                                   
The Suitability Letter  then explained that:
Taking of Benefits  - You will be able to take benefits  at age 60 years  as desired from your total 
fund provid ed that the G M P element  at State  Retirement Age can be provided  for within  the fund. 
For example if the G M P element  at State  Retireme nt age was £3,000  per annum  then the pension  
payable  from the GMP  portion  of your   fund at age 60 years would  have to be a minimum  of 
£3,000 .
I accept that Mr T was not a pension expert.  But I am not persuaded he would  not have 
understood the meaning of the various risks as set out in the Suitability Letter. In my view it 
was clearly explained that he was giving up valuable guaranteed benefits  but Mr T accepted  
these risks as he had at least  a further  twenty four years before retiring.  
In that context, I agree with our adjudicator  that Mr T would have expected to make  further  
provision for his retirement over the following years (as he was already doing) and so the 
transferred benefits  would not expose an undue proportion  of his eventual  total retirement 
income to unmanageable risk.
The required  growth rate to match  benefits was considered achievable at the time of advice 
and was not contrary to the then regulatory guidance for recommending such  transfers. I am 
not persuaded that the selected managed fund was inconsistent with Mr Ts risk rating as 
medium or balanced.
It therefore was not unreasonable for TSP and Mr T to conclude that given circumstances at 
the time,  his Section  32 plan may well outperform the deferred and foregone OPS benefits. 
It is of course unfortunate investment performance, interest rates and annuity rates  have not 
matched expectations  at the time of advice. But that is a matter of hindsight. 
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 March  2020.                                           .
Terry Connor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8812515