K820x#14complaint
This complaints about a mortgage payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1996. Mr and Mrs T say National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) mis-sold them the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ts case.
Having done so, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Its not surprising,  given how long ago the sale took place, that not all of the information  
from the times still available. But Ive seen  nothing  to suggest NatWest  failed  to make it 
clear that Mr and Mrs T didnt have to take out the PPI or that they didnt choose  to take 
it out  although I can understand if they cant remember this now.
The parties agree that NatWest didnt recommend  the PPI to Mr and Mrs T so it didnt 
have to check if it was right for them. But it did have to make  sure Mr and Mrs T got the 
information they needed to decide  if it was right for them. 
Its possible the information NatWest gave Mr and Mrs T about the PPI wasnt as clear  
as it should have been. But it seems  they chose to take out the PPI  so it looks  like they 
wanted this type of cover.  Based  on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time it 
doesnt look like Mr T as the person insured was affected by any of the exclusions to, or 
limits on, the PPI cover  so it would have been useful for them  if something  went wrong. 
It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI 
would have put them off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs T have said  including  what  theyve said about 
the mistakes made by NatWest during the sales process. But these points dont change my 
decision because,  as well as looking at how the sale was made, I need to consider  what 
Mr and Mrs T would  have  done had there been no failings. As I say, I dont believe theyve 
lost out.
Ive also thought about the commission Mr and Mrs T paid on their policy   and whether  
NatWest treated them unfairly.  
NatWests told us that the commission  for Mr and Mrs Ts policy was less than half of what 
they paid for each  premium. Weve looked  at how NatWest has been  working  this out and 
based on what weve seen it looks like its right  Mr and Mrs Ts commission was less than 
half the cost of the policy. As thats the case,  I dont think it needed to tell them  about the 
commission  so I dont  think  NatWest treated them unfairly. This means  it doesnt need  to 
pay Mr and Mrs T back any of the commission they paid for the PPI. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN87315822Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 February  2019.
Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8731582