K821x#15Complaint
Ms B says Citifinancial Europe  Limited  (Citi) mis-sold her a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.
Background
In 2003, Ms B took out a loan with Citi. At the same time she was sold a single premium PPI 
policy. The cost of the policy was added to her loan, which meant that interest was charged  
on it.
Our adjudicator thought that Ms Bs complaint should be upheld. This was because they 
didnt think the cost of the policy had been  made clear enough to her. Citi disagreed with the 
adjudicators view, so the case was passed  to me to review  afresh.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding  
Ms Bs case. 
Having done so, Im upholding  the complaint. Ill explain why.
When Citi sold the PPI policy  to Ms B it needed to make sure, among other things, she was 
given enough  information about it to decide if it was right for her. This information  needed  to 
be clear,  fair and not misleading. I dont think it did this in relation to the cost of the policy. 
Ive reviewed the sample Insurance Application Form Citi says Ms B would  have signed  at 
the time of the sale. This shows the cash price of the premium, the interest chargeable on it 
over the term of the loan and the total premium including interest. But the sample Citis 
provided was signed  by one of its customers in 2007  and the form carries the printed code 
08/05  presumably meaning the form came  into use from August 2005. 
As such,  I cant reasonably say that the form Ms B would have seen in 2003 was the same, 
or even  similar  to, the one Citis sent us. Although Citis also sent a sample credit 
agreement, which might have been  in use in 2003, the form doesnt sufficiently set out the 
cost information  Ive already mentioned either.  
All of which means  I cant fairly find that Citi adequately disclosed the cost of the PPI to Ms B 
before she agreed  to buy it.
This missing information about the cost of Ms Bs policy represented relatively significant 
sums of money. So I think it would  have been  important to Ms B in making an informed 
choice about whether  she wanted to take out this cover. And, taking account  of what  I know  
about her circumstances at the time,  I dont think she would have  thought the policy  
represented good value for money or that shed still have  wanted to buy it if Citi had given  
her better cost information than it did.
So I think Ms Bs lost out as a result  of this failure  by Citi and that she should be 
compensated for it.
Ref: DRN82319512Putting things  right
Ms B borrowed extra to pay for the PPI, so her loan was bigger than it should have been and 
she paid more than she should have each  month. So Ms B needs  to get back  the extra shes  
paid.
So, Citi should:
-Work out and pay Ms B the difference between what  she paid each month  on the loan 
and what she would  have paid each month without PPI.
-Add simple interest to the extra  amount Ms B paid each month  from when she paid it 
until she gets it back. The rate of interest is 8% a year.
-If Ms B made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Citi can take off what  she got for 
the claim from the amount it owes her.
-If Citis already repaid any commission or profit share to Ms B that relates to this PPI 
sale, that sum can also be deducted  from the compensation  it owes her.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Citi to take off tax from this interest. Citi must give Ms B 
a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons  given,  I uphold the complaint against Citifinancial Europe  Limited  and 
require it to put things right for Ms B as explained  above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 October  2019.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8231951