K820x#14complaint
Mr W and Ms W (the complainants) say the investment  platform  service they received from 
Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited (HL) has been deficient,  because:
Its accounting for the costs of unit trusts (the accumulation fund version) featured  
original acquisition costs  and failed to include adjustments for accumulated 
reinvested dividends;  so the costs for their holdings were inaccurately  presented,  
were artificially  lower than actual costs  (on an accumulation basis) and were the 
source of misguidance  to them in terms of managing their Capital Gains Tax (CGT) 
liabilities and allowances because the lower costs meant gains  were  inaccurately 
inflated.
Exit fees applicable to their investments were not transparent;  in this respect Mr W 
was surprised by a £350 exit fee he was required to pay when he transferred (out) 
his investments to another  platform.
The complainants  say these deficiencies mean they have not received the service they were 
entitled to and paid for in platform related fees.  They say at least 75% of the fees they paid 
should be refunded. Mr W also says that a reasonable transfer-out fee, based  on the rates  
used by comparable  platform providers, is £25 so HL should refund £325 from the fee he 
paid.
background
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  and concluded that it should not be 
upheld. In the main  she said:
Evidence from HL is that it is its preferred approach to present costs  based on 
average purchase cost values  and this service does not have the power  to instruct a 
firm on how to present information.
There is evidence of notice, on HLs website,  to customers which  states this 
approach and which gives a warning that the costs  information  should not be used 
for CGT purposes (and that contract  notes  could instead be used for such  purposes);  
evidence of a similar notice in the Frequently Asked Questions page of the website;  
and evidence that the same message was repeated in HLs wider literature (and 
investment related  reports),  alongside  guidance  to customers that they should seek  
advice from an accountant in terms of their CGT positions.
She understood the point made in the complaint, but evidence shows  that HL made 
the basis of the costs  calculations clear to customers, so it has done  nothing wrong.
A similar conclusion applies to the matter of exit fees; the platform  service terms and 
conditions agreed at the outset  (in 2000) detailed applicable  charges, with notice  that 
the terms could  change in the future; in 2014  HL sent notice to the complainants  
about the aftermath  of an industry  review in which charges  would be applied  
separately for individual services,  and the same  information was on its website and in 
the investment  reports sent to them; the most  recent  tariff of HLs charges relevant to 
the complaint  was clearly set out and those were the charges  that applied  to their 
account; so there is no basis for the refund claimed. HL waived the transfer fee that 
would have applied  to Ms W and it decided to halve the fee applicable to Mr W, it 
should not have to do any more.
The complainants  disagreed with this outcome. With regards  to the fees/charges  issue  they 
highlighted that the regulator  has an ongoing  investigation into the same matter (within  the 
Ref: DRN85279052industry). With regards to the presentation of costs  issue they mainly  argued that HL 
presented asset  related information  (for example,  Corporate Action information) which  would 
have taken comparable,  or no less, effort  than that required to provide information in which  
accumulated dividends are factored into the costs figures; that if the former could be done 
HL could and should have  also done the latter, especially  given the high platform  fees it 
receives; and that nothing  stopped  HL from including a simple notice or guidance on its 
platform, and to investors, saying that accumulated dividends may be added to the costs of 
investments for CGT purposes  (and that investors  should take tax advice in this respect).
HL said it had no comments on any investigation  by the regulator, but it must be noted  that 
HL, in isolation, is under no such investigation  the regulators focus will be the industry as 
a whole. With regards  to the presentation of costs issue it said, in the main, that the notice(s)  
available on its platform (and elsewhere) already,  in essence, gives the information and 
guidance that the complainants say it ought  to give with regards to CGT and the 
presentation of costs.  Mr W disagreed, with illustration of his argument  that the information  
was not as easily accessible as it should  be, was/is not as explicit  about  the need  to add 
accumulated dividends as it should  be and that there  is an unexplained contradiction 
between information  provided by HL which is unrelated to acquisition  costs and its claim that 
information about adding accumulated dividends is not provided because it is unrelated to 
acquisition costs.
HL retained its position and reiterated the different sources of information to customers (and 
the complainants) which gave essentially the same  notice  that the complainants  say ought to 
have been given; it disagreed with their suggestion of a contradiction  and explained that it is 
simply a characteristic  of the unit type that accumulated dividends are treated as it treated 
them in the presentation  of costs; it said, in any case, costs  were transparently  calculated 
and the CGT  related notice was available;  it said, if the complainants  were uncertain  about 
this they could have enquired further; and it noted  that it did/does not advice on tax issues,  
so it was the complainants responsibility  to seek advice in this respect (and its website 
reminded them of this).
The matter   including a copy of the complainants  representations,  on the matter, to the 
consumer rights organisation Which?   was referred to an ombudsman.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, it is my view that the 
investigators findings were meaningful and supported by evidence,  and it is my conclusion  
that the complaint should not be upheld for broadly  the same  reasons given in her findings.
Mr W invited me to consider their representations  to Which? as it contained perhaps  the best 
presentation of their case. I confirm that I have read the representations, I found them very 
well presented and useful. However, the two issues in the complaint remain  as summarised 
at the outset of this decision.
Exit/Transfer Fee
This service has been given evidence of HLs Fee Tariff as it applied in 2000 when the 
complainants opened  their accounts and the Fee Tariff that applied from 2014,  following the 
regulators Retail Distribution Review (which was relevant to the transparency of charges 
applied by firms). This evidence serves  as the Fee Tariff agreed between the parties and it 
Ref: DRN85279053includes provision for the transfer out fee (for stock holdings) of £25 per stock   not the 
single one-off fee Mr W says other firms applied and says HL should have applied. 
The conclusion arising from the Fee Tariff evidence is that HL applied  the transfer  out fees it 
was entitled to apply. Its goodwill in waiving  the fees for Ms Ws account  is commendable,  
but that does not mean it is obliged  to do the same  for Mr W or to meet his request for a 
refund of £325   especially as it has also shown him a degree of goodwill by offering to 
halve the requisite fee.
Overall and on balance,  I do not consider that HL provided the complainants  with a deficient 
service in this matter. It should  be noted  that Mr W proposed a suspension of our treatment 
of the complaint pending completion of the regulatory investigation  he mentioned.  He 
anticipated that new regulations which would support his argument in this matter could result 
from that. However, he understood our need  to proceed with and to conclude the complaint. 
Nevertheless, I consider  the salient points remain that the agreed Fee Tariff was reasonably 
transparent in 2000 and 2014, was made available to the complainants  and was the basis 
for the transfer  out fees applied in Mr Ws account.
Costs Information
There has been a form of debate in this issue, over what the complainants  believe HL should 
have presented in its calculation  of costs, but did not. With no disregard  intended  towards 
their belief(s), I consider that another point is mainly  or at least more  relevant.  
There is no dispute over the facts  of the costs  calculation  and information  presented  by HL. 
The complainants  arguments about  what that calculation/information was missing and that 
such omission(s)  should  not have been the case is noted; and the same applies  to the logic 
behind their argument. 
However, what is important is to establish whether  (or not) HL was wrong to have committed  
the omission and/or whether (or not) the calculation/information it provided on the costs of 
the complainants holdings  was misleading.  These are the main questions  to address. They 
differ from questions based on the complainants belief(s) and instead  they,  correctly,  focus 
on whether (or not) HL breached an obligation(s) in the manner it presented the 
calculation/information.
Regulations and laws about a firms obligation in presenting information to its customers (or 
the public) are essentially rooted in the notion  that such  information must be accessible,  
clear, accurate and not misleading.  My remit in this decision is limited to the complainants  
case. In their case, I consider  as follows:
I echo the points made by the investigator  with regards to the different and 
accessible sources of information  explaining  how HL calculated  the costs  for holdings 
in the relevant unit trusts (accumulated fund versions)  and the calculations  
themselves. Nothing was misrepresented in this respect. The calculations  did not 
include accumulated  dividends and they did not pretend  to do so. The same  applies 
to the explanations behind the calculations. As they were, the calculations appear to 
have been accurate   whether (or not) they were sufficient  is addressed separately 
below. I also consider, as referenced by the investigator and by HL, that they were 
reasonably accessible  (in the platform/website and investment related reports) and 
clearly presented. The same applies to the explanatory information which  was 
Ref: DRN85279054available in a number of relatively direct ways  as also referenced  by the 
investigator and by HL.
I understand the logic in the arguments  the complainants have made in this issue. 
However, that does  not automatically  mean the costs information presented by HL 
was insufficient  or that it was wrong  to have omitted the accumulated dividends from 
its calculation of costs. The matter of what was or was not sufficient  is  other than 
being defined  by the general requirements  for the presentation of information  (as 
mentioned above)   largely a regulatory  matter. I am not aware  of specific  regulation 
requiring firms  to calculate  costs  for unit trusts (accumulated fund versions)  only in a 
way that features the addition of accumulated  dividends.
The basis/explanation for the costs calculation was transparent; the calculation itself 
was clearly presented;  as it was defined, the calculation was also accurate; and the 
calculation did not breach a regulatory  obligation. I also do not consider that a 
contractual obligation was breached in the same  respect.
An important allegation made  by the complainants is that the calculation  and 
presentation of costs  was misleading,  in the context  of CGT  management. I disagree. 
HLs explanatory information for the calculation expressly did the opposite. It sought 
to ensure its customers were not misguided  in terms of CGT management by 
including notice  that the calculation   should  not be used  for Capital Gains  Tax 
purposes  and by signposting them to  please refer to your contract notes if 
completing a tax return.  
Overall and on balance,  I am not persuaded that HL provided the alleged  deficient service in 
its accounting for and presentation of costs for the complainants unit trusts holdings
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold Mr Ws and Ms Ws complaint. Under the rules 
of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Ms W to accept or reject  
my decision  before 20 December 2020.
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8527905