K821x#15Complaint
Ms S is unhappy with the repairs carried out on her car through  her Admiral  Insurance 
Company Limited  motor  insurance policy.
Background
In November 2017, Ms Ss car was hit by an uninsured driver. She notified a claim on her 
car insurance. Admiral  accepted the claim and its appointed repairer completed work on her 
car  which was returned in December 2017.
When Ms S took the car for its MOT in August 2018,  the engineer discovered the parking 
sensors werent connected; the offside front headlamp washer was leaking; and the adjuster 
in the nearside  front headlamp was broken. Ms S thinks this damage was caused  by the 
November 2017  accident.
Ms S complained to Admiral about  the quality  of its repairs  as well as the courtesy car it 
provided. It agreed there had been  problems  with the repairs and courtesy  car. The parking 
sensors had already been reconnected, so it offered to pay £129.43 to cover  the cost of 
fixing the washer plus £150 compensation.  But it considered the adjuster damage to be wear 
and tear, so didnt  agree to cover this. 
Ms S asked our service to review  her complaint. Our investigator wasnt  convinced that the 
damage was wear and tear, as the MOT report said it had been caused  by impact. Admiral  
pointed out that the offside of the car was hit in the accident, whereas the damaged  
headlamp was on the nearside. But our investigator  noted that the nearside  of the car had 
collided with the curb  and the whole front bumper had come off. She was satisfied that the 
damage was likely to have been  caused  by the accident. She thought  the known issues  with 
the repairs and the internal location  of the break suggested it had probably been missed  by 
the repairers. The investigator recommended  that Admiral reimburse Ms S for replacing the 
headlamp.
In response, Admiral  highlighted that Ms S had been driving the car problem-free for several 
months. But our investigator was persuaded by Ms Ss account  that she hadnt noticed  that 
the adjuster wasnt  working as she rarely drives in the dark.  Admiral also said the lack of 
external damage  to the headlamp indicated that wear and tear was the cause. Our 
investigator still considered the circumstances of the accident likely to have caused  the 
damage. So she didnt change her view. 
Admiral disagreed with the investigator. It maintained that the damage was wear  and tear 
because it was internal  and on the opposite side of the car to the collision. It said its expert  
opinion was that the adjuster had been  damaged in an attempt to realign the headlight. The 
case has now been escalated to me for a final decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided to uphold  it.
Ref: DRN84074042Admiral has accepted fault for the issues with the washer,  parking  sensor  and courtesy car. 
It offered  £129.43 costs  plus £150 compensation for this. Ms S has indicated that shes  
satisfied with this offer. For the sake of completeness, I consider Admirals  offer to be a fair 
and reasonable resolution to this part of her complaint. It covers the cost of repairing the 
damaged parts. And Im satisfied that £150  fairly reflects the distress and inconvenience  
caused  and is in line with compensation weve previously awarded in similar cases.
Ms Ss outstanding  concern  is about  Admirals refusal to cover the replacement headlamp. 
Under the terms of the policy, its liable for this if the damage was caused by the accident  
but not if its wear  and tear. On balance, I find the case  for the damage being caused by the 
accident more  persuasive. 
Admiral says the damage is wear and tear. The account its put forward  is that the adjuster 
was damaged during a realignment attempt. Already, that doesnt  sound like wear and tear. 
And Im not satisfied  that Admiral has justified how it reached its conclusion.  Ms S has 
consistently said she only became aware  of the issue during the MOT. And the MOT report  
describes the adjuster as having broken off  suggesting force. It attributed this to an 
accident or some other form of impact. I find the expert, first hand evidence  from Ms Ss 
MOT report more compelling than Admirals explanation. 
The MOT  report  says the headlamp adjuster broke off due to accident damage/being struck. 
So Ive concluded  that its likely to have been caused by a significant impact   and not by 
wear and tear. Its possible that the damage  was caused by an incident other than the 
November 2017  accident  but the correct  standard of proof is what is more probable. So 
Ive considered whether the accident is the more  probable cause of the damage.
Ive already addressed why Im not convinced by Admirals case for the damage being 
caused by an adjustment  attempt. Its also pointed to the lack of external damage  to the 
headlamp as evidence that the adjuster wasnt broken during the accident.  However,  the 
photographs Ive seen fit Ms Ss account that the nearside of the car collided with the curb. 
The front bumper  directly below the headlamps  came off completely, and appears to 
have been propelled forward  by some distance. This persuades me that the adjuster was 
most likely damaged by the accident.  
Ms S says she hasnt  been involved in any other accidents since  November 2017.  There is 
no evidence to suggest she was  such as another claim or incident  notification,  or damage  
to her car which cant be traced back to the accident. So I dont  consider  it likely  that another  
accident caused the damage.   
Although Ms S used the car for around seven  months after her claim, shes  told us  and I 
accept  that she rarely drives in the dark. And the headlamp wasnt completely broken  it 
just wouldnt adjust properly. So it seems plausible that she wouldnt have been aware of the 
damage. In addition,  although Admirals repairers didnt discover the broken  adjuster  during 
the claim,  it admits that other damage caused by the accident  wasnt  properly repaired. That 
limits the reliability of its evidence. And the adjuster is an internal part, making  it less likely to 
have been discovered during the claim.  So I consider it likely that the damage was missed  
during the initial  repairs  and went unnoticed until the MOT.
Overall, Im satisfied the November 2017 accident is the more likely cause of the broken  
adjuster. So I consider  Admiral liable for the costs  Ms S has incurred as a result  of this.
Ref: DRN84074043My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Admiral Insurance Company 
Limited to reimburse  Ms S for the cost of replacing  the headlamp. This is in addition to the 
£129.43 Admiral  has already  paid for other repairs and the £150 its paid for compensation.
This sum should  be paid within 28 days of Admiral being notified by us of Ms Ss acceptance 
of my decision. The award  will accrue of 8% simple  interest from the date that Ms S paid for 
the headlamp  repair  (on receipt of reasonable proof  of this) until the date of settlement (less 
any tax properly deducted). 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 October  2019
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8407404