K821x#15complaint
Mr G complains that PDL Finance Limited  (trading  as Mr Lender) lent to him in an 
irresponsible manner.
background
Mr G was given 4 loans  by Mr Lender  between January 2016 and March 2017.  Each  of the 
loans was due to be repaid in monthly instalments.  Mr G successfully repaid the first three 
loans but a balance remained outstanding on the final loan when he made  his complaint. 
A summary  of Mr Gs borrowing from Mr Lender is as follows;
Loan 
NumberBorrowing 
DateRepayment 
DateLoan 
Amount  
1 18/01/2016 22/04/2016 £   300
2 22/04/2016 15/09/2016 £   500
3 15/09/2016 15/03/2017 £   500
4 15/03/2017 - £   550
Mr Gs complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. He didnt think Mr Lender 
had been wrong  to give the first three loans to Mr G. But he didnt think Mr Lender should 
have agreed to lend the final loan. So he asked Mr Lender to pay Mr G some compensation.
Mr Lender didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.  This is the last stage of our 
process. If Mr G accepts  my decision it is legally binding on both parties.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr G could repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These  factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
Ref: DRN86280872the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish 
whether Mr G could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether  the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the FCAs Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines 
sustainable as being without undue  difficulties and in particular the customer should be able 
to make repayments on time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments; as well as 
without having  to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  
or it ought fairly  and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make  their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Gs complaint.
Mr Lender did some  checks before  it lent to Mr G. It asked  him for details of his income,  and 
his normal expenditure. And it gathered some information from his credit file before agreeing 
the loans. Ive seen an extract of the information  from the credit checks  and I dont think  it 
shows anything that should have caused additional concerns to Mr Lender.
I think that the checks Mr Lender  did before agreeing the first three loans were 
proportionate. The amounts that Mr G needed to repay were relatively small compared with 
the disposable income hed declared.  Given these repayment amounts, what  was apparent 
about Mr Gs circumstances at the time, and his borrowing  history  with the lender, I dont 
think it wouldve been proportionate for Mr Lender to ask him for the amount of information  
that would  be needed to show the lending was unsustainable before agreeing  the first three 
loans. 
Mr G was starting to show a pattern of reliance  on the loans he was taking from Mr Lender. 
Hed taken a new loan on the same day that hed repaid each of his earlier  loans. And the 
amounts he was asking  to borrow  were steadily increasing. So I think  that when Mr G asked 
to borrow again  on the same  day that he repaid loan 3 Mr Lender  should have increased the 
checks that it was doing.  
Although I still think it was reasonable for Mr Lender  to take account of the information that 
Mr G provided  about his finances,  I think it should  have asked him some  very specific 
questions about  any other short term loans that he was already committed to repaying. And 
had it done so I think Mr Lender would have  discovered that Mr G was already borrowing 
from a number of other lenders  loans  that he would need to repay at the same  time as his 
new loan from Mr Lender. 
Ref: DRN86280873So I dont  think it would  have been reasonable for Mr Lender to conclude  that Mr G was 
likely to be able to repay the final loan in a sustainable manner. I think  Mr Lender should 
have concluded  that it was more  likely  than not that Mr G was having to borrow further to 
cover the hole repaying his previous loans was leaving in his finances and that his 
indebtedness was increasing unsustainably. 
I dont think Mr Lender should have given the final loan to Mr G and should  pay him some  
compensation.
putting things right
Mr Lender has told us that Mr G hasnt yet repaid all of the principal amount that he 
borrowed on his final loan. I think that it is reasonable that Mr Lender should expect that 
principal to be repaid.  But as Im satisfied Mr Lender  shouldnt  have given  loan 4 to Mr G, 
I require Mr Lender to:
calculate how much  Mr G has repaid  in total towards loan 4. If that is less than the 
principal amount he borrowed (£550) no compensation payment is required to be 
made by Mr Lender to Mr G. Mr Lender  should seek to agree a mutually agreeable 
repayment arrangement with Mr G for the remaining principal balance - or
should Mr G have  repaid more  than the principal  amount he borrowed on loan 4 any 
excess payments should be refunded to him.
simple interest should be added  at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts 
from the date they were  paid to the date of settlement*.
remove any adverse entries relating to loan 4 from Mr Gs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender  to take off tax from this interest. It must give 
Mr G a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold part of Mr Gs complaint and direct PDL Finance Limited  to 
put things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 January 2020.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8628087