K820x#14complaint
Miss J has complained that Ageas Insurance Limited settled a claim as a fault claim under 
her car insurance policy. Shes unhappy that her No Claims Bonus (NCB) reduced from nine 
years to three as a result  of the claim.
background
Miss J was involved  in an incident  with another  car. Her insurer  Ageas received a claim from 
the other drivers representative.  Ageas called Miss J to discuss  the incident. Based on her 
account, Ageas said it would have no choice but to deal with the other drivers claim. Miss J 
confirmed that she had reversed into the other  drivers car while he was stationary.
When it came time to renew Miss Js policy, she contacted her broker as the premium was 
much higher  than she expected. She discovered  that Ageas had reduced her NCB from nine 
years to three. 
Miss J complained to Ageas. She said she didnt hear from it after the initial phone call. 
Miss J didnt  think the claim the other  driver made was right as she didnt believe he couldve 
have been injured in the incident. Miss J said the other driver was parked illegally  at the time 
of the incident.  She wanted  Ageas to properly  investigate the claim by obtaining CCTV 
footage and to inspect  her car. Miss J said the damage was insignificant.
Ageas said because Miss J accepted shed reversed into the other drivers car while  
stationary; a court would most likely find her at fault for the incident. It didnt make  a 
difference that the other  driver  might  have been parked illegally. Ageas said the onus was on 
Miss J to check  it was safe and clear before carrying out her manoeuvre. So it said it 
correctly dealt with the claim and recorded  it as a fault claim.
Ageas apologised for failing to keep Miss J updated about the claim - and for failing to tell 
her that the claim would reduce her NCB.  For the distress and inconvenience  it caused, 
Ageas paid Miss J £50 compensation.  
Miss J asked  us to look at her complaint. Our investigator thought Ageas had acted 
reasonably and in line with the policy. 
Miss J didnt  agree. So shed like an ombudsman to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
it. Ill explain why. 
Miss Js policy  with Ageas has a term which Ive seen in most  if not all motor  insurance 
policies. So it isnt unusual. This term allows Ageas to settle a claim as it sees  fit. This 
means it might make a decision Miss J doesnt agree, but the policy allows  Ageas  to make 
this decision. We look at whether an insurer properly investigated  the claim before reaching 
its decision  and whether that decision was reasonable.  We dont decide  liability.  This is the 
role of the courts.
Ref: DRN87024922Ageas spoke to Miss J a couple of days after the incident as it received a claim from the 
other drivers  representative. Ageas has provided  us with a recording of the call. 
The agent  asked  Miss J if shed reversed into the other drivers car while  it was stationary.  
Miss J confirmed  she had. She explained  that the other car wasnt parked  in a car park 
space (at the retail  park). Miss J said it was in her blind spot and so she didnt see it. 
The agent  explained to Miss J that Ageas would have no choice but to deal with the other 
drivers claim  as he was stationary. Miss J said she didnt want  to make a claim for damage 
to her car. She said it had three scratches.  
So I think Ageas  acted reasonably in accepting liability for the incident. 
However, I think Ageas should have kept Miss J updated. It didnt explain that its decision 
meant it would  record the claim as a fault claim and that it would reduce Miss Js NCB.  
Even though  Ageas  said the claim costs wouldnt affect the premium  shed pay it at renewal, 
I can understand Miss Js upset and shock when she discovered her NCB had reduced. I 
think Ageas  should  have  managed Miss Js expectations better.
But  because I think Ageas correctly recorded  the claim  as a fault claim, this means that it 
has correctly reduced  Miss Js NCB to three years. Ageas explained how a fault claim would 
affect Miss Js NCB in her policy booklet. 
I understand Miss J is very unhappy  about the claim costs. But Ageas received medical  
evidence and engineering evidence along with hire car costs to support the other  drivers 
claim. So I think it acted reasonably in settling the claim. Ageas had a duty to do so as it 
accepted liability.  And Ageas did challenge  some  of the costs which resulted in settling for a 
lower amount than the other drivers  representative  claimed for.
I think Ageas  has paid a fair amount of compensation for the distress and inconvenience its 
failure to update Miss J caused. But I think it properly investigated  the claim and reached its 
decision in a fair and reasonable way. 
I appreciate Miss J will be disappointed with my decision. But I dont think Ageas needs  to do 
any more. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 February  2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8702492