K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that Tesco Personal Finance  Plc (Tesco) recorded  adverse information on 
his credit file.
background
Mr K has a credit card account with Tesco. He set up a Direct Debit  to make  the minimum 
payment each month. But it took a few weeks to set up, meaning it wasnt in place by the 
time the next payment  was due. So the payment wasnt collected, leaving the account in 
arrears. Mr K says he called Tesco to ask if they wanted him to make a manual  payment to 
clear the arrears. He says they told him it was up to him and that he could wait for the first 
Direct Debit payment.  But hes since noticed  that a missed payment has been recorded on 
his credit file and hes not happy about that.
Mr K complained to Tesco.  He wanted them to remove the missed payment  entry  from his 
credit file. But they said theyd reported  it correctly and didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr K wasnt  happy with Tescos response  so he brought his complaint to this service. Our 
adjudicator thought that Tesco had acted fairly and didnt ask them  to do anything. But Mr K 
didnt agree and asked  for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
Mr K says that Tescos  agent on the phone guided him towards  waiting for the next Direct 
Debit payment, rather than making  a payment there  and then to clear the arrears. He says 
his intention was to bring the account up to date and he thinks  it would be more  accurate to 
record the payment  as late rather than missed.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ks statements  show  that the payment for October 2018 wasnt  made  by the due date. 
The account  fell into arrears and a late payment fee was applied. Shortly afterwards, Mr K 
made a manual payment  to cover the October  minimum  payment plus the late payment fee. 
He also set up a Direct  Debit around that time. But the Direct Debit  wasnt set up in time to 
collect the November  payment.  So the account remained in arrears  and another late 
payment fee was applied. By the time the December payment was due, the Direct  Debit  had 
been set up. So Decembers minimum payment (which included  the arrears)  was collected 
on time, bringing the account up to date.
So Im satisfied that Novembers payment was missed. I understand the reason for that was 
because the Direct Debit wasnt  set up in time.  But I dont think  that was Tescos fault. From 
the information available to me, Im satisfied  that Mr K was made  aware at the time he 
arranged the Direct  Debit that it could take up to 30 days for it to be set up so he should 
continue to make manual  payments in the meantime. 
Mr K says that, when  he called Tesco  about the arrears, he was guided towards waiting for 
the December  Direct  Debit  to be collected,  rather than making a manual payment. He says 
he wasnt asked to make payment over the phone.
Ref: DRN89066232Ive listened to Mr Ks call to Tesco. The agent  didnt ask him to make  a payment over the 
phone. But Mr K didnt say that was why hed called. He called to find out why the account 
was in arrears when hed set up a Direct  Debit. The agent looked into the timings and 
explained why the account was still in arrears. He also said that Tesco could take a payment 
from Mr K or wait for the December Direct  Debit to be collected. When Mr K asked if the 
Direct Debit payment  would clear the arrears,  the agent confirmed it would.
I dont find that Mr K was led into waiting  for the Direct Debit to be collected rather  than 
making a manual payment.  But I dont  think it would have made a difference  to the credit file 
anyway. Thats because, at the time Mr K called, the November payment date had already 
passed without  payment  being made. The payment  had already been missed. So I find it 
likely that the adverse  entry would  still have been  made, even if Mr K had made  a manual 
payment at the time he called.  Tesco are obliged to report accurately about the account to 
the credit  reference  agencies  and I think they did so here.
I also note from the phone call that the agent  told Mr K while  were waiting for any 
payment of the arrears your credit  file will continue  to update to reflect any missed 
payments. So I think Tesco were clear  about  the impact of the arrears on the credit file. 
For the reasons  above, I think Tesco have acted fairly here. So Im not going to ask them  to 
do anything.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2020.
Katy Kidd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8906623