K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that when he closed his fixed rate savings account The Royal Bank  of Scotland 
Plc deducted £708.63. To put matters right hed like this to be refunded to him.
background
Mr H wanted to withdraw money he held in a fixed rate savings  account he had with RBS. He 
went into branch to close his account and he says he was told to write a closure letter  and to 
include confirmation in the letter that hed lose some  interest.
When the account was closed he was shocked to find out that RBS had deducted £708.63. He 
says he wasnt told there would be an additional penalty  or that hed lose 90 days interest. Had 
he known  this he says he wouldnt have  closed the account.
RBS didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. It said that when  Mr H wrote to them  to ask for his account 
to be closed he acknowledged that hed lose interest and that there was a notice  period. And 
under the terms and conditions of Mr Hs account,  early closure incurs 90 days  loss of interest.
Mr H was unhappy with RBSs response so he referred his complaint to this service. Our 
investigator didnt think RBS had made an error.
The investigator noted that when Mr H opened his account he received  the terms and conditions 
applicable to the account and an information sheet. These explained that if he wanted to close  
the account before the maturity date he must give 35 days written notice and an Early Closure 
Charge would be deducted.  She also noted that when  he asked  RBS to close his account and 
transfer the balance to his current account he said: P.S I am aware Ill lose interest  and there is 
a notice period. Although  Mr H says he was told by a branch assistant to include this wording 
she thought  that if he was unsure he couldve asked  the adviser.
Mr H disagrees with the investigators view.  He says he doesnt recall receiving the terms and 
conditions. In response our investigator said she had two different versions  of events but based 
on the evidence she thought on the balance of probabilities it was more likely  than not that he 
wouldve received the terms and conditions of the account.
He says he specifically asked the adviser whether  hed lose interest. The adviser told him hed 
lose some interest but he wasnt told hed lose three months  interest. In response, our 
investigator thought if Mr H wasnt sure how much interest hed lose he should have questioned 
this with the bank before he wrote his letter and asked  for his account  to be closed. Mr H replied 
to say he always knew hed lose some interest and there were conditions  attached  but his issue 
is that the conditions werent  given to him at the time and RBS hasnt provided any evidence  to 
show they were.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so I agree with the outcome reached  by the 
investigator and for broadly  the same reasons.
I realise Mr H says he never  received the terms and conditions applicable to his account and 
hed like RBS to prove they were provided.  Based on the information  Ive seen  Im not able to say 
these were definitely provided to Mr H. Sometimes a business isnt able to provide all the 
information wed like and in these situations we reach our decisions  based on the information we 
have and what is more likely than not to have happened.
Ref: DRN82537472Even if Mr H wasnt  provided with the terms and conditions initially I think its more likely than not 
that they will have been attached to or referred to in the certificate  of deposit issued after the 
account was opened.
As Mr H accepts  he always knew hed lose some interest and there were conditions attached 
and taking into account the significant  amount of money he held in his account, Id expect him to 
clarify with RBS any applicable notice periods  and early  closure fees that might  apply before he 
wrote to RBS authorising  it to close his account.
Mr H says he was told to include in his closure  letter confirmation that hed lose some interest. 
But as Ive explained above  given the large amount of money he held in his account and given 
that Mr H accepts that he was aware  hed lose some  interest then I think  its reasonable to 
expect him to have  questioned this with RBS at the time  and certainly before he wrote to RBS 
authorising it to close his account and including in that letter that he was aware hed lose some  
interest and that there was a notice  period.
Mr H wrote to RBS in February 2019 and asked for his account to be closed.  In that letter  he 
wrote P.s I am aware Ill lose interest and there is a notice period. Based  on this letter I think  
RBS acted reasonably  in taking at face value  that Mr H was aware  of the consequences of 
closing his account early.  And I wouldnt expect RBS to clarify  Mr Hs instructions further.
Based on the information Ive seen  I cant say RBS acted unfairly because the terms and 
conditions and Information sheet clearly say that for withdrawals  prior to the maturity  date 35 
days written  notice must be given and a closure charge  of the lower of the amount of interest  
earned on the account and 90 days interest will be deducted from the balance. And I think it was 
reasonable for RBS to act on the written  instruction Mr H provided. So it follows that I wont be 
asking it to refund the early closure charge.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or reject 
my decision  before 2 September 2019.
Michelle Hayward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8253747