K820x#14complaint
Miss G complains  that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) provided her with a credit card account and 
in so doing lent to her irresponsibly which led to her incurring charges and interest on her 
account and negative information on her credit file.
background
The adjudicators background summary  covered all the relevant facts  and is known to both 
Miss G and Lloyds so I wont repeat it in any great detail. Therefore, if Ive not mentioned 
something its not because Ive ignored it, but because I dont think  its relevant  to the issues.
However in summary  it is this;
In April 2015 Miss G applied, online,  to Lloyds for a credit card account stating in the 
application that she had been employed  for 10 years with her current employer, was earning
£30,000 per annum and her only major expense was her rent of £950 pcm.  Lloyds  
processed her application and based  upon the information provided by her and in 
consideration of her credit score, approved her application and issued her with a card and 
credit limit of £1,500.  Within the first month  Miss G made cash  withdrawals and purchases 
exceeding her credit  limit. Miss Gs account  subsequently  fell into arrears  incurring charges 
and interest before being defaulted  in 2016.
Miss G subsequently complained to Lloyds that they ought  not to have granted  her a card 
because she could  not afford it. Lloyds disagreed saying  it had provided information, 
including key facts  about the card, and in their view they had conducted proportionate 
checks to ensure the lending was affordable.
Miss G was unhappy with Lloyds response  and so the adjudicator looked into the complaint 
and thought Lloyds ought to have conducted  more thorough background checks  to ensure 
the data they had been given by Miss G was correct. He thought  that had they done so they 
would have seen  Miss G held only a basic bank  account which  did not reveal  any regular 
income and nothing to indicate she was earning £30,000 per annum.
The adjudicator also looked at Miss Gs credit card account and noted that she had only ever 
met the minimum payments on the card once, which he thought indicated  the card was not 
affordable for her. He also noted  that Miss Gs credit file revealed she had only one other  
credit card account with the Bank of Scotland which she had obtained a few months earlier. 
And so he thought more thorough checks ought to have been performed.  The adjudicator 
upheld the complaint but as Lloyds  didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
final decision.
my provisional findings
I issued my provisional findings on this complaint on the 27 January 2020 and said that I was 
satisfied that Lloyds had undertaken reasonable and proportionate checks and carried out a 
reasonable assessment of Miss Gs ability  to repay  any borrowing. Having done  so Miss G 
met Lloyds  eligibility  criteria, because their calculations showed  her disposable income  was 
enough to afford the minimum payments on the card.  As such I did not consider Lloyds to 
have acted irresponsibly.
Ref: DRN81180412responses to my provisional  decision
Miss G and Lloyds responded to my provisional decision. Lloyds accepted it, but Miss G 
didnt. Miss G repeated  that she had, at the relevant time, only just arrived from France and 
said she took a risk with her salary. The salient part of her response on this issue appears  to 
me to be this;
I don't agree  as I was in a very unstable  situation  as I had just arrived from France,  
full of hope to get work but it happened  much  later so, because  I had no help from 
anyone I had no option but to try get some money  to survive and it was a risk I took 
as my salary might have  been averagely good  for one month  but the next,  it might  
have come to pennies ... so it was definitely risky ....
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  What I need to decide is whether Lloyds 
acted fairly  and reasonably in its dealings with Miss G. I take into account both Lloyds view 
and that of Miss G. The purpose of my decision  isnt to address  every single point raised,  but 
to reach  a fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case.
When Miss G applied  for her credit card, and before agreeing to lend, Lloyds shouldve 
assessed the affordability of credit to ensure that Miss G could repay  what she was 
borrowing. Lloyds needed to check whether she would be able to repay anything she 
borrowed in a way which was sustainable.
Its up to Lloyds to decide  what checks it carries out, but they must be proportionate  to things 
such as the amount borrowed, the cost of repayment, the information  a customer provides 
about their financial  situation, and the customers borrowing history. But there isnt a set list 
of checks which Lloyds  have to do and I cant tell Lloyds that they shouldve  done any 
particular check.  It uses  its lending criteria to come to its decision and its entitled to set 
those criteria using its commercial judgement which it doesnt  have to share with us.
So looking  at the evidence provided  I can see Lloyds based  their decision to offer credit on 
information supplied  by Miss G, data from the credit reference agencies and their own risk 
strategies. Lloyds used  an automated credit decision  tool which  performed a credit 
assessment, an indebtedness assessment and an affordability assessment.
Ive looked at the information Miss G provided to Lloyds and as a fact is was not accurate.
She mis-stated her income  and employment  status. Miss G also had the opportunity to tell
Lloyds of any potential  changes to her circumstances but she did not. Whilst I acknowledge 
she stated she was estimating her income,  she could have made  this clear to Lloyds rather  
than asserting it to be a fact. So, in my view it would have been open  to her at the point  of 
application to have notified  Lloyds  that she was providing estimates and clarified  with them  
her financial  position  going forward. That would have been the reasonable thing to do. In not 
doing so it effectively misled Lloyds.
It has been suggested by the adjudicator that Lloyds ought to have carried out further  
checks, but I dont  agree.  Lloyds completed  an affordability assessment and although it 
might be said with hindsight that Miss G couldnt afford her card because  she only once 
made the minimum payment, Lloyds werent in a position to known that definitively at the 
time they granted her the card.
Ref: DRN81180413At the time of application Lloyds used their credit  decision tool. That revealed Miss G could 
afford the card based on the information  she provided. Lloyds were  entitled to rely on that 
information as being true and accurate, and when  it was processed it produced  an 
assessment that the lending was affordable.
The issue  is one of proportionality and whilst I accept that it was of course possible to make 
other checks, I do not think that in granting  a credit  card limit of £1,500  that the further 
checks our adjudicator highlights would have  been so proportionate. I dont think it is 
proportionate to have expected Lloyds to check an applicants current  accounts,  since those 
accounts could  be held by other banks and therefore not be checked in any event. And 
whilst Miss G did have  another credit  card with Bank of Scotland,  checks against that would 
only have revealed  her spending since she had not had the credit card long enough  to be 
required to make any repayments.
So Im satisfied that Lloyds undertook reasonable and proportionate  checks and carried out 
a reasonable assessment of Miss Gs ability to repay any borrowing. Having done so Miss G 
met their eligibility criteria, because their calculations showed her disposable income was 
enough to afford the minimum payments on the card.  I think thats a reasonable explanation. 
Its for Lloyds as a business to decide  who they extend credit  to and on what  basis.  As I 
have said, Id expect  them to perform enough  checks before they do so and based on the 
information available to me, Im satisfied they did that here.
I have taken account of the fact that the history to the account  could suggest  that the 
borrowing was not affordable, but that is not, in my view,  the only factor  for me to consider. 
What is important is to consider whether  the decision to lend was reasonable at the time it 
was made,  and in my view I think it was. I have considered Miss Gs further comments in 
response to my provisional  decision, but there  is no additional evidence or persuading 
argument advanced, sufficient to change  my view. So, Im not persuaded Lloyds acted 
irresponsibly when it granted Miss G a credit card and so I wont  be asking it to do anything  
more.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I do not uphold the complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 March 2020.
Jonathan Willis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8118041