K821x#15complaint
Mr J complains that a car he financed  through an agreement with FirstRand Bank Limited,  
trading as Motonovo, was developing  a fault at the point of supply. He wants  Motonovo to 
pay for the repairs.
background
I issued my provisional decision in March  2019. I explained why I was planning  to uphold 
Mr Js complaint. An extract of that provisional decision is set out below:
In September  2017 Mr J took receipt of a used vehicle  that he financed through  a hire 
purchase agreement  with Motonovo. The car was about 10 years  old and had already 
covered 87,650 miles at the point  of supply. 
Mr J says he took the car back  to the dealership soon after he took receipt of it. A battery 
was replaced and Mr J says he also reported some  steering difficulties which werent  
remedied. In March 2018 the lower suspension arms needed replacing at a cost of £479. 
The warranty didnt cover the repair costs as the mileage allowance  had been exceeded. 
Mr J says that Motonovo should pay for the repair as hes explained the MOT, completed 
before he took receipt of the vehicle, identified that the lower suspension arms were 
deteriorating and its therefore clear the fault was developing at that point.
Motonovo dont  accept  responsibility. They explained that as the suspension  issues  
identified during the MOT  were simply advisories the dealership  didnt have to resolve them 
as they had not failed at the point of supply.  
So Mr J referred his complaint to this service and our investigator took a look at the 
evidence. He didnt  think it would be fair to ask Motonovo to pay for the repairs  as they were  
not given the opportunity to inspect  the car or resolve the issue themselves. He understood 
that the warranty mileage  allowance  had been  exceeded and Mr J had travelled almost 
8,000 miles in the car at the point of failure  so he didnt think the warranty could be called  
upon to cover the costs either.  
But Mr J disagreed. He said the MOT had highlighted the fact the fault was developing when 
the vehicle was supplied to him and he said that the Consumer Rights Act 2015 directs  that 
a fault was most likely  present at the point of supply if it occurred within the first six months. 
He said hed reported a problem with the steering within the first few weeks and this was 
obviously related  to the suspension problem and further proof  the fault was there or 
developing at the time. He therefore asked  for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont currently agree with the investigators view of this complaint and Im expecting  to 
uphold it. I know this will disappoint Motonovo so please let me explain  why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ref: DRN80607192Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr J acquired  his car under a hire purchase  agreement. The relevant law says that the car 
should have been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Motonovo is 
responsible. I take account of relevant law when deciding  what is fair and reasonable. On 
this basis if I thought the car was faulty  when supplied, Id think  it fair and reasonable to ask 
Motonovo to put this right. 
Its clear that Mr Js car wasnt  new at the point of supply. Itd completed  nearly  90,000 miles 
and it was almost ten years old, and I bear this in mind when considering  what  satisfactory 
quality is. I think its reasonable to suggest that Mr J should have expected some problems 
with the vehicle as a result of its age and mileage.  But I dont think  a reasonable person 
would consider a car with faulty  suspension  was of satisfactory quality, even if it had 
completed 90,000  miles. I say that because suspension repairs  arent cheap and the car isnt 
drivable with a failed suspension.  So if the suspension was developing a fault at the point of 
supply I dont think that would be fair wear and tear and I think Motonovo would be 
responsible.
The MOT, that was completed  just before the deal was struck, explained that a fault was 
developing. It said:
suspension arm rubber bush deteriorating but not resulting in excessive movement
I accept that Motonovo didnt need to get this fixed for the car to pass  its MOT and be 
roadworthy but I think its clear evidence that a fault with the suspension was developing at 
the point of supply. And as Motonovo, or their agent the dealership,  chose not to fix the fault 
at that point, and a suspension failure  has subsequently occurred, I think its fair for them to 
now take responsibility for the costs of that repair.
Mr J has suggested that the warranty should also cover the costs of the repair but as the 
warranty cost was not part of the finance agreement Mr J had with Motonovo Im not able to 
consider this against them. Mr J will need to address his complaint about warranty  to the 
dealership if this is something he wishes to pursue but he may feel that now unnecessary.  
my provisional decision
Im expecting to ask FirstRand Bank Limited to pay the repair bill for the suspension failure 
and to ensure  that any adverse records that have been made on Mr Js credit file as a result  
of this issue are removed.
I asked both parties to consider my provisional decision and get back  to me with any new 
evidence they wanted me to consider. Mr J accepted my decision and FirstRand  Bank  
Limited didnt reply.  
Ref: DRN80607193my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen no further evidence to persuade me that my provisional decision was wrong. So 
my provisional decision remains unchanged.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and tell FirstRand Bank  Limited to pay the repair  bill for the 
suspension failure and to ensure that any adverse records that have been  made  on Mr Js 
credit file as a result of this issue are removed.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 June 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8060719