K820x#14complaint
Mrs L complains  that Nationwide Building  Society (Nationwide) mis-sold her a monthly 
premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
I issued a provisional decision in this case in November 2018 explaining why I didnt  intend  
to uphold Mrs Ls complaint. A copy of my provisional decision is attached and forms part of 
my final decision.
I asked both Mrs L and Nationwide to provide me with any further  comments and evidence 
they would  like me to consider. Neither Mrs L nor Nationwide have provided me with any 
further evidence  to consider. Mrs L made  some  further comments which  Ive considered  
below.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ls case.
In summary,  Mrs L has questioned my impartiality and independence  and also enclosed a 
copy of our aims and values which she says I havent upheld.  She also says I didnt explain 
my reasons  for reaching the outcome that I did in my provisional decision.
However, I would  like to reassure Mrs L that I am fully aware of our aims and values  and 
have made  my decision based  on what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint as I am required to do. My provisional decision also sets out clearly  what my 
reasons are for reaching the outcome that I did. I am surprised that Mrs L has questioned my 
impartiality and independence particularly given that I found in Mrs Ls favour  that the sale 
was advised  this was also the reason that I issued  a provisional decision.
Mrs L has mentioned her lack of faith in this service and referred to our treatment of another 
complaint which  was in the media. But as Ive already said in my provisional decision, each 
case is decided on its own merits. And as neither Mrs L nor Nationwide  have provided any 
further information or evidence from the time of the sale for me to consider with regards to 
this particular complaint,  I see no reason to depart from the findings as set out in my 
provisional decision.
It follows that I dont uphold Mrs Ls complaint. I appreciate that this isnt the outcome that 
Mrs L had been  looking to achieve but it is of course  up to Mrs L whether  she chooses to 
accept or reject my decision.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Ls complaint against  Nationwide Building Society.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask to accept or reject 
my decision  before 3 February 2019.
Ref: DRN85534762Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN85534763complaint
Mrs L complains  that Nationwide  Building Society (Nationwide) mis-sold her a monthly  premium 
payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mrs L was sold the PPI policy in connection with a mortgage in her sole name, following a transfer of 
equity application in 1991. It was designed to meet the monthly mortgage repayments for up to 24 
months if Mrs L was off work sick or lost her job. It also provided funds for additional expenses.
Our adjudicator didnt think Mrs Ls complaint should  be upheld. Mrs L didnt agree with our 
adjudicator and so the complaint has been passed  to me to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Mrs Ls case.
Having done that, Im intending not to uphold Mrs Ls complaint. I will now explain why.
First of all Ive considered  whether Mrs L was eligible for the policy. Based on Mrs Ls age, residence 
and employment at the time of the sale Im satisfied  Mrs L was eligible under  the policy.
Nationwide had to make it clear to Mrs L that the PPI was optional and needed  her consent before it 
could be applied to her account.  
Of course I cant be sure what took place during the sale so Ive thought about everything Mrs L has 
told us and considered the information and evidence available to help me decide what  is more  likely  
to have happened.
Nationwide no longer have  the PPI application form from the time of the sale. This is understandable 
given the length of time since the sale, but it does mean that I cant see how the PPI was presented  to 
Mrs L at the time of the sale. However,  Mrs L had a mortgage without PPI for several  years with 
Nationwide (albeit jointly with her then husband) before the transfer of equity took place and Mrs L 
took out a mortgage in her sole name so I think its more  likely  that Mrs L would  have been aware the 
PPI was optional.
Given Mrs Ls recollection from the time of the sale, Mrs L was aware she was being  sold PPI and I 
havent seen any evidence to suggest that it was added without Mrs Ls consent.
So all in all, I think its more  likely that the PPI was presented as optional and was added  to the 
account because Mrs L agreed to take it out. 
However, Mrs L has told us she was persuaded to take PPI by a female representative in a 
Nationwide branch  local to her then work  place.  With hindsight Mrs L believes that the PPI was mis-
sold. Specifically Mrs L thinks  the policy would have only covered her for a year and she says she 
wasnt told she would have to continue paying premiums during a claim.  Nationwide have told us that 
the representative  wouldnt have advised her to take PPI as this is not how their policies would have 
been sold at that time. While  I appreciate that this is what Nationwides sales process  was, based on 
Mrs Ls recollections and her circumstances  at the time of the sale, I think the representative  may 
have advised Mrs L to take PPI. However, this doesnt change  the outcome  of this complaint as I will 
now go on to explain.
Ref: DRN85534764If Nationwide did advise Mrs L to take PPI out they would have  needed to check  that the PPI was 
suitable for Mrs L. And l think the policy was suitable for Mrs L so I dont think  Nationwide would have 
been wrong  in advising  her to take it out. This is because:
-Although Mrs L has told us she would have been entitled to six months full pay followed  by six 
months half pay through her employer,  the policy  would have paid out in addition to this and 
for a much longer period  of time. I appreciate that Mrs L thinks  it would only have covered her 
for a year but in fact it could  have paid out for up to 24 months.  It would also have  paid out for 
this length of time if she lost her job. As Mrs L was taking on an important financial 
commitment and was reliant on her income alone, I think the policy  was suitable for her.
-Even though Mrs L would have had to continue paying  her premiums during a claim period,  I 
dont this made the policy unsuitable for Mrs L given  the amount of benefit  Mrs L would have 
received in comparison  to the cost of the premium. 
-Mrs L has also told us that she had a large  amount of equity in the property and could also 
have taken in a lodger to help meet the repayments. However, again I dont think this made 
the policy  unsuitable for Mrs L because taking  the PPI meant Mrs L wouldnt have had to sell 
her house  to realise the equity when, at the time of the sale,  she had dependants to consider 
as well. I appreciate  Mrs L says that she did take in a lodger to help meet  other important 
expenses but from my understanding of this complaint, at the time of the sale she didnt have  
a lodger and Mrs L hasnt  said that this is something which she discussed  with Nationwide as 
a possibility at the time of the sale. Even if Mrs L did find a lodger at the right time as she was 
previously able to do, the money she received from that could have been used to pay for 
other expenses (for example, in the way that she had to previously) while  the PPI took care of 
the mortgage repayments.  
-Mrs L doesnt appear to have been affected  by the more restrictive  terms in the policy which 
could have  made it difficult for her to make a successful claim under  the policy. So it looks like 
she could have made  a successful claim under  the policy  if the need arose.
-I havent seen any evidence  to suggest that the policy was unaffordable  for Mrs L at the time 
of the sale.
-Mrs L could have  cancelled the policy  at any time without incurring a financial  penalty if she 
no longer needed or wanted  it.
Regardless of whether  or not Nationwide  advised Mrs L to take PPI out, they had to give  Mrs L clear  
information at the time of the sale, in particular about  the costs/benefits  and main 
exclusions/restrictions in the policy, so that she could make an informed decision about  whether  or 
not to take it out.
Its possible Nationwide didnt  give Mrs L all of the information  as they should have.  For example,  Mrs 
L has said Nationwide didnt  tell her that she would need to continue  paying the premiums during  a 
claim. However, this in itself doesnt mean the PPI was mis-sold as I have to go on and consider 
whether better information  at the time of the sale would have meant Mrs L wouldnt  have taken  the 
PPI out. And I dont think it would have. I say this for the same reasons I think  the policy was suitable 
for her.
Mrs L has mentioned  she had another complaint  that was upheld. However,  each case is decided on 
its own merits and just because the other complaint was upheld, doesnt mean that this complaint 
should also be upheld.  And based on all the information available to me, for the reasons already set 
out, I dont  think Nationwide mis-sold Mrs L this PPI policy.
Mrs L has also complained  that she wasnt aware  that Nationwide earned commission on the PPI sold 
to her. However, I dont  think  this means that Nationwide need to refund  Mrs L any commission  she 
paid on the PPI policy.  I say this for the same reasons as those that the adjudicator has previously 
Ref: DRN85534765explained to Mrs L. For ease of reference I have set out the reasoning again in the paragraphs which  
follow.
The Supreme Court  decided a case that involved the commission on a PPI policy - Plevin vs Paragon  
Personal Finance. And the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)   - who makes the rules for financial 
businesses  have introduced some  new rules and guidance for businesses to follow when theyre  
looking at PPI complaints  that are affected by this court ruling. 
What this means is that if a business expected to get a high level of commission from the PPI  more 
than half of what  the consumer paid for the policy  they should have told the consumer about  it. If 
that didnt happen it might  mean  the business didnt  treat the consumer fairly. And in turn the business 
might have to give the consumer  some of that commission back.
But this only applies to credit agreements taken out on or after 6 April 2007  or if the agreement was 
taken out before then, if it was still running on or after 6 April 2008. And this doesnt apply  to Mrs Ls 
situation as although Mrs Ls agreement was taken out before 6 April 2007, it ended well before 6 
April 2008. 
my provisional  decision
I dont intend to uphold Mrs Ls complaint against Nationwide Building Society.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8553476