K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains about the quality  of a car he obtained which was financed  by a conditional 
sale agreement with Santander Consumer (UK) Plc.
background
Mr M entered into a conditional sale agreement with Santander in June 2017 to finance  the 
cost of one year old car with a mileage of 8,711.
On 19 June 2018, Mr M contacted Santander to report a problem with the paintwork on the
front bumper. Santander said that there  was no evidence that the fault was present at the 
point of sale.
Mr M wasnt happy with this response so he brought a complaint to us to consider. 
The investigator recommended  that the complaint should be upheld. He considered  that 
photographs of the bumper show it was not durable. The damage was not something to be 
expected in a two year old car. The photographs  show there is red paint underneath the 
white layer that is damaged. This suggests the bumper has been  resprayed at some point 
and the works havent been  carried out to a reasonable standard.
The investigator considered Santander should  be given the chance to repair the problem.
Santander is not happy to accept the investigators recommendation. It says, in summary, 
that Mr M bought the car in June 2017. He did not complain about it until June 2018.  This is 
outside the six month time limit set out in the Consumer Rights  Act (CRA).  Mr M should 
provide evidence that the issue was present in the first six months after he obtained  the car. 
The photographs do not show  the damage  to the bumper  was present at the point of sale.   
The investigator replied  to say that he was satisfied on balance  that the fault was present at 
the point of sale. The CRA says that durability  is part of the definition  of satisfactory  
quality. The investigator would not expect a two year old car to have 
this damage. This shows  the vehicle wasn't durable at the point of sale.
The investigator  considered  that the issue  did not have  to be raised  within  the first six 
months. Mr M is responsible for showing  the faults were present at the point  of sale.  The 
investigator was satisfied with the information  Mr M has provided that it is likely they 
were.  The paint underneath the top coat is red which  suggests the bumper has been 
resprayed at some  point. The investigator considered it was unlikely that this 
respray occurred after Mr M obtained the vehicle.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under present  legislation Santander is responsible for the vehicle  being  of satisfactory 
quality at the point of supply. So if I thought  there was something  wrong  with vehicle which  
meant it wasnt of satisfactory  quality  Id expect Santander to do something about  it. 
Ref: DRN85709202Where facts are in dispute - as in this case - Im required  to make my decision on the 
balance of probabilities. Thats not saying one party is definitely right and the other wrong. 
Its just my view on what is the more likely explanation of disputed  events.
Santander has said the issue with the bumper was not present at the point of sale as Mr M 
did not raise the matter  until he had the car for a year. 
Ive looked at photographs of the vehicle which Mr M has taken. They  show  red paint 
underneath the white paint on the bumper area.  I appreciate the photographs were not taken 
at the time Mr M obtained the car. Mr M says he has not had the car resprayed. I consider 
its more probable than not the car was resprayed before it was provided to Mr M. This may 
not have come to light until a year after Mr M obtained the car, but I am persuaded the issue  
was present at the point it was provided to him. The car was only a year old when Mr M 
acquired it, and two years old when  the paint on the bumper cracked. I think  its fair to say 
that a reasonable person  would expect bumper paintwork to last more than two years. I 
consider on balance that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of sale.  And I 
consider that Santander should have the opportunity to put things right for Mr M as the 
investigator recommended.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. Santander Consumer (UK) Plc should repair the 
fault with the cars bumper at no cost to Mr M. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 March  2019.
Rosemary Lloyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8570920