K822xcomplaint
Mr M complains about how National House-Building Council have managed  problems 
arising from water ingress into his property, following defective drains installed when  it was 
built. 
Mr M is one of six property owners  at the development. He has represented all six in this 
complaint.
background 
Mr M owns one of six properties in a development that was built in 2010. Soon  after it was 
completed, defective drains started to cause water  ingress into a few of the properties. Mr M 
reported the problems to NHBC. 
Over the years that followed, a number of different problems arose due to the defective 
drains. NHBC has involved a variety of different contractors who have produced  reports and 
attempted repair work. There  have been some  disagreements between NHBC and Mr M 
about the right way to fix the problem.  It has been  difficult to resolve as the property is 
unusual in its position and structure.  
By 2018 a lot of the problems had been  fixed, however there were still a number  of 
outstanding issues  caused by water  ingress  that required attention. 
In their most  recent report,  NHBCs contractors  suggested a number of remedial  works  to be 
carried out to the properties, in order to correct problems with condensation. They said that 
once these were fixed, should the problems not return then this would prove that the 
drainage issue  is no longer  a problem. However  if problems  persist,  they would recommend 
further more invasive investigations in order to understand the underlying  cause.
Mr M wasnt happy with this solution. He said that the current  issues  proved that the drains 
were defective. And NHBC  should  start work  on fixing the drainage  rather than the remedial 
work as this will mean a long time to completion  and may still fail anyway. Mr M requested 
that they install properly function drains and carry out external  tanking of all the walls.
Mr M is also unhappy with how long the claim  has taken  to resolve. He says NHBC has sent 
out various contractors  and each time it has taken  many months for them  to produce a report  
and come up with a repair schedule. He has made a number of complaints to NHBC over 
the years  and has now brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered all the issues. She said that as NHBC had instructed experts  to 
produce reports over the years, it was reasonable for it to follow the recommendations in 
these reports. And she agreed that it was reasonable for NHBC to proceed with the 
recommendations in the most  recent report.  She also agreed that if these recommendations 
didnt resolve the problem, further invasive investigation would be required. 
However, she understood the need for Mr M to be certain that these measures would be 
successful. So she recommended that an independent  expert is instructed to review the 
property, consider the proposals from NHBCs report and explain them to Mr M.. NHBC has 
since agreed to pay £2,000  towards the cost of this.
Ref: DRN85634972Our investigator also recommended NHBC pay each homeowner £500  compensation. 
However, she understood different  levels of distress and inconvenience  would have  been  
suffered for each  that couldnt reasonably be assessed  as part of this complaint. So she said 
they could each complain directly  to NHBC about  the distress and inconvenience  suffered in 
order to give it the opportunity  to provide compensation individually.
Finally she commented  that in order  for NHBC to commence work Mr M would need to allow 
access to the property and this had slowed down the work to date.
Mr M didnt  agree with these recommendations. He said the most recent contractors were 
the only experts that had been instructed by NHBC  and this was unacceptable given the 
length of time the claim had been  ongoing.  Therefore he did not agree that the 
compensation was enough to make up for this. 
Finally he challenged  our investigators comments about him not allowing NHBC access  to 
the property saying this was untrue. He asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While considering this complaint  I have looked  at whether NHBC have acted fairly and 
reasonably in the action it has taken. Having done so, I have come  to the same conclusions  
as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Its clear that it has taken much longer to resolve the issues  that make up this claim, than we 
would anticipate for a claim of this type.  Further, from looking at all the correspondence and 
reports produced over the years there hasnt been  one clear  and coherent strategy 
throughout. Instead, remedies and fixes have  been  largely reactive and sometimes  meant 
undoing work that has been done previously. 
I can appreciate that this would be very frustrating  for all homeowners at the development.  
Particularly in hindsight and now we are nearly  ten years on and there are still outstanding 
issues. I do not doubt the level of distress and inconvenience this has caused Mr M and 
others.  
However it is my job to assess whether NHBC has acted fairly  and reasonably when dealing 
with the claim. This claim appears  to be a particularly unusual and complex one. The 
building in question  is unique and built on top of a granite rock with water draining 
downwards on the north side from the woodlands there. This has caused challenges for the 
drainage of the water, particularly considering  drains  were  not installed correctly from the 
outset. 
Due to this unusual  build, it is likely that contractors making assessments wont have had 
experience of the specific problems before. However each report has identified the areas 
where problems existed and suggested repairs. As our investigator pointed  out, we arent 
experts in construction or drainage, so it isnt for us to question reports compiled by those 
that are. However considering NHBC instructed the reports in order to solve  the problems 
and followed  their recommendations  each time,  I cant say that it has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably. 
Ref: DRN85634973In the most recent report, NHBCs  contractors have made further recommendations to fix the 
current problems. For the same reason, I dont think it is unreasonable  for NHBC to follow  
these recommendations.  Particularly as it has committed to further invasive investigations 
should the fixes fail. To me, this seems a sensible and fair way forward  and I therefore wont  
interfere with NHBCs decision  to follow the recommendations. 
However I understand Mr Ms reservations  about  whether these fixes will resolve  the overall 
problem. And I agree  that instructing his own independent expert to examine the property 
first may help put his mind  at rest and help explain how the repairs  will work. So I wont 
interfere with NHBCs offer of £2,000  towards  this, should Mr M decide this is a necessary 
step. 
Having said this, I can see there have been  times  when things have taken longer than they 
should have done. And there  have  been delays from NHBC that could  have been  avoided, 
particularly when it comes  to its contractors reports. So I agree that it has caused 
unnecessary distress and inconvenience above  what would always be experienced in this 
complex claim. 
This distress and inconvenience  would have been experienced by each of the six home 
owners involved, in different ways and at different severities. Problems with water ingress 
have affected  different  properties in different ways. But it isnt possible for me to make a fair 
assessment of the distress and inconvenience  caused to each, as part of this complaint - I 
dont have all the information from all those involved. Further NHBC has not been given the 
opportunity to assess this for itself, in order  to offer compensation. 
So although  I cant reasonably offer compensation for each individual  experience, there is no 
doubt that distress  and inconvenience has been  caused to all six individuals and therefore  
compensation is due. I therefore agree with our investigator that NHBC should pay £500 to 
each of the six homeowners to make  up for this. Should any of the individuals  feel this isnt 
enough for their circumstances they should raise this directly with NHBC as a new 
complaint, in order for it to assess each case.  
For the reasons  above, I therefore  wont interfere  with NHBCs proposed course  of action or 
ask it to do anything  differently.  Further,  I agree  with its offer of £2,000  towards an 
independent expert, should Mr M feel this is a necessary  step. Finally, I will require NHBC to 
pay each homeowner £500 compensation to make up for the distress  and inconvenience  
caused.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  I wont interfere in National House-Building Councils proposed 
course of action as recommended by its contractors  report. I also agree  with its offer of 
£2,000 towards  an independent expert selected  by Mr M should  he feel it necessary.
Finally, I require National House-Building Council to pay £500 compensation to each of the 
six homeowners in the development. This should be paid within 28 days  of us telling them  
that Mr M has accepted  my final decision. If National House-Building Council pay later than 
this they must also pay interest on that amount  from the date of my final decision to the date 
of payment at a rate of 8% a year simple.
Ref: DRN85634974Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2020.
Sophie Goodyear
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8563497