K820x#14complaint
Mr P has complained about Inter Partner  Assistance SAs (IPA) service after he claimed on 
his roadside assistance policy.
I've previously issued  two provisional decisions. For ease I've copied the most recent below.
background
Mr Ps car broke down. He says he contacted IPA for roadside assistance. But it phoned him 
back and told him he wasn't  covered so it couldn't  help him. 
Mr P said he, his wife and granddaughter  were  stranded so he drove the car home.  He later 
contacted IPA again, via his broker, and it confirmed that he was covered.
Mr P had his car repaired at considerable costs to himself. He complained to IPA. He said he 
thought that the car had suffered  additional damage  as a result of being driven after it had 
broken down. He said that if IPA had recovered the car - rather  than telling him he wasn't 
covered - that wouldn't have happened. IPA couldnt locate the calls when Mr P first reported  
the breakdown  or when it rang him back to say he wasn't covered. So it didn't think it had 
done anything  wrong. Mr P provided  the recording of a call made to his broker  but that was 
made some time after he said IPA had told him he wasn't covered and after his car had 
suffered further  damage.
my initial provisional decision 
On 21 February 2019 I issued a provisional  decision. I said that it wasn't in dispute that Mr P 
had a valid policy. So the first question for me to determine was whether or not IPA gave  
Mr P the wrong advice  about whether or not he had cover.  
I said Id seen that, on the day in question,  Mr Ps mobile phone record only showed  one call 
to a business and that was to his broker. And in that call he referred  to having already made 
an earlier call only for IPA to ring him back to say he wasn't covered. But I said that, as there 
was only the record of one call then he couldn't have made an earlier  call. On that basis  I 
said there was no evidence that IPA had misadvised him. So I said I was likely not to uphold  
his complaint.
Mr P replied  to my provisional decision.  He pointed out that the call recording  his broker  had 
provided was made from his landline and not his mobile phone.  He added that the timings of 
the calls, as shown on the record provided  by his airtime provider, didn't match up.
my amended provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments again to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
it.  
Having examined  the evidence  again  Mr P is correct  that the call recording provided  by his 
broker doesn't match the detail of the evidence  provided by his airtime provider. So Ive done 
some further  investigation. 
Mr P said that the number  he dialled  was provided on a laminated card given to him by his 
broker. His broker has told me that it stopped giving out the laminated card at least three 
Ref: DRN87581132years ago. It said that the laminated card was associated  with an old policy, which was 
underwritten by an entirely different insurer. The number on the card isn't the number 
provided in Mr Ps policy documents. 
So it seems  that Mr P has phoned  a number relevant to an old policy provided by a different 
insurer. And as hes no longer insured  with that firm it would  explain why the people he 
spoke with told him he didn't have a current policy with them. 
IPA isn't responsible for the call handlers of another insurer. And, if Mr P had phoned  the 
numbers provided  on his current policy documents then its unlikely that IPA would have told 
him he wasn't covered. So, I don't think IPA has done anything wrong and its not 
responsible for the very unfortunate  position Mr P finds himself  in.  
developments
Mr P didn't  accept my amended provisional  decision. He said he wanted to be satisfied that 
the broker hadn't made arrangements, such as automated forwarding to allow  its 
customers to continue  to use the number on the laminated card. He said he was unwilling to 
accept my provisional findings until hed heard from the broker.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
it. 
I can understand why Mr P might want to make  enquiries of his broker. But any 
arrangements the broker made for responding to calls to the old number on the laminated 
card would be the responsibility  of the broker, its call handlers  and the other insurer who 
underwrote the old policy. IPA wouldn't in any way be responsible  for those  arrangements. 
Also, as Mr P is well aware,  when he rang the number he spoke to a call handler. I've 
confirmed that call handler on the number  he rang doesn't act for IPA. So it's not responsible 
for any information that call handler gave to Mr P.
IPAs policy  documents  provide a dedicated  number to ring for Mr P to report  a breakdown. 
Mr P didn't  ring that number. So, as I said in my amended provisional decision,  IPA isnt 
responsible for the consequences of Mr P ringing another  number.
In those circumstances I don't intend  to change  my provisional findings.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 May 2019.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN8758113