K820x#14complaint
Mr V complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) have refused to support a claim he made  
to have some membership fees refunded.
background
Mr V paid membership fees to an institution  Ill call D using a credit  card provided by 
HSBC. He was disappointed with widely reported  controversies about board level activities 
at D that saw the total membership reduce and the chairman resign. So he complained  to 
D and they agreed to refund his membership  fee for 2018.
Mr V also contacted HSBC. He said he had a like claim against the provider of credit  as 
thered been a breach  of contract by D.
HSBC rejected his claim as they said there was no evidence of a breach of contract. So 
Mr V referred his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt  agree with Mr V. He said hed need  to be persuaded that D had 
been unable  to provide  the service  that was agreed  and he didnt think  that had been the 
case. He said he wasnt persuaded  thered been a reduction in Ds ability  to lobby for its 
membership or provide  the service  it had agreed  under  its Charter. He noted  that the 
allegations against members of the board had surfaced in 2018 and that D had provided  a 
refund of the 2018 membership fee. So he said that even if he was wrong and it was 
demonstrable that D had breached its contract  with Mr V, he didnt think it would be fair to 
refund fees from a period  before the issues complained of began.
Mr V disagreed with the investigators opinion  and he asked  for a final decision by an 
ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr V but I agree with the investigators view of this complaint. Please 
let me explain.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When considering  a complaint about a financial  services provider,  Im not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section  75. I take section 75 into account 
when I think about  whats a fair way to resolve the complaint but I dont have  to reach the 
Ref: DRN81822852same view as, for example, a court might reach if Mr V made a claim through them for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
When something goes  wrong  and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a credit 
card, as is the case here,  it might  be possible  to recover the money paid through a section 
75 claim. This section  of the Consumer Credit  Act (1974) says that in certain  circumstances, 
the borrower under a credit  agreement has a like right to claim against  the credit  provider as 
against the supplier  if there's  either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier.
Mr V paid for membership  of D and that membership was never  rescinded.  The services 
Mr V could expect from D are, I think,  broadly set out in its Charter and include,  lobbying, 
dissemination of information/research studies and promotion of its members.
I dont think Ive been provided  with sufficient information to suggest these services  were not 
provided. The activities complained of appear  to be internal  issues and not those  that would 
necessarily impact on Ds ability to provide  the service it was contracted to provide to its 
membership.
And, even  if Im wrong  about  that, I can see that D have refunded Mr Vs fees for the period 
in which  he alleges theres been  a breach. I understand that Mr V has explained that he 
considers there isnt an identifiable annual fee. But I think it would be unreasonable  to expect 
a refund of all of the payments since 2013 when its clear Mr V has been  benefitting  from his 
membership without complaint for much of that period. I think the refund he has received is 
therefore sufficient  to mitigate any loss Mr V says he may have suffered.
Overall, I think HSBC  have been  reasonable in their approach to this matter  and Im not 
asking them to take any further action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 March 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8182285