K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that American Express Services Europe Limited has been unable to trace  a 
missing payment.
background
In August  2018  Mr A paid his Amex  bill but was told his payment hadnt  been received.
Mr A provided evidence from his bank  to show the payment  had been  made.  Amex  didnt 
accept the evidence and began sending letters  to Mr A asking for payment. His credit file 
was negatively affected.
In its final response,  Amex said it hadnt  made an error and that it hadnt  done anything 
wrong in referring  the account to debt recovery because it hadnt received payment.
Mr A wasnt  happy with the response so he complained  to this service. Our investigator 
didnt uphold  the complaint and said it looked like Mr A had accidentally sent payment to the 
wrong account.
Mr A didnt agree. He wasnt  happy that his credit rating had been affected and said he 
wasnt prepared to pay the same bill twice.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at Mr As bank  statement  and I can see that a payment of £623.81 was made. 
But I cant tell from the statement  who the money was sent to.
Investigations by Amex have shown that the money  was sent to an account  which  appears 
to match  account  numbers used by a high street bank.
I can see that Amex advised  Mr A to ask his bank  to try and trace the money.  I havent seen 
any information to suggest that Mr A has done  this  theres no obligation  on him to do so, 
but it may well be the case that the high street bank is holding the money  if it hasnt yet been 
claimed.
I appreciate that Mr A believes that he made a payment to Amex. But on the evidence, it 
appears that he sent the payment to a different  account by mistake.
Ive looked at how Amex responded when Mr A first contacted them to tell them about the 
missing payment. I can see that Amex placed a temporary credit on Mr As account. This 
meant that Mr As credit file wouldnt be affected  whilst an investigation was carried  out. I 
think Amex responded  reasonably here.
When Amex determined that the money  had been  sent to an account which wasnt one of 
theirs, it reversed the temporary credit. I dont think Amex acted unfairly in doing this 
because it hadnt  been provided with evidence that the money had been sent to them.
Ref: DRN88880132Once Amex had reversed the credit, the balance was outstanding. Mr A didnt pay the 
balance so the debt collection team took steps  to try and recover the debt. Ive looked at the 
letters which  were sent to Mr A. Whilst I understand that it can be upsetting to receive letters  
of this nature,  Im unable to say that the letters  were  threatening, or that so many  letters  
were sent such as to amount to harassment.
Mr A is unhappy that his credit file has been negatively  affected by this. Im only able to ask 
a business to amend a credit file if theres been an error. In this case,  Im satisfied that the 
payment wasnt received  by Amex, and the balance remained outstanding,  so I cant  say 
that Amex has made an error in recording information on Mr As credit file.
Taking all of the circumstances of the complaint into account, Im unable to conclude  that 
Amex has done  anything wrong  and I wont be asking it to do anything further. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 August 2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8888013