K821x#15complaint
Mr B is unhappy with what Lloyds Bank Plc has offered to put things right following his 
complaint about  the sale of payment protection insurance (PPI).
background
Mr B complained that Lloyds mis-sold him a PPI policy.  Lloyds investigated  the complaint 
and thought it should be upheld. It worked  out it needed to pay him £22,200.18.
Mr B thought  he should get more.
An adjudicator looked at his complaint  and thought  the way Lloyds had worked  out the 
compensation was fair. Mr B didnt  agree  with the assessment,  and the complaint was 
referred to me.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 6 February 2019. My provisional decision 
explained that Id considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint.
I explained that as Mr B bought PPI alongside  a credit card, the cost of the PPI was charged 
to the account   and he repaid these charges, with interest, in line with the terms and 
conditions of the account. Mr B needed  to get back the extra  hed paid because of this. And 
where this means  Mr B paid more than he owed, Id expect the business to pay simple  
interest to compensate  him for the time hes been  out of pocket.
I looked at what  Lloyds had done:
Lloyds charged  Mr B £6,728.56 in PPI premiums   and this amount was included  in 
its refund.
To work  out the interest it charged on these  premiums, Lloyds worked out an interest 
rate based  on the interest charged each month divided  by the opening balance. So if 
the interest one month was 1% of the opening  balance, the reconstructed  interest 
would be 1% of what this balance would have  been if it hadnt  charged for the PPI.
For the most part, Lloyds assumed Mr B would have made the same  repayments to 
his card that he would  have  made  if he hadnt bought PPI. But sometimes it assumes 
Mr B would have made a different  payment.
Where Lloyds thought  Mr B paid extra because of the PPI it added simple  interest   
the rate was 8% after 1 April 1993  and 15% before then  to each  payment  from the 
date Mr B paid it until he got it back.
Lloyds had also offered to pay Mr B £100  in recognition of any upset or 
inconvenience caused by bringing the complaint.
Overall, I thought Lloyds  had offered  fair compensation for mis-selling the PPI.
I asked both Mr B and Lloyds to send me anything  else they wanted  me to consider by 6 
March. 
Ref: DRN83274252Lloyds hasnt sent me anything further to consider.
Mr B has replied  to say he agrees with some  of my provisional findings, but disagrees with 
the way Lloyds has revised his payments. He says he still hasnt had an explanation for 
some of the assumptions  Lloyds has made.  And hes sent me his own revised calculations  
setting out how he thinks Lloyds should  put things right. Ive therefore looked at the 
complaint again.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr B says he broadly agrees with the method Lloyds has used to reconstruct the interest 
charged to his account, Ive just focussed on the assumptions Lloyds has made about the 
payments he made.
I need to decide whether what Lloyds has done is fair. And I should emphasise  that just 
because Mr Bs method  leads to a higher figure doesnt mean his approach is better  or 
fairer.
For the most  part, Lloyds  assumes that Mr B would have made the same repayments to the 
account whether  or not hed bought  the PPI.
But in a number  of cases, Lloyds assumes that Mr B would have done something  else. This 
means that Lloyds assumes Mr B would  have paid a different amount when it works out what  
would have happened to his credit  card without PPI. As Lloyds thinks  Mr B paid more than 
he should have  done, it also pays simple interest to compensate Mr B for the time hes been  
out of pocket. 
I dont think this is necessarily unreasonable, as long as it realistically  reflects how Mr B 
would have used  the card if he hadnt  had PPI.
Ive looked in more detail  at what Lloyds has done.
Sometimes Mr Bs payments were greater than what hed have owed if he hadnt  bought  the 
PPI. Lloyds assume that in these cases Mr B would have repaid the reconstructed  balance  
at the start of the month.
For example, in July 1998, Mr B owed £2,961.54 at the start of the month. He paid £88.00. 
But if he hadnt had PPI on the account, Lloyds thinks hed only have owed £16.85.  So it 
assumes Mr B would have just paid £16.85.
Other times Mr Bs payments were greater than the opening balance  shown on his 
statements. 
So in October  1990,  Mr B owed £69.29 at the start of the month,  and paid £74.29. This is £5 
more than he owed    and based on the statements it looks like this happened because he 
repaid the balance in addition to paying  the £5 minimum payment towards the account.  If 
Mr B hadnt  had PPI on his account,  Lloyds reckons hed have owed £68.88.  So Lloyds 
assumes Mr B paid £5 more than this  or £73.88.
Ref: DRN83274253Finally, in some months Mr B only made  the minimum repayment  to the account. In 
December 2005,  Mr B paid £162.35.  This was equal  to the PPI and interest  charged  the 
previous month.  In this month, Lloyds assumes Mr B would instead  have paid 2% of what  
hed have owed  if he hadnt bought PPI, which was the contractual minimum  payment.
I dont think these assumptions are, on the face of it, unreasonable. 
I think its unusual for a customer to pay more  to a credit card account than the amount  
shown on their statement   and when Mr B deliberately paid more  than he owed, Lloyds 
assumes he would have overpaid by the same  amount. 
Equally, when Mr B only paid the minimum payment towards the account,  I think  its likely 
this is because he couldnt afford  to make a higher repayment  and I also note the 
statements say minimum payment would have been  debited from his bank account 
automatically. So I dont  think its unreasonable for Lloyds to assume hed have paid a lower 
minimum payment instead.
But Mr B argues that where Lloyds says hed make a lower payment, the funds would have 
been available for him to either make higher repayments in future months, or to pay for 
goods and services in cash  hed otherwise have used his credit card for. And if Mr B paid the 
money he saved to the account (or spent less) the balance on his account would have been 
less, and hed get back more of the interest  he was charged to the account.
Ive carefully thought  about what hes said. What Mr B would otherwise have done with the 
money is, of course, speculative. Its possible hed have used the money  as he said above. 
But its possible hed have spent the money  on other  things or saved it. 
In particular, I note Mr B says he kept most of his liquid funds in an interest bearing account 
and only transferred funds  to his current account when he needed to spend  it. 
While I agree that there were times when Mr B paid large  lump  sums to pay down the 
account, there were  also long periods  where  Mr Bs payments  were  close to the minimum 
payment he could make to the account. 
I think that to say whether, in a given  month,  Mr B would have used the extra  money to pay 
down the credit card or would have done  something else with the money would involve a 
speculative, open-ended assessment of Mr Bs financial position throughout the period he 
had PPI which may well not have  resulted  in definitive answers.
But where Lloyds  thinks Mr B paid more  because of the PPI, it adds  the extra to the refund. 
And it adds  simple interest   the rate is 8% simple per year after 1 April 1993 and 15% 
before then  to compensate Mr B for the time hes been out of pocket. I think  this is a fair 
way to compensate  Mr B for the loss of the use of this money.
Mr B has questioned some further  changes to his payments. 
In November 1991, Lloyds said Mr B paid £600  but his statements say he paid 
£718, or £118 more. But I see that Lloyds  also said Mr B spent  £118  less than shown 
on his statements. These  errors cancel  each other  out, and dont make a difference  
to Mr Bs compensation.
In January 1992 Mr B says his payment  has been reduced by £51. But the payment 
Lloyds used is the £1,123.00 shown on his credit card statements.
Ref: DRN83274254In April 1996, the statement is missing  but the payment Lloyds assumes  Mr B 
makes doesnt reflect  the balances in the previous or following months.  But I also see 
that Lloyds assumed  that Mr B didnt spend  anything on the account that month, and 
I think this explains why the payment appears  low. Its likely this payment is just a 
number that ensured the account reached the right balance  in the next month  and 
in the absence of better information I cant say thats unfair.
Mr B has also sent me a month  by month  calculation setting out the reconstructed  payments 
each month. I dont propose  to explain whats happening in detail. I recognise that Mr Bs 
way of working out the compensation means  he gets more. But Im not persuaded that what 
Lloyds has done  is unfair. 
Lloyds has refunded the premiums Mr B has paid, the interest it thinks was caused by these 
premiums, and compensated Mr B for the time hes been out of pocket. It has also paid him 
£100 for the trouble and upset it caused.
In all the circumstances, I think what Lloyds has paid Mr B is fair.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, my final decision is that Lloyds Bank plc has paid fair compensation 
for mis-selling PPI. So I dont direct them to do anything  further.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2019.
Edward Hardman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8327425