K820x#14complaint
Mrs F complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc did not tell her that it had taken a personal 
guarantee from her husband and which she thought meant that savings in their joint 
accounts were at risk.
background
Clydesdale did not agree that it had done  anything wrong. It said that as the guarantee was 
provided by a third party there was no requirement  for it to discuss  this with anyone  else. It 
would be up to the guarantor to confirm  and discuss this with anyone  that would be 
impacted.
Our investigator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. She said that the 
guarantee was not secured by any specific assets.  And at least  one of the savings accounts 
that Mrs F held jointly with her husband only needed  one of them  to sign to make  a 
withdrawal. Clydesdale  did not need Mrs Fs consent  before the guarantee was taken.
Mrs F did not agree. She remained dismayed that it was thought  satisfactory for Clydesdale  
to disregard her interests. And for it to permit a joint account holder to take out a personal  
guarantee against a joint account  without consulting  her.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Fs husband  had given a guarantee in support  of borrowing of a company. That 
company was in financial  difficulty and a formal demand was made.  Her original  complaint to 
Clydesdale referred  to Clauses 9.1 and 9.2 of the personal guarantee document. These 
stated that Clydesdale had a right of set off against accounts held by the guarantor. Mrs F 
had a substantial  amount  of savings held jointly with her husband at Clydesdale.  And she 
thought these were  at risk. 
I contacted Clydesdale about  this and asked it about  the terms and conditions  of the joint 
accounts Mrs F held. Those  terms and conditions deal with its right of set off (Section 17) 
and state that:
we will only apply credit balances from accounts  in your name to debts held with us either  
in your name, jointly with another person or a business account. We will not apply credit  
balances from joint accounts to debts held with us which are in accounts  held in one 
persons name.
Clydesdale confirmed to me that it does not hold a right of set off for any borrowing that was 
not also in Mrs Fs name. And also that it didnt have any set off rights to the joint savings 
accounts from the guarantee in the first place. I dont  think it had made that clear  to Mrs F 
when it issued its final response to her complaint.  
I fully appreciate that, even though Clydesdale does not have a right of set off, such  a 
commitment through  a guarantee could still impact upon Mrs F. As our investigators said 
there was nothing to stop her husband  withdrawing the money  in the joint account in line 
with the account mandate and using it to pay his debts. But that was something  he could 
Ref: DRN83572662always have done  with a joint savings account. And so I agree there was no requirement for 
Clydesdale to tell Mrs F about the personal guarantee her husband gave. To do so without 
cause might well have  been a breach of confidentiality as set out in Clause 10 of the 
guarantee.
I dont doubt that the financial issues for her husband that would follow a demand made on 
his personal guarantee affected Mrs F. However, for the reasons Ive given I dont have a 
basis to find Clydesdale  made an error.  
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 August 2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8357266