K821x#15complaint
Ms M complains about poor service from Pravin Modi (PM),  then trading as Stadium  
Investments, when he advised  her on a mortgage. She asks that he refunds  his £2,000 fee.
background
Ms M says she paid a fee to PM in July 2015 to arrange  a mortgage for her. He provided 
mortgage illustrations  but didnt  arrange a mortgage.  She applied  to a lender directly and 
was offered a mortgage. 
Our investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld. He said there was sufficient 
evidence that Ms M paid a fee and that PM didnt provide  the service she paid for. The 
investigator said PM should refund the £2,000 fee with interest  at 8%.
PM didnt agree. He offered £1,500 to settle the complaint, which  Ms M declined.  PM said the 
mortgage application didnt progress because Ms M didnt provide the necessary documents.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
Ms M says she visited PM at his office  in July 2015.  She says she provided ID documents 
and bank statements  and pay slips to evidence her income. She says she paid a £2,000 fee 
and provided a handwritten receipt to support this. 
Ms M says she chased PM without  a response until she visited his office again in September 
2015. At this point,  PM gave her a key facts document  (KFI). Ms M provided a copy and it 
says PM recommended the mortgage. Ms M says she continued to chase  PM and he gave 
her a similar document in January 2016.  Ms M provided a copy, which  is a mortgage  
illustration prepared by PM.
At this point, Ms M decided to apply  to a lender directly and was offered a mortgage. She 
says she realised shed  been taken for a ride and asked Mr M to return  the £2,000 fee. 
PM hasnt provided any documents from that time. While he says the mortgage didnt 
progress because Ms M didnt provide documents, he hasnt provided evidence to support 
this. PM provided an extract from the land registry  showing Ms M registered  as joint owner of 
a property in late 2016. I cant see that this supports what PM has said. 
As PM recommended  a mortgage to Ms M  which the KFI says he did  Id expect him to 
have recorded  information from a fact find and issued other documents, such as a suitability 
letter. Id expect him to have provided  his terms of business to Ms M. 
Ms M says she first asked  PM to return the £2,000 fee in early 2016 as she was unhappy 
with the lack of progress  with her mortgage  application.  In the circumstances,  it seems  
unlikely PM wouldnt keep  documents to support what he says about the work he did and the 
terms agreed with Ms M. 
Ref: DRN89990152On balance, I find what Ms M has said  that she paid a fee for services  that were  not 
provided  credible and supported by the available evidence. So Im upholding Ms Ms 
complaint. I think its fair and reasonable in the circumstances to require PM to refund the 
£2,000 fee with interest at 8%.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I order Pravi Modi  to pay £2,000  to Ms M plus 
interest at 8% simple  from 19 July 2015 to the date of settlement.
If HM Revenue & Customs  requires Pravi Modi to deduct tax from this interest,  he must give 
Ms M a certificate showing  how much tax hes deducted, if she asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2020.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8999015