K820x#14Complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy because HSBC  UK Bank Plc (HSBC) upgraded their joint bank 
account which they believe has led to additional charges being applied  to the account. They  
said this has negatively  impacted their financial  circumstances.
For ease of reference, I will refer to Mr B throughout this decision as he is the person who 
has been the main  contact with our service throughout this complaint. 
Background
In April 2015, Mr Bs standard HSBC bank account  was upgraded to an advance account. 
The upgrade  was automatic and no fee was charged for this account. Mr B had a £2,000 
arranged overdraft on the upgraded account.
Mr B says at the time of the upgrade he was told the account  would  provide  benefits such as 
a higher daily ATM cash withdrawal amount and preferential  rates  on selected products such 
as loans, savings  account and overdrafts.
However Mr B said since the account  has been  upgraded  he has incurred a lot of additional 
charges which  he estimates to be between £60 and £80 per month. He said HSBC knew  he 
had a history of not having sufficient funds  to meet direct debit payments and under the old 
account, these  payments  wouldnt  be made. However he said with the upgraded account,  
the direct  debit payments were often  being  paid regardless  of whether there were enough 
funds. He said this is impacting  on his overdraft facility which incurs fees and the situation is 
leading to financial difficulty. Mr B said he asked HSBC not to pay the direct debit payments 
if there are insufficient funds in his account but they said they cant do this. 
Mr B complained to HSBC however as they didnt  respond to his complaint, he referred it to 
our service.  Our investigator recommended that the complaint shouldnt  be upheld.  They  
said they were satisfied Mr B agreed  to the account upgrade  and HSBC  fairly applied 
charges in line with the terms of the account,  which were no different to his standard bank 
account. 
Mr B disagreed and said he wasnt aware  upgrading the account  would  lead to such  a 
negative impact on his financial circumstances. He said he believed HSBC  was aware this 
would happen  and this was their way of generating money. 
In April 2020, I issued  my provisional  decision  and I said I didnt intend to uphold Mr Bs 
complaint for the following reasons:
Firstly, Mr B has commented that he believes  HSBC upgraded his account in order  to 
generate fees and charges. It is worth  pointing out that it isnt my role to get involved with 
how HSBC chooses  to charge for the services they provide. Such  matters  might fall within 
the sphere of the financial regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority. My role is to assess 
whether HSBC has acted  fairly and reasonably, and in line with the terms of the account.
Account upgrade
Mr B said HSBC called  him to discuss upgrading his account. He said he felt forced to do so 
but he also mentioned he thought it would be a good  idea and it made sense to upgrade 
given the benefits of the account. However HSBC has no record  of such  a call being  made.  
Ref: DRN80035252They said Mr B was notified by letter of their intention  to upgrade  the account and they have 
provided an example  of the letter that wouldve  been  sent to him. 
Ive considered the letter and I can see it explains the account is eligible for an automatic 
upgrade. It goes on to outline the benefits  of the account and includes a comparison table 
which sets out the differences between  the standard bank account  and the advance  one. It 
also attaches the terms and conditions and encourages  the consumer to read them. At the 
end of the letter it says If you have any questions about your new account or youd  prefer 
not to be upgraded you can let us know by calling us.
I havent seen  any evidence of a phone  call between Mr B and HSBC  about the account 
upgrade so Im not persuaded a phone call did take place.  On balance, I believe it is more  
likely than not, HSBC  outlined their intentions to upgrade the account by sending a letter to 
Mr B.
Even if I was to believe a phone call did take place, which to be clear Im not saying Im 
convinced one did, by Mr Bs own admission he said he thought the upgrade made sense.  
So I cant agree  Mr B was forced or coerced  to upgrading the account.  If he didnt want to 
proceed with the upgrade or had questions, he couldve contacted HSBC and I believe it 
wouldve been reasonable for him to do so. So on this basis, I dont agree HSBC has done 
anything wrong  here. 
Making direct debit payments
Mr B says he is incurring a lot of charges  on the upgraded account and this wasnt the case  
on the old account. Having seen a number of his bank statements, I note both accounts  
would often be overdrawn and charges  have  been  applied.
The terms and conditions  of the account which applied at the time of the upgrade  says:
Well make a payment from your account if you authorise it in accordance with these terms 
and:
 Theres  enough cleared  money in your account  to cover it; or
 Theres  a formal  overdraft facility on your account which covers it; or
 We agree to provide an informal overdraft to cover it.
Based on these terms, HSBC are able to make  payments if the account is in credit, within  an 
arranged overdraft or if they agree  to provide an unarranged overdraft. HSBC  said each 
decision about allowing an unarranged overdraft so a payment can be made,  is taken on an 
individual basis. So on this basis, I am satisfied HSBC has correctly applied  the terms of the 
account. 
I note Mr B has said he is unhappy that HSBC are often inconsistent  as to whether  they 
agree to pay direct debits  from his account when  there are not sufficient funds available.  
However this point has been previously  considered and resolved by our service under a 
different reference  number. So I wont be commenting any further  on this point. 
Mr B says he asked HSBC to stop paying  direct  debits  if there  are insufficient funds in his 
account. HSBC  said they are unable to do this. However I note the terms and conditions say 
payments for direct debits can be cancelled by contacting HSBC the working day prior to the 
direct debit payment  being due - by 11.45pm via online banking  or by the end of the working 
Ref: DRN80035253day if the request  is made in branch or over the phone. So if Mr B is concerned  he doesnt 
have sufficient funds  to meet his direct debit  payments, I believe it is reasonable for him to 
contact HSBC by one of the methods mentioned.  So I dont think HSBC  has been 
unreasonable by saying  they cant stop paying direct debits if there isnt enough money in 
Mr Bs account. 
Charges for overdraft  facilities  
I have considered HSBCs charging fees for an arranged overdraft facility. I can see the rate 
of interest that applies to the upgraded account is 17.9% (EAR  effective annual rate), 
whereas it is 19.9%  EAR for the standard account. As a better  rate was provided  with the 
upgraded account, I cant say Mr B was financially disadvantaged by this.
I have also considered HSBCs General Price List and Interest Rates  Leaflet  and it says the 
following about unarranged (informal) overdraft facilities:
Overdraft charges   well charge you a daily informal overdraft usage fee on any day your 
account is in informal overdraft. An informal overdraft applies when we agree to lend you 
money to cover a payment from your account  and either
-The balance of your account exceeds your formal overdraft limit; or
-Your account goes  overdrawn  and you dont have a formal  overdraft in place.
HSBC charges a £5 daily fee for an unarranged overdraft which exceeds £10. The maximum 
they will charge for an unarranged overdraft in any given month is £80. I am satisfied these 
fees applied to both the standard  and upgraded account. As there is no difference between 
the accounts, I cant say Mr B has been  financially disadvantaged by upgrading the account.  
Im satisfied HSBC has fairly  applied  charges  in line with the terms of the account.   
Other
Mr B said he was told by upgrading the account, he would be able to apply for loans at a 
preferential rate. Mr B mentions he applied for a business loan and this was declined.  HSBC 
said such preferential rates apply to personal  products such as loans, overdrafts and savings 
account. Having  considered the terms of the account, there is no mention the preferential 
rates also applies  to business loans  so I cant say HSBC has done anything wrong. 
Mr B mentioned he believes HSBCs attitude  towards him has changed since he brought  this 
complaint to our service. He has referred  to warning letters that HSBC has sent to him. 
Mr B hasnt provided our service with these letters but HSBC  has provided a copy  of a letter  
which was sent to him in January 2019. The letter says a payment had been returned due to 
him exceeding his arranged  overdraft.  I consider this to be a relatively standard letter that 
financial businesses send  when the limit of an overdraft  has exceeded. I dont believe there  
is anything untoward  in its content. I am satisfied Mr B isnt being  addressed  differently from 
any other customers who find themselves in similar circumstances. 
Lastly, I am aware Mr B has mentioned  experiencing  financial difficulty. I appreciate this is a 
difficult time for him and Mrs B. I would encourage him to contact HSBC so they can look at 
what they may be able to do to help. 
Overall, Im satisfied HSBC has acted fairly and reasonably,  and in line with the terms of the 
account.
Ref: DRN80035254Response to my provisional decision
I invited both parties to provide me with any further  submissions  they might  have before I 
reached my final decision. HSBC  responded but said they had no comments  to make. Mr B 
maintained a phone call did take place,  HSBC pushed him to upgrading the account and 
said he would be able to get a loan at a better interest rate. Mr B also commented that 
HSBC continued  to pay direct debits when there  was not enough money  available  in his 
account, despite his requests for them not to do so and as a result, he has been charged for 
this which  has caused him financial difficulty.   
My findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  While I thank Mr B for responding, I dont 
consider what he has said to be new or further  points. As I have addressed his complaint 
points, my decision remains  the same as detailed in my provisional  decision.
My final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 July 2020.
Simona Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8003525