K820x#14complaint
Ms P complains  that Vanquis Bank Limited has applied unfair and illegal  charges  to her 
credit card account.
background
Ms P says Vanquis has applied a number of charges to her account since  she opened it in 
2003. She says the charges are unfair and illegal  and she would like a full refund as well as 
interest paid on the amounts.
Vanquis says its acted in line with the account terms and conditions. It says Ms P has been 
charged for making payments late and for exceeding her credit limit. Vanquis also says Ms P 
has been charged purchase interest on occasions  again in line with the account terms and 
conditions.
Ms P brought her complaint to us but our investigator didnt uphold it. He thought  the 
charges were correctly  applied in line with the account terms and conditions.  The 
investigator looked through Ms Ps credit card statements and didnt  think there was any 
evidence Vanquis  had made a mistake by applying  the charges.  The investigator also 
thought the charges for late payments and exceeding the credit limit were £12, which was in 
line with The Office  of Fair Trading guidance.
Ms P doesnt accept  that view and says Vanquiss  charges outweigh the actual cost to them 
and so are unfair and illegal. She says shes prepared to take Vanquis to court  over this.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the investigator. I realise Ms P will be disappointed  by my decision.
Ive looked at Vanquiss terms and conditions, which I can see that Ms P agreed to by 
signing the credit card agreement when the account  was opened. And Im satisfied those 
terms and conditions make clear that a late payment fee of £12, a fee for exceeding the 
credit limit and purchase interest will be applied  in certain circumstances. Im also satisfied 
that having looked at Ms Ps credit card statements, she made late payments, exceeded the 
credit limit and made purchases that incurred purchase interest. So I find that Vanquis  didnt  
make a mistake or acted unfairly by applying charges or interest in those circumstances.
I appreciate Ms P says that the fees outweigh the actual cost to Vanquis. Ms P hasnt 
provided any evidence  of that. But Im satisfied the fees are line with general guidance to 
credit card companies on these types of fees and are the same as the fees Ms P agreed to 
pay in certain circumstances.
.
I also appreciate Ms P says these charges are illegal.  Ms P doesnt explain why she says 
that is the case. But I make clear that for the reasons Ive explained Im satisfied they are 
applied in line with the account  terms and conditions. I can see that Ms P says she is 
prepared to take matters to court.  I think it would  be up to a court  to decide if the terms and 
conditions are illegal in any event.  
Overall as Im satisfied Vanquis  hasnt made a mistake or acted unfairly I cant order it to 
refund and charges or fees.
Ref: DRN86487612my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 July 2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8648761