K820x#14complaint
Mr F says Elevate  Credit  International Limited, trading as Sunny, irresponsibly lent to him. 
background
This complaint is about a running account  line of credit and two instalment loans Sunny 
provided to Mr F between November 2014  and February 2015. The line of credit facility  was 
Mr Fs first account with Sunny and is referred  to as Loan 1 below. It was repayable by five 
monthly repayments. The instalment loans were repayable  by six monthly repayments. All 
the accounts have been repaid.  Mr Fs borrowing history is as follows:
Loan number  Date of 
loanRepayment date Loan amount 
1. 25/11/14 16/2/15 Credit Limit 
of £250
2. 24/1/15 22/1/18 £150
3. 18/2/15 20/10/17 £100
Mr F said that Sunny hadnt asked for his expenditure details and didnt ask about  his 
financial situation. He was stressed out due to his debts. 
Sunny said in its final response  letter  for Loan  1 that it had used Mr Fs declared income to 
establish an affordable credit  limit. The highest  contractual repayment for Loan 1 never 
exceeded 10% of Mr Fs income so the repayments  were calculated to be sustainable. 
Sunny said in its final response  letter  for Loans  2 and 3 that it used the information provided 
by Mr F and from credit reference  agencies  to ensure that the loans  could be repaid without 
undue difficulty over the loan terms. It took into account Mr Fs income  and expenditure 
including other  borrowing  and priority debts. 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  
Mr F disagreed with the adjudicators view.  He said that he had a county  court judgement 
against him dated 9 December 2014  and two of his loans were taken after that. And if Sunny 
had checked his credit file, it would have shown that he was struggling financially. His bank 
statements would have  shown  his other  credit  commitments.  Mr F doesnt think that Sunny 
should have lent to a person with a county court judgement. His borrowing history  had 
affected his family.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  . Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Im sorry  to hear that Mr Fs health  and family  have been affected as a result of his 
borrowing.
Ref: DRN80222892When Sunny  lent to Mr F the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and 
relevant regulations and guidance  included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC).  The 
CONC contained guidance for lenders about responsible lending. 
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr F could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish 
whether Mr F could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the CONC defines sustainable as being  without  undue  difficulties 
and in particular  the consumer should be able to make repayments, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments; as well as without having  to borrow  to meet  the repayments. And 
it follows that a lender  should realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Fs complaint.
Sunny did a number  of checks  before  it lent to Mr F. It asked him for details of his monthly 
income. And its Loan Datasheet shows that from Loan 2 it had information about  Mr Fs 
credit expenditure. But I cant  be sure if it obtained this from Mr F or a credit  reference 
agency. Mr Fs declared income  for Loan 1 was £1,700  and for Loans 2 and 3 it was £2,200.  
Mr Fs credit expenditure ranged from £255 to £256 for Loans 2 and 3.
Sunny said that it also obtained information from the credit reference agencies  before 
agreeing to the loans. It has provided  us with very little information about its credit checks. It 
appears from its Loan Datasheet that there wasnt any adverse information such as 
bankruptcy, IVAs  or debt management plans that I think  should have caused additional 
Ref: DRN80222893concerns to Sunny. And its Loan  Datasheet showed  that Mr F had two or fewer external 
short term loans when  he applied  for the loans. But it hasnt referred to the county court 
judgement against  Mr F which was dated  around  seven  weeks  before Loan 2. 
Weve received a credit  report  from Mr F. I can see that this refers  to the county court  
judgement against  him dated  9 December 2014. 
But Im aware that when  a lender carries  out a credit  check,  the information it sees doesnt 
usually provide the same level of detail that a consumers credit report  will and it isnt 
necessarily up to date. A lender might  only see a small  portion of a borrowers credit file, or 
some data might be missing or anonymised. Im also aware  that not all payday and short 
term lenders report to the same credit reference  agencies. So, the county court judgement  
may not have been identified by Sunnys credit check. 
With regard to Loan 1, I note that the running  account credit facility had a maximum credit 
limit of £250.  If this amount was withdrawn,  the credit agreement  said it was to be repaid by 
five monthly payments of around  £93. So the amounts that Mr F needed to repay each time 
were smaller than if hed taken a payday loan.  But of course  he was committing  to making 
those repayments  over a far longer period. So I think it would have been proportionate for 
Sunny to have asked  about Mr Fs regular expenditure before Loan 1. I cant  see any 
expenditure information on Sunnys Loan Datasheet before Loan 1. So I cant  say that 
Sunny made proportionate checks before providing Loan 1 to Mr F. 
But having  looked at Mr Fs circumstances and the information Sunny would have likely 
gathered if it had carried out proportionate checks,  I dont  think these would have given 
Sunny any reason to think that it shouldnt  have given Mr F Loan 1.
I also dont think the repayment amounts on Loan 1 were so large that its obvious  they 
wouldve caused Mr F financial difficulty.  Given Mr Fs repayment  amounts, that this was his 
first loan with Sunny  and what was apparent about his circumstances at the time, I dont 
think it wouldve been proportionate for Sunny to ask him for the amount of information  that 
would be needed  to show the lending  was unsustainable.  
And there wasnt anything  in the information  Mr F provided or the information  Sunny 
shouldve been  aware of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate to start verifying what 
he was saying. So I dont  think  Sunny  was wrong to give Loan 1 to Mr F. 
Loan 1 was still outstanding when Mr F took out Loan 2. There  was very little information 
shown on Sunnys Loan Datasheet about  Mr Fs expenditure other than credit expenditure of 
£255. I can see that Loan 2 was repayable by six monthly repayments of around  £47. So 
with the maximum repayments  on Loan 1, he might have had to pay total monthly  
repayments of up to £140 for six months.
I can see that Mr F had declared  an income  of £2,200.  But I also think  it would have again 
been proportionate for Sunny to have asked about Mr Fs regular expenditure before Loan  2. 
And Loan 2 was still outstanding when Mr F took out Loan 3. And Loan 3 was taken out just 
two days after Loan 1 was repaid. I think the fact that Mr F was taking out a new loan so 
soon after repaying  Loan 1 whilst Loan  2 was still outstanding should have caused Sunny 
some concerns. So I think it would have  again  been proportionate for Sunny to have  asked 
about Mr Fs regular expenditure before Loan 3. I cant  see any expenditure information on 
Ref: DRN80222894Sunnys Loan  Datasheet before Loan  3 other  than credit expenditure of £256. So I cant  say 
that Sunny made proportionate  checks before  providing Loan  3 to Mr F. 
Again Ive looked at Mr Fs circumstances and the information Sunny would have likely 
gathered if it had carried out proportionate checks before  Loans  2 and 3. But, I dont think  
these would have  given Sunny any reason to think that it shouldnt have given Mr F Loans  2 
and 3.
Again I dont think the repayment amounts on Loans  2 and 3 were so large  that its obvious 
they wouldve  caused Mr F financial difficulty.  And given Mr Fs repayment  amounts, his 
repayment history with Sunny and what was apparent  about  his circumstances at the time, I 
dont think it wouldve been  proportionate for Sunny to ask him for the amount of information  
that would  be needed to show the lending was unsustainable.  
And there wasnt anything  in the information  Mr F provided or the information  Sunny 
shouldve been  aware of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate to start verifying what 
he was saying. So I dont  think  Sunny  was wrong to give Loans 2 and 3 to Mr F.
For the above reasons, Im not upholding Mr Fs complaint. I realise this isnt the answer he 
was hoping for and again  Im sorry to read of the distress his financial problems have caused 
him.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 March  2020.
Roslyn Rawson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8022289