K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that Link Financial Outsourcing Limited (Link) is chasing them for a 
debt that should be written  off.
background
In August  2012  Mr and Mrs L both gave notice to their creditors under the Insolvency Act 
1986 that they each wanted to enter  into an Individual Voluntary  Arrangement (IVA). At this 
time they had three joint debts with Link. Their  notices set out that their creditors  would meet  
in September  2012 to determine  by voting, if each of their IVAs was to be approved.
Mr and Mrs L have told us that as they had joint debts, they both had to enter into an IVA for 
the joint debts  to be included. They say that there  was a conversation  around how much 
they could pay towards  the debts and they agreed  on an amount from both of them,  which 
was accepted by Link. They then started making  these  repayments and didnt miss any, to 
ensure they werent in breach of their IVA conditions.
In January 2019 Mr L completed his IVA and Link received the paperwork for this. At this 
point Mrs L wrote to Link asking for the remaining amounts outstanding on the accounts.  
Link responded, but Mrs L then disagreed with the amount owing. From Links  notes it 
seems she initially expected the amount owing  to be halved as Mr L had entered  into an IVA. 
Then she said that it was a joint IVA, so she expected the full debts to be written  off and 
closed, as the IVA had completed.  Mrs L made  a complaint about the amount owed and also 
the contact she had received from Link. She was unhappy that both her and Mr L had been 
chased for the debts that were included in his IVA since it completed.
In response, Link said that in September 2012  Mrs Ls IVA was rejected, not approved. So 
although Mr Ls IVA had been  approved and hed entered into an IVA, she hadnt. This 
meant that she still owed  money and as the borrowing was joint,  she was responsible for the 
full amount outstanding. Mr and Mrs L disagreed, so they brought their complaint to our 
service.
Our investigator agreed with Link that Mrs Ls IVA hadnt been approved. So he said Link 
wasnt doing anything  wrong in chasing  Mrs L for the outstanding  amounts. However  he said 
Link shouldnt be contacting Mr L as since his IVA had completed, his details shouldve  been 
removed from the three accounts that were  included in it.
Mr and Mrs L disagreed with his view.  They  said that it wasnt  possible to have an IVA on 
joint accounts unless  it was a joint IVA. They said that they had paperwork which  showed  
theyd both entered into IVAs and that the amounts offered and paid were  based on it being  
joint, as otherwise they wouldve paid less. So the complaint  has been passed to me for a 
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im reaching the same 
outcome as our investigator for much the same reasons.
Ref: DRN82738692As Ive previously set out to Mr and Mrs L, an IVA cannot be joint.  It is an Individual 
Voluntary Arrangement, so relates only to one party.  When  a joint account forms part of an 
IVA, this just means that liability for the person in the IVA will be discharged  if it is completed  
 it doesnt mean the whole debt is written  off. This would  only happen if both parties  to the 
debt entered into and completed their own IVAs.  So while they have said their IVA was joint, 
this is not possible. It is however possible for two IVAs to interlock  if both parties have their 
own IVA which includes a joint debt,  so Ive considered if this happened.
I can see Mr and Mrs L both applied to be in IVAs on the same day in August 2012, but this 
doesnt mean they both entered into them. The paperwork theyve provided is a notice that 
they each want  to enter an IVA  not confirmation  they have each entered into one. This set 
out there would be creditor  meetings for both Mr and Mrs L in September 2012, but following 
this, only Mr Ls IVA was accepted. Mrs Ls was rejected, as fewer than 75% of her creditors 
agreed to the arrangement she had put forward.
I have been provided with Mr Ls completion paperwork. But Mr and Mrs L havent  been able 
to provide me with the same paperwork for Mrs L  which they wouldve also received  if her 
IVA had also been approved and then completed. I also note Mrs L tried to enter into 
another IVA in which she requested to include two of the Link debts in February 2019, which 
was rejected in March  2019. By taking out a joint debt Mr and Mrs L were both responsible  
for the whole  amount borrowed. So when Mr L completed his IVA and was taken off the 
loans, this left Mrs L responsible for the whole amounts remaining.
I appreciate from speaking to Mr and Mrs L and reading their testimony that they may have 
been under  the impression that their outstanding debts with Link would have been reduced 
substantially, or even written off by Mr Ls IVA. But I havent seen anything to suggest  Link 
was the one who provided this information  to them. The paperwork Ive seen from Link is 
clear about  the amount owed and that it has voted to reject Mrs Ls IVA. So if they were 
given the wrong  information or impression  at some point in this process, I havent seen that 
Link is responsible  for this. And I cant comment on what  they were told by any other party.  
What I can see is that Link did reduce the debts by the amount paid towards it during the 
time Mr L was in an IVA, which is correct.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs L say they wouldve  paid less towards  the debts if theyd known the 
payment was just being made  for Mr L. But, as Ive set out above,  a joint debt is the whole 
responsibility of both parties. And we cant know if this lesser payment would have been 
accepted by Link. Or whether it would have  instead  then asked Mrs L to make her own 
payment in addition  to what  Mr L was paying  to reach the same  figure.  Ultimately,  they 
offered a joint amount towards  the debt and Links  records suggest  it didnt  pursue  Mrs L 
during this time and show the debt has been  reduced by this joint payment. So I dont  think  
Link has done anything  wrong.
In relation to the letters both Mr and Mrs L received, I agree that Link shouldnt have been 
sending Mr L any letters about  the debts included in his IVA, once it had received notification 
that this was complete. However  it did need to contact Mrs L  both to meet  its obligations as 
the owner of these  debts and so she knew what she needed to do next.  The letters  provided  
to us are statements of the account,  which Link does need  to provide to Mrs L. Since our 
assessment was issued  Link has confirmed it has updated its system so Mr L will no longer 
receive any correspondence for these debts. Ive considered  whether  Mr and Mrs L are due 
compensation for this error, but I dont think its warranted in this case  as it seems the driving 
force for their distress is that money is still owed  at all.
Ref: DRN82738693my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 February  2020.
Amy Osborne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8273869