K821x#15complaint
Mr W complains that Greenlight Credit Ltd trading as Varooma was irresponsible when it 
provided him with a logbook loan in August 2017.
background
Mr W applied  for a logbook loan with Varooma in August  2017.  He borrowed £1,400 which  
was repayable over two years with monthly payments of £151.67.  The total amount Mr W 
had to repay was £3,640. Repayment of the balance  under the loan credit  agreement was 
secured by a bill of sale over Mr Ws motor car. In simple terms this means that if Mr W 
failed to meet the terms of the loan his car could be repossessed by Varooma.  Towards the 
end of 2018 Mr W began to fall behind with his loan repayments. 
Mr W complained  to Varooma in January  2019. But it didnt  agree  that it had done anything  
wrong when it provided him with the loan. So he brought  his complaint to this Service.  One 
of our adjudicators looked into the matter  and recommended that Mr Ws complaint be 
upheld. Varooma doesnt agree, so the complaint has been passed to me - an ombudsman - 
for a final decision.  If Mr W accepts my final decision it will be binding  on the parties.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the time this loan was granted Varooma  was regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA). Its Principles for Business (PRIN)  set out the overarching requirements applicable to 
all firms authorised by the FCA. 
PRIN 2.1.1  R (6) states that a firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customer  and 
treat them fairly.
The Consumer Credit  Sourcebook (CONC) sets out the rules and guidance which apply  to 
logbook loan providers  like Varooma. CONC 5 provides details of a firms  obligation in 
relation to responsible lending. 
In particular Varooma  needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend 
irresponsibly. It had to carry  out proportionate checks to make sure Mr W could repay his 
loan in a sustainable manner. And it had to consider the potential for the loan commitments  
to adversely impact  Mr Ws financial situation  taking  into account the information of which it 
was aware at the point the loan was taken. 
Additionally, when carrying out its assessment Varooma had to take into account  more than 
simply assessing a customers ability to repay the credit. It had to be repayable  in a 
sustainable way (CONC 5.3.1G(1)).  
For the loan repayments to be sustainable  Mr W would have to be able to make his 
repayments without  undue difficulties whilst meeting other  reasonable commitments  and 
without having  to borrow to meet the repayments (over the whole two year term)  from 
income or savings.
Proportionate checks could take into account a number of different things,  such as how 
much was being lent, the repayment  amounts  and the consumers income and expenditure. 
Ref: DRN84877532And what is proportionate depends on a number of factors. The regulations arent 
prescriptive about  what checks Varooma  needed to carry out. But the checks needed to be 
proportionate. In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the 
potential risk to the consumer of not being  able to repay the credit  in a sustainable way. 
As I've mentioned  Mr Ws loan was for £1,400 over 24 months  repayable at just over £150 
per month. Varooma asked Mr W about  his income.  He declared a monthly  income of 
£2,600. Ive listened to the call between Varooma and Mr W in which  he confirmed  his 
income. During this call Varooma confirmed a number of things  including that Mr W wasnt  
subject to any insolvency arrangements.  It also made checks  about the car which was to be 
the security for the loan.  I note that when Mr W says that ideally he wanted to borrow £1,400 
the representative answered that could be done no problem. He then stated the amount of 
the repayments and asked Mr W whether he wanted to proceed.   He stated he did. 
After the representative read the disclaimer he proceeded to explain to Mr W that Varooma 
would keep the logbook. It was at this point that Varooma began to ask Mr W about his 
income and outgoings. Given what had been  said in the earlier part of the conversation it 
seems Varooma may have already decided to lend to Mr W before it confirmed his financial 
circumstances. But that aside, Mr W went on to confirm that his normal  monthly  living 
expenses amounted to around £1,129 (which included £760 rent).  And he told Varooma that 
he was paying  around £525  towards  loans and £200  towards credit cards  each month.  This 
apparently left Mr W with £746 per month  as disposable income from which  to repay  his 
loan. 
I note that during the call the representative asked Mr W about the purpose for the loan (a 
holiday) and whether  there were any other circumstances which might  affect his ability  to 
repay the loan  to which Mr W replied  no. There was then a discussion about  how a local 
representative would meet  with Mr W in person.  Mr W was to bring to that meeting his 
logbook, proof of address and proof of income. Mr W offered  to bring his payslips but the 
representative said they didnt accept those  - he would have to show the local representative 
bank statements - perhaps on his phone.
So it seems  that Varooma  wanted to verify Mr Ws income. But I havent seen anything  to 
suggest that it wanted to verify  what hed said about his outgoings even though hed told 
Varooma that he was spending over a quarter of his income each  month on debt 
repayments. This loan was going to tie in Mr W for two years.  And if he didnt make the 
repayments in line with the agreement  he stood to lose his car: something which  could have 
very serious  consequence  for Mr W. 
Furthermore Varooma  has sent to us the screenshots from Mr Ws phone  which  he provided 
to verify his income  into his bank account.  Two screenshots  are provided  one for July 2017 
and one for August 2017. Each screenshot includes only six transactions. Income from 
Mr Ws employer  is shown on each one. But the transactions not relating to the employer 
either relate to an on-line  gambling business  or other credit providers (including a different 
logbook loan provider). And they were for relatively  significant sums. Varooma was in 
possession of this information but didnt ask any questions about  these  things. 
In response to our adjudicators assessment Varooma has made  a number of comments 
including the following.
Varooma says that the outbound transaction to the other logbook  loan provider was in 
settlement of that loan. It hasnt referred  to the other  transactions involving high cost credit 
Ref: DRN84877533companies. Its unclear  how Varooma knows for sure that Mr W had settled the other loan 
but even if its correct on that point, the fact that he had very recently  had another high cost 
logbook loan ought to have been a flag to Varooma to enquire further about that. Similarly 
the other transactions with other high cost lenders  ought to reasonably have  raised 
questions for Varooma.
Varooma also says that it didnt recognise the on-line gambling  business but in any event  
those transactions  dont  raise concerns because Mr Ws income was higher than his 
outgoings so he was gambling  within his means. It added that Mr W wouldve understood 
that repayments to his loan would take priority over using  his funds to gamble. The sums 
involved in the screenshots  are relatively  high and in light of that and their frequency I think  
there was a real risk that this level of spend on gambling might be repeated irrespective of 
whatever else Mr W needed to pay  for example to his loan. The two screen  shots 
potentially showed  that Mr W was using credit to fund gambling  transactions.  
With all of this in mind, Im satisfied that Varooma failed in its duty to make  a proportionate 
assessment. So I've thought about what Varooma wouldve seen if it had done  what  I 
consider to be proportionate.
Ive been provided  with a copy of Mr Ws banks statements covering about four months  
before he took the loan with Varooma. From  this I can see that he was making numerous 
payments to the on-line gambling  business.  Often  they were for hundreds  of pounds  and 
sometimes they were for more than £1,000. 
Additionally there are numerous transactions  credits and debits to high cost credit  
providers. On one occasion in June  2017 Mr W received funds from a payday loan provider 
of £1,100. Within  a very short period of time, a payment for the same  amount was made to 
the gambling business.  Three days  after that he received funds from another  high cost 
credit provider in the sum of £1,200. The next transaction was to the gambling business  
again for £1,200. I accept that from time to time Mr W received payments from the gambling 
business  these couldve been winnings. But the overall picture from this statement is that 
Mr W was borrowing from numerous high cost credit providers  to fund gambling transactions  
 and that far more was being paid to the gambling  business than was being credited as 
winnings.
Varooma was the regulated business and it had to act responsibly because of the risk to 
Mr W being caused harm  through  unsustainable lending. Furthermore, CONC 5.3.3 says: 
a firm should take adequate steps,  insofar  as it is reasonable and practicable to do so, to 
ensure that information (including  information  supplied by the customer) on an application for 
credit  is complete and correct.
And CONC 5.3.7R says: A firm must not accept an application for credit under a regulated  
credit agreement where the firm knows or ought reasonably  to suspect that the customer 
has not been truthful in completing the application  in relation to information supplied  by the 
customer relevant to the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required by CONC 
5.2.2R (1). 
Varooma had the screen shots of Mr Ws bank  account. It couldnt simply take what  it 
wanted from those  (details of his income) and ignore the other transactions. The briefest  of 
reviews wouldve provided  Varooma with information which - as a responsible lender - it 
shouldve followed up and checked. As I've mentioned  above,  CONC also says that if a firm 
takes income or expenditure  into account  in its assessment its not generally sufficient for it 
Ref: DRN84877534to rely solely  on a statement of those matters  made  by the customer  (CONC 5.3.1(4)).  So 
I'm not persuaded by Varoomas argument  that we can only go off what  information the 
customer provides us and what we believe  at the time is proportionate. 
I note that Varooma says it carried out a credit file check for Mr W and that his score  of 488 
was higher than its minimum  400 for carrying out an in depth review of bank statements. So I 
acknowledge that by doing  a credit check Varooma did more  than solely rely on what Mr W 
declared for his income and outgoings. 
But it seems  to me that Varooma  placed  too much reliance on Mr Ws self-declared  income  
and expenditure  information when the broader circumstances of the borrowing and the 
additional information it had in the form of the screenshots  of the bank statements shouldve 
resulted in Varooma undertaking a full review  of Mr Ws financial situation.  Had it done this I 
think it wouldve identified that it was unlikely hed be able to afford  the repayments 
sustainably and wouldnt have provided  the loan. As Varooma failed to do this it acted 
unfairly towards Mr W.
So I uphold Mr Ws complaint.
putting things right
Varooma should  not have provided the loan to Mr W in August 2017 and I understand that 
there is an outstanding  balance  so I require it to:
A.Remove all interest, fees and charges  from the balance and treat all repayments, 
fees and charges paid by Mr W as though they were repayments  towards  the 
principal. From what I can see Mr W has repaid more than the £1,400 principal 
originally borrowed. If that is correct  it means that he has overpaid, so Varooma 
should refund all those overpayments together  with 8% simple interest* from  the 
date the overpayments were made to the date of settlement 
* HM Revenue & Customs  requires Varooma  to take off tax from this interest. Varooma  must  give Mr W 
a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
B.Remove entries about this loan from Mr Ws credit  file
C.Return the vehicle  logbook  to Mr W if it hasnt  already done  so
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above I uphold Mr Ws complaint against Greenlight  Credit Ltd and 
require it to put things right in the way I've explained.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 October  2019.
 
EJ Forbes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8487753