K820x#14complaint
Miss G complains  that Lookers Motor Group Limited  misrepresented  the terms of a finance  
agreement. She wants compensation and a default  removed from her credit file.
background
Miss G tells us that in order to reduce her outgoings  she decided  to part-exchange her 
current vehicle, which Ill refer to as vehicle A, for a different vehicle, V, with lower  
monthly repayments. She says she was told by Lookers that as part of the deal all the 
outstanding finance on vehicle A would be cleared. Miss G states that as result of this 
assurance she then cancelled the direct  debit on vehicle A. She says she later found  that a 
personal loan which had partly financed the purchase of vehicle A hadnt been settled. She 
says she was left owing almost £5,000. Miss G says shes  since  settled this but has ended  
up paying more  than she was previously. And her credit file was defaulted as a result of the 
payments missed when  she cancelled  her direct debit.
Lookers told us it hadnt any involvement in advising or arranging any finance to fund the 
purchase of vehicle V. It said Miss G had decided to purchase this vehicle as a cash deal. 
And that shed indicated  shed be using a bank loan.  It said it had arranged, on behalf  of 
Miss G, to settle the outstanding  finance balance on vehicle A with her existing lender, a 
business Ill refer to as B. To this end it (Lookers)  said it had received two payments on 
behalf of Miss G. One was from a lender Ill refer to as SF, together  with a debit card 
payment. Lookers said it had used these sums, together with the surplus part exchange 
amount, to settle  in full the finance outstanding on agreement reference xxxx192 which 
related to vehicle  A.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 2 July 2020. I said that I didnt intend to 
uphold the complaint. And that Id seen no information to show that Lookers had agreed  to 
settle any other loan other than Ive referred  to above which related to an account ending 
xxxx192.
Since issuing my provisional  decision Lookers  has replied but said it had nothing  to add. 
Miss G hasnt  replied.  As no new information  has been provided I see no reason to alter my 
provisional view which is largely  repeated in my final decision which is set out below.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Miss G has strong feelings  about  the circumstances  surrounding the acquisition of 
her replacement vehicle.  Its clear she believes shes been misled  into thinking that the 
outstanding finance on her previous vehicle would be settled as part of the exchange  deal. 
I need to explain  that during enquiries  into this complaint its become apparent  that there are 
a number of issues  which are more complex than initially appeared  to be the case. To try 
and resolve these matters  Ive sought  some additional information from Miss G about the 
precise details of the finance agreement(s) used to finance vehicle A. Unfortunately, Miss G 
hasnt responded  to this request. So Ill make my decision  based  on the information I have 
available.
Ref: DRN80203672Where information is incomplete, unclear or contradictory - as some of it is here - I reach  my 
conclusions on the balance of probabilities. That is, what I think is most likely to have 
happened in light of the available  evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Miss G has based her complaint upon  an alleged  misrepresentation of the finance  
agreement by which she acquired vehicle V. But I think its more  accurately characterised  as 
being about the manner  in which the finance on vehicle A was settled.
Ive seen a document provided  by Lookers  and headed Your  Finance Options.
This document summarises various  means  by which the purchase of a vehicle might be 
financed. The final section of the document is headed:
3. Your Selected  Vehicle Finance Product
 
It reads:
I confirm  that I have  had the funding options displayed  above  explained to me and I have 
chosen to fund my vehicle  using: Cash
The Reason(s) for my selection  of this funding product is:
This is a cash purchase because I am using a bank loan
Customer Signature (Miss G).
Ive also seen a letter dated 27 March 2019 from B which gives  details of the sum required  to 
settle account reference xxxx192 which related  to vehicle A. The sum required was 
£17,916.79. That figure is repeated in the vehicle order form and invoice for vehicle V.
The financing of a motor vehicle purchase can be quite complex. And a consumer might 
reasonably think  that its all one continuous  process.  In reality theres often a lot going  on in 
the background and thats the situation  here. 
In order to finance the acquisition of vehicle V, Miss G - possibly unknowingly  - was engaged 
in several separate transactions. She was using vehicle A as part-exchange  and that 
required any outstanding  finance to be settled.  This was achieved  by her taking out a further 
hire purchase agreement to cover  the cost of vehicle V. And an additional personal loan. 
She used  a credit broker to arrange  this part of the finance. A credit broker  being a business  
which introduces a borrower to a potential lender. The ensuing finance agreement  was 
supplied by a lender  which was not involved with vehicle A.
The sum raised by way of the sale of vehicle A was then (together with a debit  card 
payment) used to settle the finance agreement xxxx192 which related vehicle A. No doubt 
for convenience,  Lookers assisted with the administration of this process.  And it arranged 
the transfer of the settlement sum in respect of agreement  xxxx192 to B.
Ref: DRN80203673Going to the heart of Miss Gs complaint Ive seen  no documentation that shows that 
Lookers agreed  to settle the finance  on the personal loan through  which her acquisition  of 
vehicle A had apparently been partly  financed.  I say apparently because Ive not been  
provided with a copy of that agreement. Ive made  an inference from testimony provided by 
Miss G. She stated  that as a result  of the failure of Lookers  to settle the finance  on the 
personal loan she missed contractual payments. As a consequence she said the agreement  
was defaulted.  I should add Im not able to comment further  on the circumstances  of any 
default as that was recorded by B. And B isnt a party to this complaint.
Whilst Ive no doubt about what Miss G thought  had been agreed  its not uncommon  for 
parties to a conversation to have different recollections of what was said. Or to make 
assumptions. Ive seen  no documentation  that Lookers  agreed  to settle the finance  on a 
personal loan.  Theres  nothing to show it was even  aware of the existence of such  a loan. If 
settlement of that loan had been part of the overall  deal Id have expected  a similar 
document would  have  been available to that which indicated the settlement figure  on 
agreement xxxx192. Without such a document I cant see how Lookers wouldve known 
there was other finance to settle or in what amount.  Its not plausible  to think  that it wouldve 
made any agreement  to settle  a loan without knowing the precise  details of that loan.
The order  form in respect of vehicle V also details the part exchange valuation of vehicle A 
along with the settlement figure. It makes no reference to any additional personal loan.
In summary,  it wouldnt be fair and reasonable to say Lookers had done anything  wrong  in 
the transactions in which it was involved.  It didnt finance or assist directly  in any 
negotiations relating to the finance  of vehicle V. It processed the full settlement of agreement 
xxxx192 which accords with the contents  of the relevant order  form and agreement. Theres  
insufficient supporting  information to show it had agreed to settle any additional personal 
loan. Accordingly,  I shant be asking Lookers to do anything else. And Im not upholding this 
complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 September 2020.
Stephen D Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8020367