K820x#14complaint
Mr Y complains about Monese Ltd (Monese) in respect of three  attempted payments into 
his account. These payments were  rejected  and returned to the payers, incurring charges in
the process.
Mr Y wants  to be compensated for the deductions that were taken from the payments, and to 
be compensated for his distress and inconvenience.
background
I set out the background  to this matter, and my provisional view, in a provisional decision 
issued in December  2019.A  copy of that decision  is attached. 
In that decision  I explained why, based  on the terms and conditions and a video of the app 
which was provided  by the business,  I considered that it was sufficiently clear that for 
international transfers from outside of the SEPA region a different receiving account had to 
be used. 
That provisional decision and the video have been  shared with the parties  and their 
comments invited. 
We have not received  any comments on the provisional decision from the business, but Mr Y 
has submitted comments. 
Mr Y strongly disagrees with my provisional view. He indicates that he is not satisfied that 
the video of the app is the same  as he was using in summer 2018.  He also comments  that 
throughout the video there  is an IBAN  number visible on the users home page, which he 
considers confusing, if that IBAN number  could not be used in all circumstances. 
He accepts that the portions of the video showing the information displayed under the 
International Transfer  section corresponds with the terms  and conditions, and that these 
explain that a receiving bank account would be used for international transfers  from outside  
the SEPA area, but he submits  that the remainder of he app contradicted  this information, 
including because it displays, and allows the app user to copy and paste, an IBAN  number 
which is not appropriate for all types of transfer. 
Mr Y also states that he has authority to pursue  claims for compensation from the people  
who made transactions using the wrong information  and he quotes case law which  he says 
entitles him to act on their behalf. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr Ys strength of feeling  in respect  of this complaint and I have considered his 
comments about the liability of app designers,  or their counterparts in other scenarios, when 
app users make mistakes in using an app. He described the issues  he considers the app to 
have to be akin to the app being  in Beta, and consumers paying  the price  for flaws in the 
app. 
Ref: DRN89315982I understand his view,  and I have reviewed the information available again in the context of 
his comments. 
I do, however,  remain of the view that the video and terms and conditions are clear  in 
explaining to consumers how an international transfer would work, and the role of a receiving  
account and details of that account.  
Mr Y has not pointed to any terms or other evidence which  contradicts this information, and I 
have not seen evidence which differs from the information regarding a receiving bank 
account. 
Mr Y points to the presence of an IBAN  number being visible to the app user and he says 
that this could cause the app user to think that the IBAN  number  can be used in all 
circumstances. I appreciate this but think that it is clear from clicking on the Add Money  
option on the home screen onwards that different  processes apply to different ways  of 
paying in. I appreciate that not all users  may look for additional information on was to pay in 
and so may rely on the visible IBAN number,  but think it is reasonable for Monese to include 
the information on paying in funds under this heading. 
I therefore think that, in context, Monese  has given  sufficient detail about the account into 
which to pay international transfers. 
In respect of Mr Ys comments  about having  authority  to pursue claims on behalf  of others, 
he may wish to raise new complaints on behalf of these people,  after first raising them  with 
the business. I note his comments on case law but his comments  relate  to the courts system 
and processes. Our process operates under our rules, which have  been  applied to his 
complaint throughout. 
I appreciate that Mr Y will be disappointed  by this decision, but I remain  of the view that, 
based on the evidence presented, Monese has given enough information about how to 
make international transfers. For this reason I do not uphold the complaint and do not ask 
Monese Ltd to do anything further. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, and in my provisional  decision,  I do not uphold this complaint 
and do not ask Monese Ltd to do anything further.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2020.
Laura Garvin-Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8931598