K821x#15Complaint
Ms Y is unhappy that Zopa Limited are holding her liable for a loan which was obtained as a 
result of her falling victim to fraud.
Background
Ms Y says that she registered her details through a website claiming to assist investors in 
cryptocurrency trading  after seeing it on a link a friend had sent to her. She was contacted  
by a representative of the trading company  who purported to be her account manager. As 
part of the application process for a trading  account, Ms Y was sent a contract and given 
access to an online portal to view her investment. She was also required to provide her 
personal information, proof of identity, address and financial  accounts  information.
After placing an initial deposit  of $250  into her trading account,  Ms Y says that the account  
manager persuaded her that some  investors  were  using  credit to trade in cryptocurrency 
through their platform. He told Ms Y that Zopas CEO was a good client  of theirs and that he 
could secure a guarantee of credit service payment from them  on her behalf. Ms Y says 
that she was persuaded by the account managers assurances and agreed.
Ms Y says that she never involved  herself in the application process of securing the credit 
service payment as her account  manager  was arranging this. She says that she never 
signed any documentation or had any awareness that the loan being  taken  out was a 
personal loan rather than the guarantee of credit  service payment shed agreed to. Ms Y 
says that the only correspondence she was sent by Zopa was an email  about the successful  
application, an email  saying she may be contacted and an email regarding  the repayment  
amount, including direct debit information.
Ms Y says that she received a £20,000 payment into her current account  (held  with a 
different bank) and was told by the account manager that she needed to transfer  the money 
to her trading account at the companys base abroad. He instructed her to download  a link 
which would allow him remote  access to her computer and assisted her in transferring 
£19,500 from her bank account to an international bank account. She says £500  was left in 
her account  to meet the first monthly  repayment.
Following the transfer Ms Y attempted to contact her account  manager, but she was 
unsuccessful in making any contact. She also noticed some  inconsistencies  within her 
trading accounts  online  portal. It was at this point she became suspicious and realised  shed 
been a victim of fraud. So she reported the events to both Zopa  and her current account 
provider.
Zopa looked into Ms Ys fraud claim but didnt agree that the loan was taken  out fraudulently. 
As a result, Ms Y lodged a complaint with Zopa as she felt it could have done more  to 
identify she was a victim of fraud and to ensure it was her who was giving consent to take 
out the loan.
Zopa responded to Ms Ys complaint. It said that whilst  discussing  the claim with its fraud  
team Ms Y confirmed that shed willingly provided  her personal details to a third party without 
completing any background  checks into that company. It added that Ms Y confirmed that 
shed also received the loan into her bank account and willingly transferred the money to the 
fraudster. For those  reasons, Zopa says that it was unable to confirm the loan as fraudulent 
and deemed Ms Y liable for the loans repayments.
Ref: DRN81912752Zopa said that loan applications are completed through its website as its an online based  
company. It said that it requested all relevant information to support the application  and 
confirmed this matched  Ms Ys details.  It also confirmed  her information using details held on 
her credit file and the bank account where  the loan was to be paid. It said that there  was no 
suggestion the application was fraudulent  and was therefore unable to agree to any failings  
in its application  process.
Upon analysis of Ms Ys bank account  statements, Zopa pointed out that the loan was 
clearly labelled  as being a Zopa loan upon  entering her account, and Ms Y failed to question 
this prior to transferring the funds to the fraudster. Furthermore, it argued that upon receiving 
an email regarding the setting up of a direct debit, Ms Y didnt question  this either or think  to 
contact Zopa  directly.
Zopa also confirmed that as a result of failure to meet repayments, a default was registered 
against Ms Ys credit file to reflect this.
Ms Y was unhappy  with Zopas response  to her complaint, so she approached our service to 
look into her concerns further.
An Investigator looked at the evidence provided by both parties and concluded that Zopa 
hadnt made an error in the circumstances  of this complaint.  He acknowledged that Zopa 
ought to have done more  to show Ms Y was the one taking out the loan. But he also 
considered that Ms Y was aware  of the loan and the repayments from the correspondence 
sent to her. And whilst she was deceived into obtaining the loan, she did intend to benefit  
from them. As a result,  he recommended  that the complaint not be upheld.
Ms Y disagreed with the Investigators findings,  so the matter has been  passed to me to 
consider things further.
Prior to issuing my provisional findings, I approached Zopa and asked it to considerand 
provide comment onfurther points not previously considered by the Investigator. In 
summary I asked Zopa to comment on whether it:
1.Adhered to its obligations under The Money Laundering, Terrorist Financing and 
Transfer of Funds  Regulations  2017  (MLR) to perform customer  due diligence  
checks that may have  prevented the fraud.
2.Provided Ms Y with adequate explanation of the features of the agreement  which  
may make the credit to be provided  under  the agreement unsuitable for particular 
types of uses under  its obligation  in the Consumer  Credit  Sourcebook (CONC).
3.Carried out a reasonable  affordability assessment to ensure Ms Y could sustainably  
repay the borrowing also under its obligation within CONC.
I pointed out that had one or more  of the relevant checks listed  above  been carried out 
sufficiently, I was minded  to suggest that this would likely have alerted both Ms Y and Zopa 
to the fraud that was taking place.  I noted that the reason  for the loan was indicated on the 
application as home improvements  and there were a number of falsified details placed onto 
the affordability assessment. As Ms Ys correct contact information  had been supplied on the 
application, and further checks would have  been directed to Ms Y rather  than the person 
Ref: DRN81912753carrying out the application, this likely  would  have been uncovered had contact been made. 
And this ultimately  may have led to the loss of funds being prevented.
Zopa responded to the additional points raised. It reiterated that Ms Y had willingly provided  
her personal  information to a third party and as such, matched  the relevant checks that it 
completed with no concerns or suspicions of money  laundering.
It said that it provided the agreement and features of the loan at the application  stage of its 
online process and these are additionally  available on the customers  online portal. It said 
that these controls  would be unsuccessful if the applicant had provided their personal details 
willingly to a third party.
Zopa said that it questioned what impact contacting Ms Y would  have had in determining 
that the application was potentially fraudulent given its correspondence to the consumer 
hadnt been responded to; and questions werent raised once  shed received the loan into 
her account.
Lastly, it found its affordability assessment  to be reasonable and sufficient in the 
circumstances. It said that it looked  at the income stated on the application and checked 
Ms Ys outstanding  level of debt via an independent  source. This uncovered no concerns  
over the debt to income ratios.
Zopa concluded that whilst it was sorry Ms Y had fallen  victim  to a scam, she was fully 
aware of the loan being taken out in her name and intended to gain financially from it. So it 
was unwilling to take any further action  on the loan.
I set out my provisional  findings to both parties  and asked for any further comments  before 
issuing my final decision. Ive included these  below.
My provisional findings
Firstly, Ive considered if Ms Y has fallen victim to a scam here.  In the circumstances of this 
complaint Im comfortable in determining that Ms Y has likely been  the victim of a complex 
and sophisticated  fraud.  Its important  to consider this in circumstances where an 
investment or trading  has been mentioned to ensure that the consumer has been a victim  
of crime rather than just being unhappy with a failed investment and/or one that has 
underperformed against expectations.
Its clear to me that Ms Y was defrauded as the communication  with the account manager 
ceased after the loan was paid from her account  to the international account.  The official 
website of the trading company has been taken down and there  are numerous reports  on 
the internet regarding  the company being  a scam;  including warnings on the regulators 
website. So Im satisfied  that Ms Y was the victim of fraud here rather  than subject to a 
failed investment.
Ms Y has outlined the circumstances  in which the loan was applied  for and has claimed 
that she had no involvement in the application process.  I havent  been provided with any 
persuasive evidence  that shows Ms Y was part of the application process,  so Im satisfied  
that she likely wasnt party to it. She says that she was convinced  by the fraudsters story 
that Zopas CEO was a good client of theirs and that they could secure a guarantee of 
credit service payment  for her once Zopa  had seen the intended investment. Ms Y has 
provided an email from her account  manager to support  this testimony,  and this outlines 
Ref: DRN81912754that the repayment would be drawn directly  from her trading account, regardless of trading 
results, over a six month period; effectively guaranteeing  the repayment. So this supports 
Ms Ys version of events that she was unaware of the true nature  of the loan and likely  had 
no involvement in the application process.
Ms Y had already provided her personal information, identity documents, proof of address 
and financial  account information as part of the application process of setting up her 
trading account.  Ive seen no indication that these  were provided  for the purpose of a loan 
being applied  for or that she ought  to have been aware of the possibility that the fraudster 
might use her details for that purpose. So I find it more likely than not that the fraudster 
used the information shed already provided to set up her trading account to successfully 
apply for the loan using information that matched what was held on Ms Ys credit file.
Ive gone on to consider whether Zopa  did enough  here to check with Ms Y if the loan 
was either  being  applied  for by her, or if it was for the purpose  indicated on the 
application.
Regulated financial businesses  such as Zopa  are obliged  to follow  certain rules,  
regulations, law and what is considered  to be good industry practice  when carrying  out 
regulated financial  activities. In coming to my conclusions Ive considered the following:
Regulated firms like Zopa  are also required to conduct their business with due 
skill, care and diligence (FCA  Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard 
to the interests  of its customers  (Principle  6).
Firms also have a longstanding regulatory  duty to take reasonable care to 
establish and maintain  effective systems  and controls for compliance with 
applicable requirements and standards under the regulatory system  and for 
countering the risk that the firm might be used to further  financial crime (SYSC  
3.2.6R, which has applied  since 2001). And over the years,  the FSA and its 
successor the FCA have  published a series of papers setting out non-exhaustive 
examples of good and poor practice found  when  reviewing measures taken by 
banks to counter  financial  crime.
Firms are required  to comply with legal and regulatory anti-money laundering and 
countering the financing  of terrorism requirements. In July 2017 those 
requirements included  maintaining proportionate  and risk-sensitive  policies and 
procedures to identify,  assess  and manage  money laundering risk  for example 
through customer due diligence measures  and the ongoing monitoring of the 
business relationship (including through the scrutiny  of transactions undertaken 
throughout the course of the relationship).
Ive also considered Zopas obligations set out in the FCAs Consumer Credit 
sourcebook (CONC). Amongst other  things,  this sets out that assessments should be 
carried out to establish  the creditworthiness of a customer prior to lending.
In short,  CONC 5.2.3  says that the extent of any creditworthiness assessment should be 
dependent upon, and proportionate to, a number of factors. Some  of these factors 
include:
 The amount  of credit
 The financial position  of the customer at the time of seeking the credit
 The customers existing financial commitments  including mortgages, rent and bills
Ref: DRN81912755CONC 5.3.1 goes on to say that if income  and expenditure  is taken into account in its 
creditworthiness assessment, it is not generally  sufficient to reply upon a statement of 
those matters made by the customer.
In the circumstances of this complaint,  Zopa has supplied the information provided  on the 
loan application  form. This sets out basic information such as Ms Ys personal details, 
employment status, annual salary,  residential information and that the loan was for home  
improvements. Ms Y has confirmed that some of the information  set out in this application  
is incorrect. Shes confirmed that she is not a property owner and was paying  rent for a 
room in the property she resided in at the time. Shes also confirmed that her salary was 
inflated by several  thousands of pounds.
Zopa has said it fulfilled  its obligation  to carry out due diligence by running the information 
provided on the application  through  credit reference  agencies; which  is an independent  
source. This satisfied it that the information  provided  matched Ms Ys and that she could 
afford the loan repayments. It was also satisfied that Ms Y had applied for the loan as it 
was being paid into an account held in her name. Other than the checks  carried  out via 
credit reference agencies, Zopa hasnt provided any additional evidence  of verification 
checks relating to Ms Ys source  of wealth  such as employment, home ownership, 
identity or assessed  the purpose  and intended nature of the business relationship (such as 
the home improvements listed on the application).
Zopa was establishing a new business relationship with a consumer it had no previous 
dealings with. The application was also for what I consider to be a substantial sum of 
money. Considering  Zopa had no previous relationship with the applicant  and the sum that 
was applied for, I find that the checks carried werent sufficient to satisfy its requirements  
under the MLR and CONC.
As Ive already  said, CONC says checks have to be proportionate to the specific 
circumstances of the loan application.  What constitutes a proportionate affordability check  
will be dependant upon a number of factors  includingbut  not limited  tothe 
circumstances of the borrower  and the amount, type and cost of credit they are seeking. In 
light of this, a reasonable and proportionate  check ought generally  to have been more  
thorough:
 The lower  a customers income
 The higher the amount due to be repaid
 The longer the term of the loan
In the circumstances of this complaint,  it would  appear that Zopa  took the vast majority of 
the information provided on the application  at face value. It confirmed that the details 
matched Ms Ys financial information  held by credit reference agencies  and that Ms Y could 
afford the repayments  based on her current outstanding  debt; also held by credit reference  
agencies. But no verification checks were carried out on Ms Ys source of wealth such as 
her salary,  apparent home ownership without mortgage, and no assessment was carried  
out or information requested regarding  the intended  nature of the business relationship.
Ms Y was provided with a loan of substantial value which  required monthly repayments of
£420.14 over 60 months. And I think a proportionate check  shouldve involved verifying the 
information that had been given about  Ms Ys normal monthly outgoings  and regular 
financial commitments  at the very least to ensure she could meet this repayment amount 
on a sustainable  basis. And I would note that details about  home  ownership and salary  
Ref: DRN81912756arent held by credit reference agencies; so Zopa couldnt have verified this just through a 
credit file check.
So, Ive gone  on to consider whether sufficient customer due diligence or 
creditworthiness and affordability checks would have made a difference in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive already  set out, Ms Y was victim to a complex fraud that was likely carried  out by 
an experienced fraudster who had some  knowledge of business  financial controls.  Ms Y 
has confirmed that the information given on the application included  her genuine email 
address, mobile  telephone number and postal address, so I find it more likely than not that 
had Zopa  attempted to carry out further checks on both affordability and the validity  of the 
application, it would likely  have contacted  Ms Y directly rather  than the fraudster. Ive also 
seen no evidence that the fraudster  had control over any of these contact methods and 
therefore likely wouldnt have been  able to intercept communication  via these channels. 
There has also been no evidence which  suggests  the fraudster coached  Ms Y on how to 
respond if Zopa contacted her.
So, if Zopa  contacted Ms Y by post,  email or phone and made her aware  of or 
requested supporting evidence for the purpose  of the loan or her ability to meet  the 
repayments, Im persuaded this would  have  likely uncovered the fraud  and prevented 
the loss of funds.
I say this because  the loan purpose was given as home improvements. But thats not what  
Ms Y was expecting the funds for. She didnt own the property she was living in and she 
wasnt earning the salary  that had been  declared. So she wouldnt have been able to prove 
any of those facts. Nor was she expecting to take out what was actually a fairly standard  
loan  she thought she was being  given a guarantee of credit service  payment. I think if 
Zopa had queried  the loan application  information,  the discrepancies would likely have 
given Ms Y pause  for thought and probably made  her question  what  the fraudster was 
doing.
I also think its likely Ms Y wouldve  gone  on to disclose her conversations with the 
fraudster. And, as Ive seen nothing to suggest the fraudster gave Ms Y a cover story,  I 
think she wouldve likely told Zopa the truth about what she intended on using the loan 
proceeds for and that she hadnt completed the loan application  herself.
Im persuaded  that this would have likely alerted both Ms Y and Zopa to the fact that 
Ms Y was falling victim to a scam  and this would have ultimately prevented  the loan 
being taken out and the proceeds  being lost to the fraudster.
Ive also considered whether Ms Y should bear some responsibility by way of contributory 
negligence. Zopa has made a number of submissions  that suggest  Ms Y failed  to 
sufficiently protect herself or question the validity of the loan. These include:
Providing her personal  information to a third party
Not conducting  sufficient research on the third party shed been defrauded by
Failing to contact Zopa to question its correspondence and the purpose  of the loan
Failing to question the payment  into her account  that was clearly  reference as a 
Zopa loan
Ms Y has provided a consistent  testimony regarding the events that took place;  and 
Ref: DRN81912757provided evidence  to support this.
Once Ms Y had deposited  $250  into the trading account, she was given access to an 
online portal via a website where she could monitor her investment. Ms Y has said that she 
had no prior experience  in investments or trading, and Ive seen no evidence to the 
contrary of this. She also found  the website to appear professional, had conversed  with the 
account manager over the phone and email, been  sent contracts and documents  that 
appeared legitimate and called the company using their supplied number which raised  no 
suspicions. Ms Y admits that she didnt  conduct any research on the company at the time, 
but considering  her limited experience with investments and her testimony above, I dont 
find this unreasonable. And even had she conducted research on the business  prior to 
engaging with it, I can see from open resource  checks that the material  found online  
pointing out that the business was a scam  was published after the date of Ms Ys 
engagement with it. So I cant say that even  if she had carried out basic online checks that 
this would have  raised any concerns.
Zopa has argued that it sent correspondence to Ms Y which  should have prompted  her to 
get in touch with it and question the loan. But having reviewed the documents  sent to 
Ms Y via email, I cant see any information  in these correspondences that would have 
alerted Ms Y to anything  suspicious. The correspondence included an email to confirm an 
account had been opened, an email that said Zopa may be in touch to confirm  
information about the application and an email to confirm  the monthly repayment amount 
and direct debit details. I havent seen any indication from the correspondence that Ms Y 
was made  aware  of the specific purpose  of the application  or the information  held within  
it. Ms Y has said she was unaware that the loan was a personal loan and was still under 
the impression  that it was an agreement  to provide a guarantee of credit service 
payment as set out by the fraudster for her investment. So I find it reasonable that she 
didnt feel it necessary to question  it further or make contact with Zopa  as there was no 
evidence presented to the contrary of what the fraudster had told her.
For the same reasons,  I dont think the payment  into her bank account would have raised 
any concerns. She was expecting thisalbeit under deceptionto  be paid into her 
account.
The combination of these factors and complex  level of social engineering in this complaint 
satisfy me that Ms Y was simply  an unwitting  victim  of an experienced fraudster. Overall, 
Im satisfied that there was no contributory  negligence on this occasion.
As Ive seen  no evidence  that Ms Y has benefitted  from the funds, I think  that it only fair in 
the circumstances to write the debt off and remove any adverse reporting of it to credit 
reference agencies.  Miss Y has confirmed that her bank had removed and frozen  the 
remaining £500 in her account  after being alerted to the fraud; and it still retains these  
funds for return to their legitimate source. As no payments have been made on the loan 
since its inception, there  is no need  to request Zopa to repay any funds to Ms Y.
Lastly, I must consider if any compensation should  be awarded in recognition  of the distress 
and inconvenience  Zopas mistakes  have caused  Ms Y. Whilst I do acknowledge that Zopa  
made an error in not carrying out sufficient  checks prior to issuing the loanand this could 
have prevented the fraudI do feel that in the circumstances of this complaint, the 
fraudster is ultimately the person responsible for the distress and inconvenience caused  
here. Zopa cant be held accountable for the fraudsters actions, but it could have settled 
the complaint  sooner and recognised that Ms Y was victim to a fraud to which she had no 
Ref: DRN81912758benefit. Ms Y did have  in her possession evidence  to support her testimony and provided 
evidence of the funds being  paid out to an international account. Despite this, Zopa  denied  
the application as fraudulent and defaulted Ms Y as no repayments were  made.
Ms Y has also made submissions that the worry of the debt and the prospect of having to 
potentially file for bankruptcy caused  her significant  distress and inconvenience.  This was 
further added to by the fact that she felt embarrassed and ashamed of falling victim to a 
scam, and therefore  felt she couldnt  disclose this to people  that had the ability  to help her. 
Again, I acknowledge that a vast majority of this was caused by the fraudster and not 
Zopa, but I do feel that it should bear some responsibility for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
Taking into consideration the above points, I think its appropriate  to pay Ms Y £200 for 
the distress and inconvenience  caused  by the error  Zopa made  in not questioning  the 
loan further and allowing it to be paid into her account.
For the reasons  set out in my provisional  findings  above, I concluded that I was minded 
to uphold the complaint and direct Zopa to write off the debt, remove any reporting of it 
from Ms Ys credit file and pay £200  for the distress  and inconvenience  caused.
Responses to my provisional findings
Both Ms Y and Zopa responded to my provisional  decision  stating that they had nothing 
further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have  no further comments or considerations to add, Im not minded to 
change my conclusions  from those set out in my provisional decision here.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive provided above,  I uphold this complaint against Zopa  Limited and direct 
it to:
Write  off the debt
Remove any reporting of the loan from Ms Ys credit file
Pay £200 for the distress and inconvenience  caused
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms Y to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 April 2021.
Stephen Westlake
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8191275