K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc debited his account with a transaction  which  
he says he didnt make or otherwise authorise.
background
Mr C says that a flight booking to GoToGate totalling  £563.04  made on 20 December 2017 
wasnt carried out by him. This transaction was carried out online. 
Mr C says he was in Sri Lanka on his honeymoon at the time and had to return to Abu Dhabi 
earlier than planned.  However, he says he didnt  book flights  through  GotoGate. Instead  he 
amended his existing flight  with Virgin Holidays  and paid £324.80 to do so on 21 December 2017.  
On 30 January 2018 Mr C contacted Bank of Ireland to report the transaction to GotoGate as 
fraudulent. Bank of Ireland  told him the flight had been booked in his name and that he 
should contact  the company to try and resolve  the situation. Mr C attempted to do this, but 
he says GotoGate couldnt  locate the transaction. He subsequently wrote to Bank  of Ireland 
detailing his dispute. 
Bank of Ireland  wrote to Mr C on 8 February 2018  saying that they couldnt process a 
chargeback for the disputed transaction as it was a secure transaction.  Instead they said 
they may be able to do a Section 75 claim and asked Mr C to provide more details so this 
could be processed.  
Mr C was unhappy with this so logged a complaint  with Bank of Ireland on 12 February 
2018. Mr C requested a new card at this point as he was concerned  with how the transaction  
couldve happened. Bank of Ireland issued its final response letter on 27 February 2018 
confirming that it couldnt  process  a chargeback but offered  £50 for the service  they had 
provided. They passed details of the transaction over to their Section  75 team to review at 
this point. Mr C remained  unhappy.  
Bank of Irelands  fraud  department also reviewed the transaction and concluded that they 
wouldnt offer a refund because the flight was booked in Mr Cs name and were for countries 
he was visiting at the time. 
In the final response  on 8 March 2018  Bank of Ireland confirmed that they wouldnt be 
refunding the disputed  transaction made  to GotoGate  and that the only way forward  would 
be for him to contact the merchant directly to obtain  a refund. However, they offered £125 
compensation for the service  provided.  This included misinforming him that they would 
consider the transaction  under Section 75 when they couldnt and not sending  him a new 
card when requested  on 12 March  2018.  
Mr C accepted the £125 compensation for the service he received but remained unhappy 
with Bank  of Irelands decision to decline the refund  for the disputed transaction  to 
GotoGate. He therefore referred his complaint to this service. 
Ref: DRN84480932Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld. In summary, she felt 
unable to conclude  the transaction to GotoDate had been made fraudulently.  This was due 
to the flights being booked in Mr Cs name and to and from destinations he was travelling 
between. She felt that it was more  likely  Mr C had booked the flights himself.  
Mr C responded reiterating that he didnt authorise the transaction  and believes it was done 
by someone attempting to benefit  from it or cause  financial harm to him. Mr C asked for the 
answer to be reviewed by an ombudsman,  so the complaint has been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my review of the evidence  has led me to the same overall conclusions as 
the investigator previously  set out and for much the same reasons. 
The disputed transactions
Generally, Bank of Ireland  can hold Mr C liable for the disputed withdrawals if the evidence  
suggests that its more  likely than not that he made or authorised them  himself.  The relevant 
regulations, to this effect, are the Payment Services Regulations 2009  (the PSRs 2009).  Im 
satisfied the genuine card was used in order for the disputed transaction to take place. And 
despite what Mr C has said, Im persuaded he carried out the transaction.  
Bank of Irelands  systems  allow them to see information about airline transactions  made by 
their customers. Ive seen  this system  evidence and it shows  that the flight was booked in 
Mr Cs name  as the passenger and was for a flight from Sri Lanka  (CMB  airport  code) to 
Abu Dhabi (AUH airport  code). 
There are two reasons  why this evidence satisfies me that Mr C most  likely carried out the 
transaction. The first is that a fraudster would  not be able to benefit from purchasing airline 
tickets in the name of someone else. The name on the ticket would need to match  the name 
on the passport,  so its more than likely only Mr C wouldve been  able to take the flight. The 
second reason  is that the flight  booked  was the same journey Mr C took the following day  
Sri Lanka to Abu Dhabi.  This seems  too coincidental  for the transaction to have been carried  
out by a fraudster.  
Mr C says that someone may have carried out the transaction  to cause him financial harm. 
However, Im afraid Ive not seen  anything to suggest this is the case. I dont dispute what  
Mr C has told us in that he didnt take the flight booked through  GotoGate.  But when 
considering what  I think  is most  likely based on this information, I agree with the 
investigators conclusions  that Mr C likely booked the flights  through  GotoGate  as he needed 
to return home early.  However,  upon asking Virgin Holidays he was able to change  his ticket  
already purchased with them, for a smaller  amount than what  GotoGate had charged him. 
Its likely  he believed he could cancel the GotoGate  flight and receive  a refund but was 
subsequently unable to. 
Taking everything into account,  I find, on balance, that Mr C authorised  the disputed 
transaction. It follows that Bank of Ireland  is entitled to hold him liable  for it.
Ref: DRN84480933Customer service  
Ive also looked  at the service Bank  of Ireland provided throughout the dispute.
Bank of Ireland  originally declined Mr Cs claim as they said they couldnt  process  a 
chargeback due to it being a secured transaction. What they meant by this was that when 
the transaction was processed it went through  the 3D secure process  which requires the 
payer to enter a password  before  the payment can be sent. This was incorrect,  as Bank of 
Ireland has since confirmed the 3D secure process  was bypassed as the transaction wasnt  
deemed high risk by their systems. Therefore, no password  was entered  when the 
transaction was made. Based on this I think Bank of Ireland was wrong not to process the 
chargeback for this reason.   
I dont think this changes  anything in relation to the outcome of the disputed  payment 
though. I say this because  as detailed above, Bank of Ireland already had information to 
show that the flight was booked  in Mr Cs name and for destinations we know he was 
travelling to and from. So had the chargeback been processed Im satisfied its unlikely to 
have succeeded.  
Bank of Ireland  also told Mr C that they would  look at the claim under section 75 on several  
occasions. Section  75 is reserved  for situations where there has been a breach of contract 
or a misrepresentation, so wouldnt be possible for a disputed transaction. So again,  this was 
incorrect information given by Bank  of Ireland. 
In addition to this incorrect information,  Bank of Ireland  also failed to send out a new card to Mr C. 
Bank of Ireland  provided various incorrect pieces of information to Mr C and didnt give him 
the level of service I would expect.  Im satisfied that although none of these  had a 
detrimental effect on the outcome of the dispute   as explained above I agree  that Bank of 
Ireland doesnt  have  to refund the transaction  the incorrect information  and customer  
service wouldve caused Mr C a level of trouble and upset. Bank of Ireland  has paid Mr C 
£125 for this and Im satisfied this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 March  2020.
Sarah Brimacombe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8448093