K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that PDL Finance Limited  (trading as Mr Lender)  was irresponsible to 
lend to him.
background
Mr B had one £500 loan from Mr Lender  in October  2016. It was scheduled to be repaid with 
six monthly instalments,  the highest of which was £195.33. Mr B says that if Mr Lender  had 
properly checked  his bank statements and credit  file it would have seen he had multiple 
loans and was in no position  to borrow additional money.
Mr B failed to make  any of the repayments  on time. Instead he made  smaller  repayments 
over a longer  period,  eventually  repaying  £593.25,  instead of the contracted  £914.01.
Mr Lender says it confirmed Mr Bs income  and place of work and carried out a credit  check. 
It says that, based  on this and the calculated disposable income, the loan repayments  were 
affordable.
Our adjudicator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. He was satisfied that 
Mr Lender had done enough checks before it approved the loan and found  the instalments  
were affordable based on the information  it had.
Mr B responded to say, in summary, that Mr Lender  should have seen his credit file included 
multiple defaults and other short-term loans and so it should never have given him more credit.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Lender was required to lend responsibly. It should have made checks  to make  sure Mr B 
could afford  to repay the loans before it lent to him. Those checks needed  to be 
proportionate to things such as the amount Mr B was borrowing, and his lending history. But 
there was no set list of checks Mr Lender  had to do.
When Mr B applied  for the loan with Mr Lender he said his income was £2,200 and his 
regular expenditure was £532. As this was Mr Bs first loan with Mr Lender and the highest 
scheduled repayment was less than £200, I consider these checks, alongside  a credit check 
were sufficient. Mr Lender says it verified his employment and Im satisfied it was entitled to 
rely on the information provided by Mr B at this stage. So, I consider it reasonable that 
Mr Lender found the loan to be affordable and I cant  say it was wrong to approve  it.
I acknowledge that Mr B says he had multiple other short-term loans and his credit  file would 
have shown defaults, but he hasnt  provided  evidence to that effect, other  than referring to 
the additional complaints  hes submitted to this service.
Ive considered these  other cases,  but none  of the loans coincided  with the timing of the 
Mr Lender one and I have seen no evidence that his credit  file would have shown defaults in 
the lead up to this loan.
So, in summary,  I cant conclude Mr Lender did anything wrong.
Ref: DRN86550622my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Amanda Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8655062