K820x#14complaint
Mr Y complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC unfairly closed his account. He also complains 
that Barclays failed  to consider his medical  position and about how the account  closing 
process was dealt with.
background
Mr Y went  to a Barclays branch on 4 October 2018  to withdraw money.  He didnt have  his 
account card and says Barclays  refused to allow him to withdraw money,  as it said his 
signature didnt  match  their records. Mr Y accepts  there was an incident between him and a 
member of staff but says that was due to the stress  he was under as he was refused his 
money. He also says Barclays hasnt considered his medical position and that hes been  
discriminated against.  
Mr Y says the decision to close his account  was unfair and caused  him problems in paying 
his bills. He says he thought Barclays had changed  its mind about closing the account as it 
allowed him to change his signature  on its records and sent him a new account  card.
Barclays says it didnt  make a mistake by refusing  to allow  Mr Y to withdraw money when he 
didnt have his account card and his signature didnt match its records. It says Mr Y was 
abusive to its staff member and it acted in line with the account terms and conditions  by 
closing the account. Barclays doesnt  accept discriminating  against Mr Y and says it met with 
him to explain why the account was closing and what  it could do to help him open  a new 
account elsewhere.
Mr Y brought his complaint to us but our investigator  didnt think Barclays had made  a 
mistake or acted unfairly.  He thought Mr Y had agreed in calls to Barclays  that he had 
spoken inappropriately to its staff member and that it had acted in line with account terms 
and conditions by closing the account.  The investigator thought Barclays  had misled  Mr Y by 
allowing him to change his signature  and by ordering a new account card. But thought 
Barclays had explained its position  in its letter of 4 October 2018. He didnt think we could 
make a finding of discrimination  as that was for a court to decide.
Mr Y doesnt  accept that view and would like compensation for whats happened  and for his 
account to be re-opened.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall conclusions  as the investigator. I realise  Mr Y will be disappointed by my decision.
Ive looked at the account terms and conditions, which I think  Mr Y wouldve agreed to when 
the account was opened.  And Im satisfied that Barclays is entitled to close an account  
without notice if it thinks a customer has behaved  in an abusive  manner. Ive looked at 
Barclays record of what Mr Y said to its staff member and Im satisfied his language was 
abusive and deeply personal.  I have no doubt  in those  circumstances  the staff member was 
caused a great deal of distress. So I dont think Barclays made  a mistake by deciding  to 
close the account and I think that it gave Mr Y some  time to make  alternative arrangements.
I also dont think Barclays staff member  made  a mistake  by refusing to allow Mr Y to 
withdraw money. There is no dispute  that Mr Y didnt have his account  card with him. And I 
think that where his signature didnt match Barclays records, it was entitled  to make the 
Ref: DRN83764372decision it did. I also think that such steps  are there to protect its customers  money. I 
appreciate that refusal caused  Mr Y to become stressed and anxious and I appreciate that 
he has a medical problem. But I dont think that justifies his reaction or that Barclays should 
ignore what happened.  
I dont think its clear  why Barclays ordered a new account card for Mr Y. It may have been  a 
decision made before the decision to close his account. But I agree with the investigator that 
when Mr Y attended a Barclays  branch in November  2018 it shouldnt have allowed him to 
change the signature and could have told him again about the account closing. I accept that 
was misleading. But I dont think that justifies any compensation and I think  that Barclays 
had told Mr Y on other occasions  the account  was closing.
I appreciate Mr Y says hes been  discriminated against. Ive not seen any evidence  of that. 
But as the investigator has explained, it would be for a court to make that sort of finding in 
any event.
Overall Im satisfied Barclays hasnt made a mistake or acted unfairly by deciding in these 
circumstances to close Mr Ys account. So I cant fairly order it to reopen the account or pay 
any compensation as Mr Y would like.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8376437