K821x#15complaint
Mrs G complains that Metro Bank  PLC closed, then reopened, her account. 
background 
Mrs G said that Metro  froze, then closed her account when she was eight months pregnant. 
She didnt  have any other account, and was left stranded at hospital  with no access to 
money. She said that sometime after this Metro reopened  the account, without asking her. 
She said she didnt  want  a Metro account any more, after what  had happened.  She said that 
the service shes received  from Metro was terrible, and Metro is acting as if it can do 
anything it wants.
Metro said that all this happened after a large sum of money  was transferred into Mrs Gs 
account by another bank. Metro said that the other banks customer had tried to make a 
payment, and after hed keyed in the details, the beneficiarys details changed. The 
transferring bank had told Metro that the transfer was fraudulent. So Metro  had placed a 
block on Mrs Gs account. 
Metro said that it received  this fraud  notification  on 6 March. It asked the other bank to 
confirm that the money transferred to Mrs Gs account was fraudulent, and the other bank 
confirmed this. Because of this, Metro had frozen  Mrs Gs account, and ultimately closed it. It 
took out the amount  that had been transferred in, and paid the rest to Mrs G as a cheque. 
Metro has accepted that it didnt keep Mrs G informed  about what  was happening on her 
account. It wrote to her to say that it was sorry that it hadnt told her that it was conducting an 
investigation, and that it would update her as soon as possible. 
On 6 April, the other bank got in touch with Metro  to say that it wasnt  fraud after all. Mrs G 
had just switched  accounts using the switcher service, and that meant that her payment 
details had been automatically  updated. At that point Metro reopened Mrs Gs account, and 
it paid the money  which had previously been transferred into that account. It didnt reopen  
the other accounts  that she had, which it had closed at the same  time, because they hadnt 
had any money in them. 
Metro said that Mrs G could use the account  as she used to, if she wanted.  Or Metro  would 
close it, if she wished. It would send  her a cheque.
When Metro reopened  Mrs Gs account,  it reinstated it as it had been.  So all of her direct 
debits were put back on the account. Metro paid a direct debit on the same day it reopened 
the account.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold this complaint. She said that Metro  hadnt acted unfairly by 
blocking and closing  Mrs Gs account.  But she thought  that Metro shouldve  contacted Mrs G 
before it reopened her account. Our adjudicator said that Metro had increased its 
compensation offer to £200, and she thought that was fair. She didnt think it had to do 
anything more than that. 
Mrs G strongly  disagreed. She said that shed made repeated requests for answers as to 
what was going  on with her account,  and not been  told what  was happening. She also said 
that the stress of all this had endangered her life and that of her then unborn child.  She said 
that Metro should not have opened an account  for her without her permission. She also said 
Ref: DRN80273652that shed provided  written authorisation for Mr G to handle this issue on her behalf,  but had 
still had to confirm  this again  over the phone, while she was in labour. 
Our adjudicator said that Metro didnt do anything  wrong when it placed a block on Mrs Gs 
account. The stress that was caused  at first wasnt as a result of the banks actions. It had 
offered compensation for the points where  it couldve dealt  with things better. As Mrs G was 
clearly unhappy,  our adjudicator said she would pass  this case  to an ombudsman.  
Mrs G wrote again  to stress  the severe impact that this had on her. The complaint was then 
passed to me for a final decision. 
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I proposed  to uphold it in 
part. This is what I said then: 
-I wanted to start this decision by setting out clearly  my view that it wasnt Metros fault 
that a transfer  into Mrs Gs account was reported as fraudulent. The transferring bank 
says it wasnt the senders fault either. It has apparently accepted responsibility for this.
-I knew Mrs G was horrified by Metros  actions. I also knew this came  at a time when she 
was particularly vulnerable, as she was in the very late stages of pregnancy. I accepted  
this greatly increased the impact of Metros actions on her. But I had to bear in mind, 
when I considered what Metro did, that it had been told that Mrs Gs account had 
received a large amount  of money,  paid there  as part of a sophisticated  fraud. This 
turned out not to be true. But I didnt think that Metro shouldve known that, at the time. 
-This complaint was not about  the transferring bank. I simply didnt know whether that 
bank shouldve realised at the outset  that the transfer wasnt fraudulent.  But I didnt think  
that Metro shouldve realised this. 
-So Metro thought it was dealing with someone who had received the proceeds of a 
sophisticated fraud. It froze, then closed, Mrs Gs account. I thought  that was a 
reasonable response to the circumstances  as Metro then reasonably  believed  they were.
-Although Metro said that it shouldve been more open about the reasons behind Mrs Gs 
account closure, and it offered £100 to make up for that, I didnt think that it was unusual 
for a bank to refuse to disclose the reasons for account closure, particularly given what 
Metro thought had happened. If this had really been a sophisticated  fraud, as Metro  was 
told, then I thought  it might have been  unwise for Metro to be more open  than it was. I 
didnt think it was a mistake for Metro to release very little information to Mrs G, or for it 
to block and then close Mrs Gs account. 
-Mrs G says that she had to tell Metro  that her husband was authorised to speak for her 
while she was in labour, even though shed provided written confirmation of his authority 
to speak for her already. Metro  told us that it did receive a written  response from Mrs G 
to say that it could  discuss this complaint  with her husband. But it told us that it had 
some concerns that the signature on the email  didnt quite  match the sample  signature  it 
holds for Mrs G. So it rang her to check that she was happy to allow Mr G to deal with 
this case. I didnt think that Metro made  a mistake when it decided to confirm Mrs Gs 
instructions in this way. Id seen the two signatures, and they arent  quite the same. 
Ref: DRN80273653-Unfortunately, the time when that signed  authority  seems  to have been sent, and when 
the follow up call by Metro  seems to have  been  made, was during the time that Mrs G 
was in hospital. It didnt seem  likely,  from the information that I have seen, that it was 
Metros intention to interrupt Mrs G at this time.
-I appreciated how much stress this caused  Mrs G, and at a particularly difficult  time. But I 
didnt think that was Metros fault.  
-But I did think that Metro had made  some mistakes in this case.  I noted  that Metro  was 
aware, from 22 March, that Mrs G was herself an FCA registered  person. I thought  that 
this made what Mrs G was being accused of particularly serious. Mrs G was, entirely 
reasonably, concerned that a fraud marker would be registered against her. That could 
have an extremely serious  impact on her future career prospects.
-I could see that Metro found out that this was all a mistake  on 6 April, when the sending 
bank got in touch. But it didnt seem  to have attempted to contact Mr G, on behalf of 
Mrs G, until 13 April. I didnt think that delaying a week to try to tell someone  that shes  
no longer facing an accusation of fraud which could ruin her career was reasonable. 
-I knew I didnt have  absolutely all the communications that went  between  Mr G and 
Metro. But looking at what I did have,  Metro didnt seem,  at any point, to have reassured 
Mrs G that there  is no fraud marker  against  her name. I wouldnt expect Metro to discuss 
this with most of its customers. But, given that Metro was aware of the nature of Mrs Gs 
occupation, I thought it should  have told her that there was no such marker against  her 
name. I could see that Mrs G was still concerned about this, and asking our service 
about it, in June of this year when she brought her complaint to us. I thought  that 
additional stress on Mrs G was entirely avoidable. 
-Metro reopened  Mrs Gs account when it discovered that there had, in fact, been  no 
fraud. Our adjudicator thought that, given  the nature  of the relationship  between  Mrs G 
and the bank at this point, it was a mistake  to reopen this account without any reference 
to Mrs G. I agreed with that. 
-Whilst I noted that the initial  fraud  alert was not Metros fault,  and the initial response it 
made to that was reasonable, I still thought  it should have been clear  by this time that 
Mrs G was unlikely to want to bank with Metro in future. I also thought  that it was 
unhelpful for Metro  to reinstate Mrs Gs account,  and start paying direct debits again, 
without checking  first that this was what she would want.  I noted that Metro had an active 
and open line of communication with Mrs Gs husband, who was acting for her, and I 
thought that it should have checked with him before  it took this step.
-Given the additional mistakes Id noted in this case, I thought that Metro should pay 
Mrs G a little more  compensation  than it has offered. I thought a total payment of £350  
would be the right amount to make  up for the mistakes that Metro had made in this case. 
I invited the parties  to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Metro confirmed it had nothing to add. Mrs G didnt provide  a substantive  response. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I havent changed my mind.
Ref: DRN80273654Metro offered nothing  further on this case. Mr G asked, on behalf of Mrs G, whether  other 
reports about possible criminal activity by Mrs G were made  by Metro, when it believed that 
shed received money from a sophisticated fraud. 
Im aware that no CIFAS report was ever made  for Mrs G. So it seems  unlikely that other 
reports about possible criminal activity were  made  at that time.  However,  this is a new point, 
which hasnt been  raised previously as part of this complaint, and appears not to have been 
raised with Metro yet. So I will leave it to Mr G to seek that reassurance from the bank on his 
wifes behalf, if he wishes to.
my final decision
My final decision is that Metro Bank PLC must pay Mrs G total compensation of £350. Metro 
Bank PLC can count towards that any compensation it has already paid Mrs G for this 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 February  2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8027365