K820x#14complaint
Mrs E has complained about action taken by Nationwide Building Society in relation to her 
current accounts.
background
Mrs E holds two current accounts with Nationwide. She is in receipt  of three  state benefits. 
Her state  pension and pension credit are paid weekly into one of her Nationwide  accounts  
(account number one). She also receives a personal independence payment which  is paid 
monthly to her other  account  (account  number two).  
Up to January  2019 Nationwide had agreed  Mrs E could have an overdraft on account 
number one of £140 and an overdraft  on account  number two of £200. In December 2018 it 
wrote to Mrs E saying it was going to reduce her overdraft limit on account number one by 
£10 per month starting  in January 2019.
Mrs E says Nationwide also withdrew money  from her accounts by direct  debit on the wrong 
days in December 2018 and she was left with no money over the Christmas period. She 
says she received text messages from Nationwide about her accounts  but these were  sent 
on Sundays when  its branches were closed.
Mrs E complained to Nationwide. It didnt uphold her complaint and she referred it to this 
service.
our initial conclusions
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld  because he thought  
Nationwide had dealt  with it fairly.  Mrs E didnt accept our adjudicators  recommendation.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Direct debits  are set up with the organisation taking the payment not with the bank or 
building society making the payment. Nationwide doesnt have any control  over the dates on 
which direct  debits are paid or the amount requested. I can see Nationwide  has assisted 
Mrs E by splitting her direct  debits between her two accounts. I havent seen anything  that 
would enable me to conclude  Nationwide  allowed  payments to be taken from the wrong 
account.
Banks and building societies are entitled  to withdraw  overdraft  facilities theyve given to their 
customers. Im satisfied Nationwide treated Mrs E fairly and reasonably  by reducing her 
overdraft in instalments  of £10 per month.  I think this will enable  Mrs E to manage her 
spending in accordance with the reduced overdraft facility.
The purpose of the text messages sent to Mrs E was to give her information about her 
accounts. Mrs E hasnt said what she could have done differently if shed  received  the 
messages on a working day. Im not persuaded she has been disadvantaged by being  sent 
text messages on Sundays.
Ref: DRN87419432Ive considered Mrs Es comment  that Nationwide left her with no money over Christmas. 
However, the reduction in her overdraft didnt  take effect until January 2019. The statements 
for account number one show  she withdrew £140 in cash and made a card payment of 
£37.63 during the week before Christmas. Im not, therefore satisfied that Nationwide left 
Mrs E without any money as she suggests.
In all the circumstances, Im satisfied Nationwide has treated Mrs E fairly and reasonably  in 
relation to her current accounts.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is I dont uphold  this complaint. I make no 
award against Nationwide Building  Society.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 June  2019.
Charles Bacon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8741943