K820x#14Complaint
Mr S complains that Revolut Ltd closed his account  and hasnt told him why. He wants  
Revolut to provide  a proper explanation  for the closure and his account reopened.
Background
Mr S had an app-based electronic money account with Revolut.
In March 2019, Revolut conducted  a review of Mr Ss account. Following the review  Revolut 
decided to close Mr S account.  And it wrote to him to let him know.
Mr S complained about the closure of his account to Revolut. And asked them for an 
explanation why it no longer wanted  him as a customer. Revolut told Mr S its terms and 
conditions allow them to do this. Unhappy with this response, Mr S brought his complaint to 
our service.
One of our investigators  looked at Mr Ss complaint. He said Revolut hadnt done anything  
wrong when it closed Mr Ss account  and didnt have to provide him with a reason for its 
decision. Mr S disagreed.  He said he relied on the account when travelling and had been 
caused inconvenience as a result  of no longer having the account.  So,  the matter  has come 
to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr S is upset that Revolut closed  his account. He says he has been a loyal 
customer and hasnt  done anything wrong.  
 
I appreciate that Mr S has been inconvenienced  by Revolut closing his account. But Revolut 
has acted within the terms and conditions of the account. So, it was entitled to close  the 
account as its already  done. And it wasnt required to give Mr S a reason, as much as hed 
like to know. So, I cant say Revolut has done anything  wrong  by not providing  this 
information to Mr S.  
Whilst I accept  that the closure of the account  has caused Mr S inconvenience and upset. 
Revolut can make commercial decisions about  who it offers  banking  services to. They  
cannot unfairly discriminate against a customer.  But they can say they no longer wish to do 
business with individuals.  Thats because theyve got the commercial  freedom to decide who 
they want to contract  with. And having  looked at all the information and circumstances of this 
particular case,  Im satisfied that Revolut has exercised its commercial decision legitimately 
when it decided to close Mr Ss account. So, I cannot fairly and reasonably say its done 
anything wrong. 
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2020.
Ref: DRN85333482Sharon Kerrison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8533348