K821x#15complaint
Mrs O complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC keeps sending  her credit card 
statements for an account that is not hers, and ignored her correspondence  about that issue.
background
In December 2017, Mrs O began to receive  monthly  emails from Tesco  about a credit card. 
She did not have  a Tesco credit card, and has never  had one. So she became concerned  
that she might have become a victim  of identity theft.
Mrs O phoned and wrote to Tesco to find out if the emails were  really from Tesco  and 
whether they could  be stopped, but she received no reply to her letters. Eventually she 
complained to Tesco that it was ignoring her, as well as about  the original problem. Tesco 
paid her £50 for not responding to her letters, but did not uphold  the rest of her complaint. So 
she brought this complaint to our Service, represented by her husband.
By coincidence, Tesco had a customer with the same name  as Mrs O, and this customer 
had registered  Mrs Os email address with her online Tesco account. Therefore this was the 
email address Tesco had been sending emails to. Tesco deleted it from its systems, but its 
customer re-entered it.
Our investigator upheld  this complaint  and recommended that Tesco pay Mrs O a total of 
£100. He thought that Tesco could have done  more to prevent the emails being  sent,  and to 
reassure Mrs O at an earlier stage that she had not been a victim of fraud.
Mrs O accepted that opinion, but Tesco did not. It said it had deleted  Mrs Os email  address 
from its records, but its customer  had just added it again. It said it couldnt stop its customer 
doing that if she believed it was her genuine  email address. It said it had written  a letter  to its 
customer and tried to phone her, but without  success. It argued  that there was nothing  more 
it could do. It suggested  that now that Mrs O knows she has not been  defrauded,  she can 
just block Tescos emails or mark  them  as spam. Since she could have done that months 
ago, Tesco argued  that the £50 it had paid was enough. It asked for an ombudsmans 
decision.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I uphold it. I will explain why.
In correspondence  with our investigator, Tesco suggested that perhaps its two customers 
happen to have duplicate email accounts with identical addresses.  That notion  is as 
impossible as the idea of duplicate telephone  numbers. It is not how email works. Each 
email account has a unique email  address.
If Mrs O was not also a customer of Tesco, then I would accept that Tescos  proposed  
solution of Mrs O blocking its emails  would be enough to resolve the problem. But Mrs O has 
an insurance policy with Tesco, so I cant agree that blocking Tescos emails  would  be wise.
It is therefore necessary  for Tesco to stop sending emails about the credit card to the wrong  
customer.
Ref: DRN80533012I appreciate that Tesco has taken steps to try to solve the problem. It deleted Mrs Os email 
address, and it isnt Tescos fault that its other  customer  reinstated it. It isnt Tescos fault if 
its customer ignores correspondence and is uncooperative. But each time Tesco  unwittingly 
sends an email about one customers credit  card to a different customer, it commits a 
banking error.
It is far from clear that Tescos other customer  is acting  in good faith. She does not respond  
to Tescos letters, and refuses to discuss matters with Tesco on the phone. She does  not 
have access to Mrs Os email  account, and cannot receive emails at that address or send  
them from that account. So I do not share Tescos confidence that she genuinely believes 
that she has been inputting her correct  email address.
It is not my place to direct Tesco to close its other customers  account. It must be for Tesco  
to decide how best to deal with its recalcitrant customer, and how much risk it is willing  to 
accept. But that is not an excuse for allowing the problem to continue to affect a third party.  
And it is Tescos problem to solve; it should not be left to Mrs O to find a solution.
I dont know what Tesco said in its letter to its other  customer, but it could send her another  
letter asking her to verify  her email address by sending an email  to Tesco (if Tesco hasnt 
asked her to do that already, that is), and warning  her that her online banking facility may be 
withdrawn if she does  not. I wont order Tesco to do that, because  I dont  know  if that will 
work, and also because I dont think its within my remit to require Tesco to write to a 
customer who is not the complainant, or to withdraw  a service from such a customer (or 
threaten to). But I suggest it here as a possible way forward for Tescos consideration.
For now, I will confine myself to awarding  compensation  to Mrs O. I think  that is a fair 
remedy for what has happened up to now. But each time it happens is a new event which  
Mrs O may complain  about in future,  and which she may have to be compensated for. My 
decision does not deal with future events, so if they continue to happen, this decision will not 
prevent Mrs O from complaining to Tesco and to the Financial Ombudsman Service  again.
Tesco has already paid Mrs O £50 for not responding to her letters. I think that is fair 
compensation for that issue. But I think that compensation is also due for the main  issue:  the 
emails.
I take into account the fact that Mrs O is now aware that she has not been a victim of identity 
theft. But I also take into account  that she quite reasonably thought she might be, until Tesco  
belatedly assured her that this was not the case after all. That must have been alarming. 
I also take into account the duration of the problem, which  has still not been resolved after a 
year and a half. That is poor. Balanced against  that, now that Mrs O knows  what  the problem 
is, is the fact that she knows she can safely ignore and delete  these emails  when they arrive,  
and that is not onerous.
For all of these reasons, I think another £50 is fair compensation.
my final decision
So my decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Tesco Personal Finance PLC to pay 
Mrs O £50, in addition  to the £50 it has paid her already.
Ref: DRN80533013Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 August 2019.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8053301