K820x#14complaint
Mr G says the advice given and the arrangements made by Insight Financial Associates 
Limited (Insight) to switch his personal  pension funds into a Rowanmoor Self-invested 
Personal Pension (SIPP)  and facilitate investment in overseas property, was unsuitable and 
led to him incur a financial loss.
background
Mr G and his wife went through this transaction together, but Ill generally refer only to Mr G 
because its his pension  provision Im considering in this case. I understand Mrs G may also 
have invested  some of her pension funds, but any complaint points raised  in relation to that 
would need to be the subject of a separate complaint.
Mr G was interested in investing in commercial property in Cape Verde. His representative 
told us hed been contacted by his brother-in-law (Mr M) who was an agent for The Resort 
Group (TRG).  Hed recommended Mr G invest in the commercial development. At a 
presentation they were told about potential  returns in excess  of 20%.
Mr M referred Mr G to Insight for advice about  financing the investment,  and this included 
considering his pension arrangements. Insight produced  a financial planning report  (FPR) for 
him on 8 September 2009. It records:
As your sole objective at this time is to purchase  overseas property in Cape Verde from 
your pension funds  it has been discussed  and agreed that your existing plan is unsuitable  as 
it cannot facilitate  this although  it has been noted  that it does offer several market  leading 
investment funds that could potentially offer excellent medium  to long term investment 
returns in a more  cost effective way.
Mr G had an Aviva personal pension. This had a transfer value of just over £64, 000. He 
signed the applications necessary to release  his retirement pot and switch it into a SIPP with 
Rowanmoor.
I can see from Mr Gs SIPP account  statements that the switch of funds took effect on 15 
January 2010.  A few days later a transfer payment of around £45,000 was made  to TRG.  
This represented a deposit on the property  he was investing in.
Mr G expected the property to deliver a good  level of rental income along with capital  
growth. I can see in the FPR that with the propertys planned completion  date was 2012, so 
rental income shouldve  flowed from that point. But it wasnt until May 2015 that it appears 
Mr G began to receive  rent from the property.
After a few years Mr G became concerned that the forecast returns, both in terms of capital 
growth and rental income hadnt  materialised. He also found that any income  he did receive 
was eaten by costs  and fees on his apartment and SIPP.
Mr Gs representative said that in giving him advice about and making arrangements for the 
SIPP and the investment,  Insight had failed in its regulatory duties.
Insight noted Mr Gs close relationship with Mr M who was an agent for TRG  at the time it 
gave him advice. It says Mr M was director of Central Financial Solutions Limited (CFS)  and 
that he introduced  Mr G to it.
Ref: DRN80056592Insight said Mr Gs attitude  to risk was high and that it had made clear what  risks were 
associated with the transaction. It says it wasnt responsible  for the investments made within 
his SIPP,  its role had simply been  to identify a provider to enable  Mr G to satisfy his 
objectives.
The adjudicator upheld Mr Gs complaint.  She identified failings with Insights advice  and 
arrangements. I issued my provisional  decision last month which  found similar failings but 
which went on to consider the impact these had in the circumstances of Mr Gs case. And I 
didnt uphold  his compliant.
Mr Gs representative disagreed with my conclusions.  Ive thought carefully  about  the points 
its raised and where new and material  arguments  or evidence has been presented,  Ive 
addressed these in my final decision.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this case.  Wheres theres conflicting  information about 
what happened and gaps in what we know, my role is to weigh matters and to decide,  on the 
balance of probabilities, whats most likely  to have happened.
Regarding the testimony of both parties, I generally give more weight to what  they told us the 
more contemporaneous it is with the events complained about. Thats  because  it tends to 
give a more accurate  account given the effect of the passage of time and the potential for 
the benefit of hindsight  to colour matters.
Im not upholding Mr Gs complaint. Ill explain why.
how does the regulatory framework inform  the consideration of Mr G case?
Mr Gs representative has correctly identified  the broad range of regulatory obligations 
placed on firms like Insight when carrying on the activities  it did.
The FCA Handbook contains eleven Principles for businesses, which it says are 
fundamental obligations firms must adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G in the FCA Handbook). These  
include:
- Principle 2, which requires a firm to conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence
- Principle 6, which requires a firm to pay due regard  to the interests of its customers and 
treat them fairly
The Principles are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework that existed at the 
relevant time. They must always be complied with by regulated  firms. As such, I need to 
have regard to them in deciding Mr Gs case.
Further, COBS 2.1.1  R requires a firm to act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance  
with the best interests of its clients, in relation to designated investment business  carried on 
for a retail  client. The definition of designated investment business includes arranging 
(bringing about)  deals in investments.
Ref: DRN80056593COBS 9.2.1R sets out the obligations on firms in assessing the suitability of investments. 
They are the same  things  that I look at when reaching a decision about whether the advice 
was suitable. In summary, the business must  obtain  the necessary information  regarding: 
the consumers  knowledge and experience in the investment field relevant to the advice; 
their financial  situation; and their investment objectives.
Its also important to review the FCAs specific stance on advice provided about SIPPs.  For 
example, in January 2013 it issued  an industry alert which said:
It has been brought to the FSAs attention that some financial advisers are giving  advice to 
customers on pension  transfers  or pension switches without assessing the advantages and 
disadvantages of investments proposed  to be held within  the new pension. In particular, we have 
seen financial advisers moving customers retirement savings to [SIPPs] that invest  wholly  or primarily 
in high risk, often highly illiquid unregulated  investments
Financial advisers using this advice model are under the mistaken impression that this process 
means they do not have to consider the unregulated  investment as part of their advice to invest  in the 
SIPP and that they only need to consider the suitability of the SIPP in the abstract. This is incorrect.  
The FSAs view is that the provision of suitable advice generally  requires consideration of the other 
investments held by the customer  or, when  advice is given on a product which  is a vehicle for 
investment in other products (such as SIPPs  and other wrappers), consideration of the suitability of 
the overall proposition, that is, the wrapper and the expected  underlying investments  in unregulated 
schemes..
If, taking into account  the individual circumstances  of the customer, the original pension product,  
including its underlying holdings, is more  suitable for the customer,  then the SIPP is not suitable. This 
is because if you give regulated advice  and the recommendation will enable investment in 
unregulated items you cannot  separate out the unregulated elements from the regulated elements. 
There are clear requirements under the FSA Principles and Conduct of Business  rules.
So, did Insight adhere to the regulatory  requirements placed on it?
In short,  I dont think Insight met the regulatory  requirements placed on it. Ill explain why.
Insight had to obtain information  from Mr G in order to understand  essential  facts about him. 
In order to advise  him to switch his personal  pensions into the SIPP with Rowanmoor and 
facilitate investment in the Cape Verde development, it had to believe that:
-The service or recommended transaction met Mr Gs investment objectives (including  
his attitude to risk, the purpose of investing  and how long he wanted to invest  for).
-Mr G was able to financially withstand  the investment  risks.
-Mr G had the necessary experience or knowledge to understand the risks involved.
From reading the case file, its not clear  to me that Insight met these obligations. For 
example, the fact-find completed  in July 2009 is only partially complete. Where there are 
gaps, the following statement  is typical  of what can be found throughout the document:
Your mortgage broker [Mr M] deals with deals  with your financial affairs, so you did not want 
to disclose this to me.
We can glean some important information  from the fact-find. Its recorded that Mr G was a 
director, and an experienced and successful  salesman earning around £150,000 a year.  He 
and his wife had a sizeable mortgage and loans to service. And they had two dependent 
children. They also appear to have had a good level of disposable income.
Ref: DRN80056594Mr Gs attitude  to risk was recorded  as high  but he didnt  complete  a risk questionnaire. He 
didnt indicate  when he wanted to retire but when  he did his priority then wouldve been to 
maintain his standard of living.
It seems  to me that because the information Insight derived from the fact-find  process was 
incomplete it was a precarious base from which to offer advice about such an important  
transaction.
Its clear Mr G was referred to Insight for advice about moving  his personal pension to a 
SIPP so he could invest in high risk overseas property. Insight knew  what he was 
contemplating, but says it wasn't responsible for the investment  advice.
I disagree with the argument Insight makes. The regulatory position is clear. It had a duty to 
act honestly, fairly and professionally  in the best interests of Mr G. And to take reasonable 
steps to ensure the advice it gave  was suitable.  It couldnt do this without considering the 
suitability of the investments being  proposed.
My conclusion here is supported by the alert issued by the then regulator in January  2013. 
And although the alert was issued after the advice given to Mr G, it wasnt new guidance; it 
was the regulator re-stating the position.
Insight couldnt  ignore  Mr Gs intention of investing in overseas property. If it didnt consider 
this to be suitable in his circumstances, it shouldve said so - rather  than presuming that the 
switch was necessary  for this to happen.  It had a duty to consider the suitability of the whole 
transaction, not simply limit its advice to choosing the best SIPP provider.
Mr G was switching his only disclosed pension funds to the SIPP for investment in overseas 
property. The investment was high risk and posed liquidity  issues  should Mr G want  to 
access his funds. Theres little evidence he was a sophisticated investor.
Insight couldnt  seek to exclude  or restrict any duty or liability  it had to Mr G. It had an 
obligation to consider the suitability of the investment he was thinking about, and it couldnt  
avoid this by asking Mr G to sign terms of business  instructing  it to only consider the 
pension switch in isolation, or by implying  such in documentation like the FPR.
I agree  with Mr Gs representative that Insight fell short  of its regulatory obligations to Mr G. 
And although I also agree with it that there  were  other failings with the advice process 
beyond those Ive identified, I dont think these need  to be rehearsed.  Thats  because  Ive 
already found  the process Insight  followed, the advice  it gave  and the arrangements it made  
for the switch of Mr Gs personal pensions into a SIPP  enabling his investment in overseas 
property was unsuitable.
Did Insights failures result in a financial loss to Mr G?
Having concluded  that it was responsible for significant failures in its dealings with Mr G, I 
then consider what wouldve happened but for Insight recommending the switch of his 
pension.
Its often the case that when a regulated business advises an inexperienced  consumer  not to 
switch their pension, more often than not theyd take the professionals  advice. But its not 
always that straight-forward.
Ref: DRN80056595As well as getting advice  from Insight,  Im mindful Mr G was also dealing Mr M of CFS. His 
representative says Mr M was an agent  for TRG.  And Ive seen contemporaneous  emails  
which indicate he introduced Mr G and his wife to Insight. 
I think the involvement Mr M had in the transaction can be seen from the email message he 
sent to Insight on 8 July 2019 making the introduction:
As promised attached are some  details for Mr and Mrs G, if you let me know  anything else 
that you need I will get it for you before  the meeting next week. As discussed, if you can 
keep it simple that would  be good,  but just a few points that you may need or are already 
aware of:
1.[TRG] agreed to pay 6% annual interest  on the fund as per option  2.
2.I paid the reservation  fee on their behalf  based on this being returned to me when 
funded via the SIPP
4.If the SIPP is not mortgageable by the time the rest of the payment  is needed,  they 
will fund via other pension funds Mrs G has, funds from other property that they have 
brought in Cape  Verde via mortgage
I think its significant that Mr M was also Mr Gs brother-in-law.
Mr G recalled to me that hed been introduced to Insight prior to signing a form reserving his 
investment property on 22 May 2009.  He said the form showed Insight as the agent.  He said 
at the time the reservation form was signed it was based on the fact Insight was going  to 
provide advice straight away. He was told to get a property reserved for the SIPP  transfer.
I think the paperwork shows something different. While CFS is described as a sub-agent of 
Insight, Ive seen  nothing substantive to make me conclude anything  other than that it was 
CFS, run by Mr M, which  introduced  Mr G and his wife to Insight as an agent of TRG on 8 
July 2009. And it wasnt until 29 July 2009  that they agreed terms of business with Insight. 
Even if Mr G had been aware of Insight beforehand,  I think various documents from the time 
corroborate the chronology of key events  here and I put weight on these.
Mr G doesnt recall  seeing or receiving a copy of the FPR from September 2009. Given  the 
events in question  here happened over a decade ago Im not surprised about that. But I think  
its more likely than not he wouldve received  it.
I say this because  Ive seen other documentation  from the time of the events that Mr G and 
his wife signed  these  contain some of the same information detailed in the FPR. For 
example, the replacement  policy  questionnaire records:
You have made the decision to purchase  in the Cape Verde islands through [TRG] as 
your brother-in-law  is an agent for them and you have purchased property together in the 
past and liked the idea of what  they were  offering  and you wanted to explore the possibility 
of using your pension funds to directly purchase another property in this way.
If what had been  captured  in the questionnaire  had been wrong, I dont think  Mr G wouldve 
signed it.
Ref: DRN80056596Further, given Mr Gs profession  and the value of the transaction taking place, I wouldve 
expected him to have insisted on receiving a FPR type document  had it not been 
forthcoming. His representative told us he relied on Insights  advice,  so hed need to have 
known in detail  what that was.
Like the replacement  policy  questionnaire,  the FPR seems to indicate Mr G was committed  
to some extent to buying a property prior to engaging fully with Insight. Indeed,  the report it 
produced said the following about its recommendation to switch his pension  fund from his 
then existing provider:
I have recommended this pension be transferred, for the following reasons:
-You wish to invest your overall pension  fund within a SIPP environment  that will give 
you far greater flexibility with regards to your pension planning. In particular with 
regards to using  your pension fund to facilitate the purchase of commercial  property 
in Cape Verde.  
-NOTE: We also discussed that to transfer  the funds at this time would be crystallise a 
potential loss on the money  given that the funds had fallen considerably  over recent  
years but you felt that the property opportunity ahead of you was too good to miss.
On balance, I consider  it more likely  than not even if Insight had advised against transferring 
his pension s to the SIPP, Mr G wouldve still arranged  the pension  switch and investment in 
Cape Verde, by other  means if necessary. I think the transaction  would either have been 
arranged on an insistent  client basis or, failing that, Mr G wouldve sought to transfer his 
pension to a SIPP without the involvement  of an adviser.
I say this because  notwithstanding Insights failure to provide suitable  advice, which  should 
have been an explicit recommendation not to proceed with the investment, it did nonetheless 
provide Mr G with the FPR which made clear that the investment he wanted  to make was 
high risk. I think he wouldve understood  the warnings in the report, which were essentially 
an implicit guide not to proceed.  There were  several warnings, including  as follows:
 I have  made  you aware  that utilising a SIPP/FPT for the sole purpose  of purchasing a 
commercial property (such as your Cape  Verde property) will increase the risk level of your 
investment considerably due to factors such as the acquisition  of a single asset class, the 
illiquidity of property, the overseas location of the property and by purchasing off-plan. 
Having taken into consideration  the risk factors involved you have confirmed that you are 
prepared to accept  a considerably higher degree of risk rating established within  the Client  
Confidential Financial  Review Form in order to purchase  property in Cape Verde for 
commercial reasons. 
Another example  of these warnings was as follows:
You fully understand  that, whilst acquisition of a commercial property by means of a SIPP  
can make  available  the facility to borrow  against  that asset to help meet future financial  
obligations, you are aware it is your responsibility to ensure  that you have  adequate  
resources to pay the remaining balance of the purchase cost upon completion. [Mr M] should 
have explained  and clarified  to you specific details of completion costs  and should  have 
given an indication of other charges and taxes  which may have to be paid at completion.
Ref: DRN80056597I think Mr G ought  reasonably to have  inferred from the FPR that Insight  was not endorsing  
his decision to pursue  the investment; that it was high risk and overly  concentrated in one 
asset class; that such investments were subject  to development risks and likely to be illiquid;  
and that by switching his pension funds into the SIPP  to facilitate the investment, he was 
exposing himself to a variety of fees and charges.
In the event, Mr G chose to disregard these warnings. As far as Im aware, he didnt  
challenge or question any of the content  of the FPR. In my view,  this was because he was 
determined to proceed with the investment irrespective of any advice, whether explicit or 
implicit, not to do so.
I think he was influenced in the transaction  by his brother-in-law.  He trusted the advice he 
was getting from him. I think  he wouldve been aware Mr M wouldve been  benefitting  from 
the transaction and that was a positive outcome.
I think Mr G believed he was also getting a good deal  Mr M had initially  met the reservation 
fee and he was being guaranteed a 6% return on his investment until the apartment had 
been completed. He had recent experience  of investing in property with Mr M. And he was 
disappointed with the performance  of his then pension plan, which  had eroded in recent  
years.
I think all these factors together had persuaded Mr G to make  the investment, which Ive no 
doubt at the time seemed exciting and of great potential.
Mr Gs representative thought my provisional decision was contradictory. Id found serious 
failings by Insight  and so its client should be compensated.  But as Ive set out, I also needed  
to consider the impact of Insights  failings  in the circumstances of this case and what was 
most likely to have happened had the advice process been robust. Ive set out why I think  on 
the balance of probabilities Mr G would still have gone ahead with the investment even if 
hed been advised not to proceed.
Mr Gs representative also noted what it said was a clear and inappropriate business 
relationship between Insight and TRG,  which its client  hadnt been aware of. It says if he 
had been, he wouldnt have gone ahead with the transaction. But I note that Mr Gs brother-
in-law was director of CFS which also had a business relationship with TRG. And his 
representative has failed  to address Mr Ms role in what happened  to Mr G. So, I dont find 
the point it makes telling  in my consideration of Mr Gs case  against Insight.
It wouldnt be reasonable, in all the circumstances  of this case, for me to hold Insight 
accountable for the concerns Mr G now has about his Cape Verde property investment.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive already set out, Im not upholding Mr Gs complaint.  It follows that I dont 
require Insight Financial  Associates  Limited  to do anything further.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 September  2020.
Ref: DRN80056598Kevin Williamson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8005659