K820x#14complaint
Mrs J complains on behalf of herself  and the estate of her late husband, Mr J. Mrs J 
complains that they were  mis-sold a payment  protection insurance policy  by HSBC UK Bank 
PLC.
background
Mr and Mrs J took out a mortgage with HSBC in 2000. At the same time they were sold a 
PPI policy  which wouldve covered their mortgage repayments for up to 12 months at a time 
if Mr J couldnt work.
Mrs J hasnt explained why shes not happy about  the sale of the PPI so the adjudicator 
looked at the whole sales process to see if there was a reason to uphold  the complaint. 
The adjudicator didnt think Mrs Js complaint  should  be upheld. Mrs J disagrees, so the 
compliant has been passed to me to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website  and Ive taken 
this into account  when deciding this case.  Having done so, Im not upholding Mrs Js 
complaint. I realise  this is very disappointing  for Mrs J, so I hope my explanation will help 
Mrs J understand why Ive reached  this decision.
Mrs J doesnt suggest that the PPI was added  without  her or Mr Js knowledge or consent. 
Indeed Mrs J has explained that they wanted  to make sure we were covered if he was out of 
work. So I think Mr and Mrs J bought the PPI willingly, knowing they  had a choice about it.
Its not clear whether  HSBC made a personal recommendation to Mr and Mrs J about  the 
PPI. As it holds HSBC  to a higher standard Ive worked on the basis that HSBC did 
recommend the PPI. So HSBC had to take reasonable steps to make sure it was right for 
their circumstances.
The policy only covered  Mr J, as Mrs J wasnt working. Looking at Mr Js circumstances at 
the time I think the policy was suitable  for him. I say this because:
Mr J was eligible for the policy and wasnt affected by any terms which mightve  
made it more difficult for him to make  a successful claim. Although Mr J was self-
employed, which sometimes  means the policy isnt suitable, the terms relating to self-
employment in the policy werent  onerous. So they didnt  make  it significantly more 
difficult for Mr J to make a successful claim than if he was employed;
As Mr J was self-employed  he didnt have any enhanced sick pay or any redundancy 
pay available to him. If he was out of work the household income  would have 
reduced to zero.  So it made sense to have insurance which  would have at least 
covered Mr and Mrs Js mortgage  payments;
The cost of the policy was comparable to that of other  policies available  around the 
same time. It was flexible,  as it could be changed  or cancelled at any time without a 
financial penalty. 
Ref: DRN82013292Its possible Mr and Mrs J didnt receive all of the information about  the PPI they ideally 
shouldve done.  But I dont think more  or better  information wouldve changed Mr and 
Mrs J decision  to buy the PPI as it was suitable  for them  in the way Ive described above.  So 
I dont think Mr and Mrs J lost out as a result  of anything HSBC  might have done wrong.
my final decision
Im not upholding Mrs Js complaint on behalf of herself and her late husband, so HSBC UK 
Bank Plc doesnt  have to pay any compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 October  2019.
S. Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8201329