K820x#14complaint
Ms S complains  about Aviva Life & Pensions  UK Limited (Aviva). Shes unhappy with how 
Aviva dealt with the fund switch request she made  for her Stakeholder Personal Pension  
Plan.
background
On 22 January 2019 at 5.22pm Ms S called Aviva and requested  that all of the funds her 
pension was invested in were switched  to Avivas Cash fund. Aviva agreed to do this and 
confirmed the value of Ms S pension on that day was £203,558.20.
Ms S fund switch request  was completed on 24 January 2019.The value for Ms S pension 
at the time of the switch  was £199,769.47. Aviva sent Ms S a letter to confirm  this. 
Further to receiving Avivas confirmation  letter of when the fund switch had occurred and the 
drop in the value of her pension Ms S contacted Aviva to complain. 
Aviva sent its final response to Ms S complaint and in summary said:
during the 22 January 2019  call it shouldve warned Ms S that it wouldnt necessarily 
use the value  confirmed for her pension to complete her fund switch
Aviva  didnt offer real-time fund switches. Switches could take up to 3 working days, 
however it normally used the price date at the end of the next working day following 
the switch request,  or the day after- depending on whether it knew  about  a switch 
before or after 5pm on a day
if a switch was received by 5pm, it used the fund value at the end of the following 
day. It received  Ms Ss call after 5pm and allowed one full day to process the switch  
she requested. So the value it used  was the value at the end of the following working 
day on 24 January 2019
it was sorry for not making everything clear to Ms S at the time she requested  the 
fund switch
because of its mistakes it had offered to backdate Ms S fund switch as if it had never  
been transferred  into cash. But it understood Ms S preferred not to accept this offer 
as she felt this might  mean further  losses and exposure to market  risks she wanted 
to avoid
for trouble and upset caused  it had paid £100  compensation  into Ms Ss bank 
account
Unhappy with Avivas  response Ms S referred her complaint  to our service.
One of our investigators  considered the matter. In summary she said:
she didnt think Aviva had made  a mistake with the date used  to process  Ms S fund 
switch. So she didnt  think it was fair to ask it to compensate Ms S with the difference 
between the policy  value she was quoted and the actual policy  value used when her 
switch was completed
Aviva  shouldve made Ms S aware the value of her policy could change and that the 
switch wouldnt take place on the same  day Ms S had made her request
she thought  Ms S had suffered a loss of expectation and felt the £100 compensation 
Aviva had paid for this was fair. She also felt Avivas offer to reverse the fund switch  
was fair. But noted Ms S had chosen  not to accept  this
Ref: DRN84822142Ms S responded to our investigator and disagreed. In summary she said:
had she been  told the fund switch  would take 3 days she wouldve reconsidered her 
decision and been shocked to learn  it would take so long
it wasnt right that shed been  led to make a decision  based  on what she considered 
to be misleading  information
Avivas system was unfair to its customers
As no agreement could be reached  the matter was referred to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not intending to 
uphold Ms S complaint. Ill explain why, but before I do, I should  emphasise that while  Ive 
taken note of the correspondence, arguments  and comments made by both parties,  I have 
limited my response to what  I consider  to be the issues  central to this complaint.
I should firstly say I have  real sympathy  for Ms S. Its clear  to me that when Ms S made her 
fund switch request  to Aviva her understanding was that the switch would go through  
immediately and that the value of her pension at the time would  be secured. Unfortunately 
this wasnt the case.
As Aviva has confirmed, its process  for a fund switch is as a follows:
fund switches can sometimes take up to three working days  to be completed
generally if a request  is received  before 5pm, the pension  value  at the end of the 
following working day is used for the switch
if a request is received after 5pm it allows one full working day to process  the switch.  
So the pension  value at the end of the following working is used 
Indeed the terms  and conditions applicable to Ms S Stakeholder Pension do say there  may 
be a delay with fund switches.
Overall Im satisfied Aviva carried out Ms S fund switch correctly. But whats  really  
unfortunate is that, as Aviva has accepted, during its 22 January 2019 telephone  call with Ms 
S it failed  to make her aware that although  she was making the switch request that day, the 
value of her pension could go up or down in the time between  the request  and its ultimate 
completion. Because Aviva didnt do this Ms S believed shed secured the value of her 
pension on 22 January 2019. And understandably shes very upset she didnt. Aviva 
unreasonably raised  Ms S expectations  at a time when Im sure Ms S was trying to make 
important decisions about her pension provision. Because of this I can appreciate  why shes  
so disappointed and frustrated by what actually  happened.
In the time between  Ms Ss fund switch request and its completion the value of her pension  
unfortunately decreased. This was due to market  movement  and subsequent fund 
performance. It seems  Ms S wasnt  prepared  for this possibility when she made  her fund 
switch request. And Aviva didnt help matters  by failing to warn  her about this.
Ref: DRN84822143I recognise Ms S feels Aviva should  compensate her with the amount her pension value 
decreased by during the fund switch process. But as the fund switch  was carried  out 
correctly Im unable to agree that it would  be reasonable to ask Aviva to pay Ms S the 
compensation shed like. The pension  value Ms S secured is the one she was entitled to. 
Had Ms S not gone ahead with her fund switch she wouldve  still experienced the decrease 
in the value of her pension. 
I dont know exactly what Ms S wouldve done  had Aviva been clear  about its fund switch 
process. But Ms S would always  have had to make  a decision  based on the value of her 
pension on a certain day, even though  she wouldve secured the value at the end of the next 
relevant business  day. So Ms S would always have to make  a decision without knowing 
whether the value of her pension would  be higher  or lower the next relevant business  day. 
Ms S thought it was a good time to switch funds on 22 January  2019 (based on the value of 
her pension on that day) and even if she had been told that the switch would be effective  at 
a later date, I cant fairly say that she wouldve made a different decision. As it seems  Ms S 
intention was to safeguard  the value of her pension by moving it to Cash,  I think its more 
likely than not that even if Aviva  had warned her about the switch process and values being 
susceptible to change, that shed still have gone ahead. I say this as Ms S did want to move  
a substantial sized investment out of Equities and several other funds into 100% Cash.  It 
seems to me she may have been  attempting to avoid what she possibly thought would be a 
worsening market situation. Nevertheless this doesnt excuse the fact that Aviva  wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve  been  about  the fund switch  process and that it failed to manage Ms S 
expectations. 
I note in acknowledging its mistake Aviva  has offered to put Ms S back  in the position  she 
wouldve been had the switch not occurred. This is in line with what  Id expect Aviva  to offer 
to do given its error. But I understand Ms S has chosen not to accept this offer and accept 
her reasons  for this. Ive also considered whether the £100  compensation Aviva  has paid Ms 
S is enough. Having  done  so, I think it is a fair amount to recognise the trouble and upset 
this matter has caused her. So Im not going  to direct Aviva to make a further award.
I understand Ms S feels Avivas fund switch process is unfair.  Ive considered  this point and 
while I acknowledge Aviva shouldve  been  clear on 22 January 2019 about how and when 
her pension value  would  be calculated, it isnt the role of our service to tell a financial 
business how to operate  so I cant direct Aviva  to change its fund switch process. I note 
however Ms S has said she intends to raise the matter with the industry  regulator,  The 
Financial Conduct  Authority.
I appreciate that this is not the response  Ms S was hoping for. Indeed I dont underestimate 
her sincerity  in bringing her complaint to this service or her strength of feeling on the matter.  
But for the reasons Ive explained  I dont intend to direct  Aviva to do anything further. 
my final decision
I do not uphold  Ms S complaint  and make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 September 2019.
Ref: DRN84822144Chillel Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8482214