K820x#14complaint
Miss L says she was mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) with a store card she took 
out in 2002. The credit facility was provided by a high street  bank, but a company called 
Financial Insurance  Company Limited is responsible for answering Miss Ls complaint. 
Ill therefore refer to FICL throughout this final decision.  
background
The store card was taken  out in a store and obtained by filling  out an application  leaflet. PPI 
was added on to the card and Miss L says she doesnt remember  ever agreeing  to it.
Our adjudicator has assessed this complaint and already provided a view that it shouldnt  be 
upheld. Miss L disagreed  and so its been  passed to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.  
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ls complaint.
We now know Miss L paid a total of £1.26 during the entirety  of the time she had this PPI 
and this may well be why she doesnt  remember anything about it.
I say this because  weve seen a number of very similar sales  to this one and weve spoken 
at length to the company  involved to gain an understanding of the processes that were 
generally used.  So we now know consumers were asked to fill out a form which  was part of 
a wider leaflet-based application. The terms and conditions of the PPI were included  in what 
the applicant was given to complete. 
I was sent the agreement  Miss L filled out when she took out the card and PPI. I can see 
there was a section  on the application  leaflet about  PPI. This invited her to either  sign her 
name inside - or leave blank - an option box to have  PPI cover. 
Miss L signed at this point so I think this suggests  that she probably did want  PPI when she 
applied for her card. Because I also think she wouldve had access to the terms and 
conditions as Ive described above,  I think she consented to the PPI cover when she signed 
at this point. I think shed have been equally free to not have signed the section asking for 
the PPI.
FICL provided a non-advised sale. This means it needed only to provide enough  clear  
information for Miss L to decide  herself whether she wanted the cover.  I think FICL could 
have set out the information about  the PPI on the leaflet in a better way, but overall I do think 
Miss L had access to enough  information to allow her to make an informed decision.  
Miss L may have had some sickness protection with her job of that time, but I think  it would 
have been quite moderate and it doesnt  affect whether the policy was of use.
Ref: DRN88472752Ive also checked  that Miss L was eligible for the cover and not caught  by any of the major 
exclusions we tended to see in some  of these policies. The cost of the PPI offered was 
relatively expensive,  but the benefits the policy offered gave more protection than most 
credit cards. For example, if shed become unable to work or lost her job, the PPI wouldve 
paid off 15% of her outstanding store card balance each month until she returned to work  or 
until all the balance was returned to zero. Life, injury and hospitalisation cover  was also 
included. These benefits  wouldve been  in addition to any other means Miss L had in place 
at the time.
So although  I cant say why Miss L decided  to select this cover  when she applied  for the 
card, I think the PPI policy was something  that would have been of use to her. I think this 
could explain why she chose it on the form.
For me to uphold Miss Ls complaint, Id need to think  it was more likely  that she wasnt 
given an option  or there were other serious  flaws  in the way the policy  was sold. Instead,  
what Ive seen makes me think Miss L specifically selected the PPI and had access nearby 
to the information she needed  about the PPI policy and its rules.  And I dont think  theres 
evidence that any better   or more  information wouldve changed how Miss L acted. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Miss Ls complaint and I dont  require Financial 
Insurance Company Limited  to do anything.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss L to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 April 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8847275