K821x#15complaint
Mr L complains  that Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited  mis-sold  him a 
whole of life plan in 1998 given he was single, with no dependents  and had death-in-service  
cover with his employer. He said that his mortgage loan was already covered but, in any 
case, this plan was not suitable  as mortgage cover.
background
The background and circumstances of this complaint are set out within  my provisional 
decision of 15 October  2019. A copy of this is attached and forms part of this decision.
Sun Life responded, saying:
It accepts this type of policy was not suitable to support a mortgage due to its 
reviewable nature,  although Mr L surrendered the plan before any review
But it does not agree to the method of redress, saying that a refund of the cost of life 
cover plus interest  would be more suitable  given Mr L did require the critical illness  
aspect of the plan
It also feels that the policy fee should not be refunded as the client would have paid 
this if he had a critical  illness only plan
Mr L paid a total of £1,800 in premiums  between June 1998 and June 2003; the 
surrender value in 2003  was £73.71
My proposed redress method results in a sum of £4,300 whereas to refund the cost 
of life cover plus 8% interest  totals  £507.27
The method  I suggested  would give Mr L more  than double the amount he paid into 
the plan and in its view this is unreasonable
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For the reasons  outlined  in my provisional  decision I am satisfied this complaint should be 
upheld and with the redress outlined.
Sun Life now accepts this was not a reasonable recommendation.  In my view it was a very 
poor recommendation as it did not guarantee Mr Ls sole and key objective: critical illness 
cover for the mortgage commitment. Also, it led to him paying for far more  life cover than he 
needed or wanted but on a reviewable basis. Sun Life now appears  to accept this was not 
appropriate.
Given this, I do not agree  with its view that Mr L should still pay Sun Life, via the fee 
element, for what was thoroughly  unsuitable  advice. As it did not market standalone critical 
illness policies it could  not recommend Mr L a suitable policy  and so, if it had given him 
appropriate advice,  he would not have  bought  anything from Sun Life and it would not have 
received a fee. I have no idea what alternative plan Mr L might have bought or what  fee he 
Ref: DRN81050282would have paid for the limited bespoke critical illness cover but I am satisfied that my 
redress is fair and reasonable.
The fact that Mr L may receive more than he paid in premiums is not a reason to diverge  
from what I believe is the right redress formula. Mr L has been unfairly deprived of the sums  
in question over several decades so he is entitled  to compensatory interest on these 
amounts.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and instruct  Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada  (U.K.)  Limited 
to pay compensation  as outlined in my provisional decision. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 December 2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN81050283Provisional decision
complaint
Mr L complains  Sun Life Assurance  Company  of Canada  (U.K.) Limited mis-sold  him a whole of life 
plan in 1998  given he was single, with no dependents and had death-in-service  cover with his 
employer. He said that his mortgage loan was already  covered  but, in any case, this plan was not 
suitable as mortgage cover.
background
An investigator at this service didnt think the complaint  should  be upheld.  He said:
Mr L didnt have  any prior critical illness cover (CIC) in relation to his two interest-only  
mortgages, and having life cover did not make the critical illness advice unsuitable
The documentation recorded that Mr L wanted this cover  and was given  plenty of time to 
consider the advice and sales documentation
Sun Life didnt sell a stand-alone  critical  illness plan at the time
Mr Ls representative disagreed, saying:
The correct plan would  have  been stand-alone CIC which was available in the market place 
and the adviser had a duty to refer the client to a different advisor if it did not have the 
appropriate plan within his product  range. This advice was given post-Jan  1995 so the 
disclosure requirements  were clear
The fact find said he needed £75.000  to £100,000 cover yet the mortgage was only £50,000 
and the needs  section recorded that he was not interested in life cover (having no 
dependents) 
So a unit-linked whole of life plan was not suitable; Mr L needed a 19 year stand-alone level 
term CIC contract
Sun Life said that a similar £30 policy  on offer in 2002  had costs made up of £22.00 for the CIC and 
less than £5 for life cover  (with the remainder being charges) i.e. Mr Ls premium was largely driven 
by the cost of CIC.
The only other comparable product it sold at the time was its Protected  Mortgage Plan; a unit-linked 
endowment with decreasing life and critical  illness  cover. This plan had a higher investment element  
and was considerably more expensive, costing far more  than Mr L wanted to pay.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
It is important to reiterate Mr Ls situation  at the time of this advice. He had 19 years remaining  on his 
mortgage and had life insurance in place to protect this commitment. The advisors report clearly 
states that Mr Ls priority was solely mortgage protection; he was not looking for additional general life 
cover and this recommendation  was made solely  on the basis of mortgage protection. 
So its sole justification was that Sun Life did not sell standalone critical illness  cover and that, given 
the modest cost of the life cover, this was a reasonable fit for Mr Ls objectives.
There are, however, a number of problems with this. 
Ive seen no evidence that the advisor provided Mr L with a breakdown of the relative costs of the 
critical illness and life cover  elements such that he could  make an informed  decision as to whether  he 
Ref: DRN81050284wanted to pay for the additional unnecessary life cover. While the cost of life cover can be minimal 
when critical  illness cover  is provided, this was not the case here. A quarter of the cover costs were 
for the unnecessary  additional life cover.
Nor did the advisor spell out that if Mr L took out this policy he should cancel  his existing plan, 
something which I think he should have done in this particular situation.  It would have highlighted to 
Mr L that he now had more life cover than he wanted/needed. This is particularly  the case  as he 
rejected the advisors recommendation for additional life cover plans. 
Crucially, this plan did not merely provide  unnecessary life cover it was not dovetailed to the mortgage 
period but was designed to run for life. Even if Mr L cancelled it at the end of his mortgage this might 
well not have  been a cost-effective proposition.
Further, Mr L was due to retire fairly shortly after the mortgage expired,  and given his employment 
was likely  to provide  a generous guaranteed pension,  I see no reason  why he would have needed  life 
or critical  illness cover stretching beyond his retirement. There  was no suggestion that he was looking  
for cover beyond the mortgage commitment.
Like Mr Ls representative I am also not convinced  that Mr L could not have found  stand-alone life 
cover via another provider although I am not saying this alone would  be sufficient to uphold the 
complaint were it suitable  in every other respect.
Finally, the recommendation of a whole  of life policy  set up on a maximum cover  basis did not 
actually provide  Mr L with critical  illness cover for the rest of the mortgage period. This is because the 
initial premiums were  subject to review and given the way plans set up on a maximum  cover basis 
generally work, they were  very likely to rise and by unpredictable amounts (or the sum assured  would  
be reduced) so this recommendation did not ensure  the mortgage debt would be fully covered  in the 
event of Mr L suffering from a critical  illness.
This was a very substantial  drawback and there is no evidence to indicate that the advisor spelt out 
this key issue.
So taken together, I am satisfied that this was not a suitable  recommendation. The evidence does 
suggest Mr L was looking for critical  illness cover so my proposed compensation  reflects  this.
I therefore  intend  to instruct Sun Life to repay the premiums Mr L paid on this policy minus  the cost of 
the critical illness cover  within each premium. If he received a surrender sum this should be factored 
in. It must then add 8% simple interest per annum to each portion  of the premium refunded from the 
date it was paid to the date of settlement of this complaint.
my provisional  decision
I currently intend to uphold this complaint and instruct Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) 
Limited to pay compensation as outlined  above.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8105028