K821x#15Complaint
Mr R says TWG  Services Limited mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy.
Background
In 2010 Mr R bought a monthly premium PPI policy from TWG, in connection with a 
hire purchase (HP) agreement for a car.
Mr Rs complained  about how the PPI was sold to him. And our adjudicator 
recommended the complaint should be upheld. In their view,  TWG  hadnt  shown that it 
had made  it clear to Mr R that the PPI was optional or that it had given him the chance 
actively to confirm that he wanted to take it out.
But TWG didnt agree, so the complaint came to me to review  afresh.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken  this into account  in deciding 
Mr Rs case.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr Rs complaint. Ill explain why. 
Ive not seen any paperwork from the sale of the PPI. And Ive not been  told very much
about the policy that Mr R took out, or how it was sold to him.
So I have  to decide what I thinks most  likely to have happened,  taking  into account Mr Rs 
recollections and what TWGs told us about  its usual sales  process. And having  done that, 
in my view TWG hasnt shown  clearly  that Mr R agreed to buy the PPI, having been  given  a 
fair choice  whether or not to do so.
Mr R cant recall how he bought the PPI. TWG  accepts that it sold the PPI to him and says 
its records show he took it out by responding, through the post,  to an offer that was sent to 
him after hed agreed the finance for the car.
Thats in line with what weve been told by the finance  provider, which  says that PPI 
wasnt sold to Mr R when  he took out the HP loan.
So I think TWGs likely  to be right in saying the PPI was sold by post rather  than,  say, in 
a meeting. But I dont know what the offer it sent to him actually said,  or how the PPI 
was presented.
Ref: DRN88479292TWG says that details  of the PPI were sent to Mr R, for him to read and think  about, 
before he signed  and returned his PPI application  form.  But TWG hasnt shown us what 
was sent to Mr R, or given  us copies of any paperwork that he filled in or signed  or 
even examples of what it thinks he probably would have seen or signed. This includes 
the application form and direct debit mandate TWG says he will have completed  and 
returned, and the policy terms that it says hed have seen.
So Ive seen  nothing  to show clearly  that Mr R agreed to have the PPI or, if he did, what 
hed been told about it before doing  so. Or which explains why hed have decided  to have 
PPI at that stage.
Ive thought carefully about what TWGs said. But, on balance, its not been shown clearly  
enough that Mr R chose to take out the PPI, having  been given a fair choice about whether  
to have it. 
Taking everything into account, I find that TWG mis-sold the PPI to Mr R and that it should put 
things right for him.
Putting things right
TWG should put Mr B in the position hed be in now if he hadnt  taken out PPI. The policy  
should be cancelled,  if that hasnt been  done already, and TWG should:
Pay Mr B the amount he paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment, from when  he paid it until he gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr B made a successful claim under the PPI policy, TWG  can take off what  he got 
for the claim from the amount it owes him.
 HM Revenue  & Customs requires TWG to take off tax from this interest. TWG  must  give 
Mr B a certificate  showing how much  tax its taken off, if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons  given,  I require TWG Services  Limited  to put things  right for Mr R as 
explained above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 January 2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8847929