K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs A say St Andrews  Insurance  plc mis-sold them  a payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs A bought the policy  in 2003 shortly  after taking  out a mortgage. They applied for 
the PPI policy  through the post.
The policy provided  cover  for Mr A for accident, sickness, and unemployment  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  £1,014.55 a month towards Mr and Mrs As 
mortgage balance  and related expenses in the event of a successful claim. At the time, it 
cost £61.48 a month. 
At the time,  Mr A was employed as a funeral  director. He has told us he was entitled  to six 
months full sick pay, at least  12 months redundancy pay and death  in service pay. Mr A has 
said he had a medical condition some years  prior to the sale of the policy.  
Mr and Mrs As representative has made  lengthy  and substantial  representations on his 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs As representative  says:
St Andrews failed to meet the sales standards which applied  at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs A 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr and 
Mrs As representatives believe there  to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means St Andrews should 
have told Mr and Mrs A about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means St Andrews should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr and Mrs A 
and the impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long-term transaction   cover would stop just at 
the time it would  be most needed;  and
The information Mr and Mrs A received was misleading. These policies  were  
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Ref: DRN88954102Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  Mr and Mrs A disagreed  with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs As. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs As complaint.
The credit agreement itself was with a third-party  and not St Andrews. That means  the 
unfair relationship provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme 
Court judgment in Plevin about s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made  by the 
FCA about the handling of complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission in light of the 
Plevin judgment, arent  applicable.
This sale took place  in 2003 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So the FSAs and the FCAs overarching principles 
for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) are not applicable to this 
complaint; nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from firms, like 
St Andrews,  selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Ref: DRN88954103Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost  duty of good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If St Andrews gave advice, whether it advised Mr and Mrs A with reasonable care 
and skill  in particular, whether the policy was appropriate or suitable for them, 
given their needs and circumstances. 
-Whether St Andrews  gave Mr and Mrs A sufficient, appropriate and timely 
information to enable them to make an informed  choice  about whether to take out the 
policy, including drawing to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr and 
Mrs A, I must then go on to consider  whether and to what  extent Mr and Mrs A 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs A 
and St Andrews, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs As complaint. Ive set out my 
reasoning below. 
did Mr and Mrs A know they had a choice?
St Andrews  had to make  it clear that the PPI policy was optional. Mr and Mrs A were  sent 
information about the policy after their mortgage had already started. Ive seen a copy  of Mr 
and Mrs As mortgage repayments cover acceptance form. On it some  details of Mr and 
Mrs As mortgage have been entered, along with details of the PPI policy  including  the 
benefit split and the monthly premium repayments.  There is also a direct debit section and 
Mr A has signed and dated  it. Ive also seen a copy of the insurance  schedule and welcome 
letter sent to Mr A which refers to him as having chosen mortgage repayments cover...  
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs A knew the policy was 
optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
Ref: DRN88954104did St Andrews provide  advice?
Mr and Mrs A havent said if St Andrews  provided  them with advice during this sale. St 
Andrews says no advice  was provided.  Looking  at what  happened when St Andrews sold 
Mr and Mrs A the PPI, Im not persuaded that it provided advice. 
This means  St Andrews didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable for Mr and Mrs A. 
Instead, it had to give them sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to enable them to 
make an informed choice  about whether to take out the policy, including drawing to their 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.  
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr and Mrs A were  given a broad description of what 
the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy would protect  their payments if Mr A 
was unable to work  through accident, sickness or unemployment) and of the costs.  Ive 
reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mr and Mrs A would have taken out the 
policy without any sense  of what the policy was for and of how much  the premium  might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  St Andrews gave sufficient  
information about the exclusions  or limitations before Mr and Mrs A agreed to take out the 
policy. 
So I dont  think St Andrews gave Mr and Mrs A sufficient, appropriate and timely information 
to enable them to make an informed choice about  whether to take out the policy,  including  
drawing their attention  and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs As representative  has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and 
Mrs As. Ive considered these carefully  and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs As representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs A about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them.  
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs As representatives views on this. The duty of utmost good 
faith in insurance  law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material 
facts and not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what a court  
would say  I think  its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer having to 
Ref: DRN88954105disclose the claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and 
exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs A have  suggested.  And taking into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that St Andrews ought to have done either. 
what effect did St Andrews  shortcomings have on Mr and Mrs A? To what extent did 
Mr and Mrs A suffer  loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that St Andrews didnt do all it should  have done when it sold this policy to Mr and 
Mrs A. So Ive gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude they 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Mr and 
Mrs A would have still taken out the policy, had St Andrews done  things properly.  
Mr and Mrs A say they would not have taken it out and believe I should  presume this to be 
the case given  the significant failings identified above. Ive considered the representations  of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr and Mrs A had to weigh up in their own mind the cost of 
the policy against the benefits offered and the potential  consequences if they didnt insure  
against the risk of Mr A being  unable to work. 
As Ive found above, Mr and Mrs A chose to take this policy  out. So I consider that its 
reasonable to conclude  they had some  interest  in the benefits offered by this type of 
insurance. But they made this decision based on incomplete information. So what Mr and 
Mrs A thought they were getting is not exactly what they got. The extent  to which  this 
differed is a relevant consideration when determining if Mr and Mrs A have suffered any loss 
or detriment.  
The information Mr and Mrs A were given about  the cost and benefit was clear.  But the 
information about other aspects of the policy, such as limitations  and exclusions wasnt  as 
clear as it should have  been.  
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs A thought  they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr A  
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr A be unable  to 
do his own job, a similar job or any paid work  which his experience, education or 
training reasonably qualified him to do; and
The policy protected payments for up to 24 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mr and Mrs A pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude  that 
the policy wasnt as good as they thought and they might have decided not to proceed. The 
limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have 
dissuaded some  consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs A from 
taking out the policy.  
Ref: DRN88954106But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs As circumstances  at the time of sale shows  that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them.  Mr A was eligible for its benefits 
and it provided cover  that, despite  its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to 
them should  the insured  risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence  to 
suggest Mr A wouldve been  caught  by any of the significant exclusions  the policy didnt  
have any restrictions regarding pre-existing medical conditions  and Mr A was in permanent 
employment. So, I still think  they had some good  reasons to take the policy out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mr and 
Mrs A might reasonably have expected.  But its unlikely they would have expected to be able 
to make a disability claim without having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  
And while this limitation might have dissuaded  some  consumers in slightly different  
circumstances to Mr and Mrs A from taking out the policy, Mr and Mrs A, in their 
circumstances, still had some good  reasons to take it out.
If Mr and Mrs A had known they could  only claim for disability if Mr A was unable  to do his 
own job, a similar job or any paid work which his experience, education or training 
reasonably qualified him to do, it might  have played into their thinking about what  they would 
have done. And I accept  it may have given  them pause for thought   although  its possible 
they may not have been overly concerned  given that if Mr A was unable (through disability) 
to carry on his own occupation the chances  that he would be able to take up a similar 
occupation would also, in all probability, be limited.
St Andrews  may not have told Mr and Mrs A that any claim they made  would be limited to a 
24-month period.  This may have differed from what they expected and might  have hoped for. 
But 24 months was a longer period than Mr A would have received full sick pay for and his 
redundancy entitlement was also significantly less than 24 months income. 
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr and Mrs A would still have  thought a policy that 
paid up to 24 monthly mortgage  payments  would  have been of benefit to them and would 
help them manage the consequences  should Mr and Mrs A be unable to work in the 
circumstances covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made, it 
could help reduce their outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time,  ensure their home was not 
placed at risk and might  potentially help preserve Mr As sick pay or redundancy money for 
other use.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs A would still have  taken out the policy.  The policy was sufficiently close  
to what its likely they thought they were getting  and provided benefits that would help them  
manage the consequences  if Mr A was made redundant, or unable  to work through  accident 
or disability.  In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs A would 
have taken out the policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations  on cover.
Mr and Mrs As representatives say the rules about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP App 
3) make it clear  that, where  a significant failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
Ref: DRN88954107the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs A would not have bought  the PPI they bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted  
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr and 
Mrs As circumstances as detailed above, I consider  it reasonable to conclude  the position  
Mr and Mrs A found themselves in as result  of the sale was the same  position they would 
have been in had the breach or significant  failings  not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs A believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs A in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept its possible they wouldnt have taken out the policy, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that they would still have taken  
out the PPI had they been given clear, fair and not misleading information about  the policy 
they were buying.  So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude St Andrews  should pay Mr and Mrs A compensation, as that 
would put them in a better position than they would have been  in if everything had happened 
as it should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs A think St Andrews  misrepresented the terms of the policy in 
how it described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court might conclude some  
of St Andrews statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why 
St Andrews  failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because  of what it did or didnt say in 
the information it provided  but because the overall information St Andrews gave  Mr and 
Mrs A, in the way it did, was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider it fair and 
reasonable to expect  it to have met in 2003  when  providing information  about an insurance  
policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs As representative says a court might  take 
if it were to find St Andrews  negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr and Mrs A and 
about the remedy a court might award  if it were to find that St Andrews  had been  in breach 
of its duty of utmost good faith. But this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions  about 
what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the complaint  including  what  I think 
is fair compensation in the circumstances  of this case. For the reasons Ive already set out I 
dont think it would be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs A in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Ref: DRN88954108Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 June 2019.
Gemma Farrell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8895410