K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that a redress  payment  paid by Legal and General Assurance  Society  
Limited (L&G) following the mis-sale of a pension was insufficient to replace the benefits  he 
had lost. And he complains that L&G has failed to effectively manage its with-profits  fund 
and so the investment returns it has generated have been poor.
background
Mr W was given advice by L&G to transfer  some pension benefits from an occupational 
scheme into a L&G pension plan. Following concerns  by the industry regulator L&G was 
asked to review the suitability of the advice  Mr W (and many  other consumers) had received. 
L&G concluded that Mr W had lost out as a result of the transfer advice and so says it 
followed the guidance provided by the regulator to compensate Mr W. That compensation 
resulted in the value of Mr Ws pension plan being  increased by approximately  14% in 
November 2000.
When Mr W first made his complaint to L&G it said that it considered  the complaint had been 
made too late. And so it wasnt something that this Service could  consider.  However  L&G 
has since confirmed that it now consents  to us considering this complaint.
Mr W took his benefits from the L&G pension plan in July 2018. At that time the value of his 
plan was significantly less than would be needed to purchase an annuity equivalent to the 
Guaranteed Minimum Pension (GMP)  that L&G had agreed to provide when Mr W first 
started the pension plan.  So L&G needed  to enhance the value of Mr Ws pension fund and 
then started paying  him the GMP.
Mr W says that it is clear  that the compensation paid to him in November 2000 was 
inadequate to fairly  compensate him for the mis-sale that had taken place. He said that the 
information hed been given at the time of the sale suggested that his L&G pension would 
outperform his occupational scheme  benefits.  He says that if he had remained a member of 
the occupational scheme  hed have received far in excess of the GMP amount.
Mr W has also raised concerns about  the performance of his pension investments  with L&G.  
He says that L&G lost interest in the with-profits  investments  and so their performance has 
been very poor over recent years. He says that if the performance had been better it is likely 
that his final pension fund value would  have been sufficient to purchase pension  benefits in 
excess of the GMP he has received.
Mr Ws complaint  has been assessed  by one of our adjudicators. He thought that, on 
balance, it was likely that the review carried  out in 2000 and the compensation that Mr W 
had been paid had been in line with the regulators  guidance. So although,  with the benefit  of 
hindsight, that compensation had resulted in Mr W receiving  a lower pension  than he would 
have received from his former occupational scheme  that didnt mean that the redress  that 
had been paid was incorrect. And he hadnt  seen anything to suggest that L&G hadnt 
managed the with-profits fund in line with its stated policies. So he didnt think  the complaint 
should be upheld.
Mr W didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.  This is the last stage of our 
process.
Ref: DRN85972982my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time.
In deciding this complaint  I have taken account  of the submissions that have been made by 
Mr W and by L&G. Where  the evidence is unclear, or there  are conflicts, I have  made my 
decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words I have looked at what 
evidence we do have,  and the surrounding  circumstances, to help me decide what I think is 
more likely to have  happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service.  This service isnt intended  
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct  
Authority. Instead  this service looks to resolve  individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide  that something  has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things  right by placing the consumer,  as far as is possible, in the position 
they would  have been if the problem hadnt  occurred.
Mr W is extremely disappointed that the pension he is now receiving is less that he would 
have received if he had remained  a member  of his former occupational scheme. Although 
I dont have the information to independently check what he says,  I think  that is likely to be 
the case. But in 2000 L&G,  under  guidance from the industry regulator  at the time, identified 
that the advice  it had given to Mr W about transferring his benefits  was potentially  incorrect. 
And since it was unlikely to be possible to unwind that transfer  it followed guidance from its 
regulator in deciding what compensation should be paid to Mr W.
Given the time that has passed L&G hasnt been  able to locate the full information about the 
calculation of the redress that was paid to Mr W in November 2000. But I have no reason to 
doubt that calculation was performed correctly  and in line with the agreed process. So based 
on a series of assumptions that were thought reasonable at the time Mr W was put back  into 
the same  financial position  as he would  have been  had he remained in the occupational 
scheme.
It is natural that any assumptions being made on future market conditions cannot  be 
guaranteed. It was possible  that the redress L&G paid to Mr W might have resulted in his 
ultimate pension  being  higher than if hed remained  a member of his occupational scheme. 
But because the assumptions didnt reflect the actual market conditions  that have been  
experienced the value of Mr Ws pension when he retired  was much lower  than had been  
expected in 2000.
But I dont think that means that L&G should pay any additional compensation to Mr W, or 
revisit the advice it gave  him to transfer his pension benefits. That matter was dealt with as 
part of a regulator approved redress arrangement  in 2000. So I dont think  that L&G needs to 
do anything more in this regard.
Mr W has also complained that L&G has failed to effectively manage its with-profits 
investment funds in recent years. And as a result he says the value of his pension benefits 
was much lower than it might have been.
Ref: DRN85972983At the outset I would note that the value of Mr Ws pension fund when he retired has resulted 
in L&G needing  to increase that fund by over 40% to meet  the GMP he has been paid. So 
there was little incentive for L&G to deliberately reduce the value of Mr Ws fund and so 
reduce the pension he would be paid.
The decisions about how bonus  declarations  are reached are taken by The Legal and 
General Assurance  Society Board (LGAS) with the assistance of company actuaries and 
take account of a number of factors including but not limited  to; historic returns  applied the 
policy, bonuses already declared, when the policy was started, the company  view of future 
returns, the effect of smoothing, the specific  terms of the policy including  any guarantees 
that apply, running  costs  of the policy and any other  adjustments.
L&G is required to follow specific rules regarding bonus declaration and how the with-profits 
business is managed.  These are laid out in a document called the Principles and Practices 
of Financial Management (PPFM). This document details the regulatory obligations L&G has 
in explaining how the with-profit fund is managed. The PPFM states that following an 
actuarial valuation the LGAS Board decides the amount of profits,  if any, which  can be set 
aside for with-profits policyholders bonuses or for transfer to the shareholders profit  and loss 
account. Profits set aside  for distribution  in this way and certified by the board as derived 
from the with-profits fund will be assigned 90% available for with-profit  policyholders  and 
10% to shareholders.
I havent seen  anything to make  me think that L&G has acted outside these rules and 
obligations when  managing the funds Mr W, and other consumers, have placed in the 
with-profits funds.  Whilst  I appreciate that Mr W feels that past bonus declarations might 
have given him an expectation  about  what he would receive at retirement,  I think  L&G has 
been clear that these  final bonuses were not guaranteed.  So I dont think  this aspect of 
Mr Ws complaint  should be upheld either.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold the complaint or make  any award against 
Legal and General Assurance Society Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 June  2019.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8597298