K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain  about National House-Building Councils (NHBC) handling of their 
building warranty claim.
background
Mr and Mrs F moved into their new build house in November 2016.  The 10 year NHBC 
Buildmark warranty also started in November  2016. There have been  numerous faults and 
problems with the house which were  reported  to NHBC in March 2018.  These  claims were  
considered by NHBC under Section 2 of the Buildmark warranty.
Most of the issues have  now been  remedied but some  issues  remain in dispute  and are 
the basis of this complaint. The issues outstanding  are:
The flooring throughout the ground floor, which has cupped as the result of being 
installed incorrectly.
The electrical wiring which has two ovens wired  into the kitchen circuit. Mr and Mrs F 
say this is causing the electrics to trip and that these should be on separate circuits.
As this complaint  was considered under Section  2 of the Buildmark warranty,  a Resolution 
report was produced on 25 June 2018  to address the flooring issues. It stated that the 
builder needed  to ensure the works left the floorboards  in a flat and finished condition  and 
that the deadline for the builder to put this right was 6 August 2018. As a result  of this, the 
builder suggested  that he could sand and seal  the existing floor to put it right.  Mr and Mrs F 
remained unhappy with this and a further  update was produced  on 1 February 2019. This 
update stated that the flooring manufacturer should visit the property  and it set a deadline of 
25 February 2019.
A separate  resolution  report  was produced  on 3 September 2018 considering the electrical 
issues. It made some recommendations for improvement but stated  that no action was 
required to bring  the electrics in line with NHBCs standards.
Mr and Mrs F remained unhappy with these reports. They  say they have obtained various 
reports from experts which  show  the floor needs  to be replaced.  They  say that sand and 
seal is an inferior option and that it doesnt  address the fact that that they have lost the 20 
year flooring  manufacturers guarantee as a result  of it being installed incorrectly. Mr and 
Mrs F would also like the ovens to be rewired and the recommendations for improvement to 
be carried out.
NHBC says the resolution report relating to the floor states that the builder  must  ensure that 
any work leaves the floorboards  in a flat and finished condition. It says that ultimately it is for 
the builder to decide the best way to do that  and they will not dictate that as long as the 
work ensures the flooring is compliant with their standards. They say that matters have been 
placed on hold as Mr and Mrs F dont agree with the proposed repair  method. They have 
also said that as there  were no requirements in regards to the electrics  in the resolution 
report, it isnt in a position  to force the builder  to do anything further. And it says that Mr and 
Mrs F have  raised a new issue relating to an isolator switch but they hadnt had the 
opportunity to address that under their resolution  scheme before the issue  was referred to 
this service.
Ref: DRN87586662Our investigator initially thought the complaint wasnt one we could consider as the issues 
had been considered under Section 2 of the Buildmark warranty, which  isnt within  the remit 
of this service. But she then reconsidered her opinion.  She said that while she couldnt 
consider many of the issues Mr and Mrs F were concerned about, she could say that as the 
deadline for the works to be completed had passed, NHBC was now required to step in and 
resolve these issues. But she also explained  that she couldnt comment  on how NHBC 
needed to rectify these  issues.  She said that Mr and Mrs F hadnt agreed to let the flooring 
manufacturer visit the property again,  so she didnt think NHBC needed  to do any more.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
outcome as our investigator and for the same  reasons. I appreciate this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr and Mrs F but Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs F have  had ongoing issues with the property and its clear this has caused them 
a great  deal of stress. But my role isnt to consider the quality of the build or any issues with 
the builder  it is to consider whether NHBC has met its obligations under the Buildmark  
warranty.
As our investigator previously explained,  this service  cant  look at complaints  relating to 
disputes about defects reported  in the first two years and dealt with under  Section  2 of the 
warranty. This is because NHBCs decision to offer its Resolution Service  is voluntary and so 
isnt a regulated  activity.  This service  is only able to look at complaints about regulated 
activities and doesnt consider NHBC  to have carried  out one until its issued a Resolution 
Report and the builder  has failed to complete the work by the deadline it set. So while  Mr 
and Mrs F have  raised several  issues about  the way their claim has been  handled,  many  of 
their concerns dont  fall within  the remit of this service to comment  on.
But there are two central issues Mr and Mrs F have raised with this service  and I will address  
each one individually.
electrical issues
The electrical issues were  considered under  NHBCs resolution service, which as Ive 
explained isnt within the remit of this service. The resolution report  didnt find any issues that 
needed to be rectified  so no deadline was given and the issue isnt within  our remit to 
consider so Im unable  to consider or comment on these issues.
The cupped flooring
There is no dispute that the flooring in Mr and Mrs Fs home was installed incorrectly and 
this has caused  cupping. The builder has suggested that he fixes this issue  by sanding 
and sealing the existing flooring. But Mr and Mrs F dont think this is an acceptable solution.
The resolution report suggests that sanding  and sealing the floor is a reasonable solution. 
But I cant comment on whether thats the case  as the report  was carried  out as part of 
NHBCs resolution service. But the deadline  for that issue to be fixed has now passed  and 
the issue remains outstanding. So, NHBC should  now step in and fix the issue.
Ref: DRN87586663The latest resolution report recommends that the manufacturer inspect the flooring. I realise  
this is frustrating for Mr and Mrs F as they have already  had a visit from the manufacturer   
and they believe  this takes them back to the beginning. But after the deadline of 6 August  
2018 lapsed, it is now NHBCs responsibility  to rectify the flooring. 
The existing report from the manufacturer is unclear and while it does say that his advice 
would be to replace  the floor, it doesnt  explain why. And its other  answers seem to suggest 
that sand and seal  could be an option. So I think its reasonable that NHBC would  want to 
ask the manufacturer to review the flooring. And as NHBC hasnt been able to arrange for 
this to happen as Mr and Mrs F didnt  agree,  I cant say its done anything wrong at this 
stage.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 April 2020.
Sara Falzon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8758666