K821x#15complaint
Mr S has complained about Covea Insurance plcs handling of his car insurance  policy.
Reference to Covea includes their agents.
background
In April 2018, Mr S took out car insurance  with Covea. His friend  applied  online through  a 
comparison website on Mr Ss behalf.  During the application he was asked if he had any 
motor accidents  or claims in the last 5 years?. He answered no.
Sometime after the start of the policy,  Covea  discovered that Mr S had two fault claims in the 
past five years. Covea said that had they known about the past claims, they would have still 
insured him but the premium would have been £312.16 higher. Mr S paid the additional 
premium but complained.  Covea didnt uphold his complaint.
Mr S didn't  think that was fair so he brought his complaint  to us. One of our adjudicators  
looked into the complaint. He felt that the question  asked was clear  and Mr S should  have 
declared the two past claims.  But our adjudicator  didnt  think it was fair for Covea to charge 
Mr S an additional premium. Our adjudicator suggested that Covea should refund the 
additional premium  together  with 8% interest and pay Mr S £50 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience he experienced.
As Covea  didnt agree with our adjudicator, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding this 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
charging the additional premium
Covea have suggested that what Mr S did by not disclosing the previous claims amounted 
to, what is known in the insurance industry as, a careless misrepresentation. And theres 
specific legislation - the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 
(CIDRA)  that sets out what insurers may do in such a situation. It says that insurers may:
 cancel the policy; or
 tell the consumer that they will settle any future claims on a proportionate basis  (or 
apply other  exclusions  or limitations  it would otherwise have  applied).  But if the 
consumer isn't happy with that approach, they can cancel  the policy themselves.
CIDRA doesnt allow the insurer  to simply charge an additional premium, although we think  
its fair for the insurer  to give the policyholder  the option of them paying the additional 
premium for the insurer to then settle any claim  in full instead of settling the claim 
proportionately. But that can only happen  if the policyholder is happy with that.
But while CIDRA  gives the insurer the option of cancelling the policy  where there has been a 
careless misrepresentation,  we think its fair for an insurer to explain to the policyholder 
theres a problem and give them the option of paying the additional premium in order to keep 
Ref: DRN83709532the policy going or otherwise to cancel the policy themselves.  Thats because the insurer 
cancelling the policy will have serious consequences for the policyholder because they will 
have to declare  it when  they want to take out insurance later on.
Under CIDRA, Mr S had a duty to take reasonable care not to make  a misrepresentation. To 
assess whether or not Mr S took reasonable care not to make  a misrepresentation I have to 
look to see if Coveas  question was clear. The question asked was if Mr S had any motor 
accidents or claims in the last 5 years? Beside the question the following explanatory  
information was given: Give us details of any incidents, accidents or claims involving a 
vehicle that youve had in the last five years. Please include all incidents, including  where 
you werent deemed to be at fault,  where you were driving a different vehicle, and incidents 
that havent yet been settled.  I think the question was clear.  Mr S said that the online 
application was made on his behalf by a friend. He said that he told the friend about the two 
fault claims,  so its not his (Mr Ss) fault.  But given the friend  was acting on Mr Ss behalf, I 
think that Mr S was ultimately responsible  for ensuring that Covea had the correct  
information.
When Covea found out about  the past claims and spoke to Mr S, they offered to set up a 
new policy with the correct information which had a higher premium taking into account  the 
past fault claims. When Mr S objected they said they would amend his current policy and 
charge him an additional premium. Covea said that because Mr S agreed  to pay the 
additional premium,  they didnt  do anything  wrong.  But I have listened to the call between  
Mr S and Covea. Mr S was clearly  upset and confused as to what had gone wrong. And 
when he agreed  to pay the additional premium to keep  his policy going, because he said he 
needed to drive, he said he was unhappy and that the increased cost of his premium was 
higher than the previous  year. So the options available under CIDRA  should have been 
explained to Mr S, but they werent. I think its likely  that had it been  explained  to Mr S that 
he could cancel his policy without penalty,  he would have done so and looked elsewhere  for 
cheaper insurance.
So I feel Mr S did make,  whats referred to in CIDRA as, a qualifying misrepresentation. That 
would mean  that Covea  only had available to them the remedies under CIDRA. And as 
imposing an additional  premium isnt one of those remedies, Covea shouldnt have insisted
Mr S pays  £312.16, without otherwise giving him the option of cancelling his policy.  As 
Covea didn't do that, and Mr Ss policy has since lapsed they can't give Mr S that option  
now. I therefore require  Covea to refund the additional  premium to Mr S together  with simple 
interest at 8% a year from the date he paid it until the refund is made. I am aware that this 
matter has been  a source of distress and inconvenience for Mr S. So I require Covea  to pay 
him £50 compensation to address that.
the cost of the additional premium
Mr S also complained about the size of the additional premium.  It might help if I explain that 
we're not the industry regulator. That means it's not my role to tell an insurer how much they 
can charge for their policies. And our service generally takes  the view that, providing they 
treat people fairly - that is they treat customers with similar circumstances in the same way - 
insurers are entitled  to charge what they feel they need to in order to cover a risk.
Our service asked Covea  to provide  details showing how they calculated the £312.16 
additional premium.  That information is commercially sensitive so I cant share it with Mr S. I 
know its frustrating for Mr S, but insurers dont usually disclose details of how they calculate 
premiums because it might give their competitors a commercial  advantage. But we look to 
Ref: DRN83709533see if calculations are made in a fair way and that insurers treat customers  in similar 
circumstances the same. 
Covea provided  me with information to show how Mr Ss premium  has increased. Having 
looked at it carefully,  Im satisfied that Covea  treated Mr S in the same way as they would 
other policyholders  in similar circumstances. So I think they calculated  his premium 
reasonably.
But, as I've said above, while I think Covea  calculated  the additional premium reasonably, I 
dont think they should have asked  Mr S to pay it without first explaining  to him all the 
options available under CIDRA.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint and require Covea Insurance plc to:
Refund Mr S £312.16. Simple interest at a rate of 8% a year should be paid on that 
amount from the date Mr S paid it until the refund  is made.1
Pay Mr S £50 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to him. This 
should be paid within 28 days  of us telling them that Mr S has accepted my final 
decision. If they pay later than this they must also pay interest on that amount from the 
date of my final decision to the date of payment at a rate of 8% a year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 July 2019.    
Mehmet Osman  
ombudsman
1 If Covea consider that they are required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, they should tell Mr S how much they have taken off. They  should  also give him a certificate 
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.  
Ref: DRN8370953