K820x#14complaint
Mr V says Bank of Scotland  Plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold  him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in December 2003.  The policy was 
added to Mr Vs credit  card account  when he applied for the card in person. The policy  cost 
78p per £100 of the outstanding card balance and following  a successful claim, it would 
repay 10% of the outstanding balance at the point of claim,  for up to twelve  months. The 
policy was cancelled in December 2005.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr V disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint  comes  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Vs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
 I think Halifax made Mr V aware that the PPI was optional  and that he chose to take it. 
I have seen a copy of the application  form and note that the option of PPI was 
checked and the application form was signed by Mr V. Ive taken note of the fact that 
the application form was pre-populated, but on the basis  that this was an advised sale,  
and was conducted in a branch, face to face,  I think its reasonable to assume  that a 
discussion took place.  And I think that the form, including  Mr Vs personal details, was 
typed because the form was completed  on-screen during that discussion. Moreover, as 
this was a monthly policy  it wouldve appeared on Mr Vs monthly  credit  card 
statements  so I think he wouldve queried it in 2003 if it had been added to his 
account without  either his knowledge or his consent.
 Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr V, but it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable  for him 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time. I say this because  Mr V 
wasnt caught by any of the exclusions or limitations which would have made the policy 
less useful for him, such as being self-employed or having  a pre-existing medical 
condition. Whilst Mr V had some savings that hed already earmarked for another  
purpose, he told us he wasnt  entitled to any sick pay form his employer if he wasnt 
working  so I think the policy  provided  him with a sufficient benefit,  which  outweighed 
its cost.
 Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr V about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
should have been.  But he chose to take out the policy  and so appears to have wanted 
this type of cover. And it seems  like it wouldve been  useful for him if he wasnt  working 
because of an accident, sickness or unemployment as he had no work  benefits. It also 
looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information  about the PPI would 
have put him off taking out the cover.
Ref: DRN80542892Ive thought about everything Mr V has said, but these points dont change my decision. This 
means I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. So Halifax doesnt need to refund everything Mr V 
paid for it. But Halifax  has already offered  to give Mr V back  some of the cost of the PPI. I 
dont think it needs  to do anything more. 
Halifax will make arrangements  to pay Mr V now Ive issued my final decision.
my decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Vs complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2019.
Andrew Macnamara
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8054289