K821x#15complaint
Miss S is unhappy with the length of time it took Legal & General Insurance  Limited (L&G) to 
resolve her claim.
background
In July 2017 Miss S made a claim under her home insurance policy for the damage caused 
by water leaking from her kitchen sink pipework. L&Gs agent assessed the damage and the 
claim was accepted. 
Miss S is unhappy that it took over a year for her property to be dried  out, some repairs 
undertaken and, eventually,  a cash settlement agreed.  L&G agreed with the investigators 
recommendation to pay a total of £500  compensation to take into account any delays it 
caused. But Miss S didnt  feel this was enough  so the complaint has come  to me.
I issued a provisional decision earlier this month setting out what  I thought L&G needed to 
do to put things right. I said, in summary, that:
There was no dispute that it took longer than it shouldve  to resolve Miss Ss claim. Both 
parties were aware of whatd happened  so I didnt  repeat,  or try to unpick, everything.  
But I did highlight some key points. 
Miss S suggested the delays were  all L&Gs fault but I thought both parties had played a 
part. Miss S had chased L&G for updates but there  were other times when it couldnt get 
hold of her or she took some time to make  necessary decisions.  I wasnt criticising 
Miss S for this, but it did mean L&G couldnt  always get on with the work that was 
needed as promptly  as it may have liked. Little progress was made between  January 
2018 and the cash settlement in September 2018. But that also seemed to result from 
delays on both sides.
It took about five months for the property to be stripped and dried  out, with the 
suggestion that further drying out was needed after the drying certificate was provided in 
early December  2017. I thought that was too long. Some of the delays were  caused by 
Miss S not being available. But I thought the greater part was L&Gs fault  it didnt seem 
that all the necessary  stripping out was done first time around and the drying out wasnt 
always properly monitored.  
I thought what  L&G eventually proposed with regards to the replacement kitchen units 
was reasonable.  And I was satisfied the total cash settlement  amount thatd been  paid 
fairly took into account the work that was still outstanding at that time.
Miss S said at one point that the pipework  started leaking again, but there was no further 
mention of what action was taken in that regard. I didnt think, in this particular case, that 
L&G shouldve  done more  to tackle the source of the leak before it started  the repair 
work.
By the time I issued my decision L&G had covered  Miss Ss extra drying costs and paid 
for some damaged shoes to be replaced. And Id seen nothing which suggested those 
elements of Miss Ss claim hadnt  been settled appropriately. 
Ref: DRN85538852Miss S has asked for her £400 excess to be refunded. But she made a claim which L&G 
honoured and the policy allows for an excess to be charged  in those circumstances. I 
didnt think it was fair, in this case,  to tell L&G to waive the excess.
Id considered everything thatd happened  in order to decide whether L&G should pay 
more compensation  in recognition of the trouble and upset Miss S had suffered due to 
the delays. And, overall, I thought £750 compensation was a fair amount. L&G had 
offered £150 in its final response  letter but it wasnt clear  to me if this had actually been  
paid to Miss S. I said, if £150 has already been paid, then L&G must pay a further £600 if 
Miss S accepted  my final decision. But if it hadnt paid anything then it must pay the full 
£750.
In response to my provisional findings  Miss S said shes  hoped  for a higher amount of 
compensation but she didnt add anything to what shed said before. L&G said it thought  my 
award was excessive and I hadnt explained how Id arrived  at £750.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
L&G should  be familiar with the types  of award  we make when repairs  have  been  delayed 
which have caused  trouble and inconvenience on top of what might normally  be expected 
when an event like this occurs.  I also explained  in my provisional decision the main areas 
where I think they should have done  more and Miss S has been clear  throughout about the 
inconvenience she, and her family, have suffered. Having considered everything thats 
happened I still think £750 compensation is a fair amount overall.
As no-one  sent any further evidence or arguments  for me to consider, I see no reason to 
depart from the conclusions set out in my provisional decision and summarised  above.
my final decision
My final decision is that Legal  & General Insurance Limited should pay Miss S a total of £750 
compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 April 2019.
Ruth Hersey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8553885