K820x#14complaint
Miss K complains  about the poor service she received  from Next Retail  Limited.
background
Miss K says shes had ongoing product and service issues with Next. She says items in a 
furniture order were  of poor quality  and sofas  were  left outside when delivered. Miss K adds 
that scheduled deliveries and collections didnt  happen meaning she took unpaid  leave 
unnecessarily seven times at a cost of £50 each time. Miss K also says that a £3,200 
payment she made to Next on 29 September 2018 didnt show on her account and that its 
customer service  when  trying to resolve the issues has been very poor.
Next says the payment was never received, but acknowledged it should have responded 
more quickly. It offered Miss K £100 compensation for the inconvenience. It also clarified the 
steps it had taken with regard  to the other issues.
Our investigator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld.  She considered it likely 
the missing money  had been sitting within the banks  system and that the problem wasnt 
caused by Next. She was satisfied Next had taken all necessary steps to try to locate  it. Our 
investigator acknowledged Miss K had a number  of issues  with quality of goods and delivery 
services, but found that Next had already adequately compensated Miss K for the issues.
Miss K did not agree with the investigators  recommendation.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Payment issue
Ive seen Miss Ks bank  statement  and Im satisfied she made a payment of £3,200  on 
29 September 2018. When  she emailed Next four days  later to say it wasnt in her account, 
Next contacted its payment processing  company to trace the money. The money couldnt be 
traced so Next advised Miss K to cancel the transaction. When her bank couldnt do it, Next 
said it wouldnt call on the money,  so the transaction  should be cancelled automatically.
Miss K then contacted Next again on 15 October 2018 to say the money  was still missing. 
Next asked her to get the Acquirer Reference  Number (ARN) from the bank and it would try 
to trace  the payment that way. But two days later Miss K said the bank hadnt been able to 
provide the ARN. Next tried again to explain again  what was required and confirmed it still 
hadnt received  the payment. Then,  on 25 October  2019, Miss K says she spent three  hours 
with her bank and the money was finally returned to her. Next carried out a final check  with 
its payment processing  company which confirmed it never received  the payment.
I completely understand how worried Miss K must  have been when a significant amount of 
money seemed  to have disappeared. Having reviewed the evidence, I consider it more  likely 
than not that the money was never  received by Next which  seems  to be supported by the 
fact that Miss Ks bank was eventually able to retrieve  it. That said, Im satisfied Next did 
everything it could to try to locate the money their end, although I acknowledge it says it 
could have responded more quickly at times and has offered Miss K £100 for the delays.
Ref: DRN86559212I dont find it fairly needs to do anything more in respect of the missing account payment.
Quality and Service issues
I acknowledge Miss K says she had a number of issues with the quality of some  of the 
goods she received  and some of the scheduled deliveries and collections. This included:
Sofas left outside
oMiss K said in a call with Next that shed agreed for them to be left outside if 
the carpet fitters  that were  taking delivery  couldnt get them in the house, but 
she says they were left upside  down and the drivers  were  rude;
oNext sent Miss K a £45 gift card.
Incorrect footstool delivered
oMiss K originally took delivery  of a footstool  that she said was too big for the 
room so Next waived the usual  collection charge  and confirmed the 
replacement order;
oMiss K received the footstool she had ordered,  but says there was a 
misunderstanding with the colour of the feet;
oNext arranged to collect  the footstool.
Wardrobe replaced
oWhen Miss Ks original wardrobe had parts missing, Next replaced it so 
Miss K told it the original order was discounted;
oThe original discount was 10%,  but Next offered a 15% discount (which  
matched the price  the previous season), refunded  the £3.99  delivery  charge 
and paid Miss K £10 for the delivery  delay.
Collection of bedside  cabinets
oNext says its original courier had attempted collection on several occasions, 
but that Miss K wasnt in. When  the courier did make contact it was unable  to 
collect the cabinets as they were assembled;
oMiss K says she had to take time off work seven times to be in for the courier 
and it cost £50 in lost earnings each time;
oNext arranged for an alternative  company  to make the collection and credited 
Miss Ks account with £20 for the delay;
In total, Next has compensated Miss K with over £150 for the above issues and I find that to 
be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
For the above reasons, I dont find Next needs to do anything more,  but it has confirmed its 
offer of £100 compensation is still available to Miss K.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 April 2020.
Ref: DRN86559213Amanda Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8655921