K820x#14complaint
Mrs A complains that Santander UK plc incorrectly  linked her to an unknown  person on her 
credit file.
background
Mrs A says she noticed that Santander  had incorrectly linked her to an unknown person on 
her credit file. She says she asked Santander  on a number of occasions  to remove  the link 
which it has but has refused to pay her compensation for what took place.
Santander says the link was made in 2007 and cant say why, due to the passage of time, it 
was made.  It says it has removed the link.
Mrs A brought her complaint to us and our investigator thought  Santander had sorted out the 
problem by removing  the link. The investigator didnt think Mrs A had suffered any financial 
loss and so didnt think Santander should pay any compensation.
Mrs A didnt accept that view and says she made  numerous calls to Santander  which cost 
her financially and would like £300  compensation.
The investigator looked at the complaint again  and also listened to the call between  the 
parties. And the investigator thought Mrs A had called  Santander  on 12 April 2019 and that it 
had sorted  matters out some days later. The investigator also thought that during the call of 
the 12th that there was no mention of other calls and again concluded that compensation 
wasnt justified.
Mrs A doesnt accept that second view and maintains that she should  be entitled to 
compensation.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the investigator for the same reasons. I realise Mrs A will be disappointed  by 
my decision.
There is no real dispute  here that an unknown person was in 2007 added as a link on Mrs 
As credit file. I dont  think its possible to say what took place due to the passage  of time that 
has passed. But Im satisfied that Santander  has corrected the position by removing this 
person from Mrs As credit  file.
The key issue is that Mrs A says she should be paid £300 compensation for what took place. 
But Im satisfied that compensation is not justified here. I have listened to the call between 
the parties on 12 April 2019 and I dont  think at any stage does Mrs A say that she has 
called Santander  about this problem  before.  I have  also looked at Santanders records  and I 
think the first contact between the parties was on that same  day of 12 April 2019.  So whilst I 
appreciate Mrs A says shes  made numerous  calls about this problem and spent a 
considerable amount of time trying to get the problem sorted  out, I cant see that was the 
case.
Im satisfied that on balance Mrs A told Santander  about the problem during the call of 12 
April 2019 and that Santander removed  the information from her credit file within  days. I 
Ref: DRN80208742dont think Mrs A suffered  any financial loss as a result of what took place or that this 
incident caused any distress. So for those  reasons  I dont think Santander  should  pay the 
£300 compensation Mrs A would like.
I accept that Mrs A is unlikely to accept my decision and of course  she is free to pursue this 
complaint by other means. But Im satisfied that brings an end to what we in trying to sort out 
this complaint informally can do to assist Mrs A.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 December 2019. 
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8020874