K822xcomplaint
Mr A complains that N.I.I.B. Group Limited (NIBG) refused to let him reject a car he had 
bought under a hire purchase  agreement.
background 
On 1 July 2018 Mr A bought a second  hand  car at a cost of £52,297, including extras  from a 
company I will call S. He paid a deposit of £3,000 and the balance was funded by NIBG.  The 
car was some  three  years  old and had done  27,845 miles. On 11 July Mr A had the car 
checked by an independent motoring  organisation as he had concerns  about an oil leak and 
the airbag warning light had come on. It couldnt  detect a leak and confirmed the warning 
light was on.
An inspection was carried  out on 27 July by another garage arranged by S and no faults 
were found.  Mr A then had it inspected by an approved dealer and he has provided a video 
of its findings. That showed that there  had been an oil leak and the underside  was corroded 
and this had been covered up with paint and wax. 
After NIBG had refused Mr As request to reject the car he made a complaint to this service.  
It was considered by one of our investigators who recommended it be upheld. She noted 
that NIBGs final response letter stated that the car was checked in Ss workshop and a fault 
was found. Mr A had explained that S had the car for three weeks and he had asked  to 
reject the car. He had confirmed this in writing. S subsequently said the engineer diagnosed 
the vehicle incorrectly.
Given the subsequent investigation by the approved dealership which  confirmed there had 
been an oil leak and there were signs of corrosion which has either been painted  over or 
waxed she thought he ought to be allowed to reject the car.
She didnt  think a car of this type, age and mileage should have these issues so soon after 
purchase and she considered Mr A should  be allowed to exercise his right to reject the car. 
She said NIBG should
end the agreement with nothing further  to pay,
collect the car at no further cost to Mr A,
refund  the deposit and pay 8% simple  interest from the date of payment until the date 
of settlement,
refund  the cost of change of licence  plate,
refund  the cost of inspection report from the approved dealership,
remove all traces of the agreement  from the credit file and
pay him £150 compensation for the inconvenience caused.
S responded  as it was the seller of the car, even though the complaint  was against NIBG. It 
said it was clear that the claim has not been explained correctly and misunderstood, the 
decision requires an appeal to an Ombudsman with a correct explanation from [S] as to 
Ref: DRN82777292technical facts. Nothing further has been submitted  by S, nor have I seen any further 
substantive arguments from NIBG.
Mr A said he had paid for an additional warranty and an underside coating which  should  be 
taken into account.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
The finance  agreement, that is the hire purchase  agreement, in this case is a regulated  
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
NIBG is also the supplier  of the goods  under this type of agreement, and responsible  for a 
complaint about  their quality.
The relevant  law says that under a contract to supply goods,  there  is an implied  term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory .
The relevant  law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person  would consider satisfactory taking into account  any description of 
the goods, price  and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case  
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might  
include things like the age and the mileage  at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods  includes their general state and condition and 
other things  like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects  of the quality of the goods.
Having looked  at the video of the inspection  carried out by approved dealership I can see 
there had been  an oil leak which had been  fixed at some point and the underside has 
significant corrosion  which  had been covered up. Given these two things and the concern 
about the airbag warning light Mr A was within his rights to seek  to reject the car. I would add 
that Mr As work involves  him providing emergency  cover and so he needs  a reliable and 
safe car.
He asked that he be allowed to reject it within 30 days  as he was entitled to do and put this 
in writing. He said he didnt want it to be repaired.  Under the Consumer Rights  Act a car 
must be as described, fit for purpose  and of satisfactory quality.  Given  the issues  discovered 
by the approved dealership I dont  think it can be said to be fit for purpose  and so I consider 
Mr A is entitled to reject the car.
Having looked  at the invoice I consider  the extras to which  Mr A has referred  were  in 
included in the total price and so the proposed redress will mean  that he recovers those 
costs.
Ref: DRN82777293my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct N.I.I.B.  Group  Limited to 
end the agreement with nothing further  to pay,
collect the car at no further cost to Mr A,
refund  the deposit and pay 8% simple  interest from the date of payment until the date 
of settlement,
refund  the cost of change of licence  plate,
refund  the cost of inspection report from the approved dealership,
remove all traces of the agreement  from the credit file and
pay him £150 compensation for the inconvenience caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 March  2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8277729