K820x#14Complaint
Mr O complains Wirecard  Card Solutions Limited (Wirecard) unfairly  restricted his access
to funds he held in his account.  He says it took too long to return the funds. And he wants
Wirecard to pay him compensation for the trouble he was caused.
Background
Mr O opened an account for which Wirecard is responsible. He says he made various
transactions and received his salary  and payments from family and friends into the account.
In late August 2018, Wirecard froze Mr Os account. It wanted to review  several  payments
he had instructed Wirecard to make. It asked him a series of questions regarding what  the
payments were for, the purpose of the account, and the source  of funds  in the account.
Mr O responded to Wirecards questions promptly. Wirecard took the decision to continue to
restrict Mr Os access  to the account  and the funds therein pending further review. During 
this time Mr O entered  into numerous  online conversations with Wirecard.  He wanted
to know its reasons for blocking his account and requested funds to be transferred to an
account he held elsewhere. He asked  for his account to be closed.
Needless to say, Mr O became very unhappy  with the service hed received, and he raised a
complaint against  Wirecard. He says he had to borrow  money  from family  and friends  to help
pay for rent and other  expenses.
Wirecard rejected Mr Os complaint. It said it was able to take the action  it did under the
terms of his account. Unhappy with this response, Mr O brought his complaint to us in
October 2018.
Wirecard contacted Mr O at the beginning of November 2018 and asked for documents  to
establish Mr Os employment, identity and pay. Again, Mr O promptly provided what was
asked of him. Wirecard decided to return the funds in the account to source in December
2018.
An investigator looked into Mr Os complaint  and decided  to uphold it. In summary, they
found Wirecard took too long to return the funds. It should  pay Mr O 8% simple interest per
annum on the funds  it held from when the account was blocked  to when the funds were  sent
back. It should also pay Mr O £300 to compensate  him for the trouble he had been  caused.
Mr O accepted the investigators opinion, but Wirecard rejected it. It says it was complying
with it legal and regulatory obligations, and upholding the complaint was an unfair  outcome
in consideration  of those responsibilities. As no resolution has been agreed,  the complaint
Ref: DRN82901332was passed to me to decide.
In September  2020 I issued a provisional  decision not upholding Mr Os complaint, affording 
both Mr O and Wirecard the opportunity to respond  before I made a final decision. My 
provisional findings were:
Wirecard has broad legal and regulatory  responsibilities it must meet when providing
accounts to its customers. Those responsibilities  are ongoing and to comply with them
Wirecard can monitor customer  accounts and review them periodically. At such  times, it may
also need to restrict  its customers  access to an account while a review  is undertaken.
I find Wirecard  acted reasonably in reviewing Mr Os account when it did. The account had
been up and running for a brief time and its not uncommon for firms to want  to enquire
about particular  transactions,  as well as to ask more about the intended  use of an account
and the source  of funds. If Wirecard didnt sometimes act it could risk serious sanction.
But Wirecard also has a responsibility  to not cause unnecessary delay when conducting a
review. The investigator who considered the complaint thought that Wirecard  took too long to
release the funds in the account. But, after considering all the information and evidence
available to me, Im not persuaded Wirecard did take too long.
From Mr Os perspective I can understand why he thinks he gave Wirecard all the
information it needed whenever  he was approached. And, he says he was able to provide
the documentation he sent in November much earlier,  but Wirecard hadnt  asked for it.
But Wirecard needs to ensure it reviews  information in relation to an account  very carefully.
It must ensure any decisions on what to do with an account are made by persons with
appropriate authority  and seniority. And it might also need to take other actions that dont
involve getting  information from Mr O.
After considering all the information and evidence available to me, including all the events
that happened during  the review, I find on balance that Wirecards  actions  were
proportionate and reasonable. Im not persuaded it caused unnecessary  delay. So, as things
stand, I wont be asking  it to pay Mr O compensation.
I recognise that Mr O was caused inconvenience  and worry as a result of the suspension  of
the account. And he has my sympathy in this regard. It must not have been an easy  time for
him. But Im satisfied the length of time Wirecard took to release the funds was warranted,
so Im not awarding  redress  for what he experienced.
Mr O would like more information  on Wirecards concerns and its reasons for holding  on to
the funds for as long as it did, which is understandable. But I find Wirecard  isnt under a legal
obligation to disclose that information. And I wont  be revealing those reasons either.
Mr O is keen to know  exactly what regulations and laws were relevant to Wirecards review.
But the matrix of laws and regulations  firms like Wirecard must abide  by are very broad. I
find it neither practicable, nor necessary to discuss them here.  Mr O may wish to research
Ref: DRN82901333the various obligations firms like Wirecard have if he wants  to know more.
Since this time neither  Mr O nor Wirecard have provided anything further for me to consider, 
and the deadline to provide any responses  has now passed. So, I am now proceeding to 
make a final decision on Mr Os complaint.
My findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive decided to not uphold  
Mr Os complaint for the same reasons I gave in my provisional decision,  which  are copied  
above and now form part of my final decision.
I find that Wirecard was entitled to review  Mr Os account and ask him questions about  his 
account activity  in order to meet its broad legal and regulatory regulations.  I also find that 
Wirecard was able to restrict Mr Os access to his account while  it conducted a review.
I understand Mr O thinks Wirecard couldve  asked  him questions  and for evidence sooner, 
but Wirecard may need to do a variety of different things other than ask questions  of Mr O 
when it reviews an account. And when considering the actions Wirecard took, I find it acted 
reasonably. Im also satisfied it didnt  cause an unnecessary delay before deciding to return  
the funds to source.
Wirecard did not have  to disclose its reasons for reviewing Mr Os account  or for not acting 
with regard to the funds  in the account  sooner than it did. So, I wont  be requiring it to 
disclose its reasons now, or to pay Mr O compensation for any upset or inconvenience he 
was caused.
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Os complaint for the reasons Ive explained above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 November  2020.
Liam King
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8290133