K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC withdrew money from his current account  when 
an amount was wrongly credited to it, but Mr B had already returned the money.  The 
withdrawal took his account overdrawn;  which then incurred charges and he had to pay 
money into his account to cover his direct  debits while the matter  was resolved.
background
Mr B has a current  account with Barclays and, in October 2018,  he received two payments 
into it by mistake in. He arranged to return these incorrect  payments to the sender by giving 
them a cheque for the total amount, and this cleared his account later that month.
But Barclays  then received a recall for one of the payments from the sending bank. So it put 
a hold on the money in Mr Bs account  at the time, removing it from his balance.  Mr B was 
sent a letter  which explained this and, when there  werent enough  funds to meet  an outgoing  
payment, he was sent a text message alert.
Mr B phoned  Barclays when he checked his account  and found  that the money had been 
withdrawn as he was concerned hed been the victim of a fraud. Barclays  explained what  
had happened  and said it needed  to contact the sending bank to confirm that the recall was 
no longer required  before it could release the money back  to Mr B.
Mr B then called Barclays several times to try and find out what  was happening. He was 
unhappy with the time it was taking to return his money and had to transfer money into his 
account to cover his direct  debits. He was told by the sender that they hadnt  recalled the 
payment and complained about the financial and emotional distress the situation was 
causing him.
Barclays was then able to return the money to Mr B at the end of November 2018.  Mr B 
incurred £16.25 in an unpaid direct  debit fee and overdraft  charges.
Barclays said that it thought it had acted  correctly when it received  the recall  request from 
the sending bank, and it couldnt give him a definite  timescale for when the money could be 
returned to him. However, it acknowledged that it couldve  handled  Mr Bs complaint better, 
so offered to pay him £50 by way of an apology.
One of our investigators  looked at the complaint and felt that Barclays  had acted correctly  by 
placing the available funds in Mr Bs account  on hold based on the recall  from the sending 
bank. But he thought Barclays hadnt  done  enough  to notify  that bank that the money  had 
already been returned. He thought £200 would be fair compensation for the delay.
Barclays accepted  the investigators findings  but Mr B felt the level of compensation didnt 
cover the time hed spent trying to resolve  the issue and the personal  distress he was 
caused. He asked a number of questions about the timing of the contact between the two 
banks; why he hadnt found  out about  the recall until he received the text; why the date that 
he sent his cheque wasnt right and what the rules and procedures  for recalls were.
Ref: DRN85652652The investigator explained that he didnt  think the time Barclays  took to action the recall  
request had impacted negatively on Mr B, and he was sent a letter  within a reasonable 
timeframe when it was done. He acknowledged  that Barclays had used the cheque  
clearance date rather  than the date Mr B sent it but said Barclays had needed the 
confirmation from the sending bank that the recall  was no longer needed.
Mr B asked for his complaint to be reviewed.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate that this situation will have caused  Mr B worry and upset, particularly as 
hed already returned all the money mistakenly  paid into his account  and as he didnt then 
receive Barclayss letter about the recall   only finding out when he received  the text 
message alert that there  were insufficient  funds in his account. Mr B was able to transfer  
money into his account from elsewhere to cover his outgoing payments but he still incurred 
some fees during this time, which applied because a direct  debit was returned unpaid  and 
for the time his account was overdrawn.
But I dont think Barclays was wrong  to withhold the available balance  in Mr Bs account 
when it received the recall request from the sending bank. It was acting  on the information 
that money had credited Mr Bs account  in error. 
I appreciate that the cheque payment for the returned money  shows on his transaction 
history, but this was for the total amount  of the two incorrect payments, when the recall  was 
only for one of them. So I dont think this would  necessarily  meant  Barclays  shouldve been 
aware that the money had already been returned,  or that the recall request wasnt a valid 
one. The charges it applied were in line with the terms  and conditions  of the account.
I can see why Mr B felt that he needed  to contact Barclays  through the time before his 
money was returned  to try and find out what was happening. Barclays  needed the 
confirmation from the sending bank that the recall  request was no longer valid before it could 
release the withheld money back to Mr B, and I can see that this was done once this was 
received. But I do think  Barclays could have acted in a timelier manner in responding to the 
situation and couldve communicated  better  with Mr B, which may have alleviated  some  of 
his concerns.
Taking everything into account,  I think Barclayss apology and agreement to offer Mr B £200 
in compensation  for the distress and inconvenience he was caused represents a fair 
settlement to his complaint. 
Ref: DRN85652653my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and require Barclays to pay Mr B £200,  as it has 
already agreed  to do.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 October  2019.
Cathy Bovan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8565265