K820x#14complaint
Ms R complains that The Prudential Assurance  Company Limited  failed to return three 
identity documents  to her using a secure postal method. As a result  those documents  have 
now been lost.
background
Ms R lives permanently overseas in Europe. In July 2018 she was requested by Prudential 
to send in some identification documents in order that it could allow  her to access a small 
pension fund. Ms R sent those documents to Prudential using a courier  service and 
requested that they be returned using  a similar secure postage  method given problems with 
her local postal system. Prudential however returned the documents by standard  airmail, 
and unfortunately  they failed to reach Ms R. 
Ms R sent Prudential three documents. She sent a copy of her birth certificate, a cancelled  
passport showing  details of her former  married  name, and an original deed poll showing the 
change to her current name.  And of course when these documents  were  returned to her they 
were addressed to where she is living, so providing  details  of her current address. Ms R is 
concerned that the information  contained in these documents would be sufficient for a third 
party to fraudulently obtain a national identity card that could  then be used to access  various  
credit facilities.
Prudential has accepted that it was incorrect in failing to use a secure  method to return these 
documents to Ms R and has apologised to her. It has paid her the sum of £300 to reflect the 
costs of replacing two of these documents  it accepts that her cancelled  passport is 
irreplaceable. Prudential  has also offered Ms R the sum of £500  in respect of the trouble and 
upset she has been caused by this error.  And Prudential has assured Ms R that should she 
experience any difficulties in the future  caused by identify fraud it would take steps  to ensure 
any losses were covered.
Ms R didnt accept Prudentials offer for her trouble and upset so she brought her complaint 
to this Service. It has been assessed  by one of our investigators.  He thought that the offer 
Prudential had made to Ms R was fair in the circumstances so he didnt recommend the 
complaint should  be upheld.  Ms R didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint 
hasnt been resolved informally, it has been  passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is 
the last stage of our process.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this Service.  This Service isnt 
intended to regulate or punish businesses  for their conduct  that is the role of the 
Financial Conduct  Authority. Instead  this Service looks to resolve individual complaints 
between a consumer  and a business. Should  we decide that something has gone wrong we 
would ask the business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in 
the position they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
Ref: DRN86915662It is clear to me that Prudential has acted incorrectly by failing to use a secure postal method 
when returning  Ms Rs documents to her. But Ms R has asked that I go further in my 
assessment and consider whether Prudentials actions were  negligent. But I dont think it is 
necessary or right for me to consider that point. As I said earlier  that would be a matter for 
the FCA to decide.  The remit of this Service is to ensure that Ms R hasnt lost out as a result 
of what happened.
The first step I would expect Prudential to take is to ensure that, where  possible,  the lost 
documents are replaced at no cost to Ms R. And I can see that it asked Ms R for what  it 
would cost to replace  her documents and paid her that amount, plus some additional costs 
to reflect  the time and effort she would  need to spend. I think  Prudentials actions here are 
entirely in line with what I would recommend as being fair.
However, one of the documents  Ms Rs cancelled passport in a former name   is not 
replaceable. And I can understand that the loss of that document  might cause a great deal of 
sadness to Ms R. And I will take account of that when I now go on to consider what I think  it 
is reasonable to ask Prudential to do to reflect the trouble and upset that Ms R has been 
caused.
Ms R has expressed very clearly how concerned she is that the missing  documentation 
could be used to fraudulently obtain  identity documentation. And that documentation  could  
then be used to apply for credit facilities. I understand how stressful  this must be for her. And 
Ms R has explained  the impact that this stress has had on her health, and is likely to 
continue to have  for some  time to come.  So I have  taken  all that into consideration when 
thinking about what Prudential should  do.
But I need to balance this against the positive and open manner in which Prudential has 
accepted the mistake  it made. And I think the steps it has taken,  and the reassurance it has 
given Ms R for the future, also mitigates some  of the upset that has been  caused by this 
error. I am mindful that some time has now passed  since these documents  went missing and 
Ms R doesnt appear to have faced any issues so far. But I understand  that she will remain  
concerned for a good time into the future.
Having considered all these factors, and taken account of the levels of compensation this 
Service would normally award  in matters such as this, I have concluded  that the offer 
Prudential has made of an additional  £500  is reasonable. I dont  think it would be fair for me 
to ask Prudential  to pay anything more. But in saying  that I want to be clear that should Ms R 
incur any additional  problems resulting from the loss of her documents then I would expect 
Prudential to consider  the matter of compensation afresh. And I think  it would be reasonable 
for Prudential to provide Ms R with a clear and easy method  of raising  any future concerns 
with the business.
Ref: DRN86915663my final decision
I think that the offer made by Prudential of £500  for the trouble and upset caused  to Ms R is 
fair. If it hasnt already  done  so, The Prudential  Assurance Company Limited should pay that 
sum to Ms R.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 March 2019.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8691566