K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Lloyds  Bank PLC mis-sold payment protection  insurance (PPI) to Mrs H. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 1998.  Lloyds sold Mrs H the 
policy at the same time that she applied for the card.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  be upheld. Mrs H disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive considered what Mrs H and her representatives have said, but Ive decided the policy  
wasnt mis-sold.  I will explain why:
I think Lloyds made Mrs H aware that the PPI was optional and that she chose  to take it 
 although I can understand if she can no longer remember this. The PPI is listed as 
one of the optional features on the application  form which Mrs H signed,  and I can see 
there is a tick against the PPI option. 
Lloyds probably recommended the PPI to Mrs H, but it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable 
based on what  Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. The PPI could have helped  pay 
the credit card bill for a period longer  than Mrs Hs employer sick pay; and it seems  she 
didnt have  other resources to fall back on. And it would have paid out at the same time as 
any sick pay or redundancy  pay, so leaving Mrs H more financially secure for longer. So, 
overall, the PPI was potentially useful. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. And I cant 
see any other  reason  why the recommendation was unsuitable.
Its difficult now to know  how well Lloyds explained the PPI. Its possible the information 
Lloyds gave  Mrs H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should  have been.  But I dont 
think, in her circumstances, full information  about  costs and benefits  would have 
affected whether she took the PPI. And it doesnt look like shed have been affected  by 
any of the significant  exclusions in the policy. 
my final decision
Im not upholding this complaint, for the reasons Ive given. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs H to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 February  2020. 
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8318830