K822xcomplaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2003. Miss D says Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax  (Halifax) mis-sold  her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Ds case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Miss D has said it wasnt clear she wanted  PPI as there was a computerised  tick box 
selecting PPI on the application form. Halifax has provided me with a copy  of the credit  
application completed at the time.  The form had a separate section  for PPI where the option  
to take the policy  had been selected and printed  before it was signed by Miss D. I think  its 
likely the PPI was selected as a result of a conversation between  Miss D and the Halifax 
representative. 
As Miss D was agreeing to additional credit, I would have expected her to have read the 
form and raised any questions she had at the time before signing in agreement with it. So I 
think Halifax made it clear that Miss D didnt have to take out the PPI and that she chose to 
take it out  although I can understand why she may not remember  this now many  years 
later.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Miss D so it had to check  that the PPI was right for her  
and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example she wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover  and she 
seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Miss D has said she would  have  received some sick pay from her employer if she was off 
work unwell and that she also had some savings she could use. But this policy  would cover  
10% of the outstanding balance of her account  for up to 12 months if she was too sick to 
work or she lost her job. And this would be in addition to, and potentially for longer than, any 
other pay she would receive.  And it wouldve allowed her to use any savings she had for 
other expenses, or keep them intact  for the future.  So I still think the PPI would have  been  
useful to her. 
Its possible the information Halifax gave Miss D about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover.  
And it seems like it would  have been useful for her if something went  wrong. It also looks like 
it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put her off 
taking out the cover.  
Ive thought about everything Miss D has said but these points dont change my decision.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Miss D paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give Miss D back some of the cost of the 
Ref: DRN82530432PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  I understand  Halifax  has already paid this to 
Miss D.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 February  2019. 
Sonia Hussain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8253043