K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a credit 
card in 2000. Mr W says American  Express Services Europe  Limited  mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr W case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why. 
Mr W doesnt remember much from the time he took out the card and PPI  but this isnt 
surprising given  how long ago he made  his application.  Amex  has provided  a copy of his 
credit card application,  and looking at this, I can see that the PPI is presented as an 
optional product. Theres a tick selecting  the policy, and Mr W has signed to confirm  this 
selection  this is separate to his signature  for the credit card.  So I think  Amex  made  it 
clear that Mr W didnt  have to take out the PPI and that he chose to take it out  although 
I can understand why he cant  remember this.
Amex didnt recommend the PPI to Mr W so it didnt have to check if it was right for him. 
But it did have to make  sure Mr W got the information he needed to decide if it was right 
for him. 
Its possible the information Amex gave Mr W about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been. But he chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. Based  on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he 
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have 
been useful for him if something  went  wrong. It also looks  like the PPI was affordable.  So 
I dont think better  information  about  the PPI would  have put him off taking out the cover. 
This means Amex  doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr W.
But Amex  will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr W because:  
Amex got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr W about  that. Because  Amex didnt tell Mr W, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Amex has basically offered to pay back  the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
Ive thought about everything Mr W and his representatives have said - including what  
theyve said about  his sick pay, savings  and inheritance he received. But the PPI couldve 
paid out on top of any existing cover Mr W had  and for longer. And as Mr W cant  recall  if 
he knew about his inheritance before or after he applied for the PPI, Im unable to say if this 
wouldve made a difference  to his decision.  And as Ive said above, I think  Mr W knew  he 
Ref: DRN80729812had a choice in taking out the PPI  so wouldve done so knowing what  he had in place at 
the time.  So these  points  dont change my decision.
what the business needs  to do
Amex has to pay back to Mr W any commission and profit  share it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. Amex should also pay back to Mr W any extra  interest he paid 
because of that.
Amex should re-work  the credit card account  and pay back to Mr W the difference  between 
what Mr W owes and what  he wouldve owed if the commission  and profit share it got hadnt  
been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Amex should also pay Mr W 8%* simple interest if he 
paid off his credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr W can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so American  Express Services Europe Limited does  not 
have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr W.
But American Express Services  Europe  Limited  does have to pay back to Mr W any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before date 28 February  2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8072981