K820x#14complaint
Mr Z complains about how AXA Insurance UK Plc handled his claim on his home insurance.
background
Mr Z had a home  insurance  policy with AXA. In November 2018  he made a claim on the 
policy after he noticed the door to the porch was leaning and coming  away from the property.
A loss adjuster  attended the site and confirmed that further investigations would  be needed. 
However an appointment for this couldnt be arranged until the end of January  2019.
Mr Z wasnt happy that he had to wait so long and he complained  to AXA.
AXA apologised but said there was high demand for subsidence contractors due to the 
particularly hot weather  in summer  2018.  So this meant that appointments were taking 
longer to arrange. AXA tried to get an earlier appointment  but were  unable to.
The contractor attended the property at the end of January and carried  out investigative  
work. In March they wrote to Mr Z to say that the damage had been caused  by defective 
foundations of the porch when it was originally built. AXA formed  that this was excluded  from 
insurance cover.
Mr Z was unhappy with this as he said he had waited a long time to get an answer and he 
didnt think the answer  was fair. He said there had been nothing  mentioned  on the survey  of 
the property carried  out when he bought it, so didnt  understand how the foundations  could  
have been defective. He brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered all the issues but didnt recommend the complaint was upheld.  
She said she didnt  think  the delays could  have been avoided by AXA and agreed that the 
cause of the damage was excluded under the policy.
Mr Z didnt  agree, he said the five month delay was unacceptable. He also said AXA should 
have looked at the survey of the property before agreeing to insure  it. He asked for his 
complaint to be reviewed  by an ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Z is unhappy  with the length of time it took AXA to make an assessment of his claim.  He 
also doesnt think its assessment of the damage  was fair. I have considered both of these 
points in turn to decide if AXA have handled  the claim  fairly  and reasonably.
Delays
After an initial visit from a loss adjuster, I can see that Mr Z had to wait a significant  amount 
of time before the problem  could  be assessed and a conclusion  made.  
AXA said that it was unable to book an appointment any earlier  than 28 January 2019, due 
to high demand for the contractors. AXA has explained that the reason for this high demand 
Ref: DRN83783602was due to the particularly  hot summer in 2018. When there is hot weather, the amount of 
water in clay in the ground reduces. This often makes the clay dry out and shrink and can 
cause subsidence.  Therefore I can understand that a long period of hot weather  as 
experienced in the UK in 2018  would  cause an increase in subsidence claims. 
Mr Z has said that as AXA is responsible for its agents it should have done  more to find a 
different contractor to attend earlier. From looking through  the claim notes provided by AXA,  
I can see that it did attempt to get an earlier appointment  for Mr Z. But the contractors 
responded to say that the wait for appointments was even longer by this point, so this 
wouldnt be possible. 
So although  I agree  three  months is a long time to wait for the visit, I dont think this could 
have been avoided by AXA.
Following the visit, Mr Z was told the report would be provided by the end of February. 
However he didnt  receive  confirmation of the conclusion  of the investigative work until 
21 March. This was around  three  weeks more than Mr Z had been  told and, after having 
waited three  months  already, I can understand why he would have been frustrated.
I can see from the claim notes provided by AXA that it didnt receive the report  from its Agent 
until March. I can also see that it updated Mr Z to let him know  it would be longer than it had 
original anticipated  and to ask for further information  from his previous insurers.  
So although  I can see it would have been  frustrating for Mr Z to have to wait an additional 
three weeks for the conclusion of the claim,  I dont  think AXA has treated him unfairly  or 
unreasonably. It took some time for the agents  to produce the report and they required 
further information from Mr Zs last insurer. Further, AXA kept Mr Z updated  about  the delay. 
I therefore dont  think AXA has acted unfairly.
Claim decision
When considering  a claim it is for the insured to prove there  is an insured peril and the 
insurer then provides cover under the policy unless it can prove  an exclusion applies.
This claim  was raised under the subsidence cover  in the policy.  However on further 
investigation of the porch,  no evidence of subsidence was found. Instead  AXAs  agent 
explained that the porch door had come away from the building  due to defective 
workmanship. Mr Z has accepted that there is no subsidence. I therefore  cant see that there 
is an insured peril for which the insurance  can provide cover. 
Further, the policy states specifically under the subsidence section:
does not cover for loss or damage:
 Arising  from the use of defective materials, defective design, or poor or faulty
workmanship
I therefore think that AXA has acted fairly and reasonably by declining  the claim.
For these reasons, I dont  think  AXA has treated Mr Z unfairly or unreasonably when 
handling and assessing his claim. I therefore wont ask it to do anything further or differently.
Ref: DRN83783603my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont require AXA Insurance UK Plc to do anything further or 
differently in relation to Mr Zs claim.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 May 2020.
Sophie Goodyear
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8378360