K820x#14complaint
Mrs C is unhappy that International Insurance Company of Hannover SE (Hannover)  has 
declined the claim  she made under her pet insurance policy.
background
In May 2018, Mrs C made a claim on the pet insurance policy  she held for her dog O. The 
claim was for the veterinary fees incurred to investigate  whether there  was an underlying 
medical condition  causing O to behave  aggressively. She said O had started to show  
behavioural issues in January 2018 and that these  had become severe  by March 2018. But 
the investigation didnt identify any medical  issues. 
Hannover declined  the claim as there  wasnt a medical condition identified  that wouldve 
caused the change in behaviour. It said that treatment for behavioural issues wasnt covered 
under the policy   with treatment including consultation, examination, advice and tests. And 
it also noted that Os medical history made reference  to a behavioural issue  in May 2017.
Mrs C acknowledges that treatment for behavioural issues is excluded from the policy.  But 
she says that fees were  as a result of tests which were required to determine whether the 
change in behaviour was due to a physical condition, such  as a brain abnormality. She said 
that, prior to the tests,  shed spoken  with Os regular vet, regular dog trainer and a 
recommended dog behaviourist. They had all said that the extreme nature exhibited  was 
very unusual  and likely to be caused by a neurological issue, hence the requirement for the 
tests. 
Mrs C said she only went ahead with the investigation because of what shed been told by 
the experts  that the behavioural  issues were  likely  to be an outward indication of a 
potentially severe  medical condition. So she had expected Hannover to pay out on the claim. 
She believed  that if an underlying medical  issue had been found,  Hannover wouldve paid for 
the tests. Mrs C said she was looking to treat the underlying  medical condition  and wasnt 
expecting the behavioural issue to be resolved by the investigation and resulting treatment. 
And, once  the medical condition had been  resolved, she wouldve looked  to start a course of 
training at her own expense, if it was required.  
Mrs C also said that the definition of treatment was buried within the policy  documents and 
that she was exposed to unnecessary risk by not being asked to go through  a pre-approval  
process when making the claim. 
Our investigator considered the complaint.  She said the consultation and testing would be 
considered treatment under the policy terms. And she noted that treatment for behavioural 
problems was excluded.  Given that the change in Os behaviour wasnt  found to be linked to 
a medical condition, she didnt think Hannover  had been unreasonable  by declining the 
claim. She also didnt  think the relevant policy wording was hidden.  And she said it wasnt  for 
her to comment on whether Hannover chooses  to pre-approve claims. 
Mrs C disagreed with our investigators findings  so the complaint has been passed  to me. 
Ref: DRN82137982my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I know it will come as a disappointment  to Mrs C, I dont  uphold  her complaint against  
Hannover  Ill explain  why.
I appreciate that Mrs C agreed to the testing  because  she believed  based on what shed 
been told by experts   that O most likely  had an underlying medical condition. But I have to 
consider whether Hannover has acted unfairly  by declining  her claim. And I dont  think  it has. 
The policy terms and conditions say that The cost of any Treatment for behavioural 
problems or for any Conditions arising as a result of the same is excluded.  And they also 
define treatment  as including consultation,  examination, tests, x-rays, slides,  ultrasound 
and MRI, medication, surgery or nursing care that has taken place and been provided by a 
veterinary practice So Im satisfied  that the investigation that took place would be 
considered treatment. And as theres  been  nothing to suggest  that O has an underlying 
medical condition,  his issues are most likely behavioural.  And  this means  that the treatment 
costs are a direct  result of these behavioural problems. It follows then that these would be 
excluded from cover. 
I recognise that this situation is frustrating for Mrs C. From her perspective, the only way an 
underlying condition could have been ruled out was through  the investigation. And this left 
her at risk of having  to pay for the investigation  herself if no condition was found, which  is 
exactly what has happened here. So Ive considered whether Hannover did enough to make 
her sufficiently aware that she wouldnt be covered  if the problem  were  found to be purely 
behavioural. In my judgment,  the relevant terms and conditions  were presented in a way that 
was clear, fair and not misleading. This wasnt a particularly significant or unusual  term, so 
Im not persuaded it needed  to be expressly highlighted outside the actual terms and 
conditions of the contract at the point  of sale. But as it happens, Hannover did include  it in 
the policy summary/key facts document. Given that a complex financial product, such as 
insurance, does need  to set out the parties  respective  rights  and responsibilities  fully in case 
of dispute, I cant reasonably criticise Hannover for the way it drafted this clause in the policy  
document. I dont think the exclusion was buried or hidden. So I dont think  Hannover has 
done anything  wrong here.
I also think its important to mention here that one of the main reasons for the investigation 
was Os sudden change  in temperament. But as Hannover has noted, the medical  history  
makes reference to some behavioural  issues in May 2017.  So Im not persuaded the 
behavioural changes were  sudden.  And its arguable  even if Hannover doesnt rely on this 
 that they started before the inception of the policy in August 2017, so could additionally 
have been excluded as pre-existing even if they did constitute a medical  condition.  
I note that Mrs C also thinks  Hannover  should operate a pre-approval  process when 
handling claims. But this is its own commercial decision, and therefore not something with 
which wed usually interfere. Ultimately,  the investigations were needed for Mrs C and Os 
sake irrespective of whether or not they were covered by insurance.  So the alleged failure to 
pre-approve claims didnt cause Mrs C any loss. It cant  reasonably be said that they 
wouldnt have been incurred but for Hannovers  acts or omissions. 
Ref: DRN82137983So, while I do empathise with Mrs Cs situation, I dont think  Hannover  has acted unlawfully 
or contrary to whats fair and reasonable, so I wont be asking it to reconsider the claim. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 February  2019.
Melanie Roberts
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8213798