K820x#14complaint
Barclays Bank UK PLC wont  write  off the amount Mr M owes  on a credit  card.
background
Mr M asked  Barclays  to write the amount off because his financial circumstances were  such  
that he didnt feel he could ever repay it. Barclays looked at Mr Ms income  and expenses  
and agreed that he didn't have enough disposable income to make any repayments. It 
therefore agreed:
to not apply further interest and charges to the account;
that Mr M didnt have to make  any further repayments (and it wouldnt expect any further 
repayments) unless he contacted it to say that his circumstances had changed; and
to not sell the debt on to a third party.
Barclays refused to write the debt off. It also said Mr M would  still receive occasional  letters  
about the outstanding  amount.
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision which explained why I didnt think the complaint should  be 
upheld. My provisional decision is summarised below:
Barclays accepted  Mr M wont be in a position  to start repaying the credit card unless his 
circumstances changed. Unless  his circumstances changed,  I felt the most  likely way the 
credit card would be repaid is if there  were  funds available in Mr Ms estate. It seemed 
any funds in the estate would only come  from any surplus  once the house was sold and 
a lifetime mortgage Mr M jointly held with his wife was repaid. I didnt think that was 
enough for me to conclude it was fair to make  Barclays  write the debt off.
The mortgage had an estimated term of 17 years (ie until 2034). The mortgage offer 
noted that the market value of the house  was £250,000. The amount owing increased  
year on year as interest accrued  and it wont reach  £250,000  until around 2031/2032. I 
therefore felt that if the house  was sold in the next 12/13 years  there  was a possibility the 
proceeds from the sale would cover  the outstanding mortgage  amount and have some 
left over which might go to Mr Ms estate.  If that happened Barclays might  be able to 
claim some of the surplus from Mr Ms estate to repay  the amount outstanding on the 
credit card.  And if I made Barclays  write the debt off now it would lose that potential 
opportunity. I thought  that was unfair.
In my opinion, Barclays treated Mr M fairly  by freezing further interest and charges and 
agreeing to him not having to make any further repayments. I didnt think it needed to go 
further and write the whole debt off now.
I also confirmed that although Mr M is suffering from cancer, wed already considered  under 
a separate complaint whether Barclays should write the debt off due to his medical  situation  
 so I wasnt going to re-visit that issue.
responses to my provisional  decision
Mr M disagreed with my provisional decision. Ive listed  the main  points he made below:
Ref: DRN87926212he didnt agree that he should pay the debt and felt it should  be written off
he felt I assumed the value of the house would increase rather  than decrease
he felt I assumed he would live for another 12/13  years  and that my decision was 
based on the house being sold in 12/13 years  he wants  me to take his age into 
account
if he passes away first the house  will pass to his wife, and Barclays  bereavement  
team has told him that it wont chase his wife for his debt
his mortgage  provider said the house will be in negative equity for the next 12/13 
years.
Barclays accepted  my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M has borrowed the money from Barclays and has had the use of that money.  So, 
technically, hes required to repay  that money.  The banking industry isnt sustainable if 
banks lend money to consumers  and then write debts  off whenever someone falls into 
financial difficulty. However Barclays, like all other lenders, has a duty to treat customers  
fairly and to be sympathetic to consumers in financial difficulty.  As Ive explained above, I felt 
Barclays had done that by agreeing to freeze  the debt and agreeing that Mr M didnt have  to 
make any further repayments unless  his circumstances change. The issue  outstanding here 
is whether Barclays needs to go further  and write the debt off now.
Regarding the assumptions Mr M feels I made when I initially  considered  his complaint, I 
didnt disregard the possibility that the value of the home would decrease over the expected 
term of the mortgage.  There are only three  possibilities   the value  is going  to decrease, its 
going to stay the same, or its going  to increase. Of those three, given the general  trends  of 
the property market, I think its fair to say the most  likely  scenario  is that the value is going to 
increase. Nevertheless,  despite that, my initial conclusion was based  on the value staying at 
£250,000.
I didnt assume that Mr M would live for another 12/13 years  I didnt make  any comment at 
all on that. What I said was that no-one  knew how long the mortgage  would  run for or how 
much the property would  be worth  when its sold. The 12/13 year period I referred to was 
simply the time it would  take for the amount outstanding on the mortgage to be the same as 
the value of the house (assuming that stayed at £250,000). The point I was making  was that 
if the house was sold and the mortgage redeemed  at any point in the next 12/13 years  
whether that be this year, in three  years, in eight years  the money  received from the sale 
would more than likely  be enough to repay the mortgage, with some left over as a surplus. 
And depending on the circumstances, that surplus  might end up in Mr Ms estate, which 
might in turn give Barclays  an opportunity to seek repayment of the credit card.
Im not persuaded by what the mortgage  provider has apparently  said about the house being 
in negative equity  for the next 12/13  years. Thats simply  not backed  up by the details shown 
in the mortgage offer. As an example, six years into the mortgage  (so around 2023) the 
outstanding balance will be just over £153,000. So the property would have to lose around 
£100,000 of value in that time for there to be negative equity.
Ref: DRN87926213Im aware of Mr Ms age and that if he passes  away first the house  (but not the debt)  will 
pass to his wife. Im also aware  of what Barclays has told Mr M about it not chasing  his wife 
for the debt. But I dont  think  that makes a difference to the outcome of this complaint.  As it 
stands, there  remains a reasonable possibility that the house could be sold and the 
mortgage repaid  in the next 12/13  years. That means theres a possibility that there will be 
money left over once  the mortgage  is paid off, which in turn might go into Mr Ms estate. And 
whilst thats a reasonable possibility, I dont think its fair to make Barclays  write the debt off 
now.
It therefore remains my opinion that Barclays treated  Mr M fairly by freezing further interest 
and charges and agreeing to him not having to make any further repayments.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 May 2019.
Paul Daniel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8792621