K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that a car he acquired  with the assistance of finance  from MotoNovo 
Finance Limited  (MotoNovo) is not of satisfactory  quality.
background
Mr S entered in to an agreement with MotoNovo to finance the purchase of a used car on 28 
October 2018 for £12,990. In January 2019  Mr S raised concerns with the supplying  
dealership that the car had developed  an oil leak and there were problems with noise from 
the gearbox. Mr S initially had these matters  investigated under  a third party warranty. It 
appears that repair of the faults  were  not covered under the warranty and so he raised  a 
complaint with MotoNovo in February  2019 that the car was not of satisfactory quality and he 
wanted to reject the car.
MotoNovo responded that the dealership would repair the faults. Repairs were arranged  and 
took place in April. Following collection of the car Mr S considered that the faults were  still 
present and requested confirmation about the work that had been carried  out on the car. 
MotoNovo said that Mr S needed to obtain  evidence that faults  were  still present. 
Mr S obtained a report from a main  dealership  that concluded that the repairs  had not been 
carried out properly.  Mr S again asked to reject the car. MotoNovo did not accept the 
evidence provided  by Mr S showed there  were  faults with the car. In its final response letter 
MotoNovo set out that the car had travelled  over 8000 miles,  had passed  an MOT and had 
been in Mr Ss possession for over 8 months.  So Mr S brought  his complaint to this service.
Our adjudicator considered Mr Ss complaint  and thought it should be upheld. He asked 
MotoNovo if it wished to arrange an independent inspection of the car before  coming  to his 
view and MotoNovo  didnt want to arrange an independent inspection.  Our adjudicator 
considered that the car was not of satisfactory  quality at the point of sale and Mr S was 
entitled to reject the car and have  the return of all money paid since the failure in January 
2019 together with all his associated expenses. He also thought  MotoNovo should  pay Mr S 
£100 for the trouble and upset caused.
MotoNovo didnt agree with the adjudicators  view and responded with comments  from the 
dealership which said that the adjudicators  view was unfair and didnt take into account 
offers to have the car inspected or that an expensive repair  was carried out. MotoNovo also 
commented that the points raised  in the final response letter had not been  taken into account 
and that the car was of satisfactory quality at the point of sale and the MOT did not 
demonstrate the oil leak or other  issues.
 
MotoNovo asked for the matter  to be passed  to an ombudsman  to decide. This is the final 
stage in our process.
      
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have reached the same 
conclusions as the adjudicator for the same reasons.
Ref: DRN88377612At the outset, I would like to apologise to Mr S for the time taken for his complaint to reach 
me. I can see that this complaint has had a significant effect on Mr S and his family and he 
has been without  the car, that he has been  paying for, since  January 2019.
Mr S wants  to now reject the car pursuant to the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA). 
MotoNovo says that the car should  not be rejected because it has been repaired, the faults 
were raised after Mr S had driven over 8000  miles and had the car for over 8 months.
I dont apply the law directly in the same way that a court  would approach matters but I do 
take it into account when deciding what is fair and reasonable. The CRA provides 30 days to 
reject the car if it is not of satisfactory quality. After 30 days the business is allowed an 
opportunity to repair the car.
 
I note that the fault first presented in January 2019 after 3 months. Mr S complained  that 
there was a noise  and oil leaking from the gearbox. The responsibility is on MotoNovo as the 
supplier of the car to show that the car was of satisfactory quality when Mr S bought  it. I 
would not expect a car to develop a significant  fault of this nature with the gearbox which 
prevented Mr S driving  it after such a short time.  I consider that the car was not of 
satisfactory quality at the point of sale. I think that the fault with the gearbox was there or 
developing at the point of sale. 
Mr S returned the car for a repair to be carried out. Mr S says the repair was not satisfactory  
as the fault was still there when he picked  up the car. MotoNovo and the dealership say the 
repair was satisfactory and have produced an invoice showing the cost of the repair.
Mr S took the car to the main dealership as he was unhappy with the information he was 
given about what  had been done to his car and he was concerned  that the fault was not 
fixed. The main  dealership produced  a diagnostic which states as follows,
 
Put vehicle on ramp  and found  strong smell of manual  gearbox  oil from underneath 
of vehicle. Suspect  incorrect gearbox oil used. Checked level and found to be low. 
Recommend oil and filter change (£199). Found gearbox has been  separated  and 
resealed previously and a new oil filter housing and drain plug fitted. Not 
recommended from a VWG point  of view due to the complexity of DSG gearboxs
I have no reason to doubt what is contained  within this report and MotoNovo have produced  
no evidence that would  suggest that this is incorrect. MotoNovo  were given an opportunity to 
have the car inspected  but declined.
Further, the invoice  for the repair carried out by the supplying dealership confirms that the 
seal was replaced  and the gearbox was filled with oil. The fact that the level was low on 
inspection by the main  dealer a short time later would suggest  the oil leak was still present. It 
would further support  the conclusion that the repair was a separation  and re-sealing of the 
gearbox which is not a recommended  repair.
    
I consider that the attempt to repair the car was both unsuccessful and unsatisfactory.  In 
these circumstances  I think  it is reasonable for Mr S to reject the car. I do not agree with 
MotoNovo on the basis of the evidence I have  seen that the car has been  satisfactorily  
repaired. 
Ref: DRN88377613Mr S has had to pay for inspections and diagnostics and I think  it is only fair that MotoNovo 
reimburses these costs. Mr S was advised  not to drive the car following the diagnostic report 
and he has not driven  it since 29 April when the diagnostic  was carried out. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. To put things right MotoNovo Finance 
Limited should do the following:
End the agreement with nothing further  to pay;
Collect the car at no cost to Mr S;
Refund all monthly payments from 29 April 2019 to reflect the period that Mr S has 
been without a car;
Pay Mr S £152.40  for the diagnostic report;
Refund any deposit paid by Mr S together with 8% simple  interest  from the date paid 
to the date of settlement;
Remove any adverse  information about the agreement from Mr Ss credit file; and
Pay Mr S £100 to reflect the trouble and upset caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 May 2020.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8837761