K820x#14complaint
Mrs S says Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  attached to a store card Mrs S took out in 1999. Its 
been agreed in this case that FICL, as the insurer,  should take responsibility  for the 
complaint. To keep  things simple, Ill refer to FICL  as the seller  in my decision.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. FICL disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the 
complaint was passed to me. I issued my provisional decision in August 2019, explaining 
why I was thinking of coming to a different outcome to the adjudicator. Ive attached a copy 
of my findings to the end of this decision.  
I asked everyone to come back to me with any further comments or evidence  before I issued 
my final decision. Neither party had anything  further to add. 
my findings
Ive now reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments  to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ss case. 
Having done this, and as no one has given me anything else to think about, my decision 
remains the same - Im not upholding Mrs Ss complaint. 
Overall, I dont  think Mrs S has lost out by anything FICL might have done  wrong.  
my final decision
For the reasons  explained in my provisional decision, my final decision is I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 November 2019.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN83066842my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ss case. 
Having done this, Im thinking of not upholding Mrs Ss complaint. 
Mrs S thinks the policy  was sold by a postal application. FICL say it was sold in store  when she was 
applying for a store  card. And it has provided a copy of her application  form for her store card. 
Looking at this, I think the policy was sold in store. However the PPI was sold, FICL  should have 
made sure Mrs S was aware the policy was optional. Mrs S says she wasnt made  aware that the PPI 
was optional. 
Its not possible  for me to know exactly what was said at the time this policy was taken  out. So I have 
based my decision on the evidence  thats available alongside what Mrs S has told us. Looking at a 
copy of Mrs Ss application  form Ive been  given,  I can see it asks applicants to sign in the section for 
the PPI if they want it. 
On the form, the section  has been signed and Mrs S has signed the overall agreement.    Mrs S would  
have the opportunity  to review and query anything on the application she wasnt sure about before 
she signed it. So I think its most likely  FICL  made Mrs S aware she had a choice  about buying the 
policy and she chose to take it  although I can understand why she cant  remember this. 
FICL didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs S so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. But it did have 
to make sure Mrs S got the information  she needed to decide  if it was right for her.
Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs S about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been.  Mrs 
S says she had a medical condition  at the time of sale and our adjudicator thought this condition was 
something that wouldve made it difficult for Mrs S to make a claim on the policy, so they upheld her 
complaint. 
Ive thought carefully about  the information Mrs S has told us about her condition.  Having done this, I 
dont have enough evidence that Mrs S would have thought this would be the main reasons she might  
have needed to claim  on the policy in the future.  And the policy wouldve covered  her for other things. 
And based on what Ive seen of her circumstances  at the time it doesnt look like she was affected by 
any of the other exclusions  or limits on the PPI cover. 
Mrs S says she had sick pay benefits from her employer but hasnt told us how long this wouldve  
paid out for. But in any event, the PPI wouldve paid out alongside her employee benefits. It also 
wouldve covered her if she became unemployed.  And it doesnt look like Mrs S had any other means 
she couldve  relied  on to make her repayments   such as savings. Mrs S also says her partner 
couldve helped her with the repayments if she lost her job or couldnt work. While I dont  doubt Mrs S 
partner wouldve wanted  to help, peoples situations can change. So I dont think  Mrs S could  
necessarily have relied on this help.
So I think the PP would have been useful for her if something went wrong.  
Overall, I dont think Mrs S has lost out by anything FICL might have done wrong.  
Ref: DRN8306684