K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs P are unhappy with their home  insurer, Hiscox Insurance  Company Limited, as 
following a period in which three claims were made to it, it applied  an increased  excess for 
escape of water claims.
background
In 2016 Mr and Mrs P made a claim to Hiscox when water came through their roof during a 
storm. A while later water was found to be coming  in around the chimney. In August 2018 
water was found to be leaking from a drain pipe and causing damage. Hiscox  accepted  
claims for all three incidents.
The policy was due to renew on 1 September 2018 and Hiscox issued revised renewal 
documents to Mr and Mrs P. These  said some  changes would take effect  from 
10 September 2018. Mr and Mrs P noted their premium had gone  up, which they 
understood, but were disappointed to also note a £10,000 excess  had been applied for 
escape of water claims (it had been £250 before). When  Mr and Mrs P complained  Hiscox  
said the excess and premium had been set in line with its criteria for risk (underwriting 
policy) when considering  Mr and Mrs Ps claims history.  The claims history  Hiscox had 
recorded was one storm claim, and two for escape  of water.
Mr and Mrs P remained unhappy. They noted theyd been told by Hiscox over the phone  that 
it had received more  claims  than expected  so had acted to try and re-coup some of its 
outlay. They said having a condition like this imposed was unfair as theyd have to declare it. 
Overall they felt the action Hiscox had taken was punitive. Mr and Mrs P were also unhappy 
as they maintained they hadnt  had two claims for escape of water.  They complained  to us.
Our investigator considered Hiscox underwriting policy and felt it had acted in line with that. 
But on review he noted that Mr and Mrs Ps second  claim  hadnt  been handled as an escape 
of water claim, so shouldnt have been logged  as such. Hiscox had acted to recategorize the 
claim in 2019. However, he noted that even  in the situation where just one escape of water 
claim is made and that is the last claim made before renewal, Hiscox underwriting  policy  
allows it to apply an increased excess of £5,000 for escape of water claims, and increase the 
premium overall. So he didnt think its error in recording the claim type incorrectly and 
applying the £10,000 excess had materially disadvantaged Mr and Mrs P (because Hiscox 
would always have  applied  an increased  excess, albeit of only £5,000, and increased the 
premium to the same degree, based  on the correct claim record).
Mr and Mrs P felt it was unfair  that they hadnt  been  warned in the policy  terms and 
conditions that there  might be repercussions to claiming. Hiscox accepted the claim record  
had been wrong  but didnt feel Mr and Mrs P had complained about that. The complaint was 
passed to me to consider.
Ref: DRN84619382my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, and whilst I appreciate 
that this will be disappointing  for Mr and Mrs P, I dont intend to uphold their complaint.
Insurance is all about risk. And it is the job of the insurer to use its commercial judgement to 
assess the risk presented  by a policyholder and respond to that. Sometimes that means  a 
policy isnt offered. Sometimes  it means  a policy  is offered  but terms are added, cover is 
restricted or excesses are changed.  As long as an insurer applies that judgement fairly, we 
wont interfere with it. 
We usually consider that an insurer  is applying  it fairly if it uses  a set of criteria against which 
to assess the risk of each  policyholder or prospective policyholder.  That way, all 
policyholders with the same circumstances are treated  the same way. 
It isnt standard  practice in the industry  to warn policyholders off of making claims. And 
insurers still usually ask to be notified about incidents as well as claims.  Thats  because  
incidents, even  if not progressed into claims, still affect the risk the policyholder represents. 
On the issue of risk, whilst I appreciate it wouldnt have been  very pleasant for Mr and Mrs P 
to hear it put in those terms  if Hiscox had identified a spike  in claims, it would, as a matter 
of commercial judgment, have been  able to take action in that respect. In general  terms we 
wouldnt consider  that to be unreasonable.
Hiscox did get the claim  record wrong,  and that did skew the action  it took in 2018 when the 
policy renewed (which caused  Mr and Mrs P to complain). But whilst  the excess  figure 
associate with its action was wrong,  increasing the policy excess, along with the premium,  
was something,  in the circumstances, its underwriting policy allowed it to do anyway. 
Im satisfied that if Hiscox had got the claim record right, it would still have applied an 
increased excess (and premium) and, unfortunately, Mr and Mrs P would still have been 
upset and frustrated.  When I award compensation that isnt done to punish the insurer. 
Rather it is awarded to make up for distress  and inconvenience the complainant  wouldnt 
have suffered but for the insurers error.  Therefore, it would be unfair and unreasonable  here 
for me to award compensation, because Mr and Mrs P would always  have  experienced 
upset, even if Hiscox hadnt failed them.
my decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  I dont make any award against Hiscox  Insurance 
Company Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 April 2020.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8461938