K820x#14complaint
Mr T complained that he was mis-sold  a mortgage  payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy 
by Santander  UK plc (Santander).
background
Mr T bought  the PPI policy  when he took out a mortgage in 2002. Santander said that the 
sale took place  in a meeting and it advised Mr T to take the PPI. Mr T said he wasnt given a 
choice about taking the PPI and that he didnt  need  it. 
The policy provided  unemployment cover for Mr T at a monthly  cost of £18.83. The monthly 
benefit was £437.00. If Mr T had made  a successful  claim, the policy  wouldve paid out for 
up to 12 months per claim.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr T disagreed, and asked that it be referred to 
an ombudsman for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ts case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ts complaint.  Ill explain why.
There is limited  information from the point of sale. Santander sent in copies  of some 
computer records of Mr Ts mortgage  account,  along with copies of the mortgage  application  
form and some notes of its contact with Mr T. 
Mr T complained that he wasnt given  a choice about taking the PPI. I can see from the 
mortgage application form that Mr T applied for his mortgage in a branch of the bank in 
December 2001.  PPI isnt mentioned on the application,  but Santander said that the PPI sale 
took place in early  January 2002   also in the branch. 
Santander couldnt provide a copy of Mr Ts PPI application form, but from what we know  
about other Santander sales  at around this time,  he wouldve had to complete a separate 
application, along with a direct debit mandate to authorise the payment of premiums.  Theres  
nothing on the mortgage application  to suggest  that PPI was a condition  of the mortgage, 
and I think Mr T could  simply  have declined to complete  the application if he didnt want  the 
insurance. Overall I think its most likely  Mr T was given a choice about  taking the PPI, and 
decided to do so.
Santander has considered this sale as an advised sale,  and I have no evidence to contradict  
this. So it shouldve made sure the PPI was suitable for Mr T. I think it was.
I cant know how the adviser explained the PPI - especially the things not covered. But I 
cant see that Mr T wouldve  been  affected  by any of these. 
Mr T told us he wouldve been entitled  to sick pay from his employer of twelve months pay  
and as the policy only covered unemployment it seems likely that the adviser took this into 
Ref: DRN84087192account in arriving  at their recommendation. Mr T also said he had around £20,000 in 
savings. But when we asked him more  about  this, he said that this amount was actually held 
by his partner.  But their circumstances couldve changed, so I dont  think  their help couldve 
been guaranteed. 
From all this I think Mr T couldve  found  it difficult to meet the mortgage payments if hed lost 
his job. And Ive kept in mind that the policy couldve paid out for up to 12 months  in the 
event of a successful claim. Its not clear how the cost was explained to Mr T at the point of 
sale, but Ive no evidence to suggest that cost was an issue.  And I think  Mr T could 
reasonably have wanted to protect what was an important commitment.  
On balance, although I cant know whether Santander clearly  explained all of the policy  
details, I think Mr T would still have bought the policy if it had. It couldve provided  useful 
protection if Mr T had lost his job. 
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Santander doesnt need  to refund what Mr 
T paid for it.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019.
Jan Ferrari
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8408719