K821x#15complaint
Mr F has complained that he was given misleading  information by Scottish Equitable  Plc 
about when his pension benefits would be paid, which meant his plans lost value.
background
Mr F had two pension plans with Scottish Equitable (trading  as Aegon). In late 2017 Mr F 
decided to take his plan benefits, so he completed the necessary paperwork and sent it to 
Aegon in January 2018.
Mr F sent the paperwork by recorded  delivery  and it was received by Aegon on 
15 January 2018.  He phoned Aegon several times  after receipt to find out the date on which 
the value of his plans  would be fixed.  This was because the value of his plans was affected 
by market fluctuations.  The first time Mr F phoned (on 17 January 2018), he was told the 
claim date on which the value of his plans  would be fixed  would be 19 January 2018. 
However, in later calls he was told the claim date wouldnt  be fixed until Aegon  had 
completed its due diligence.
Mr F complained about the conflicting  information  hed been  given. He said if hed known the 
claim date wouldnt be fixed until Aegon had completed its due diligence, he wouldve 
switched his plans  to lower risk funds. This was because  he was aware the market was 
dropping and his plans  had already  lost value when he phoned on 17 January 2018.
During the complaint process  Mr F was made  aware  that as part of Aegons  due diligence, it 
had emailed the solicitor,  Ms L, who had certified his identification documents.  Aegon told 
him it hadnt received a reply  from Ms L, so Mr F says he contacted her to prompt a 
response. Aegon completed its due diligence on 6 February 2018 and Mr Fs benefits were 
paid to him using  a claim date of 8 February 2018.
Mr F was unhappy with the value he received. He believed Aegon shouldve  honoured the 
claim date of 19 January  2018  he said the legal principle of offer and acceptance applied. 
Mr F also complained that he shouldve  been  told Aegon had contacted Ms L. He said if he 
had been told about this when hed phoned Aegon for an update, he wouldve chased Ms L 
for her reply and the due diligence couldve been completed sooner. Overall,  he said hed 
received over £12,000 less than he wouldve received if the value of his plans had been  
fixed on 19 January 2018.
Aegon accepted Mr F hadnt been given the right information when hed phoned on 
17 January 2018.  So, it offered him a total of £400  to reflect  the trouble and upset caused. 
Aegon didnt think it should pay Mr F the difference  between  the plan values as it provided 
Mr F with the right information in the following  calls.
Mr F rejected Aegons offer of compensation and referred his complaint to our service.  Mr F 
said he understood Aegon needed to complete its due diligence. But he maintained he didnt 
know the plan value wouldnt be fixed until after the due diligence  had been completed.  For 
this reason, he said hed been denied the opportunity  to switch funds and mitigate his 
losses. Mr F also said Aegon not telling him it had emailed Ms L had caused a delay of two 
weeks. And that it had misled him about  how much value his plans had lost when he spoke 
with a representative on 31 January 2018.
Ref: DRN86273822Our investigator recommended Aegon should  pay Mr F an additional £100 for misleading  
him about the value of the plan on 31 January 2018.  But he didnt think it should pay Mr F 
the difference between the value  of the plan on 19 January 2018  and the amount hed 
received. The investigator  said hed listened  to the relevant calls and he wasnt  persuaded 
Mr F wouldve switched funds had he been given the right information on 17 January 2018.  
This was because he thought Mr F was aware  his plans had lost value at the time and 
despite being given the option to switch  funds, he had decided  not to in case  the value  
increased. The investigator didnt think Aegon was responsible for the delay in Ms L 
responding to its email.  And overall, he didnt think the time Aegon had taken to settle Mr Fs 
plans was unreasonable.
Mr F didnt  accept the investigators view so the complaint was referred to me to make  a final 
decision on the matter.  Mr F maintains the principle of offer and acceptance  applies  he 
says a binding  contract  was made  when Aegon told him the value of his plans would be fixed 
on 19 January 2018. Furthermore, Mr F said that when  he was given  the option to switch 
funds he had every reason to believe that the plans were still going to be valued on this date. 
So, this explains why he didnt  choose to switch funds  when given  the opportunity.
Aegon didnt agree  it should  pay Mr F an extra £100. It said Mr F hadnt complained about 
this until hed referred the matter to our service.  So, it thought this should be considered as a 
new complaint.
I explained to Aegon  why I thought it would be fair to consider this aspect of Mr Fs complaint 
as part of this case. Aegon accepted this.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I think  Aegon should  pay 
Mr F an extra £100, meaning it should pay £500 in total, for the trouble and upset caused by 
the erroneous  information provided  to him when he was cashing in his pension plans. 
I appreciate this falls far short of the compensation Mr F was hoping for, as he considers 
Aegon is responsible for his losses (which exceeds £12,000). I dont doubt that Mr F will be 
very disappointed with my decision, but I hope my explanation sets out clearly why Ive taken 
this view.
Mr F has made  considerable  submissions in bringing his complaint  to our service.  And whilst 
I dont intent to respond in similar detail, I have read everything hes sent in and taken it into 
consideration when making  my decision.  So if there  is a particular piece of evidence  or point 
that I dont  refer to in this decision,  it isnt because I havent seen it or thought about it. Its 
just that I dont feel I need to reference  it to explain  my decision. I hope Mr F doesnt take 
this as a discourtesy, its just a reflection of the informal  nature of our service.
As Mr F has raised  several points, I will address  each in turn.
information provided to Mr F in his call with Aegon on 17 January 2018
It isnt in dispute that Mr F was misinformed about  Aegons process  for cashing in his 
pension plans during this call. The representative  Mr F spoke with told him that his claim 
date would be 19 January 2018. She explained  that it would take around 10 days to process  
his paperwork but Aegon  would use the plan values on 19 January 2018. So, based  on this 
Ref: DRN86273823conversation, I think Mr F was given a legitimate expectation the value of his plan would be 
fixed on 19 January 2018.
However, Aegons investment fund cancellation  procedure says the following about  how 
Mr Fs pension plans  are cashed  in:
2.1 Before we arrange to cash in any investments, we may ask for certain documents and 
evidence to check the validity of requests for payment of funds  and to arrange for secure 
payment
2.2 When we have all the information  we need,  well cash  in units  at the relevant date using 
the relevant unit price  as set out in 2.3 and 2.4.
2.3 The relevant date  is the date that we consider that we have all the relevant supporting 
information to complete  your request.
2.4.1 The relevant unit price will bethe  unit price on the next again  business day(that is 
relevant date plus two).
So, I think its clear from the procedure that the relevant unit price (which determines  the 
value of the plans) will only be fixed when Aegon considers  it has all the relevant supporting 
information. This is what Aegon means when it refers to its due diligence.
While Mr F has said he wouldve switched his plans to less volatile funds if hed known about 
Aegons procedure,  he also believes the conversation he had on 17 January  2018 should 
represent a binding legal contract. He says the principles of offer and acceptance apply.
It isnt within  my power to make a legal finding  on whether a binding contract was formed 
during this conversation. But my role requires me to make  a decision that I consider to be 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances, with reference to the relevant law and regulations.
Having carefully considered the point Mr F has raised,  I dont think  it would be fair to treat 
this conversation as having formed a legal contract. I say this because the purpose of Mr Fs 
call on 17 January 2018 was to ask for information. He was aware his paperwork had been 
received by Aegon and he wanted  to know what would happen next.  Mr F was told his 
paperwork would be processed  and the date it would use to value his plans would be 
19 January 2018.  There was no negotiation  between him and the representative  he spoke 
with; only information  about Aegons  process  was provided (albeit erroneous information). 
I dont think that Aegon telling Mr F his plan would be valued on 19 January 2018 could 
reasonably be considered  to be an offer, as this was simply an answer to an enquiry hed 
made. And even if it could  be considered  to be an offer, Mr F didnt promise  anything in 
exchange for it. For this reason, I dont think  it would  be fair or reasonable to treat this 
interaction as a contract. But if Mr F still believes this is the case  and he doesnt accept my 
decision, he is free to pursue this issue in court.
As I dont think Aegon is bound to honour its mistake, I need to determine what  should have 
happened in this instance. Aegon agrees it should have told Mr F it would need to complete  
its due diligence  before  the plan value could be fixed. So, I have  to consider what  action 
Mr F wouldve most likely  taken if this procedure had been  clearly communicated  to him at 
the time.  I cant know with certainty what Mr F wouldve done, so Ive made my decision  
based on what I consider  to be most  likely, with reference to the relevant evidence.
Ref: DRN86273824switching plans to less volatile funds
Mr F has said he wouldve switched his plans  to funds that were  less susceptible to 
fluctuations in the market if hed known the value of his plans wouldnt be fixed on 
19 January 2018.  Hes said that before  he submitted his paperwork he had discussions with 
representatives of Aegon  about this possibility, so he was aware he could take this action  to 
prevent losses.
Ive taken into account Mr Fs comments about this, but based  on the evidence Ive seen,  Im 
not persuaded he wouldve switched  his plans to less volatile funds. In part this is because  
Mr F didnt  take this action when  he later found  out hed been told the wrong information on 
17 January 2018.  However, I also think this is the case based on the conversation  Mr F had 
with Aegon  on that same  date.
Ive listened to this call carefully and towards the end of it Mr F expressed his unhappiness 
that the value  of his plan wouldnt be fixed until 19 January 2018. This was because he was 
aware the stock  market  was dropping and he thought his paperwork would be processed 
sooner. The representative told him Aegon couldnt use an earlier  date, and Mr F remarked  
that he would just have to, watch the stock market  plummet. So, I think Mr F was aware his 
plans were already  losing value during this call. And despite knowing he could switch  his 
plans to funds  that werent so susceptible to market fluctuations, Mr F chose not to. 
Ive also listened  to the call Mr F had with Aegon on 22 January 2018. I dont think  this 
discussion is relevant  to my consideration of whether Mr F wouldve switched funds because 
there wasnt any discussion about the date on which his plans would be valued.  So, at this 
point, Mr F wouldve  still had reasonable  grounds  to expect the value on 19 January 2018  to 
be the amount  hed receive.
However, Ive listened to the call Mr F had with Aegon on 24 January 2018 and I believe he 
was clearly informed that the earlier information hed been given about the claim date was 
wrong. Mr F again expressed  concern that the stock market was dropping and said he lost 
around £3,000  in the last few days.  He wanted to know what date the value would be fixed, 
but the representative told him the value wouldnt be fixed  until due diligence  had been  
completed. The representative said that if Mr F wasnt happy with the performance  of the 
fund, in the meantime he could switch  funds. Mr F said it was a bit late now as he wouldve  
done that last week.  So, the representative said she would raise a complaint on his behalf so 
the earlier misinformation  could be investigated.  Towards the end of the call, Mr F remarked 
that while it was dropping  now, the stock market  could go up again. 
Having considered both calls and Mr Fs comments,  overall, I dont think  he wouldve taken 
any different action with his plans had he been told on 17 January 2018  the value wouldnt 
be fixed until Aegons due diligence had been completed. Mr F didnt choose to switch funds 
when he decided to cash his plans in, despite  knowing  the value of them  was falling.  If Mr F 
intended to cash  in his plans at a particular value, I think  he wouldve instructed Aegon to 
switch the funds at the same time, to prevent any substantial losses. In addition, Mr F also 
didnt opt to switch funds  after he was told the earlier  information  he was given was wrong. 
Mr F says that this was because the damage  had already been done by this point, but on 
balance I think its because he believed there was a chance the market could recover. So, 
I think Mr F most likely didnt want to crystallise his loss and miss out on any potential 
increase to the value of his plans  if the stock market  recovered.
Ref: DRN86273825Mr F has questioned why he should  have  placed  greater weight on the information  he was 
given on 24 Jan 2018 over that provided on 17 Jan 2018. I can see why he may have been 
distrustful of any information provided by Aegon at the time. But I still wouldve expected  
Mr F to make the switch  then to mitigate any further  losses, just in case the information he 
was provided during  that call was accurate. As he didnt,  Im still more  inclined to believe he 
chose not to switch  as he was hoping the value  of his plans would increase.
delays caused  by email to Ms L.
Mr F also raised concerns  that he wasnt told Aegon had contacted Ms L on 
19 January 2018  for further information. He said if hed been told this in either call on 22 or 
24 January 2018,  he couldve  chased  Ms L for a reply. Mr F also thought  it was 
unreasonable for Aegon to direct this enquiry  to a general email  address at her firm.
Ive considered this point  carefully, but as this formed part of Aegons due diligence (verifying  
his identity) I dont think this information needed to be shared with him in either  of these 
calls. I know Aegon told him it was waiting for a reply from Ms L when he spoke with a 
representative on 31 January 2018, but I wouldnt have expected  it to tell him this. I also 
dont think it was unreasonable  for Aegon to send  the request to a general email address 
rather than Ms Ls. Aegon wasnt provided with Ms Ls direct  contact details,  so I think an 
email sent to a general address marked for her attention was reasonable. So, I dont think  
Aegon is responsible for the delay in Ms L responding.
information provided to Mr F in his call with Aegon on 31 January 2018
During the call on 31 January  2018 Mr F says he was told the value of his plans  had only 
dropped by £10. However, by this time he says the value had dropped  by over £6,000. Mr F 
also says the principle of offer an acceptance  applies here.  He believes a commitment  was 
made by Aegon and his decision not to switch funds  was again influenced by this.
Ive listened to this call and I accept that Mr F was most likely given the wrong  information  
about the value of his plans. But while the representative told Mr F the value of his plans had 
decreased by very little, he added that it could go up or down before the claim date was fixed 
and there  wasnt any guarantee the value  would remain  at this level. As Mr F was told this 
value could change, I dont think it can be considered  to be a binding offer. And regardless of 
whether the value was right or wrong,  Mr F was aware by this time the claim date hadnt  
been fixed and he chose not to switch funds to prevent any further losses. So, overall, Im 
not persuaded Mr F wouldve  done  anything differently at this stage had he been told the 
correct value.
date of settlement
Mr F said Aegon also told him on 31 January 2018 that his claim date would be two days 
after it received  a reply  from Ms L. Mr F says Ms L replied but his plans werent cashed in for 
several days after this.
In the call, the representative told Mr F the only outstanding information  was the response it 
needed from Ms L. He then explained what would happen next, giving an example that if 
Ms L replied the next day, the value would be fixed two working days after.
Ive also seen copies  of the email  correspondence  between Ms L and Aegon.  While Ms L did 
reply on 1 February 2018, her reply wasnt complete and she asked Aegon to send  her a 
Ref: DRN86273826copy of the documents shed certified.  I can also see Aegon  sent Mr F an email  on 
1 February 2018  advising  that it had received a reply from Ms L and it was considering it. 
Although the representative didnt explicitly say this in the call with Mr F, I think Mr F 
wouldve understood the reply from Ms L would  need to confirm the information Aegon  had 
asked for. So, I dont think Aegon misled Mr F about  when his plans would be settled.
Aegon provided Ms L with the information she requested  and she sent her response on 
5 February 2018.  This was reviewed on 6 February  2018 and it was on this date that Aegon  
considered it had sufficient information  to complete Mr Fs request to cash in his plans. This 
meant the claim date (in line with the terms Ive listed above) was 8 February 2018. Ive seen 
copies of the settlement letters sent to Mr F regarding  the termination  of his plans and they 
show a claim date of 8 February 2018.  So, Im satisfied Aegon has used the correct  claim 
date for each plan.
I know Mr F feels his request shouldve been  completed sooner as his plans lost value 
during this time. But Im satisfied Aegon settled  his plans at the earliest  opportunity following 
completion of its due diligence. 
compensation
Its clear that Mr F was misinformed at the outset about how his request would be 
processed. I accept that this caused  him significant worry and stress (particularly given the 
value his plans  had lost), and he spent considerable time seeking clarification about Aegons 
process. I can also see he was misinformed about the value his plans had lost during the 
course of making  his complaint,  which  clearly  added to his frustration with the process. 
Having considered all of this, I think a total sum of £500 fairly reflects  the trouble and upset 
caused by Aegon during  this time. Im aware Mr F rejected Aegons earlier offer of £400,  so 
Aegon should pay Mr F the full sum of £500  in settlement of this complaint.
I realise Mr F feels he should be compensated for the difference in the value he received 
when the plans were  settled  compared with the value on 19 January 2018. But as Ive 
explained above, I think Mr F had opportunities to prevent the value of his plans from falling.  
I believe he chose not to do so, most likely because the value of his plans  couldve 
increased during  this time. So I dont think Mr F receiving less in settlement of his plans was 
solely due to the erroneous information he was given on 17 January 2018. And for this 
reason, I think Aegon should  only compensate him for the inconvenience caused by the 
misinformation.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im upholding this complaint  in part.
Scottish Equitable  Plc should pay Mr F a total sum of £500  to compensate him for the 
trouble and upset  caused by the erroneous information provided.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mr F to accept  or reject 
my decision  before 25 April 2019.
Hannah Wise
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8627382