K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain  that London  and Country  Mortgages Ltd gave them incorrect  advice 
about the cost of their offset mortgage.
background
Mr and Mrs P had an existing variable interest rate mortgage. They wanted an increased  
amount of mortgage  borrowing with a fixed interest  rate product and an offset  facility.  They  
intended to place the additional borrowing in an offset account  until they were ready to use it 
for planned home improvements. 
A representative of London and Country  Mortgages recommended  a re-mortgage product 
with those features  with a different lender. Mr P had asked her about the impact of the likely 
amount in the offset on monthly payments. She said that this would bring monthly payments 
down to about £1,200  compared to the cost without the offset of £1,570.  Mr and Mrs P found 
out that the benefit of the offset  was actually much lower - only about £60 to £80 per month. 
And they had taken  car finance  at a cost of £398  per month,  expecting  the lower mortgage 
payment. London  and Country offered them £200  in compensation.
The investigator did not recommend that London  and Country  do more than this. She said 
that:
-The representative had initially  said that the offset  balance  would bring down  the 
mortgage payments  to about £1,470 a month.  But in a subsequent call and email had 
said that this would be around  £1,200 a month.
-She thought  it likely that Mr and Mrs P would still have gone  ahead with the mortgage 
had they had the correct information.
-She did not believe London and Country  could have reasonably foreseen that Mr and 
Mrs P would enter into a car finance  agreement based on the mortgage application 
before the mortgage was finalised.
-They had replaced a 10 year old car, which they said they could have managed  with 
for the time being  - but they did have the benefit of a new car.
-Mr and Mrs P now had higher  payments for borrowing then theyd expected and had 
made adjustments to their lifestyle and working pattern to adjust.
-She thought  that the compensation reflected the impact the error had on them.
Mr and Mrs P did not agree. They were given incorrect advice and this had a marked  impact 
on them  financially. They  had to make  adjustments to cover this. The decision to take an 
offset mortgage was based on the fact that they may never have  used the extra borrowing 
over the term. And they hadnt expected  to pay interest on the amount they offset. The 
decision to purchase  the car was taken based on a figure from London  and Country and 
theyd had little time to make a decision on the mortgage.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr and Mrs Ps frustration  at what happened.  Im looking here at what  I think  is 
most likely would have  happened had they been  given all the correct information.
I can see that the representative  of London  & Country carried  out an assessment of their 
needs and financial  commitments based on the full mortgage borrowing. And that this 
Ref: DRN83480522showed the full payments of £1,570 were affordable and seemed to be in line with their 
existing mortgage  payments.  Mr and Mrs P expected to want to use the amount of extra 
borrowing at some point.  And Mr P confirmed in a call with the representative that the initial 
payment and the higher  payments given in the illustration after the end of the five year fixed 
interest period  would be affordable. He mentioned  that payments  with their existing lender 
had at one point been £1,900 per month. The affordability assessment included finance 
costs on one of their vehicles but not the additional  car finance they soon  took.
Their mortgage  was on a repayment basis. And so an offset savings balance would mean 
the element of interest in their payments was reduced. But capital repayments would 
continue on the full mortgage  balance.  The first figure given by the representative about the 
offset balance  reflected  that. Mr P questioned  it and thought  it should  be lower.  Its not clear  
how the representative calculated the lower figure. But it seems she might have taken out all 
the capital element of repayment  on the offset  too. That was not correct and London and 
Country has accepted  this error.
Its position is that the mortgage remained suitable  for Mr and Mrs P and that they have not 
made a financial  loss by taking  the mortgage. Based  on the evidence I have seen I agree 
with this and consider  that their loss is one of expectation. The higher than expected  
mortgage payments  adjusting  for the offset  do not include  any interest on the offset balance. 
But these  payments include the repayment  of capital and are reducing the outstanding 
mortgage amount.  I think it most likely Mr and Mrs P would still have taken the mortgage had 
they known the correct  position about  the offset.  And thats because  the recommendation to 
them was based  on the full mortgage borrowing with an offset facility - not on any specific  
offset balance  as it was expected to change over time. I am not persuaded that 
recommendation was not suitable.
I also dont think Mr and Mrs P would have taken the higher mortgage unless there was a 
likelihood theyd  have  used the additional  borrowing for the home  improvements. Mr P said 
theyd already arranged for an architect to draw up plans. They  were  aware  of the cost of the 
mortgage without  any offset balance. The re-mortgage completed within  six weeks  and they 
had quickly committed to the additional car finance.  I think  it likely that this finance would still 
have been something theyd had expected  to have needed to take. And I dont  see that 
London and Country were  made  aware of this plan at the time of assessing  affordability of 
the mortgage. So again, although they have  a loss of expectation, Im not persuaded that 
there is a financial loss that London and Country  are fairly responsible for. 
I appreciate that the payments net of the true impact of the offset are higher than they 
expected. And that theyve set out the immediate  adjustments theyve made to deal with this. 
But Im afraid for the reasons Ive given Im not going to be asking London and Country  to do 
more than its already  offered and which is to pay them compensation of £200. I think  that is 
reasonable.
Ref: DRN83480523my final decision
London and Country Mortgages  Ltd has already made an offer to pay £200 to settle the 
complaint and I think that this offer is fair in all the circumstances.  So my decision is that 
London and Country Mortgages  Ltd pay Mr and Mrs P £200.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 March  2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8348052