K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 1991 to 
protect a mortgage. Mr and Mrs E say Santander UK Plc mis-sold them the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Es case.
The PPI covered Mr E only so I have mainly considered his circumstances from the time the 
policy was sold.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Santander had to make Mr and Mrs E aware  that the PPI was optional and gain their 
consent before adding  it to their mortgage.  I cant be certain  what  was said at the time the 
PPI was sold, and as the sale took place so long ago there  isnt much evidence available.  
But Santander has sent us a copy of the available paperwork. Mr E signed  an application 
form separate to the mortgage to apply for the PPI. So I think Mr E would have known the 
policy was separate  to the mortgage,  and he chose to take it out. 
Santander recommended  the PPI to Mr E so it had to check that the PPI was right for him. 
Mr E has told us he would  have been entitled to good sick pay when he took the PPI. He 
would also have been entitled to redundancy pay and had some  savings. But the PPI would 
have paid out in addition  to and for longer  than Mr E would  have received sick pay. It would 
also have paid out in circumstances that Mr Es redundancy cover wouldnt have. In addition  
to this the PPI would have allowed Mr E to keep  his savings in place to be used towards any 
other essential expenses he may have had.
Based on what Ive seen  of Mr Es circumstances at the time he wasnt  affected by any of 
the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover  and he seems to have had a need  for the cover.  
So I think it was right for him. 
Its possible the information Santander gave  Mr and Mrs E about the PPI wasnt as clear  as 
it shouldve been.  But I think  Mr E chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would have been useful  for Mr and Mrs E if something went  
wrong. It also looks like it was affordable.  So I dont think  better  information  about the PPI 
would have put Mr E off taking out the cover. 
Which means Santander doesnt have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Mr E.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs E have  said, but these points dont change my 
decision.
Ref: DRN89394742my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 July 2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8939474