K822xcomplaint
Mr V and Mrs G have  complained that Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) are refusing  to 
pay for a second set of new locks for their property, following  a burglary claim on their home 
insurance.
background 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in December 2018. I asked everyone to 
send me any further comments and information before I reached a final decision. 
Heres what I said in my provisional decision:
background
 
Mr V and Mrs Gs property was broken into in March 2018. Several items of 
jewellery, some cash and some perfume  were stolen. Mr V and Mrs Gs garden 
fence, internal door and some of the internal decorations were damaged in the 
burglary. 
Ageas accepted the claim, and appointed a locksmith to attend Mr V and Mrs Gs 
property and repair several locks  as part of the settlement.
Shortly after the locks  were replaced  Mr V and Mrs G noticed that one of the five 
keys that came with the new locks was missing.  They contacted  the locksmith who 
said she needed to check her van and get back to them. But she didnt contact  them 
back. Mr V and Mrs G notified  Ageas and it advised  that the locksmith would be 
responsible for replacing the key/locks if the key was unable to be found. But it said it 
would await a response from the locksmith first to see whether the key had been 
found.
The following  day Mr V and Mrs G spoke with the locksmiths manager. He advised  
that the locksmith  had confirmed she had found the key in her pocket. The manager  
explained that the locksmith was now on annual leave, but she would  return the key 
to him as soon as she returned to work.
Mr V and Mrs G contacted Ageas and advised that they felt their property was no 
longer secure  because  the key had been  with the locksmith while  she was on leave. 
Ageas contacted the locksmith about the possibility  of replacing the locks, but it 
confirmed wouldnt do so for free. It said it would cost around  £300 to replace the 
locks again. Ageas advised Mr V and Mrs G to get a quote for replacing the locks  
and said it would review  the quote  once received.
Around a week  later Mr V and Mrs G sent an email to Ageas. They  said it was 
unprofessional of the locksmith to have left their property with one of the keys. They 
said having gone through a burglary recently,  having one of their keys out of their 
possession made  them  very nervous that it could be copied. They said the 
locksmiths manager told them  the key couldnt be copied without a code, but a 
separate locksmith  said it could. They said the whole situation was very suspicious 
and the only way to resolve  things was to have the locks replaced again.
Ref: DRN87180452Mr V and Mrs G called Ageas a few days later to discuss  the situation.  Ageas 
advised it would not agree to pay for them to replace the locks again. It said the key 
had now been  returned and was with the locksmith  the entire time.
Mr V and Mrs G complained to Ageas about  its decision and told it they were going to 
have the locks replaced again. They sent Ageas a receipt following the replacement 
and advised they would  bring their complaint to our service if it wasnt upheld.
Ageas didnt uphold Mr V and Mrs Gs complaint.  It sent its final response on 
6 June 2018. It said the key was removed from the bunch in order  to test the locks 
then accidentally removed  from the property. It said the key was with the locksmith 
until it was returned  to Mr V and Mrs G. It said on the balance of probabilities it didnt 
agree the locksmith wouldve  made  a copy of the key as it was well documented from 
the outset that the key was in her possession.
Mr V and Mrs G didnt  agree, so they brought their complaint to our service where it 
was looked at by one of our investigators. She thought Mr V and Mrs Gs complaint 
should be upheld.  She said Mr V and Mrs G had been understandably  shaken  by the 
burglary and this was made worse because they had to spend time out of the house  
attending medical appointments for Mrs G. She said this was further compounded by 
a lack of response  from the locksmith and being  given incorrect  advice, about the key 
being able to be copied, by the manager.  She said although the key was returned 
within around five days, she didnt feel any amount of reassurance would address the 
concerns that Mr V and Mrs G held. So she thought Ageas should refund the cost of 
the replacement  locks.
Ageas didnt agree with our investigator.  It said the key was removed from 
Mr V and Mrs Gs property in error.  But all parties were aware that the key was with 
the locksmith from the following day, so it didnt accept that the key could  be classed 
as missing. It accepted  that Mr V and Mrs Gs concerns  wouldve been  heightened 
due to the burglary. But said it didnt feel this was sufficient justification to warrant a 
further replacement  of the locks.
Our investigator considered Ageas response, but it didnt change  her view. She said 
she thought there were  exceptional circumstances for Mr V and Mrs G wanting  to 
change their locks again.  She again  highlighted that Mr V and Mrs G couldnt  contact  
the locksmith and were  incorrectly told by the manager that their key couldnt be 
copied, which they later found out to be untrue.  She said in the circumstances she 
thought it was reasonable for Mr V and Mrs G to have their locks replaced  again.
In response to this, Ageas  said it hadnt been  able to locate any evidence that the 
locksmith manager advised Mr V and Mrs G that their key couldnt be copied.  It said 
it understood that any key could be copied  by a reasonably qualified locksmith, so it 
didnt see why the manager would  have said that it couldnt be. It reiterated that the 
key was with the locksmith the entire time,  so the only person  who had the 
opportunity to make a copy was her. It said given her profession it saw no relevance 
or benefit to her making  a copy. So it maintained its original decision to not pay for 
the replacement  locks. 
Because no agreement has been reached, the complaint  has been passed to me to 
decide.
Ref: DRN87180453my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Having done so, I dont currently agree that it would be fair or reasonable  to require 
Ageas to reimburse  Mr V and Mrs G for the replacement locks. But I do think  it needs 
to pay them  some compensation  for the trouble and upset the situation has caused 
them. Ill explain my reasoning in more detail  below.
Our investigator felt that it was reasonable for Mr V and Mrs G to replace their locks 
again, considering the circumstances. Particularly given they were given incorrect 
advice about whether  the key could  be copied or not  which made them  feel 
additionally suspicions.
Ageas says it hasnt  been able to locate  any evidence  that the lock smith  manager 
advised Mr V and Mrs G that the key couldnt  be copied, or that it said it would email 
them the code  they would  need if they wanted to make further copies themselves. 
When Ageas  spoke to the locksmith company about this, it was advised that the 
locksmith company do not retain  a copy  of the code.  It said the code is on the key. 
Ageas says that any key can be copied,  so it doesnt think its likely  that the manager 
wouldve said that theirs  couldnt be.
I completely appreciate that suffering a burglary mustve been distressing for 
Mr V and Mrs G. And its clear that the key was removed from their property by the 
locksmith when it shouldnt have been, which has added further worry. However, I 
think its important to note that the key was located quickly and Mr V and Mrs G were 
made aware  of its whereabouts.  
Regardless of whether  Mr V and Mrs G were told the key couldnt be copied, I dont 
think the key could reasonably be classed as missing at this point. I say this because 
the locksmith company  had confirmed the key was with the locksmith who fitted the 
locks. And as all parties were made  aware of this from the day after the key went 
missing, I agree that there  wouldve been very little benefit to the locksmith if she had 
a copy made, as it was well documented that she was the only person with 
opportunity to do so. And considering her profession, she wouldnt have needed a 
copy of their key if she had wanted gain access to their property.
I understand Mr V and Mrs Gs reasons for deciding to change  their locks again.  But I 
think it was a choice  they made, having already had their key back,  and knowing 
where it had been  the entire  time. So I cant say I agree that their decision to change  
the locks again was proportionate in the circumstances. And it follows that I dont 
think it would  be fair or reasonable  to require Ageas to pay for the replacement  locks.  
With that having been said, I dont  think this means that Ageas hasnt done anything  
wrong. From what Ive seen Mr V and Mrs G have suffered a fair amount of additional  
distress because of the actions of the locksmith.  And as the locksmith is an agent of 
Ageas, its actions are Ageas actions,  as far as the contract of insurance is 
concerned.
Ref: DRN87180454When Mr V and Mrs G initially  contacted the locksmith, they say she told them she 
would need to check her van and get back to them. But she didnt, and they only 
discovered she was in possession of the key when they called her company the 
following day. Despite  being made aware  that their key had been found, they had to 
wait a further five days before receiving it. This was despite them highlighting how 
concerned they were  about the security of their home and the reasons for their 
concerns.
Although I appreciate the circumstances that prevented Ageas being able to have the 
key returned sooner   the locksmith  being  on annual leave  I dont  think  this 
negates the distress it caused Mr V and Mrs G. Ultimately,  had the mistake  never  
occurred, they wouldnt  have experienced the same  level of trouble  and upset. So I 
think Ageas  should  pay Mr V and Mrs G £100 to recognise the impact  that the 
mistake has had on them.
Both sides responded to my provisional  decision. Ageas said it was happy to accept my 
findings. But Mr V and Mrs G raised several  points they wanted me to consider. These are:
they have been  honest throughout, whereas Ageas have not
Ageas  put them in this position  by making  them contact the locksmith directly, rather  
than sorting it out on their behalf
the locksmith manager told them the key couldnt be copied,  which  they later found 
out wasnt true
they didnt  know the locksmith  and didnt want to live with the possibility that their key 
could be copied
I have ignored the key issue  about Mrs Gs health and the impact  the situation has 
had on them
Mr V and Mrs G asked  that I reconsider my decision in light of these points and to direct 
Ageas to refund the full cost of the replacement locks and award  a larger  compensation 
payment.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the evidence  and arguments  already sent to us to decide  whats  fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive also carefully  considered the 
additional points  raised by Mr V and Mrs G. But having done so, my decision remains 
unchanged. Ill explain why in more  detail below.
Mr V and Mrs G have  raised a number  of points for me to consider. But these are all things 
that had been raised  previously. So I had already considered these points when  coming to 
my provisional decision.
I understand that suffering  a burglary wouldve been  a traumatic  experience. And I fully 
appreciate that the wider personal  circumstances wouldve added to the concern this 
situation caused. But it wouldnt be fair for me to hold Ageas responsible for the trouble and 
upset caused  by the actual burglary. I can only consider the error that Ageas made and the 
added impact that it had.
Ref: DRN87180455As the locksmith was the person who had the key, I dont think it was unreasonable for 
Ageas to ask Mr V and Mrs G to contact the locksmith company directly,  in the first instance. 
And the locksmith company were  able to confirm the whereabouts of the key the day after it 
went missing.  
Mr V and Mrs G say that they were told the key couldnt be copied. But they later found out it 
could be. I addressed this point specifically in my provisional decision. I cant  say for certain 
whether or not they were told this. Ageas doesnt  think they wouldve been, but I havent 
seen any additional,  supporting evidence  either  way, besides  what  each side has told me.
As I said in my provisional decision,  whether or not they were told the key couldnt be 
copied, by this point they had been told that the key was with the locksmith who changed the 
locks. So while it wasnt in their possession, I dont think  it could still be classed as missing. 
Mr V and Mrs G say that they didnt know the locksmith, and they didnt want to risk the 
possibility that the key could be copied.  I do sympathise that they felt this way. But as it had 
been documented by this point that the locksmith  had the key, there  wouldnt have been  any 
benefit to her to make  a copy or do anything untoward with it  as it could easily  be traced 
back to her. And as I said in my provisional  decision,  given her profession,  if she had wanted 
to gain access to their property, she wouldnt have needed the key.
Overall, I still think that Mr V and Mrs G made the decision to change their locks  after being  
advised that Ageas wouldnt pay for the second replacement, and knowing where their key 
had been the entire  time. So while I do sympathise with their situation, I dont think  it would 
be fair or reasonable  to require Ageas to pay for the replacement locks.
In terms of the compensation award, I fully appreciate that the locksmiths error  which 
Ageas are responsible for  caused Mr V and Mrs G additional worry and concern given the 
wider circumstances.  But the key was only missing  for one day, and was returned at the 
earliest opportunity.  So I do think the £100 compensation I recommended in my provisional 
decision is fair in the circumstances. 
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above and in my provisional decision I uphold  Mr V and Mrs Gs 
complaint in part. 
Ageas Insurance Limited should:
pay Mr V and Mrs G £100 to recognise  the trouble  and upset the situation has 
caused them
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr V and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 February  2019.
Adam Golding
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8718045