K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain  about the early repayment charge (ERC)  they had to pay HSBC 
UK Bank Plc trading  as First Direct  when  they sold their house. They would like First Direct 
to refund the ERC.
background
Mrs P had a mortgage with First Direct and an ERC payable  if she redeemed the mortgage 
early. Mr and Mrs P were moving  house and spoke  to First Direct about porting the 
mortgage product  and avoiding the ERC. First Direct  said that they wouldnt get the new 
mortgage they wanted on affordability grounds. This related to Mr Ps income being made up 
of bonus and commission payments. Mr and Mrs P went elsewhere for their new mortgage. 
But First Direct had made a mistake  and then told Mr and Mrs P that it could consider a 
mortgage application. First Direct  offered to fast track Mr and Mrs Ps application and refund 
the booking fee to the new lender of £200. Mr and Mrs P felt that they were  too far on in the 
new application to the new lender. This meant  when they redeemed their mortgage  they paid 
an ERC which they would like refunded.
Our adjudicator felt that although First Direct had made a mistake  that they took measures to 
rectify their mistake. Mr and Mrs P chose to go elsewhere so he felt that the ERC was 
payable. But our adjudicator also felt that Mr and Mrs P should get compensation of £100. 
Mr and Mrs P disagreed and said that it was unreasonable for them to have changed back to 
First Direct  at that late stage of the process. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its accepted that First Direct gave Mr and Mrs P incorrect information about their prospects 
for a new mortgage  on a new property on 27 October 2018.  Mr and Mrs P raised a 
complaint. When First Direct reviewed the application, it decided that it could consider it and 
contacted Mr and Mrs P on 1 November.  As Mr and Mrs P had in the meantime submitted 
an application to another lender on 29 October, First Direct offered to fast track the 
application and pay the other lender's booking fee of £200.
I note that the Mr and Mrs P had a completion date in mind  of 10 December 2018  although 
the completion in fact happened later. About a week after First Direct gave Mr and Mrs P 
incorrect information it offered to remedy the error and fast track a mortgage  application. Mr 
and Mrs P decided to continue with the other lender.  Mr and Mrs P say in the complaint form 
that we had already secured a mortgage  with another  lender  and progressed  our purchase 
to a point where  we were unable to start the process  again  with First Direct 
Im not sure what progress Mr and Mrs P had made with the other lender by 1 November as 
they had only made  the application  on 29 October. But when First Direct  contacted  Mr P on 
1 November the adviser was keenly aware  of the time issue. The contact notes say that the 
adviser was looking to discuss assessing application to put in the same position  in 
mortgage timeline as external provider which would avoid ERC and compensate  for lost 
time
Ref: DRN84534152First Direct  offered to fast track  the application.  This implies that it would  process it faster 
than it would normally process a mortgage  application which should have given Mr and 
Mrs P some comfort. I appreciate that that in itself is not a timescale but demonstrated that it 
was making a serious effort  to catch up on lost time.    
If Mr and Mrs P had concerns about  the timescales at the time, I expect they could have got 
some further  clarification from First Direct then to see what that in fact meant and how it 
compared to the timescales of their new lender. Mr and Mrs P could then have compared  the 
timescales and see if they were  going  to be disadvantaged by staying with First Direct. But 
Mr and Mrs P dont  appear to have  done so. I believe that First Direct was making a genuine 
offer to make up the short time lost through its initial error. I dont accept that Mr and Mrs P 
had reasonable grounds to believe that First Direct would be unable  to process their 
application in a timely manner.
A First Direct adviser had made  a mistake about whether Mr Ps bonus payments could be 
considered as income and the company was trying  to rectify  it. Mr and Mrs P say that they 
had lost all trust in First Direct. I could understand  that response if there was a history of 
errors or some deceit. In fact Mr and Mrs P seemed content with the lender until that point. 
So, I dont believe that it was reasonable for Mr and Mrs P to conclude,  as they say, that 
they couldnt rely on the information  First Direct provided based on that one error.  
I realise that if Mr and Mrs P had switched back to First Direct on 1 November that there  
would be the added  inconvenience of going  through another mortgage  application.  But, 
continuing with the new lender meant that they couldnt port their mortgage. No one at First 
Direct suggested to Mr and Mrs P that an ERC wouldnt be charged and in fact it was 
charged.  So, for the reasons set out above  I cant fairly uphold this complaint. I accept that 
by giving them the wrong information initially First Direct caused Mr and Mrs P an amount of 
upset and I accept  that the offer of £100  is reasonable compensation for that. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 August 2019.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8453415