K820x#14complaint
Ms H complains about a finance agreement with Volkswagen Financial Services  (UK) 
Limited (VWFS). She says she handed  the car back to the dealership and was led to 
believe that her agreement would be terminated. Her agreement  wasnt  terminated  and she 
accrued arrears.
background
Ms H had a finance  agreement with VWFS. Partway through the agreement she decided to 
purchase a new car and return  the old one.
Ms H took her old car to the dealership  and entered into a new finance agreement  for a new 
car. She says she was led to believe that the dealership would sort out the termination of her 
agreement for the old car so she left it there.
A few weeks  later Ms H received a letter from VWFS advising her that shed missed 
payments and that her account  was in arrears.
Ms H complained to VWFS. She asked it to clear the arrears. In its final response VWFS 
said it was up to Ms H to contact them to arrange a voluntary  termination  and that because  
she hadnt done so her agreement had continued as normal. It said she was liable to pay the 
arrears.
Ms H wasnt  happy with the response and complained  to this service.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He said it was Ms Hs responsibility to contact 
the finance provider if she wanted  to terminate the agreement.
Ms H didnt agree. She said shed been told by the dealer that it would  sort everything out. 
She said that if shed  been told that she needed  to contact VWFS to terminate the 
agreement she wouldve done so.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This service spoke to the dealership, who recalled that Ms H was looking to voluntary 
terminate the agreement.  It said it told Ms H that she would need to deal directly with the 
finance company  to arrange this. The dealership advised this service that it tried to contact 
Ms H when her car remained  uncollected. 
Ms H has said that the dealership didnt explain to her that she needed to contact the finance 
company to arrange a voluntary termination.   She says she was led to believe that the 
dealership would sort everything out.
There arent any notes of the discussions  between  Ms H and the dealership  when she 
returned her old car and purchased her new one. So I cant be certain of exactly  what  was 
said. In circumstances  like this I need  to look at the available documents to decide whats 
most likely to have happened. The only relevant  document here is a system note from the 
dealership, which says that Ms H will be voluntary terminating the agreement. Theres  no 
Ref: DRN84992662suggestion that the dealership had agreed to voluntary  terminate the agreement on Ms Hs 
behalf. In any event, this wouldntve been possible,  because only the customer can 
voluntary terminate the agreement.
Ive also looked  at the finance agreement. The terms  and conditions say that its the 
customers responsibility to contact the finance provider to end the agreement.
Based on everything  Ive seen, Im of the view that Ms H ought to have been aware that she 
needed to contact the finance provider to end the agreement. Im not persuaded that the 
dealership told Ms H that it would voluntary terminate  the agreement  on Ms Hs behalf 
because it had no authority to do so and the system  notes dont support this.
For the reasons  Ive given Im unable to uphold the complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 May 2020.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8499266