K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that the vehicle he acquired through  a hire purchase agreement  financed by 
FirstRand Bank Limited trading as MotoNovo Finance wasnt of satisfactory quality. He 
wants MotoNovo to pay for repairs that remain outstanding.
background
Mr P tells us he acquired the vehicle through a dealer Ill refer to as H. He says hes 
experienced various problems with the vehicle from an early stage. This included faults with 
the dashboard; lighting; door locks; parcel shelf;  clutch and flywheel. Hes told us that some 
of the issues have been resolved but not those  relating to the clutch, flywheel and parcel 
shelf.
MotoNovo told us that it had arranged for the vehicle to be independently  inspected  by a 
company Ill refer to as A. It said that As report had identified several issues which had 
subsequently been repaired.  But as the condition of the clutch  and flywheel was found to be 
commensurate with the age and mileage of the vehicle it wouldnt be liable  for this repair.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld.  She noted  the vehicle 
was nine years old and had covered over 106,000 miles at the time of supply. She said the 
vehicle had been independently inspected by A. And she said that Mr P had confirmed that 
all the issues detailed  in the report had been  repaired  other  than the clutch and flywheel. 
She felt this was a wear and tear issue and not the responsibility of MotoNovo  to put right.  In 
respect of a more recent complaint about the parcel  shelf she said that some cosmetic 
damage may be expected to be present on a vehicle of this age and mileage.
Mr P didnt agree with this outcome and said he thought the vehicle had been sold with 
defects which hadnt been advertised or pointed out to him. As its not been possible to 
resolve this complaint an ombudsmans been  asked to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  Mr P has experienced problems with this vehicle but unfortunately with older,  high 
mileage vehicles this is more likely to occur. 
Mr Ps hire purchase agreement  is a regulated  consumer  credit agreement and our service 
is able to consider  complaints relating to it. MotoNovo supplied the vehicle and its therefore 
responsible for a complaint about  the quality of the vehicle. Whilst I dont apply the law - 
directly - I do take it into account. And relevant law here includes the Consumer  Rights  Act 
2015 (CRA). This states that in order to conform to contract goods have to be of satisfactory 
quality at the point of supply. And satisfactory  quality is defined  as being what  a reasonable 
person would consider to be satisfactory  having regard for issues which can include but are 
not limited to such factors as age of the goods and previous use.
Although Mr Ps initial complaint covered a number of items hes since  indicated that the only 
issues which remain outstanding are the clutch and fly wheel and parcel shelf.  Mr P 
accepted repairs  on other items so I neednt make  any findings in respect of those.
Ref: DRN87717762Dealing briefly with the parcel shelf which  Mr P says appears  to be stuck on with blue tack 
and Velcro. Where a consumer has examined  goods prior to supply  any faults which  that 
inspection ought  to reveal arent  considered in determining if the goods are of satisfactory  
quality. A parcel  shelf is a readily visible item so Id expect such  cosmetic  issues to be raised 
at the time of supply if they were  felt to be a concern.
The clutch  and flywheel  are obviously of more concern to Mr P as they affect the operation  
of the vehicle and are far more expensive  to repair or replace. Its not possible to be precise 
about how long these components will normally last as it depends upon so many potential 
factors. The manner in which a vehicle  has been driven and how it has been maintained  are 
just two of the variables. And I can see Mr P has indicated he agrees there is no such  thing 
as normal wear  and tear. However, this vehicle had covered more  than 106,000  when 
supplied to Mr P so I wouldnt consider it unusual for such issues to arise.
Ive also looked  at the report by A and can see that it contained the following  conclusion:
In relation to the clutch, we can confirm that when the vehicle is placed under
load or under initial drive take up, a slight clutch judder is detected. However,  there is no
specific clutch slip or other clutch concerns. This is, however, consistent with a worn
clutch assembly not uncommon for the vehicles age and recorded mileage.
Although Mr P suggests the problem is with the fly wheel thats an integral part of the overall 
clutch mechanism and so the same  considerations are likely to apply.
Ill deal finally with a more general issue which Mr P has raised in that he feels  as the defects 
with the vehicle werent pointed out to him theres been a misrepresentation. Ive already 
said I dont apply the law directly. But even if I did I dont think it would assist Mr P in this 
case. Briefly summarised,  the law doesnt require a supplier to point out actual or potential  
defects with its products.  Its more  akin to a negative obligation not to actively mislead  as 
opposed to a positive obligation to disclose. And the CRA does make certain presumptions 
about satisfactory quality  which Ive already  referred  to. These provide a certain level of 
safeguard for a consumer. Over and above  this its for a consumer to make a judgment and 
unfortunately things  dont  always  work out as well as might be hoped.
Whilst I know it will come as a disappointment  to Mr P for the reasons Ive explained Im not 
upholding this complaint. 
Ref: DRN87717763my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2020.
Stephen D Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8771776