K821x#15complaint
Mrs Bs representative, a claims management  company (CMC), complains on her behalf that 
she was given unsuitable investment advice by RLUM Limited (the business).
background
In a Final Response Letter dated  24 January 2019,  the business upheld  the complaint  on the 
basis that too much money  in the sum of £40,000  had been invested.  It said that only 
half the amount  should have been invested and offered redress  on that basis. Our 
investigator agreed. 
The issue  in dispute is the rate of interest that should be attached  to the redress  payment. 
The business says the rate should be Bank of England base rate +1% (BoE +1%).  It 
maintains the annual  rate of 8% is unfair in this case and profits the consumer. In short,  it 
said:
we do not take the view that where  an investment has been surrendered  more  than 6 years 
ago that the rate of 8% simple inappropriately profits the complainant when investment 
returns in general  are much lower  now due to the current rate of Bank of England base rate 
at 0.75% therefore  we applied the rate of BOE +1% which provided a more  realistic return in 
such cases.
The CMC disagreed with the business  and insists  that the rate should be 8% a year simple.
One of our investigators  considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld.  In 
summary, he said:
Its important to understand why we use the interest rate at 8% simple. When  a 
consumer has been wrongly deprived  of a sum of money in the past we usually ask 
the business to add interest from the date the consumer shouldve  had the money to 
the date the money  is actually paid. 
As explained on our website:
oThe current rates paid on deposit account  are not an appropriate benchmark 
because the rates  of interest consumers  have to pay in order  to borrow  are 
much higher. So the 8% interest  rate (which  is also the rate generally  used by 
the courts) reflects  the fact that:
the rate is gross before tax is deducted
it often applies to historic losses at times when different base-rates are 
applied
it takes account of current interest  rates being  charged on overdrafts 
and loans  which  have not reduced  in line with the base rate.   
So its not about what Mrs B couldve achieved had the money been invested 
elsewhere, its because  she was deprived of that money while  it was invested,  and 
this reflects more  on what it wouldve cost her to borrow the money  that she was 
deprived of. 
The business disagreed with the investigators view.  In short,  it said:
It has been agreed that had the additional £20,000 not been invested it potentially  
wouldve remained in the deposit  cash account  they had. Therefore it believes the 
rate of BoE base rate +1% is fair and reasonable.
It doesnt accept  the outline for the use of 8% simple  interest.   
Ref: DRN81350412As no agreement has been reached the matter  has been passed to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
going to uphold the complaint. 
I have a deal of sympathy for some  of the points  made by the business  and appreciate  its 
rationale. 
But I think whilst its offer to redress half of the £40,000 invested in the CIS Corporate Bond 
Income Trust, at fixed rate bond  rates (which was the resulting loss)  at surrender is correct, I 
dont think its offer to do so with interest  at a rate of  BoE base rate +1% is correct. 
Notwithstanding what the business  says, Ive not seen anything that persuades me from 
departing from our usual  rate of interest   as per the investigators recommendation  at 8% 
a year simple. Theres just no way that I can say  with any certainty   what shed have done 
with the money  instead. 
Im mindful the investigator talked about  the cost  of borrowing. But I think there are all sorts  
of other  opportunities that might have been missed as well  possible  investment returns,  
possible missed holidays and other expenditure and so on. So the 8% interest  is just a 
reasonable way of compensating  for being deprived  of the money and missing a host of 
possible opportunities. And moreover,  its a rate the courts have often  used in similar  cases.
So in other words, I cant see a viable  reason  why we wouldnt add 8% simple  interest  to a 
crystallised loss until date of settlement because its money the investor  has been deprived 
of.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint. 
RLUM Limited should pay the redress set out in its Final  Response Letter dated 24 January 
2019, with 8% simple  interest. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 November  2019.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8135041