K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) should have made a refund payment, in 
respect of charges  he incurred between 2010-2013, directly to himself rather than crediting it 
to his 2 accounts.  
background
Mr P held 2 accounts  with Lloyds. Account ending 62 was opened on the 15 June 2011  and 
closed by Lloyds  on the 14 March 2013.  Account ending 68 was opened on the 
22 March 2001  and closed by Lloyds  on the 11 January 2013. At the time of closing the 
accounts each  had a debit balance  of £1,400.32 and £3,410.42 respectively. Defaults were  
applied to Mr Ps credit  file on the closure  of each.
More recently Lloyds undertook a review of the assistance it had provided to its customers  
whose accounts  had been placed  with their Collections  department. That review, in so far as 
it related to Mr P led to a refund being generated of £485.33 in respect of account  ending 62 
and £362.71 in respect of account  ending 68. The refunds were applied  to each account.
Mr P feels  the refunds  should  be paid to him so that he might have the benefit of those  
monies. He has described in some detail the difficult financial circumstances he was 
experiencing at the time the charges were incurred. He has also advised that because of 
those circumstances,  on the 1 March 2013 he entered into a Scottish Protected Trust Deed 
with a number  of his creditors, including Lloyds.  The effect  of the Deed  he says was that 
each creditor agreed not to pursue  him for any outstanding balance on their respective 
accounts. That being so he feels Lloyds should  not have applied  those refunds to his old 
accounts since they are in effect acting otherwise than in accordance with the Trust Deed.
Lloyds said that had Mr Ps accounts been  paid off in full, then they would have refunded  
him directly. However, once they had identified that charges had been applied  incorrectly,  
they simply made an adjustment on each account, to the extent of each refund, so each 
account then showed the correct balance. As such they were  not pursuing  him. Lloyds did 
accept that it had not closed account  ending 62 as quickly as it ought, with the result that the 
default on Mr Ps credit  file was registered late. So they paid him £75 in recognition of that 
error and also backdated  the default  on his credit  file to the 11 December  2012  being the 
earliest date the account could have been  closed.
Mr P was unhappy with Lloyds response  and so an investigator from this service looked into 
the complaint  but didnt think Lloyds had done anything wrong, save for the delay  in closing 
the account. Mr P disagreed and so the matter has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  The agreed  facts are that the charges 
were wrongly applied to Mr Ps accounts. Lloyds accept that, and they have subsequently 
calculated the amount  wrongly charged. Mr Ps accounts have subsequently  been credited 
with that amount.
The issue  therefore  is where or to whom the refund should be issued.  The Trust Deed is 
clear that Mr Ps creditors  agreed  not to pursue  him for any balance on an account. As a fact 
Ref: DRN80820232Lloyds have taken  no further steps  in terms of the normal avenues of recovery.  However 
what they have  done is adjusted his old account balances.
I do understand, and fully accept, that Mr P feels his insolvency advisors led him to believe 
that all his balances  would be written off, and in one sense I can see that if a creditor  agrees  
not to pursue an outstanding balance, it will feel like it has been written  off. But I would agree 
with our Investigators view that there is a stark  difference between an agreement not to 
pursue a debtor, and an agreement to wipe or write off a balance.  So, in Mr Ps case  as a 
fact the balances were  not written off by Lloyds, and nor did they agree to do so. I note Mr P 
has made a complaint about his insolvency advisors and that forms the basis of an entirely 
separate matter  and must be dealt with elsewhere.
What I need to decide is whether Lloyds  acted fairly  and reasonably in how it dealt with 
Mr P. What  Lloyds have done is to identify the charges which they imposed, and which 
ought not to have been, and then gone  on to remove them.  That has placed Mr P back into 
the position he was before those charges were added to his account.  That in my view is fair 
and logical. Lloyds  have not pursued  Mr P and so are not breaching  the terms of the Trust 
Deed. I can accept that had Mr P cleared  the balance on his accounts then he would have 
been entitled to receive  a refund of those charges directly. But he did not and Lloyds have 
simply corrected  their earlier  mistake of applying incorrect  charges. 
So overall, in deciding whether Lloyds have acted fairly and reasonably,  I have come  to the 
same conclusion as the investigator,  that they have,  and for similar reasons. I know  Mr P will 
be disappointed  with my decision but Im not satisfied that Lloyds have treated him unfairly, 
so Im not going  to ask it to do anything  further and Im not upholding his complaint.
Lloyds have backdated the default  on Mr Ps account to the earliest date possible, and that 
is fair. And theyve paid him £75 to reflect their error in not doing  so earlier.  I think that is fair 
and line with the awards this service would make  for distress  and inconvenience in 
circumstances like this.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I do not uphold the complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 August 2019. 
Jonathan Willis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8082023