K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Spread Co Limited  placed his spread betting  account under dealer 
referral and then suspended  his account, unfairly  preventing him to trade.
background
In early 2019, Mr H placed around 60 trades  on his promotional  spread free trading account  
with Spread Co. They reviewed his account and said hed engaged  in scalping which  wasnt 
a trading strategy they allowed. They placed his account on dealer referral which meant that 
all his trades were checked before they were placed. This could result  in a delay and 
therefore a less favourable price. 
He agreed with Spread Co to ensure his trades lasted a minimum of three  to five minutes 
and was then allowed  to trade  without  the dealer referral. But in April 2019,  Spread Co said 
hed engaged in scalping again and his account  was placed on a dealer referral for the 
second time.
Mr H said he hadnt understood the terms and conditions and in future would refrain from the 
same trading  strategy  to avoid any further  infringements of the terms. He also highlighted 
that the business adviser at Spread Co had given  him incorrect information on hedging his 
trades and to what period was acceptable  to open  new trades. The adviser had informed him 
that trades  had to be open between three to five minutes, but the terms and conditions  later 
provided to Mr H said they had to be more than three minutes. So, Mr H was annoyed that 
the terms and conditions were changed after he complained. He didnt think  the terms of 
trading and time limits imposed were clear.
Spread Co didnt agree to remove his account from dealer referral.  While communicating  
with Mr H, he mentioned feeling  stressed and they felt that he would benefit from a six month 
cooling off period  so they suspended  his account. Unhappy with this, Mr H brought his 
complaint to this service.  
Our investigator didnt  think Spread Co had acted  unfairly. He felt Mr H had already 
accepted the reason for the dealer referral. He said he didnt think the terms of the account  
had been changed and that it was their decision  whether  they wanted to allow  him to trade 
with them.  
Mr H didnt agree so this has come  to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I will explain  why.
dealer referral
Spread Cos spread free terms and conditions say:-
8.11. This offer is subject to fair use policy and consequently we have the right to 
withhold this offer when  we have reasonable belief that there  has been co-operation, 
collusion or organisation of trades  from the same source, or if we have  reasonable 
Ref: DRN83878392belief that the offer is being abused in any way, inclusive of scalping i.e. opening  and 
closing a position within three  minutes.
Spread Cos policy explains that they consider scalping trading strategy  as abuse of their 
spread free account offer and a breach  of the Terms  of Business of their spread betting 
account. 
Mr H has been in regular  communications with Spread Co and their scalping policy was 
explained to him. I understand  he says the policy wording has changed but the 
communications between  the Spread Co adviser and him, confirm that he was expected to 
keep his trades open for a minimum three  minutes. 
In January 2019, the adviser says 'In terms of making sure you're not scalping, just make 
sure you hold your trades for a minimum of around 3-5 minutes. If there is an odd trade that 
you close early, that is understandable but if we see a consistent pattern we will deem it as 
scalping. It does  apply equally for profitable  trades and loss making trades but its more 
understandable when  someone is losing money  and just wants  to get out the trade. No one 
will enter a trade to deliberately lose money on it.' Despite this explanation, the scalping 
continued, and he was placed on dealer referral for a second  time.
Mr H has questioned the fairness  of Spread  Cos application of their scalping policy to his 
trades. Although  I understand his disappointment  at being placed  on a dealer referral, I dont 
think their policy,  or its application  is inherently  unfair. I believe its reasonable for them to 
prohibit a trading strategy thats used to obtain  profits by benefitting from opening and 
closing large numbers of trades in short succession. 
Mr H says he explained to Spread Co that his trading  strategy was based on pairing trades 
together and this is how he was hedging his trades. So, I appreciate why he may have 
thought this approach was different. I do think Spread Cos adviser could have been clearer 
in explaining the impact  of this approach and that his account was not viewed on how 
individual positions were managed. But I can also see that the Terms of Business of the 
spread betting  account which also applied to the spread free account say:-
9.2 You may close  an Open Trade,  subject  to the terms and conditions  of this 
Agreement, by:
(a) You acknowledge that Spread  Co will automatically treat you as having  closed 
such an Open Trade where:
(i) you execute an Opposite Trade which is equal  in size to the Open Trade;
(ii) you execute an Opposite Trade which is larger  in size to the Open  Trade, in which  
case Spread Co will automatically close the relevant Open  Trade  and will open an 
Opposite Trade to the Open  Trade  in respect  of the amount by which  the size of the 
Opposite Trade exceeds the size of the Open Trade; and
(iii) you execute an Opposite Trade which is smaller  in size to the relevant Open 
Trade, in which case Spread Co will automatically close  that part of the relevant 
Open Trade which is equivalent  to the size of the Opposite Trade,  thereby reducing  
the size of the relevant  Open Trade. Where  you have  multiple  Open Trades  without 
an attached Guaranteed Stop Order  in respect of the same  Referenced  Investment, 
Spread Co will use its discretion to determine  which Trade  or Trades to close  in the 
event that you execute  an Opposite Trade.
(b) in the case  of an Open Trade which has an attached Guaranteed Stop Order, 
instructing Spread  Co to close such Open Trade.  For the avoidance of doubt, 
Ref: DRN83878393multiple Trades with attached Guaranteed Stop Orders cannot  be closed by being  
netted off.
It is clear from this term that opposing trades  would be treated as having closed the original 
open trade and that his trades would be looked  at on the basis  of the overall  position  
exposure. 
The adviser told him that the odd trade under three  minutes would be ok, but also said if we 
see a consistent  pattern,  we will deem this as scalping. It was made clear to him, that he 
had to keep his positions open for a minimum of three minutes  and he failed to adhere to 
this, so I dont think it was unreasonable for Spread  Co to apply their scalping policy.  They 
didnt void any of his trades, whether profit making  or loss making and have simply 
prevented him from continuing to use a trading practice that they dont allow.  I am of the 
view that Mr Hs trading behaviour was in line with the strategy  Spread  Co would consider 
scalping and I dont  think theyve acted unfairly by placing him on a dealer referral.  
account suspension
Spread Cos spread free terms and conditions say:-
General conditions
8.3. Spread Co reserves  the right to refuse any Qualifying Applicant to participate  in 
this account type that is believed to be in breach of the Terms and/or Spread Co 
Terms. In the event  that such Qualifying  Applicant  or a non-Qualifying Applicant (the 
Unauthorised Participant) takes  part in the account  type, Spread Co reserves  the 
right, without prejudice to any other  rights under the Terms and/or Spread  Co Terms, 
to immediately withdraw the Account.
8.4. Spread Co reserves  the right at its sole discretion to alter, amend, modify,  
suspend or terminate this account type, or any aspect of it without prior notice. In 
such event Spread  Co will make  reasonable efforts to notify You by email.
Mr H was allowed to resume trading in his spread free account  without the dealer referral  the 
first time this happened.  But he then continued  to be in breach of the terms and conditions of 
the account. Spread Co confirmed to him that 50% of his trades placed at the end of April 
2019 were opened and closed within three  minutes so I can see why they would  place his 
account under dealer referral again and suspend his account. I believe they were clear in 
explaining that this type of trading they werent  willing to allow. So, I think its fair for 
Spread Co to operate his account in line with the terms and conditions that he agreed to.
While dealing with the complaint from Mr H, he also mentioned to Spread  Co that he was 
feeling stressed. I would  expect a business  to act responsibly in the way they conduct 
business particularly  where there is any suggestion of stress and I think  this is what they 
have done here. So, I can understand why they felt he needed a six month cooling off period 
and dont think its unreasonable that they suspended  his account for six months. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against 
Spread Co Limited.
Ref: DRN83878394Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 July 2020.
Naima Abdul-Rasool
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8387839