K820x#14complaint
Mr B says he was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
I cant consider this complaint against  the policy seller directly because  the sale took place 
before it, or its predecessor-in-title, was regulated by the then Financial Services Authority 
(FSA) for insurance intermediation activities, or otherwise covered by our jurisdiction.
The party that at the time of the sale was the policy insurer, Allianz Insurance Plc 
(ALLIANZ) has accepted  that the seller  was acting as its agent at the time  so it accepted 
responsibility for the sale. To keep  things simple, Ill only refer to ALLIANZ in this decision, 
rather than any other  business.
background and summary to complaint
Mr B bought the policy in 1997  at the same time as taking out a reserve  account. He applied  
for the reserve account and PPI policy by completing an application  form. 
At the time,  Mr B was employed as a Electronic Test Operator. He has told us he was 
entitled to full sick pay and six months worth of redundancy pay which he could use to make 
his repayments  if he couldnt work. Mr B has said he was in good health at the time of the 
sale but suffered  from back pain and depression in 2008. 
In 2009 Mr B had a successful sickness claim on the policy which  paid out £1,182.04.
The policy provided  cover  for Accident, Sickness,  Unemployment and Life  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  15% of Mr Bs reserve  account balance  in the 
event of Mr B being unable to work  due to accident, sickness  and unemployment. 
At the time,  the policy cost 66p per £100 of the monthly outstanding balance.  The premium 
would continue to have to be paid during a successful claim and it did attract interest.  
Mr Bs representative has made  lengthy and substantial representations  on his behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr Bs representative says:
ALLIANZ failed to meet the sales  standards  which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr B wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr Bs representatives 
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means ALLIANZ should have 
told Mr B about the poor value; 
Ref: DRN88854762The common law duty of utmost good faith also means ALLIANZ should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr B and the 
impact they would have had on his chances of making a claim;  and
The information Mr B received was misleading.  These policies were promoted  as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr B disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Bs. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Bs complaint.
This sale took place  in 1997 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself was with a third-party  and not ALLIANZ. That means  the unfair 
relationship provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court  
judgment in Plevin  about s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance  made by the FCA 
about the handling of complaints  about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the 
Plevin judgment, arent  applicable.
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint: 
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for all 
intermediaries (Including Employees of Insurance Companies) other  than Registered 
Insurance Brokers   The ABI Code.  
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Ref: DRN88854763Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
Among other  things, the code said that As a condition of membership of the Association  of 
British Insurers (ABI),  members undertake  to enforce this Code  and to use their best 
endeavors to ensure that all those involved in selling their policies observe its provisions. 
The insurer  was a member of the ABI and the seller  its agent  was acting as an 
intermediary. 
So Im satisfied it is right that I should  take these  codes into account when deciding what is, 
in my opinion, fair and reasonable  in the circumstances of Mr Bs case. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Insurance  Ombudsman  Bureau 
 might have been expected to reach in relation to an equivalent complaint. I note that under 
the Insurance Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman was required  to decide 
complaints by reference to what was, in his opinion, fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances  and that the Ombudsman was required  to observe any applicable rule of 
law or relevant judicial  authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
ALLIANZ was required to take into account the provisions  in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mr Bs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If ALLIANZ gave advice, whether it advised Mr B with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him, given his needs  
and circumstances.  
-Whether ALLIANZ gave Mr B sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable  
him to make  an informed  choice about  whether to take out the policy, including 
drawing to his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
Ref: DRN88854764-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr B, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr B suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr B and 
ALLIANZ, Ive decided  not to uphold  Mr Bs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Mr B know  he had a choice?
ALLIANZ had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional.  
Ive had a look at the application Mr B filled in when applying for his account. On the 
application form there is a separate section  that deals with PPI. In order  to take out PPI you 
had to tick a box for it. I can see on Mr Bs application form the box has been ticked. If Mr B 
didnt want PPI he couldve  left the box clear.
So taking everything into account, I think its more likely  that Mr B knew  the policy was 
optional and he agreed to take it out without undue  pressure. 
did ALLIANZ provide advice?
ALLIANZ says it didnt provide advice during this sale. Mr B cant  remember and looking at 
what happened when  ALLIANZ sold Mr B the PPI, Im not persuaded that it provided advice 
as the account  was opened on the completion of an application form by Mr B where there  
doesnt appear to be any interaction with an advisor.
This means  ALLIANZ didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable for Mr B. Instead, it had to 
give him sufficient, appropriate  and timely information to enable  Mr B to make an informed  
choice about whether  to take out the policy, including drawing to his attention and 
highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main provisions of the policy and 
significant limitations and exclusions. 
the information
ALLIANZ has provided us with Mr Bs application form   showing that PPI had been 
selected. It has also provided to a copy of the paperwork it says he wouldve received, 
including the policy terms and conditions and summary of cover    which I accept on a 
balance of probabilities  applied to policies like Mr Bs. 
Looking at the information provided to Mr B at the time,  I dont think ALLIANZ gave  Mr B the 
information he fairly and reasonably needed  to make an informed decision about  whether or 
not to take out the policy. 
I dont know what ALLIANZ  told Mr B about the PPI but I think  its unlikely he would have 
agreed to take it out without at least having a broad understanding of the cover it provided   
i.e. life, accident, sickness and unemployment cover. And I think its unlikely Mr B would have  
thought it was free.
But it was ALLIANZs responsibility to draw to Mr Bs attention  the important information  
i.e. the key information about the nature  of the cover  and any significant exclusions and 
limitations which might be relevant to his decision. 
Ref: DRN88854765I dont think its likely  ALLIANZ did enough  to do this. For example, I dont think  its likely the 
true cost of the policy was made clear to Mr B, including  the need  to maintain premiums 
during a claim or that the payments would attract interest. In addition, its unlikely ALLIANZ 
adequately drew to his attention the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  
and exclusions.
So I dont  think ALLIANZ gave Mr B sufficient,  appropriate and timely information to enable 
him to make  an informed  choice about  whether to take out the policy, including drawing to 
his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main provisions 
of the policy  and significant limitations  and exclusions. 
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded that there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Bs representative has raised a number  
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Bs. I have considered  
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr Bs representative considers  to be poor 
value. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr B about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone  further  and 
explained the significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Bs representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely that a court would find that this extended to the insurer  having to disclose 
the claims ratio information  or explaining the significance of the limitations  and exclusions in 
the way Mr B has suggested. And taking into account the law, industry  codes and standards  
of good industry  practice applicable to this complaint, I dont think  it would be fair or 
reasonable to impose such requirements on ALLIANZ. 
what effect did ALLIANZs shortcomings  have on Mr B? To what extent did Mr B 
suffer loss or damage  as a result?
I have found that ALLIANZ did not do all it should  have  done when it sold this policy  to Mr B. 
So I have  gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr B 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Mr B 
would have still taken  out the policy, had ALLIANZ  done  things  properly. 
Mr B says he would  not have taken it out and believes that I should  presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. 
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr B had to weigh  up in his own mind the cost of the policy 
against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if he didnt insure against the 
risk of being  unable  to work. 
Ref: DRN88854766As Ive found above, Mr B chose to take this policy out. So I consider that its reasonable to 
conclude he had some  interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But he made 
this decision based  on incomplete information.  So what Mr B thought  he was getting is not 
exactly what he got. The extent to which this differed is a relevant consideration when 
determining if Mr B has suffered any loss or detriment. 
In relation to the costs, Im satisfied Mr B ought  reasonably to have known  he would have to 
pay something for the PPI and that it would cover a portion of his outstanding balance   this 
was set out on the application form. But, I accept that ALLIANZ  didnt make  clear the on-
going cost information. So while Mr B didnt  know some  things,  the ultimate position in the 
event of a successful claim was not dissimilar  to what he would reasonably have thought  
from the information he based his decision to take out the policy  on and found acceptable. 
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr B thought he had bought and 
what he actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions that Mr B knew  about or 
ought to have known about  or had consulted a doctor about during  the 12 months  
before the start date of the policy; 
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr B 
wasnt a permanent employee;
I do accept that there is a possibility that the limitations and exclusions above might  well 
have caused Mr B pause for thought  and may well have caused him to conclude  that the 
policy was not as good as he thought  and he might have decided  not to proceed.  The 
limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have 
dissuaded some  consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr B from taking out the 
policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr Bs circumstances  at the time of sale shows that the policy  
wasnt fundamentally wrong for him. he was eligible for its benefits and it provided cover 
that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable to him should the 
insured risks have  become a reality. I also havent  seen any evidence to suggest he 
wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions  Mr B didnt have any pre-existing 
medical conditions  and was in permanent  employment. So, I still think he had some good 
reasons to take the policy out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr B would have 
expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some  evidence to 
support that claim.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not that Mr B would  still have taken out the PPI. The policy was sufficiently close  to 
what he thought  he was getting and I think the policy could provide a useful benefit in a 
difficult time, notwithstanding his employment  benefits. And in those circumstances I 
consider it more likely  than not that he would have taken out the policy  in any event.  
Ref: DRN88854767Mr Bs representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) make 
it clear that, where a significant failing is identified,  it should be presumed  the consumer 
wouldnt have taken  out PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption.  They  
say we should follow this other than in exceptional  circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
I have thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, I have found  it would be reasonable to conclude  there  
were substantial flaws  in the sales  process.  In those  circumstances, DISP App 3 says it 
should be presumed Mr B would not have bought the PPI he bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
I am satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude  the presumption  is rebutted 
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr Bs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr B 
found himself in as a result of the sale was the same  position he would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr B believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr B in the position he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
That is because,  while I accept its possible that he would not have  taken out the policy, I am 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, it is more likely than not that he would  still have taken 
out the PPI had he been given clear,  fair and not misleading information about the policy he 
was buying. So Im not persuaded  it would be fair and reasonable in those  circumstances, to 
conclude that ALLIANZ  should pay Mr B compensation,  as that would put him in a better 
position than he would  have been  in if everything  had happened  as it should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr B thinks ALLIANZ misrepresented the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
ALLIANZs statements  misrepresented  the contract, in my opinion  the reason why ALLIANZ 
failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in the 
information it provided  but because the overall  information ALLIANZ  gave Mr B, in the way 
it did, was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to 
have met in 1997 when providing information about  an insurance policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Bs representative says a court might take if it were 
to find ALLIANZ negligently  misrepresented the contract to Mr B and about  the remedy  a 
court might award if it were to find that ALLIANZ had been in breach of its duty of utmost 
good faith. But this doesnt persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint   including  what I think is fair 
Ref: DRN88854768compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr B in a better  position  than if everything  had 
happened as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 October  2020.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8885476