K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S have  complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds)  mis-sold them  a Premier 
packaged bank  account in December  2009.  They paid a monthly fee for the account which  
provided several benefits in return.
background
Before I explain my decision Ill outline Mr and Mrs Ss account  history with Lloyds:
their account was opened in July 1986
it was upgraded  to a Gold packaged  account  at some point before Lloyds earliest 
available records, which date back to September 2001
it was upgraded  again to a Platinum  account  in April 2003
it was upgraded  again to a Premier account in December 2009
it was downgraded to a fee-free Classic  account  in June 2014
Before Mr and Mrs S referred their complaint  to this service, Lloyds refunded the fees theyd 
paid for the Gold and Platinum accounts,  plus interest. So I wont  be considering those sales  
as Lloyds has already  put Mr and Mrs S in the position theyd be in now if theyd  never had 
those accounts.
Lloyds has also already refunded the difference in fees between the Premier account, and 
the cheaper Gold account.  It says it did this because whilst  the Premier account  exceeded  
Mr and Mrs Ss needs, it thinks they still needed  the Gold accounts benefits. So in this 
decision, Ill be considering whether thats a fair way to resolve  the complaint.
One of our adjudicators didnt think that Lloyds had mis-sold the Premier account to Mr and 
Mrs S, so she didnt recommend that Lloyds should  pay them any more  compensation.  
Mr and Mrs S didnt  agree so they asked for an ombudsman to look at the complaint and 
make a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve explained  how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website.  
Ive used this approach  to help decide what to do about Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. 
Where evidence is incomplete and matters  are in dispute, as they are here,  I make  my 
decision based on what I think is most likely to have happened  keeping  in mind everything 
Ive seen and been told.
After giving Mr and Mrs Ss complaint a lot of thought,  Im not upholding it. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs S have  said they only upgraded their account to the packaged  account  because 
they thought they needed  to in order to keep their overdraft.  So Ive started  by thinking about 
whether Mr and Mrs S were  given a fair choice when they upgraded.
Ref: DRN84830722From the records Ive seen, Mr and Mrs S had always relied on their overdraft  fairly  heavily. 
So I can understand why it mightve been  a priority  to them to keep it. But in thinking about 
whether they thought that their continued  ability to have an overdraft  was linked to having a 
packaged account, Ive also considered the wider  circumstances.
Mr and Mrs S first upgraded their account  at some point before 2001.  They  upgraded to the 
more expensive Platinum  account in 2003,  and to the Premier account, which  was again 
more expensive in 2009. Having considered this, I think that its more likely that if Mr and 
Mrs S only upgraded  their account because they believed they needed a packaged account 
to keep their overdraft, theyd have  chosen  the cheapest packaged account. But the fact 
they took three different  accounts, each time more expensive and with more benefits, makes  
me think that something else about  the accounts  appealed to them.
Free bank accounts are also widely available in the United Kingdom   both with and without 
overdrafts. And I think its fair to say that Mr and Mrs S probably knew this when they took 
the Premier account.  
From what  I know about Lloyds sales I think it most likely recommended  the Premier 
account to Mr and Mrs S. So it had to make sure it was a reasonable fit for their 
circumstances.
Some of the main benefits of the Premier account  were annual worldwide travel  insurance, 
car breakdown cover, mobile phone insurance  and home emergency  cover.  Mr and Mrs S 
say they owned a car, mobile  phones,  and travelled  worldwide. 
Mr and Mrs S say they werent told that having  pre-existing medical  conditions  would 
increase the cost of their travel insurance  cover. Whilst I accept they mayve had to pay a 
premium for certain conditions to be covered, Im also mindful that its not unusual  for this to 
be the case. I also think its likely that Mr and Mrs S wouldve paid higher premiums  
elsewhere to cover  their conditions, had they bought a separate travel insurance policy. So I 
think theyd have expected that to be the case, and discussed it at the time they upgraded.
I can also see from Lloyds records that Mr and Mrs S contacted the accounts  travel insurer  
five times in the years following the upgrade  once  in 2011, three times in 2013, and once 
in 2014. So I think they were relying  on the travel cover, and likely  discussed their pre-
existing medical conditions in at least some  of those calls. If they werent happy with the 
cover provided by the account, or with paying an additional premium, I dont think  theyd 
have continued  with it. But the fact that paying  an additional premium for certain conditions  
to be covered was an option to them doesnt  make  me think  that having medical conditions 
made the account unsuitable in itself.
Lloyds also says that Mr and Mrs S registered a mobile phone  under the accounts  mobile  
phone insurance  policy in 2012. And Mr and Mrs S say they made a claim using the home  
emergency cover  albeit  the claim wasnt completed.  But even so, Im persuaded that 
Mr and Mrs S took the Premier account because the benefits  of it appealed to them. And I 
havent seen enough to make me think that Lloyds recommendation was unfair.
Ref: DRN84830723Lloyds also had to give Mr and Mrs S enough  clear  information about the Premier account 
for them to decide  if they wanted  it. For the same reasons  that I think  Lloyds made  a suitable 
recommendation, I also think that Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs S the main information about the 
account, and they were  interested  in at least some  of the benefits  it provided. I know  Mr and 
Mrs S have said that with hindsight they shouldve cancelled the account, and I accept they 
might not now think it proved to be good  value  for money to them. But that doesnt  mean  that 
Lloyds mis-sold it.
Its possible that Lloyds  didnt tell Mr and Mrs S everything it should  have about the Premier 
account. But I havent seen enough  to make me think that Mr and Mrs S wouldnt still have 
taken it  even  if Lloyds had told them more about  it. 
Ive noted that Mr and Mrs S say the compensation Lloyds  has paid them is because their 
account didnt  have plumbing  cover. But having  looked at the letters Lloyds  has sent to Mr 
and Mrs S, Im satisfied that what it has paid to them is the refund of the Gold and Platinum 
account fees, and the difference between the Gold and Premier accounts.
Mr and Mrs S have  questioned why the Gold account  which  Lloyds said wouldve suited 
their needs  better than the Premier account   wouldve been suitable for them from 
December 2009,  whereas  it upheld the part of their complaint previous complaint about their 
previous Gold account.
It looks as though Lloyds decision was based on Mr and Mrs Ss change in benefit usage. It 
doesnt look as though  they used the benefits  when they held the Gold  account for the first 
time, but they engaged  with several of their account benefits after upgrading to the Premier 
account. 
I want to reassure Mr and Mrs S that Ive looked  at all the information I have about their 
complaint. And although I havent listed every  point individually Ive thought about everything 
theyve said. But having done so I dont  think Lloyds mis-sold the Premier account to them.
Lloyds has already paid the difference in fees between the Gold and Premier account.  In this 
instance I wouldnt have  awarded a refund of the account fees so I dont award any further 
compensation.
my final decision
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr and Mrs S but for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold their 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 June  2019.
Sam Wade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8483072