K821x#15complaint
Mrs G has complained about U K Insurance Limiteds (UKI) handling of her car insurance 
policy.
background
Mrs G had car insurance with UKI. In October  2018, whilst Mrs Gs car was parked another  
car crashed into it. The damage was such that UKI said the car was a total loss because it 
was uneconomic to repair  it. UKI said the cars pre-accident market value was £1,325.
As Mrs G felt her car was worth more  she disputed UKIs valuation. Mrs G said she found 
out that UKI had disposed of her car without  her permission. Another thing Mrs G was 
unhappy about was that when UKI offered  her a hire car for her to stay mobile,  they said her 
policy would apply to the hire car which meant she would  have  to pay an excess  in the event 
there was a claim resulting from an incident  involving  the hire car. She said UKI told her she 
would have to pay an excess  of £200.  She felt that was unfair, so she said she bought 
excess waiver  cover  for the hire car at a cost of £69. She said when she later raised the 
matter as a complaint with UKI, they told her the excess  was £50 and not £200.
In response to Mrs Gs complaint, UKI accepted they were  wrong  to dispose of her car while  
the valuation was in dispute. They paid Mrs G £200  compensation to address that. But they 
said their valuation of the car was correct and that they hadnt done anything  wrong  in 
relation to the hire car. Mrs G didnt  think that UKI had dealt  with her fairly, so she brought 
her complaint to our service. 
One of our adjudicators looked  into it. She felt that UKIs valuation of the car wasnt  
reasonable. She felt the correct valuation was £1,777.50, not £1,325.  So, she suggested UKI 
should pay Mrs G a further £452.50  together  with interest. In relation to UKI disposing of 
Mrs Gs car, our adjudicator felt £200  compensation didnt go far enough and she suggested 
UKI pay a further £100 to take the total compensation  to £300. Finally,  in relation to the hire 
car, our adjudicator didnt think UKI had done anything wrong. As UKI didnt agree with our 
adjudicator, the complaint has been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding the 
complaint in part for reasons similar  to those of our adjudicator.
Ive looked at all of the information provided to me by the parties carefully. In this decision I 
will focus on what I consider to be the key outstanding issues. My role is to decide if UKI 
have dealt with Mrs G in a fair and reasonable way.
valuation of the car
Mrs Gs policy says that where her car is a total loss, UKI must pay her the pre-accident 
market value of it. I feel that the starting  point  when trying to establish the market value of a 
car is to look at the industry trade guides, and that is what  UKI said they did. The guides  are 
based on extensive nationwide research  of likely  selling prices.  
Ref: DRN86167252Our adjudicator independently checked  the guides but reached  a different conclusion  to that 
of UKI. From  the four trade  guides  our adjudicator used, two gave valuations of £1,750 and 
£1,805. One didnt provide a valuation for the month in which the accident  happened and the 
other didnt  give a valuation at all. Our adjudicator reached the £1,777.50  valuation by 
averaging the two guide valuations. That is an accepted method used within the motor  
insurance industry. 
Looking at the valuation done by UKI, I can see that they based it on Mrs Gs car having 
been registered in June  2015. But that was incorrect as her car was registered  in June 2007. 
The base value  UKI started with was £1,245. UKI made  a deduction of £124 for the cars 
mileage but added £204 for its condition being fair. Thats  how they appear to have 
reached a valuation of £1,325.
But the valuations  obtained by our adjudicator  were  based on the cars correct registration 
date, mileage and other details. After our adjudicator told UKI what  she felt was the correct 
valuation, UKI provided some more information from their engineer explaining why they felt 
their valuation was correct. UKI said our adjudicators suggested valuation should  be 
reduced by 10% because  Mrs Gs car was left hand  drive which  had less value in the UK. 
They also said a review  of the cars MOT history and its pre-accident  condition, shown in 
some photos, meant that it was reasonable to make deductions to reflect its poor  condition . 
But I would like to make the following comments:
Our adjudicator asked  UKI for copies of the photos UKI mentioned showing pre-
existing damage.  But UKI didnt provide us with those photos.
In UKIs valuation they said they increased the guide valuation  they used by £204 to 
reflect the cars fair condition. I think thats inconsistent with UKIs current  position  
that a reduction  in value should be made because the cars condition  was poor. If 
that was UKIs belief  I think  they would have  reduced their own valuation  not added  
£204 to it because they felt the cars condition merited an uplift.
Because UKI disposed of the car Mrs G was deprived of the opportunity  to have  it 
assessed by an independent engineer to challenge what UKI have said.
In UKIs file notes,  which I have  reviewed in full, and in their correspondence  with 
Mrs G about the dispute over the valuation, UKI didnt say their valuation  was 
affected by the poor pre-accident condition of the car, which I would have  expected 
them to have mentioned if that was the case.
I therefore dont  think UKIs valuation  was reasonable. I agree with the valuation our 
adjudicator suggested, namely that the fair pre-accident market  value  of the car is 
£1,777.50. I therefore uphold this aspect of the complaint. UKI have already paid Mrs G 
£1,325. I therefore  require  them to pay her a further  £452.50, together with simple  interest  at 
a rate of 8% a year from the date of claim  until the payment is made.
disposal of the car
UKI said Mrs G didnt  want  to keep her car. But Mrs G said she did. She said she owned the 
car from new and it was cherished. UKI have  accepted that as the valuation was in dispute, 
they shouldnt  have disposed of it. And they paid her £200  compensation. The car still 
belonged to Mrs G at the time it was disposed  of. The car would only have become UKIs 
property once a settlement  was agreed by Mrs G and paid to her. Aside from the upset 
caused to Mrs G, UKI disposing of the car also meant Mrs G was deprived  of the opportunity  
of getting it assessed to counter UKIs assertion that the car was in a poor condition.
Ref: DRN86167253But given the estimated  cost of repairing the car was over £7,000,  I dont think Mrs G would 
have kept the car as I dont think she would  have paid to have it repaired as that would have 
made no economic  sense. But I think the shock of finding out her car was disposed of while  
the settlement  hadnt been  concluded was a source  of distress and inconvenience for Mrs G. 
So, to reflect that, I require UKI to increase the compensation  by £100 as suggested by our 
adjudicator. That brings  the total compensation to £300. In reaching  this amount I have also 
taken into consideration the valuation issue and the fact that I have upheld that part of the 
complaint.
hire car
When Mrs G was offered a hire car she said she didnt want  to pay an excess in the event 
there was a claim. Mrs G therefore decided to buy excess waiver  cover.  
Mrs Gs policy explained that in the event  she had a hire car, she would be covered under 
her insurance policy as though the hire car was her own car. The policy also said if she 
made a claim relating  to the hire car she would  have to pay an excess that applied under her 
policy. Mrs G had a compulsory excess of £50. There  was also a £150 excess for any claim 
resulting from fire and theft. Ive not seen any evidence, other  than what Mrs G told our 
service, that UKI mis-informed her by telling her the excess was £200.  I understand the 
excess was explained  in the policy documentation  which Mrs G should have been aware of. 
I think its possible Mrs G got the £200 figure because thats the combination of her 
compulsory excess of £50 and the £150  excess for fire and theft. Mrs G was upset that the 
cost of her excess waiver cover  was higher than the £50 excess, but I dont think UKI did 
anything wrong. Im therefore not upholding this part of the complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint in part and require U K Insurance 
Limited to:
Pay Mrs G £452.50 towards the settlement of her claim together with simple interest 
at a rate of 8% a year from the date of claim until the payment is made.1
Pay Mrs G a total of £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience she 
experienced. I understand UKI have already paid £200 of that amount. The remaining 
£100 compensation  should be paid within 28 days of us telling them that Mrs G has 
accepted my final decision.  If UKI pay later than this they must also pay interest on 
that amount  from the date of my final decision to the date of payment  at a rate of 8% 
a year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or
reject my decision  before 25 March  2020.
Mehmet Osman 
ombudsman 
1 If UKI consider that they are required by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, they should tell Mrs G how much they have taken off. They  should  also give her a certificate 
showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.  
Ref: DRN8616725