K821x#15complaint
Ms H complains CCUK  Finance Limited (CCUK)  mis sold her a 
Payment Break  Plan (PBP).
 
background
In June 2003, Ms H took out a credit card with a company Ill 
call M. CCUK is now responsible for Ms Hs complaint against 
the original  card provider. The PBP was later added to the 
credit card account and I understand it was activated in July 
2005 and deactivated in August 2008.
CCUK issued a refund to Ms H but the payee  on the cheque 
was incorrectly spelt so Ms H couldnt cash it. Ms H also didnt 
believe the refund  was correct and thought she should be paid 
more. 
After the complaint was referred  to us one of our investigators 
looked into Ms Hs complaint. In summary she recommended  
CCUK reissue  the payment to Ms H with the correct  spelling 
and the redress be increased to amount for the delays and 
inconvenience caused. The replacement cheques were also 
issued with an incorrect spelling of the payee so Ms H was 
again unable to cash the cheques. 
Ms H remains unhappy with the amounts being paid and the 
continued inconvenience caused by the misspelling of her 
name. As the complaint could not be resolved informally its 
been referred to me for consideration. 
my findings
Ive considered  all the available evidence and arguments  to 
decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. Having done so, I have upheld this complaint. 
Ref: DRN80801412It is very disappointing to see that CCUK has been unable to 
issue payment to Ms H with the correct spelling of her name. 
This is a relatively  simple task and one that I would have  
thought should have been resolved  swiftly after the initial error.  
The issue  was however made worse after the replacement  
payment also included the incorrect spelling.  
I fully understand  Ms Hs frustration and the inconvenience this 
has caused her and agree with the investigator that an 
additional sum of £100 should be made because of this. I would 
also remind CCUK  to take great care when issuing the 
payments to Ms H to ensure  the payees name of the cheque is 
correctly spelt. 
I also think that Ms H has been  delayed unnecessarily in 
receiving her refund and when the payment is made it should  
be recalculated up to the date of payment. This should include 
an additional  sum of interest to compensate Ms H for the extra 
time taken to actually receive the correct payment. 
Ms H believes the refund should be greater than CCUK has 
offered as she had the card for a considerable time. CCUK 
however has said that the PBP was only active on the account 
for a little over three years between July 2005 and August 
2008. CCUK has provided details of the PBP payments  and I 
have not seen anything to indicate  that the PBP was actually 
active for a longer period.  The way that the refund has been 
calculated is not unreasonable  and follows how I would expect 
the refund to be calculated in this type of scenario. In the 
absence of anything to show the amount or calculation method 
is incorrect  I dont  think it would be reasonable  to instruct 
CCUK to increase the amount of the refund (apart from for the 
reasons set out above). 
Ref: DRN80801413my final decision
My final decision  is that I uphold Ms Hs complaint against 
CCUK Finance Limited. To settle the complaint  CCUK should 
recalculate the refund  ensuring interested is include up to the 
date of settlement. 
I again remind CCUK of the care it should take when issuing 
the payment to Ms H and to ensure the payee is correctly spelt  
on the cheque.  
If payment is not made within  28 days of Ms H accepting  this 
decision CCUK  should also add interest at 8% simple per year 
to the additional payment of £100. Interest should be calculated 
from the date of this decision  until the date of settlement. 
Under the rules of the Financial  Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Ms H to accept or reject my decision before 
17 March 2020.
Mark Hollands
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8080141