K820x#14complaint
Mr S has complained that Automobile Association  Insurance Services Limiteds charging 
structure for the renewal of his roadside  assistance policy was unfair.
background
Mr S previously had fleet roadside cover with his firm. They took the decision to stop 
providing this for the firm. At the same time Mr S had a renewal  invitation  from the AA based 
on the premium amount  he would have paid had the fleet cover  still been operational for his 
firm, which  was £52.49.
Mr S spoke to the AA and explained he was now a private individual customer and not part 
of the fleet cover. The AA representative then set up a new individual  policy and said the 
premium would now be £198.00. Mr S expressed shock  at this figure so the representative 
added in a promotional discount and reduced it to £134.00.
Mr S felt this price  increase wasnt fair as the risk to the AA was the same, as in he was still 
the driver  and it was the same  car. So he complained to the AA which  said it couldnt help as 
regards the price issues on this occasion.
As Mr S remained dissatisfied  he brought his complaint to us. The investigator didnt think it 
should be upheld.  Mr S didnt agree so its been  passed to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding it. Ill 
now explain  why.
Essentially Mr S complaint concerns the lack of justification for the significant price increase 
when he and his car stopped being covered under the fleet cover  with his firm. He believes  
as nothing has changed as regards him and his car, this price  increase was both unjustified 
and unfair.  Hes of the view that as the same  risk to the AA is presented, the considerable 
increase in the price between being a fleet customer and a private customer  is simply 
unjustified. 
I appreciate Mr S will be disappointed with my decision. However my role and that of this 
service is not to tell a business what to charge its customers. Thats a commercial decision 
which a business  such as the AA is entitled  to do as per the regulations  laid down by the 
Financial Conduct  Authority. The AA has a duty to treat its customers  fairly but that means  
treating all its customers the same in similar situations. The situation here is the price  
differential for customers presenting as fleet customers and then presenting the same  risk 
but as a private customer.
I haven't seen  any evidence  the AA treated Mr S differently to other  private customers. 
Neither have I seen any evidence that it treated Mr S any differently  from any other customer 
who had previously been a fleet customer but was now a private customer, except  that is 
that it gave Mr S a new customer promotional  discount  bringing  the price  down from £198.00  
to £134.00. I think  its worth noting that Mr S wasnt  a new customer  to the AA, but was a 
new customer for its individual  cover. 
Ref: DRN88018902I consider it reasonable that he was given the new customer promotional  discount by the AA 
and if that had not been offered to Mr S, I would have required  it do so.
However, I have no power to tell the AA how it should determine  what  it wants  to charge 
fleet customers and what price it wants to offer its individual customers. Thats  solely a 
commercial decision for the AA. And it might  wish to offer its fleet customers more generous 
premiums on the basis that by their very nature  theyre likely  to attract more business. But, 
whatever the reason for the difference in pricing,  these are decisions the AA is entitled to 
make. And this service has no jurisdiction to tell a business such as the AA how to price its 
business for different sectors like in this complaint. There  was no duty on Mr S to accept the 
price quoted and there was nothing to stop him searching the market for alternatives.  
Therefore I dont consider the AA did anything wrong.
my final decision
So for these reasons its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 December  2020.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8801890