K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that Bank of Scotland plc closed his credit card account and then refused to 
issue a new debit card for his current account and send it to the address of a trusted  relative.
background
Mr W resides overseas and had a Premier  Visa credit card account  with Bank of Scotland  
(BoS). 
BoS decided to close this type of account and gave customers 60 days notice by writing  to 
them on 21st August 2017 to tell them that their accounts would be closed on 24th October 
2017. 
Mr W did not receive this letter until mid October  2017 because hed been away.  And when  
he called  BoS about their decision, they told him that they could not issue  and send him an 
alternative credit card because he lived in a sanctioned country. 
So Mr W asked  BoS to transfer the credit balance from his Premier  Visa credit card account  
to his current account. And he also asked the bank  to issue  him a debit card for this account.
BoS said that they could transfer  the credit balance as he asked. But it was not possible to 
send him a debit  card to the address they had on file for him because he lives in a 
sanctioned country, 
So Mr W said he could  change the address on his current account  to one of a trusted  
relative who lives in the UK. And he suggested  that the debit card could be issued and sent 
to that address so it could be forwarded on to him abroad by secure mail. 
But BoS say that their processes do not allow for this. And Mr W would need to apply  for a 
new card in person  in branch. Mr W says this is not practical for him because he lives 
abroad. And he emphasises that he needs  instant access to UK funds for his personal safety 
in the country  in which he lives due to political factors. He asked that someone at a more 
senior level at BoS consider his request. His request was further considered but the banks 
position did not change.
Our adjudicator didnt  think BoS had acted  unfairly  or unreasonably by not agreeing  to 
Mr Ws request.  
Mr W does not agree.  He says that insufficient  consideration has been given to his personal 
circumstances and that the bank has the power to vary its own processes. And so this case 
has passed to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr W feels strongly about  what has happened here.  And thats not surprising. 
Hes explained how he needs  instant access to UK funds for his personal safety due to 
political factors. So I can understand his frustration  at BoS refusing to issue  and send a new 
Ref: DRN82038842debit card to a trusted relative which would enable  this to happen. But I dont think that BoS 
have acted unfairly or unreasonably. And I shall explain my reasons.
BoS made a business decision to close their Premier  Visa credit card accounts  which  they 
are entitled  to do. And they gave customers 60 days  notice  of their intention  which  seems 
reasonable. They did this by sending  Mr W a letter dated 21st August 2017  to the address 
they have on file for him. I appreciate that Mr W did not see this letter  until the month the 
account was to be closed, but this is not due to any error by BoS.
Mr W wanted BoS to transfer  the balance on his Premier Visa credit card to his current  
account. I can confirm  that I have  seen a copy of his bank statement that shows  £408.79 
was transferred to his current  account on 17th April 2018.
Mr W accepts  that bank  cards cannot  be sent to his current address because he lives in a 
sanctioned country. And I understand why he suggested an alternative  way to receive a new 
debit card for his current account. 
But BoS have  processes  in places for the security of both customers and the bank itself. 
Here Mr W not only wants BoS to issue a new card without his applying  for it in branch in 
person, but he also wants to change the address he has on file for his account  to that of 
someone else. So I dont  consider that BoS have acted unreasonably  by refusing to do what 
he asks. And Mr W continues to have access to online  banking   so he does have some 
access to UK funds.
I understand Mr W feels that BoS have not sufficiently taken into account his personal 
circumstances. But the bank did reconsider his request at a more senior level. And they 
concluded  having taken  into account all the circumstances, including  those of Mr W  that 
they are unable to meet  his request. So I cant say that BoS have made  any error. 
I can see that Mr W has referred to occasions which he says show that a bank can vary its 
processes. But these dont determine  what BoS have to do in this case. 
None of the above is to suggest that I am not sympathetic to Mr Ws situation. But Im unable 
to say on the evidence that BoS have acted unfairly  or unreasonably. 
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given, I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 February  2019.
Sonia Kalsi
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8203884