K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in
2003 online. Mrs S says Canada Square  Operations Limited (trading  as Egg)  mis-sold her
the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ss case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Egg had to make Mrs S aware that the PPI was optional and gain her consent before adding
it to her card. Mrs S applied for her PPI policy through  an online application at the same time
as she applied for a credit  card. Egg hasnt been  able to show  us Mrs Ss completed online
application, so Ive considered what we know more widely  about  how it sold PPI online
around this time.
Ive seen screenshots that are likely to be similar  to what Mrs S saw at the time of sale, and
these show an option to accept or decline PPI. So, I think its likely Egg gave Mrs S the
option to either accept  or decline the cover before continuing with her credit card application.
Egg has also given  us a copy of the data that was captured  from Mrs Ss application, I can
see that the yes box has been selected  to confirm she wanted the PPI. So, I think Egg 
made it clear  that the PPI was optional, and that Mrs S chose to take the policy.
 
Egg didnt  recommend the PPI to Mrs S so it didnt  have to check if it was right for her. But it
did have to make sure Mrs S got the information she needed to decide if it was right for her.
Its possible the information Egg gave Mrs S about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve
been. Mrs S has told us she was entitled  to good sick pay when she took the policy  and 
could have relied on family to help make her repayments. But the PPI would have paid out in 
addition to Mrs Ss sick pay and for longer  than she would  have  received  full pay. And while 
Mrs Ss family would have  wanted to help, their ability to would  have been  dependent on 
their circumstances at the time, which could have changed.
Based on what Ive seen  of Mrs Ss circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful
for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So, I dont think
better information about the PPI would  have put her off taking  out the cover.
Which means Egg doesnt have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Mrs S
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 December  2020.
Ref: DRN83818042Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8381804