K820x#14complaint
Ms W has complained that National Westminster  Bank Plc (NatWest)  mis-sold an 
Advantage Gold packaged  bank  account  to her in 2003.
background
Our adjudicators looked at Ms W s complaint and didnt think  that NatWest had mis-sold the 
packaged account. Ms W disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at this complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
decide what to do about this complaint.
Having looked  at all the information  provided, I dont think  that NatWest mis-sold  the 
packaged account to Ms W. Id like to explain  the reasons for my decision.
Ive started by thinking about whether Ms W was given a clear choice in taking the 
Advantage Gold account. At this point,  it may help for me to explain that I have to make my 
decision based on what I think is more  likely  than not to have happened  having weighed up 
what Ms W and NatWest  have been  able to provide me with.
Ms W upgraded from a free account,  so I think that she wouldve been aware that NatWest  
did free accounts  and that they were an option for her. Ms W has said that she thought that 
she had to take out the account in order to get a guaranteed overdraft and I can see that a 
£500 overdraft  was taken out around  the time of the upgrade. But I cant see why Ms W 
thought she needed a guaranteed overdraft considering she had held overdrafts at various  
times on a standard account for more than £500.  I also cant see any declined  requests for 
an overdraft around this time. So I dont think that Ms W agreed to upgrade  her account in 
order to get an overdraft in itself.
I can see though  that the Advantage Gold account came with a discounted interest  rate for 
overdrafts in 2003. I note Ms W comments that she believes  it was only for the first £250 of 
an overdraft. But at the time of the upgrade, it was for the entire balance of the overdraft. I 
also can see that a £5000  loan was taken  out on the day of the upgrade  and that this loan 
came with a 1% discount on its interest rate, due to her having the Advantage Gold. Given 
that the account cost £6 a month,  when she took it out, these  benefits  combined wouldve 
potentially saved Ms W a sizable amount of that monthly fee. So I think that overall it is more 
likely that Ms W took out the Advantage Gold account due to the benefits it came  with, rather 
than because she thought she had to have it to get an overdraft.
From what  Ive seen and what Ms W has said, I dont think  NatWest recommended  the 
account. So it didnt  have to check if it was right for her. It was up to Ms W to decide this 
taking into account  what the package included.  But NatWest did have to give her clear  
enough information to do this. 
I think its likely NatWests representative did talk about the benefits and provided an 
overview of what the account included. After all they were  looking to make it appear  as 
attractive as possible so Ms W would agree to pay the monthly fee when she most  likely 
Ref: DRN85967142knew she didnt have  to. Ms W has mentioned that she was not made aware  of the account 
fee and that she noticed  it a while later but assumed that it was for her overdraft. But given 
that she had held overdraft prior to this without  paying a monthly fee I think that she wouldve  
known that the fee was for the benefits  that the account came  with. And had she not been 
told she would be paying a monthly fee I wouldve expected her to query this sooner than 
she did. So overall  I think she was told of the monthly fee during the sale of the account.
Overall I think  Ms W was able to use the benefit  she most likely agreed to the upgrade  for  
the preferential  borrowing  rates. So while Im open to the possibility Ms W may not have 
been told absolutely  everything she needed  to know,  I think  she was told enough to be able 
to decide if the account was right for her. And cant  see anything specific  that Ms W was not 
told that I think wouldve  changed her decision to take out the account.
I note Ms Ws comments that the benefits  of the account were not really of use to her but the 
majority of these benefits were added after the sale itself and ultimately it was her choice to 
keep the account. The main benefit at the time of the sale was the preferential borrowing  
rates and this on balance  is why I think she agreed  to the account.
Ms W may now,  with the benefit of hindsight, think she shouldnt  have upgraded. And given 
what she mightve read or heard about packaged accounts in general,  I can understand why 
she might  believe that her account was also mis-sold. But I think  Ms W chose to upgrade 
after having  been provided  with an explanation  on what the account included  and that these 
benefits wouldve  been of use to her at the time of the upgrade  due to her wanting a loan 
and overdraft facility.  So I want to reassure Ms W that having looked at all the information  
provided and thought  about everything shes  said,  I dont think that NatWest  mis-sold the 
packaged account to her.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im not upholding Ms Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 June  2020.
Charlie Newton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8596714