K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) policy  taken out in 
1999. Mr and Mrs G say Yorkshire Building  Society  (YBS) mis-sold them  the MPPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Mr and Mrs Gs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. I know this will be disappointing for Mr and Mrs G  
Ill explain  my reasons below.
Mr and Mrs G say that they originally didnt  choose to take MPPI with their mortgage  they 
say that they were  led to believe that by choosing not to take the policy that YBS would 
decline their application.  They  have sent in a letter from their solicitor which they feel 
supports this. YBS has also sent in copies of documents that relate  to the sale, including 
their mortgage application  (where they chose not to take out MPPI) and their MPPI 
application.
Having read the letter  they refer to, Im afraid  I dont  agree with Mr and Mrs Gs 
interpretation. The letter  does, as they state,  confirm that they initially  chose not to take the 
MPPI  but it also confirms that the solicitor has received the mortgage  offer from YBS, 
showing that the offer was made before they opted to take out MPPI. So it seems YBS was 
prepared to offer them  a mortgage even though theyd decided not to take out MPPI.
The paragraph that Mr and Mrs G have focused  on states I note you have chosen not to 
take out a Mortgage Payment Protection Insurance policy, before release of funds you must 
forward to the Yorkshire a completed Mortgage Protection Insurance  Statement. But this 
doesnt say that they need  to take out MPPI   and I dont think  this is what is intended by this 
paragraph.
I say this because  I can see that YBS wrote  to Mr and Mrs G in September 1999, 
highlighting insurances that it could offer them (this was after their mortgage  application  had 
been made and before  they signed up for MPPI). In this letter, the policy  is presented as 
optional  and gives two options. One option is to complete an MPPI application form  the 
other is to sign a disclaimer saying that they do not wish to take the cover. And it is this 
disclaimer that I think the letter from their solicitor  is referring to.
So, taking everything  in to account,  I think that YBS made it clear that Mr and Mrs G had a 
choice in taking  the MPPI,  and that they chose to do so. 
YBS didnt recommend the MPPI to Mr and Mrs G so it didnt have to check if it was right for 
them. But it did have to make sure Mr and Mrs G got the information they needed to decide  if 
it was right for them.  
Its possible the information YBS gave Mr and Mrs G about the MPPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time it doesnt 
look like they were  affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the MPPI cover - so it 
Ref: DRN85219662could have been useful for them if something went wrong. It also looks  like the MPPI was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the MPPI  would have  put them off taking 
out the cover. 
This means YBS doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the MPPI to Mr and Mrs G.
But YBS has paid back some of the cost of the MPPI to Mr and Mrs G because:  
YBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the MPPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs G about that. Because YBS didnt tell Mr 
and Mrs G, that was unfair.  
To put that right, YBS has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that was 
above 50% of the MPPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs G has said - including what theyve said about 
having savings  that were  a lot more than the insurance wouldve paid out if they both lost 
their jobs.  But from what theyve told us, they had between three  and six months worth of 
their salary  in savings at the time  and the MPPI  couldve paid out for up to 12 months  per 
claim, after which they could re-qualify to make a new claim if required,  leaving those 
savings for other living expenses. So this point doesnt change my decision,  and for the 
reasons set out above, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold.
my final decision
The MPPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Yorkshire  Building Society  does not have to pay back  
all of the cost of the MPPI to Mr and Mrs G.
But Yorkshire Building Society does have to pay back  to Mr and Mrs G any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the MPPI premium.  I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont  award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 March 2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8521966