K822xcomplaint
Miss A complains  about the way Barclays  Bank  plc treated her when she was a victim of 
theft and fraud.  
background 
Miss A told us that, early in January 2018,  her purse containing  her debit and cash  (including 
£250 she had just withdrawn from a cash machine)  were stolen from her. The following day 
Barclays identified a number of contactless payments made with the card.  They amounted  to 
more than £400. When Miss A spoke with the bank, she was told that the later payments 
would be refunded within 24 hours  and that the bank would do its best to recover  the £250.
A few weeks  later Barclays wrote  to Miss A to tell her that it would be closing her accounts 
just over two months later. In the meantime, though, it suspended them, meaning that she 
couldnt make any payments or withdraw cash.  
The card payments were  refunded to Miss As account  about  six weeks  after they were 
made. 
Miss A also told Barclays that she had made  an online purchase but hadnt received the 
goods shed paid for. The bank agreed to look into that under the relevant card scheme 
rules. When  it did so, however, it was unable to make a refund to her account,  because it 
had been blocked. 
Miss A has explained at some length  the difficulties that the banks action in blocking her 
accounts caused her. I dont need to set them out in detail here, but they included being 
unable to travel, buy clothes for her child or have her boiler repaired in the middle of winter. 
Shes also explained the impact this has had on her, and in particular the distress its 
caused. 
Miss A referred her concerns to this service,  and one of our adjudicators  considered the 
matter. He didnt  feel that Barclays  had handled things as well as it could have done. In 
particular, he felt the member of staff who had suggested the bank might  be able to recover  
the £250 that had been  stolen from was not being realistic. She had made the withdrawal  
herself, and there was little or no prospect  that the bank would take responsibility for the fact 
that it had been taken  from her. Miss A was also told that the subsequent payments would 
be refunded within 24 hours, but it actually took several weeks  before  that happened.  The 
adjudicator considered that the bank hadnt handled  subsequent contacts with Miss A very 
well either, and that this had added to her distress. 
He recommended that, to resolve her complaint, Barclays should refund the chargeback  
claim of £102.68 that it had recovered and pay Miss A £750  in recognition of the distress she 
had suffered. Barclays agreed  with those recommendations and asked how the payment 
should be made, given Miss A no longer has an account with it. But Miss A didnt feel they 
went far enough or properly recognised the trouble shed been put through.  She asked that 
an ombudsman review  her complaint  as the final stage  in our process. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, however, I agree with 
the adjudicators  assessment, and for similar reasons.  
Ref: DRN81717172Theres no dispute that the bank  didnt handle things well. It shouldnt have suggested 
Miss A might  get her cash back and it should  have processed the card refunds more quickly. 
But it was within its rights to close the account,  having given notice, and to block it in the 
meantime. It was also within its rights  to register Miss A with external agencies, although it 
agreed later to remove that registration.  
So the only issue for me to decide  here is whether the banks offer (prompted by the 
adjudicators recommendations)  is fair. In my view it is. Miss As circumstances are such  that 
these events have  had a significant impact on her, but Im satisfied the adjudicators  
recommendations and the banks acceptance  of them recognise that impact and represent  a 
fair resolution of her complaint. In order that those  recommendations are enforceable, 
however, I will make  a formal award.  
my final decision
My final decision is that, in order to resolve Miss As complaint, Barclays  Bank  UK plc 
should:
refund to Miss A the amount of the transaction of £102.68  that was recovered  from the 
merchant's bank using the chargeback claim;  and 
pay Miss A compensation of £750  in recognition  of the considerable upset  and 
inconvenience she has experienced  because  of the problems with about her accounts, 
including the original commitment to recover  the amount of the cash  machine 
withdrawal when the money  was subsequently  stolen.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 October  2019.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8171717