K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a store card payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy  sold in 1998. 
Financial Insurance  Company Limited (FICL), the PPI insurer, has taken responsibility for 
this sale. So, to keep  things simple, in my decision Ill just refer to FICL as the PPI seller.  
Mrs M says FICL mis-sold  her the PPI.
background
Mrs M took out a store card in 1998 and at the same  time applied  for a PPI policy.  The policy  
would repay  15% of Mrs Ms card balance in the event of a successful  claim.
One of our adjudicators looked  at Mrs Ms complaint and didnt think it should  be upheld.  As 
Mrs M disagreed with our adjudicator, the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
PPI complaints on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ms case.
Having carefully thought  about everything  Ive seen, Im not upholding  Mrs Ms complaint. Id 
like to explain why in a little more detail.
I cant know exactly what was discussed  when Mrs M took out the policy in store. But I do 
have a copy of the application form she signed.  Ive looked at the form and can see that    
there is a tick in the box to request PPI. Mrs M didnt have to tick this box if she didnt want 
the cover. So overall and having  carefully  thought about everything,  I think  its more  likely 
than not that Mrs M agreed to take the PPI after having been given a choice.
FICL says it didnt recommend the policy to Mrs M. This means  it didnt have to check if the 
policy was suitable  for her circumstances at the time. It was up to Mrs M to do this for 
herself. But FICL did have  to provide  Mrs M with clear information  about the policy  to enable 
her to make an informed decision.
As the sale took place a long time ago, I cant know whether  FICL  adequately brought  the 
key features,  including  the cost of the policy to Mrs Ms attention. And Im open  to the 
possibility that it didnt do everything  it needed to. But from what Mrs M has told me about 
her circumstances at the time, I dont think she wouldve  been  affected by any of the main 
things that the policy  didnt cover.
Mrs M mightve  been entitled  to some sick pay. But the policy wouldve paid out in addition to 
this and potentially  for longer in the event she had to make a claim.  And it also included 
unemployment cover  too. So I think she couldve found the policy useful if shed needed to 
make a claim and I dont think better information about it wouldve stopped her from taking it 
out in the first place.
Overall and having taking everything  into account,  I dont think that the policy was mis-sold 
to Mrs M. So Im not upholding the complaint.
Ref: DRN84588502my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 February  2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8458850