K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that U K Insurance Limited  (UKI) declined a claim for his sons  medical 
costs under his travel  insurance when it had previously said the claim was covered. 
background
Mr G has travel insurance through a bank account.  In about 2011  he upgraded to family  
cover for his wife and two children which continued  to be automatically renewed.
In summer  2017 Mr Gs son was in an incident  while on holiday abroad with friends and he 
needed medical treatment. Mr G contacted UKIs  emergency assistance team and it said his 
son was covered.
UKI later declined the claim. It said at the time of the incident Mr Gs son was 19 years old, 
not in full time education and he was travelling independently so he wasnt covered under 
the policy terms. UKI accepted its emergency  assistance team  had wrongly said Mr Gs son 
was covered and paid £50 for the inconvenience  caused.
Mr G complained to us. He wants UKI to pay the claim  as it originally said it would. He 
believes the hospital increased  the cost thinking  that an insurer was paying. He also sent us 
an insurance certificate saying his son was covered, which  hed paid for and UKI only 
removed his son from the insurance after the incident happened.
Our investigator thought UKI had fairly  declined  the claim and £50 compensation was 
reasonable.
Mr G doesnt agree  and wants  an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr G but I dont  uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr G had bought  a family upgrade several years ago which had been automatically 
renewing and was in place at the time of his sons trip. But the policy  terms are clear that his 
children are only insured  under family cover if at the start of the journey they are:
under  18 years  (or up to 21 if in full time education), and
living at the home  address, and
are unmarried or have  not entered into a civil partnership, and
travelling with the bank account holder or the bank account holders partner OR
travelling without the bank account  holder on trips organised by schools or 
recognised organisations that are supervised by adults.
Mr Gs son was 19 at the time,  not in full time education and he was travelling  independently 
with friends. So UKI fairly said he didnt meet the above requirements  to be insured under 
the policy.
Ref: DRN84682142UKI says it removed Mr Gs son from the policy in August 2017  (after the claim incident). But 
Mr G has sent us an insurance certificate  showing his son is still listed  under family cover  
from August 2017 to 2018. 
The 2017/18  certificate is confusing for Mr G when UKI says his son was removed a year 
earlier. But the certificate doesnt change  my mind. Even though Mr Gs son was on the 
2017/2018 certificate, and was on the certificate  at the time of the incident in 2017,  his son 
still needed to meet the above  requirements to be insured under the policy, and he didnt.
UKI accepts  it initially wrongly  said Mr Gs son was covered  by the policy  so Ive considered  
how that might have disadvantaged Mr G and his son from the information  Mr Gs told me. 
The evidence says Mr Gs son had a broken  nose,  so its probable that he would have 
always have needed  treatment. Mr G says the hospital inflated the costs it charged  as it 
thought an insurer  would  pay the claim. If thats  correct UKI isnt responsible  for the hospital 
behaving unreasonably in overcharging. Thats something Mr G and his son would have to 
take up with the hospital,  and from what Mr G told UKI I understand he queried some of the 
costs with the hospital. From what Mr G has said, he and his son havent had a financial  loss 
that UKI is responsible for.
Overall, I think UKI fairly declined the claim.
UKI giving wrong  information clearly meant Mr G had a shock  when it declined  the claim. But 
I think the £50 compensation it paid for that distress  and inconvenience was reasonable.
UKI told us it hasnt charged a premium for Mr Gs son since  he was removed  from the 
policy in August 2017. As Mr G has now sent us the insurance certificate showing his son 
named under family  cover  for August 2017 to 2018 he should  check with UKI that it hasnt 
charged him for that policy year. If UKI has and it refuses to refund the premium for his son 
Mr G may want to make a separate complaint to us on that matter. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 September  2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8468214