K820x#14complaint
Mr As complaint is about the sale of a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. The policy  
was sold to him by Barclays  Bank UK PLC to protect  his credit card repayments against 
accident, sickness or unemployment.
Barclays has upheld Mr As complaint about  the sale of the policy, but Mr A is unhappy with 
the compensation it offered him. 
background
Mr A complained to Barclays  about  the policy in 2018. Barclays  wrote to Mr A upholding his 
complaint. Barclays offered to pay Mr A £77.48. 
An adjudicator from this service thought the compensation was fair. Mr A disagreed  with the 
adjudicators findings  so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
I think the compensation Barclays  has offered  Mr A is fair and has been calculated how Id 
expect it to be. Ill explain why.
Before I look at Barclays offers of compensation, I think it would be helpful to explain our 
approach when we find that a PPI policy has been mis-sold.
When a business  mis-sells a PPI policy we expect it to put the consumer in the financial 
position theyd  be in if they hadnt taken it out (so far as is possible).
When working out how to do this on a credit card, wed expect Barclays  to refund the PPI 
premiums and any credit card interest or associated  charges caused by the PPI. Wed  also 
expect Barclays to compensate the consumer for any periods when theyd been out of 
pocket as a result of the PPI. This should be at 8% simple interest per year.
Ref: DRN82235252In this case Mr A had PPI attached to his credit card account  from February  2001  when  he 
opened the credit card until May 2002 when the policy  was cancelled. 
During that time he was charged 13 PPI premiums. Due to the time that has passed 
Barclays doesnt hold any detailed statement data for the months of February,  March  and 
April 2001. So its estimated what the PPI premiums it charged Mr A based on the months  
that it does hold details. Ive looked at these assumptions. Barclays  has assumed Mr A was 
charged £2.02 in February, £2.04 in March 2001 and £2.06 in April 2001  for PPI. I note that 
in the six-month  period  between August 2001  and January  2002  Mr A was actually only 
charged only £1.44 for PPI in total and in some  months Mr A had a zero balance  and was 
not charged for PPI at all. So I think the assumptions for the months where data is missing  
are fair.
Barclays has calculated that Mr A paid PPI premiums  totalling £32.29  during  the time PPI 
was attached to his account and I can see these have been refunded.
I can also see that Mr A was charged  £11.50  in interest because  of those premiums. And 
Barclays has refunded  this too.
Barclays has also added £31.69 (after tax) compensatory  interest  calculated  at 8% simple  
interest for the time Mr A has been  out of pocket.
So Barclays  has calculated the compensation in the way Id expect  it to. And Im satisfied it 
puts Mr A in the financial position hed be in if the PPI hadnt been sold to him.
Mr A has said he cant recall cancelling the PPI so he thinks  it may have been charged  to his 
account beyond  May 2002. But Barclays does hold statement data from May 2001 onwards 
and no PPI was charged  to Mr As account after May 2002. Barclays has also shown us a 
screenshot of its internal systems that show the PPI was cancelled on 22 May 2002.  After so 
many years it isnt recorded  why it was cancelled, but its most likely  Mr A called Barclays 
after noticing  the premiums on his statements. It would have been quite an innocuous 
telephone call so its possible  Mr A has forgotten this after 17 years.
Mr A has also said that the PPI contributed  to financial difficulties he experienced which  led 
to the account  going  into arrears. Ive thought about  this but the total PPI premiums charged 
were only £32.29 so even  if the PPI had never  been  charged to Mr As account I still think he 
would have experienced the same financial difficulties.
In summary  I think Barclays has calculated the compensation in the way Id expect it to and I 
think the offer it made Mr A is fair. I note Barclays told us in February 2019 that the cheque it 
sent Mr A had not been cashed  and had now expired and been cancelled.  Barclays  has said 
that if Mr A contacts Barclays it will reissue  a new cheque.
Ref: DRN82235253my final decision
My final decision is that the compensation Barclays UK PLC offered Mr A is fair so I make  no 
further award against Barclays UK PLC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 July 2019.
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8223525