K821x#15complaint
Miss L tried to make  a claim on her motorbike insurance policy  with MCE Insurance  
Company Limited  (MCE) after her motorbike  was stolen. But MCE voided her policy  and 
refused to pay her claim.
background
In January 2019, Miss Ls relative   Mr W  called MCE  to set up insurance on her behalf.
During this call, Mr W was asked if there were any security devices on Miss Ls motorbike. 
He explained  the motorbike had an immobiliser. As part of the application, Mr W had to 
make sure the information he provided,  along  with everything else, was correct.  Mr W has 
said he believed it was. 
On 4 April 2019,  Miss L parked her motorbike in a car park.  It was parked  in full view of a 
CCTV camera and secured with a chain and steering lock. But despite these safety 
measures, the motorbike was stolen.
The theft was reported to MCE  the same day. And at this point, MCE found  out the 
motorbike didnt have  an immobiliser fitted.
MCE said that, under the Consumer Insurance Disclosure and Representations Act 2012  
(CIDRA), Mr W had made a deliberate or reckless  misrepresentation on Miss Ls behalf. And 
so, under CIDRA, it could void her policy and not pay anything for her theft claim. MCE also 
kept the full premiums Miss L had paid.
Miss Ls motorbike was eventually found, but it was damaged. And because MCE had 
voided her policy,  she had to pay for the motorbike  to be repaired at her own cost.
Miss L has told us that once the motorbike had been recovered and repaired she decided to 
sell it because MCE had recorded  that she recklessly and deliberately misled it, and so her 
insurance premiums became too expensive. Shes explained that this meant that instead of 
an hour commute to work on her motorbike she was now spending over two hours each way  
getting to and from work via public transport. This ultimately resulted in Miss L having  to 
move jobs as she was unable to maintain the long commute. In addition to this Miss L has 
told us about the personal impact being  branded  a liar has had on her and how distressing 
this entire  situation  has been for both her and Mr W.
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint.  He agreed there had been  a 
misrepresentation regarding the immobiliser. But he didnt think  the misrepresentation was 
deliberate or reckless,  rather he believed it was careless. So he asked MCE to reinstate the 
policy with the correct premium price  and honour the claim. He also asked MCE to pay 
Miss L £250  for the trouble and upset  shed been  caused.
MCE disagreed with our investigator. It said that Mr W had been reckless  by not double 
checking whether  or not the motorbike had an immobiliser before setting up the policy. It asked 
for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman and so its been  passed to me to consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im going to uphold 
Miss Ls complaint  and Id like to explain why.
Ref: DRN86996142Having reviewed all the available information,  including the initial  call with Mr W, I agree a 
qualifying misrepresentation (as defined in CIDRA) was made  by Mr W.
Under CIDRA, a qualifying misrepresentation can either be deliberate/reckless or careless.  
For something to be deliberate or reckless,  we have to see that the person making the 
misrepresentation:a) knew that it was untrue or misleading, or did not care whether or not it was untrue or 
misleading, and
b) knew that the matter to which the misrepresentation related was relevant to the insurer,  or 
did not care whether or not it was relevant to the insurer.
In response to MCE allegations Mr W said hes owned motorbikes for the last ten years  and 
they all had immobilisers.  He believed it was a standard fitting on modern motorbikes and so 
had assumed that since his past motorbikes  had them fitted,  Miss Ls motorbike  would have 
one too.
Ive listened to the call where  Mr W purchased the insurance policy for Miss L and Ive 
considered all his testimony to us. And having  done so Ive not seen anything  to suggest he 
deliberately or recklessly  misled the MCE representative he spoke  to on the phone. It seems 
most likely to me that Mr W gave  the information he gave in good faith and that he made  a 
genuine mistake. 
MCE has said it believes Mr W could  have checked  with the dealer  first before talking to the 
insurer. I agree that he could have done this. But Mr W was sure the motorbike had the 
immobiliser and so he didnt think it was necessary to contact the dealer. And I dont think 
his failure to double  check  indicates  he was deliberately or recklessly  misleading the insurer. 
At best it shows he was careless, but carelessness doesnt allow MCE to apply CIDRA the 
way it has. 
As I dont believe Mr Ws misrepresentation  was reckless or deliberate, MCE can only void 
Miss Ls policy if it can demonstrate it wouldnt have offered her insurance if the correct  
information been disclosed in the first place.
MCE has provided us with a quote for insurance  with an immobiliser  (£689.79),  and one 
without an immobiliser (£705.74). As its been able to provide a quote without an immobiliser  
I think MCE would have  offered Miss L insurance if the correct  information had been 
provided, just at a slightly higher price. And because it seems  that MCE would have offered 
Miss L cover if it had received the correct information it cant  void her policy under CIDRA.
What  MCE is allowed to do under CIDRA  is reduce the claim payment proportionately,  
taking into account  the difference between the cost of Miss Ls premiums, and what  the cost 
should have been with the correct information.
Using the calculations  outlined in CIDRA  and the figures mentioned above, MCE would be 
responsible for paying 97.74% of the claim amount, provided the claim would  have been  
covered under the terms and conditions  of the policy. MCE would also be allowed to deduct 
the policy excess, as normal.
Ordinarily, as part of a claim, MCE would have  examined the motorbike when it was found,  
to see if it could be repaired  or if it should be written  off. However, because Miss L repaired 
and then sold the motorbike following the voidance of the policy,  that is no longer an option. 
Ref: DRN86996143So the only fair remedy left is to assume that the motorbike could have been repaired under 
the policy. Therefore  the money Miss L paid to get the bike repaired privately should also be 
factored into any claim payment, provided  Miss L can evidence those costs.
I also have to consider  the impact MCEs actions had on Miss L. Her actions  show she was 
trying to keep the motorbike parked  in a safe location. Shes said she felt uncomfortable 
about the idea of having to disclose what happened  to other insurers,  which I think is evident 
from her actions.
Without access to her motorbike Miss L had to take the train.  This doubled her commute to 
two hours  each way. On top of that, Miss L is a single parent and the additional  travel  time 
made it harder to balance work with her parental  responsibilities. This resulted in her having 
to change jobs. Miss L has also told us how being branded, in her mind,  as dishonest  and 
deliberately attempting to deceive  MCE impacted  her. She has said she felt embarrassed 
and that MCE showed  her no compassion or understanding.  
This led to understandable stress and worry for Miss L which could have been avoided. 
Considering the changes  Miss L had to make in her life and how long she had to make them 
for, I agree that compensation of £250  should also be paid.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I uphold Miss Ls complaint against MCE Insurance Company 
Limited.  
To put things right MCE Insurance  Company Limited  needs  to:
remove any record of the voidance from both internal and external databases
consider Miss Ls claim  for the damage  to repair  her bike on a proportionate basis, in line 
with the relevant terms and conditions of the policy 
pay £250 for the trouble and upset caused following Miss Ls policy being incorrectly voided
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 January 2020.
Karen Hanlon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8699614