K820x#14complaint
Mrs K says Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) mis-sold  her a payment protection  insurance  (PPI)  
policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mrs K bought the policy in 1995  at the same time as taking out a loan. She applied for the 
loan and PPI policy in branch. 
Due to the time thats passed, Lloyds  doesnt know for certain  how much Mrs K paid for the 
PPI. But based  on its records, its estimated how much she likely paid. From  what Ive seen 
of other  cases from around the time of sale, I think the amounts Lloyds has set out, is likely  
to be what she paid.  
The policys  one-off upfront  premium of £95.90 was paid in advance  by being added  to the 
loan (a single premium)  where it attracted interest  over the term of the loan. The loan was 
repayable over a 24-month term and the policy term matched that of the loan.  The monthly 
loan repayment  including the cost of the PPI was £29.20. 
The policy documents that applied  to Mrs Ks PPI are no longer available.  I dont  think  thats 
surprising given how long ago the policy was sold. But I have looked at the nearest available  
policy which  I think is the same as, or at least similar to, the policy  that wouldve applied  to 
Mrs K, to help me decide this case.  
The policy provided  cover  for Mrs K for accident, sickness, unemployment  and life  subject 
to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay Mrs Ks monthly loan repayment for up to 
the remaining  term of the loan in the event of a successful disability claim and 12 months  in 
the event of unemployment. 
Its not entirely clear  what Mrs Ks employment  position was at the time of sale.  Mrs K 
originally told us that she mightve  been unemployed at the time of sale.  Her further 
recollection was that she mightve been on a temporary contract. Lloyds record from the 
time of sale shows shed been employed for many years. This policy was sold a long time 
ago now, so its understandable  that Mrs K might not recall  the exact details of her wider 
circumstances. But Ive assessed this case based on the information  and evidence available  
and what I think is more  likely to have  been the case. Mrs K told us she had some  sick pay 
provided by her employer,  but she didnt have any other means of repaying her loan should 
she be unable to work. Mrs K has said she had been diagnosed  with two medical conditions  
many years before the sale. 
Lloyds has sent us screenshots to show that the loan account closed in 1996.
Mrs Ks representative has made  lengthy and substantial representations  on her behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mrs Ks representative says:
Lloyds failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  APP 3, it should be presumed  Mrs K wouldnt 
Ref: DRN84919342have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mrs Ks 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Lloyds should have 
told Mrs K about the poor value;
 
The cancellation terms  were  unfair;
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Lloyds should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mrs K and the impact  
they would  have had on her chances  of making  a claim; and
The information Mrs K received was misleading.  These policies were promoted  as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mrs K disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Ks. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here, but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ks complaint
This sale took place  in 1995 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  guidance (PERG). 
Ref: DRN84919343The credit agreement itself concluded  in 1996. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI code was supplemented by:

Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Lloyds  at the time. So Im satisfied I should take the ABI code and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mrs Ks case.  
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost  duty of good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Lloyds was required to take into account the provisions in DISP  App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering Mrs Ks complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
Ref: DRN84919344-If Lloyds gave advice,  whether  it advised Mrs K with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether Lloyds gave Mrs K sufficient,  appropriate and timely information to enable 
her to make an informed choice about  whether to take out the policy,  including  
drawing to her attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mrs K, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mrs K suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mrs K and 
Lloyds, Ive decided  not to uphold  Mrs Ks complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Mrs K know she had a choice?
Lloyds had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
Mrs K believes she mightve taken the loan and the PPI by completing a postal  application 
form. But Lloyds says that it was sold in branch based on its computer records.  Ive seen 
screenshots of Lloyds  computer records which do show  that the PPI and loan were  sold in 
branch, and as those  records  are from the time of sale, I think  Lloyds is likely to be right  
and this was a branch sale. 
Lloyds no longer has a copy of Mrs Ks branch application form, which  again  I dont think is 
surprising given how long ago this policy was sold. But it does mean I have limited 
information about the sale, so I have to decide  what I think is more likely based on the 
available evidence.
Lloyds has provided  me with a sample  of copy of the branch application form it says it was 
using around the time Mrs K bought her PPI. I think this form is likely to be the same as, or 
at least similar to the application form Mrs K wouldve  seen and completed at the time. This 
shows the PPI was labelled as optional . And customers  also had to tick a Yes box to agree 
to it, or a No box to decline it. So, I think its likely Mrs K wouldve known the PPI was 
optional from the form she likely  completed.  
Lloyds also says the PPI wouldnt have been added without Mrs Ks explicit consent. And 
without any documentary evidence to the contrary, I think  thats  likely to be right.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mrs K knew the policy  was 
optional and she agreed to take it out without undue  pressure. 
Ref: DRN84919345did Lloyds provide  advice?
Lloyds says that advice was provided  during this sale.  Mrs K hasnt said if she agrees. 
Looking at what happened when Lloyds sold Mrs K the PPI, Im persuaded that it provided  
advice. I say this because from what Ive seen of branch sales made  by Lloyds, they were  
usually advised.  Ive also got no reason to doubt what Lloyds  says.  
This means  Lloyds had to advise Mrs K with reasonable care and skill, in particular whether 
the policy was appropriate or suitable given her needs and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps Lloyds took to establish whether the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Mrs K. It seems Mrs K cant remember clearly what  happened and there 
is no record of what the adviser discussed  in relation to the policy. This is unsurprising  in 
respect of a sale during a meeting. The adviser  likely had some limited information  about 
Mrs Ks financial circumstances, but there is no specific evidence  to show  the adviser took 
steps to establish whether Mrs K would have been  caught by the significant exclusions and 
limitations which might have meant the policy did not fully meet her needs. For example, 
there is nothing to suggest  Lloyds considered whether Mrs K had any pre-existing medical  
conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mrs K given her circumstances. So, Im not 
persuaded Lloyds advised  with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should  have done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mrs K, I do think  its more likely  than not that the policy  was ultimately  suitable  for 
her. In reaching  that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mrs K met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Mrs K had a need for the policy   it seems likely that Mrs Ks ability to continue to 
meet her loan repayments would have been put under strain if she was not working 
for an extended period of time  even allowing for the sick pay she says she would 
have been entitled  to.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mrs K.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mrs K. Based  on 
what I have been told, I havent  seen enough  to conclude that there was anything 
about Mrs Ks employment  or occupation  which would have made  it difficult for her to 
claim. Regarding  pre-existing medical  conditions, Mrs K has told us about two 
medical conditions  she was diagnosed with a significant number of years  before the 
sale. But she hasnt told us she had any ongoing issues with them  at the time of sale 
nor did she need any significant time off work for them.  So, I dont think these 
conditions made the policy unsuitable. There were also no additional restrictions  on 
cover for mental health or back  problems.
Ref: DRN84919346-Although a pro-rata refund  would not have been  paid if Mrs K cancelled  the policy 
early, the loan term was relatively short and there is nothing  to suggest (at the time) 
that Mrs K had plans  to repay the loan early. The purpose of the loan was not debt 
consolidation or anything else which might suggest a need to repay the loan early,  or 
that this was likely to happen.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Lloyds  gave Mrs K sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable her to understand what  Lloyds 
was recommending to her and make an informed decision  about  whether to follow that 
advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mrs K was given a broad description of what the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect her payments if Mrs K was 
unable to work through accident,  sickness and unemployment.)  I have reached this 
conclusion because I think  its unlikely  Mrs K would have taken out the policy without any 
sense of what the policy was. And I think Mrs K would have known the that a single premium 
was being added to the loan, what the interest added to the premium  was and what the total 
cost was. From the sample loan application  form Ive seen, this information  wouldve been, 
in my view,  sufficiently clear on the loan agreement Mrs K likely saw and signed.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Lloyds  gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, or about the exclusions or limitations  before 
Mrs K agreed to take out the policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mrs K, Im not persuaded Lloyds did 
enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a way that was fair 
and reasonable to Mrs K. Im not persuaded Lloyds gave Mrs K all of the information  she 
needed about the policy to make an informed decision  about  whether to follow the 
recommendation and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mrs Ks representative has raised a number  
of general points in regard  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mrs Ks. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mrs Ks representative considers  to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mrs K about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone  further  and 
explained the significance of them to her. 
Ref: DRN84919347Im not persuaded by Mrs Ks representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mrs K has suggested. And taking into account the law, industry codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Lloyds ought  to have done either. 
What effect did Lloydss shortcomings  have  on Mrs K? To what extent did Mrs K 
suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that Lloyds  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy to Mrs K. So, I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mrs K 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Mrs K 
would have still taken  out the policy, had Lloyds done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded Lloyds took the steps it should have done to establish whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mrs K, I have  found that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for her.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mrs K has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if Lloyds had explained  things properly, 
Mrs K would have acted differently, or whether  she would have taken out the policy in any 
event.
Mrs K says she wouldnt have taken it out and believes I should presume this to be the case 
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mrs K had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when Lloyds  advised her that there was a suitable  
product she could buy that would protect  her loan payments in the event she was unable  to 
work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, she concluded she wanted that 
product. But she made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning what  she 
thought she was getting is not exactly what she got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mrs Ks circumstances at the 
time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her.
And the information  Mrs K was likely given about the cost was clear. But the information  
about other aspects  of the policy, such as the benefit, the limitations and exclusions wasnt  
as clear as it should have  been.  
Ref: DRN84919348Im not persuaded Lloyds made clear exactly what Mrs K would get back  in return  in the 
event she made a successful claim. But I think its unlikely Mrs Ks expectations about what  
the policy would pay in the event  of a claim (an amount sufficient to meet her loan 
repayment) were significantly different to what the policy actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mrs K thought she had bought and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to any physical or mental  condition  or disease 
which Mrs K knew  of, or should  reasonably  have  known of on the start date of the 
policy or which she had received  treatment or advice for during the 12 months before 
the start date of the policy and which occurs  again within  12 months of the start date;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mrs K 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The policy did not provide a pro-rata  refund if Mrs K repaid the loan early and the 
policy was cancelled,  so it wouldve been more expensive for Mrs K to have done so; 
and
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mrs K be unable  to 
do her own job or any paid work bearing in mind  her knowledge and training.
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mrs K pause  for thought   and may well have caused her to conclude  the policy wasnt  as 
good as she thought, and she might have decided not to proceed.  The limitations on the 
cover, when  coupled  with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have  dissuaded some  
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mrs K from taking  out the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mrs Ks circumstances  at the time of sale shows the policy wasnt  
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. She was eligible for its benefits and it provided 
cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to her should  the 
insured risks have  become a reality. 
Although Mrs K says she suffered from two medical  conditions many years before  she took 
the PPI, I dont think better information  about  this exclusion would have put her off agreeing 
to it. I say this because Mrs K was diagnosed  with these problems many years  before the 
sale and she hasnt  said she suffered any ongoing problems with these conditions  at the 
time of sale.  She also did not take any significant time off work for them when  she was 
originally diagnosed with them. So, I dont think she wouldve  envisaged needing to make  a 
claim because  of them. 
And I havent seen  enough evidence to suggest  she wouldve been caught  by any of the 
other significant exclusions. So, I still think she had some good reasons to take the policy 
out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mrs K would have 
expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some  evidence to 
support that claim.
If Mrs K had known she could only claim for disability  if she was not only unable to do his job 
but also unable  to do any job bearing in mind her knowledge and training, it might have 
played into her thinking  about  what she would do. And I accept it may have given her pause 
Ref: DRN84919349for thought  although given Mrs Ks circumstances, on balance, I still think  she would have 
been interested in taking out the cover.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mrs K would  still have taken out the policy. The policy  was suitable for her, was 
sufficiently close to what its likely she thought she was getting  and provided benefits that 
would help her manage  the consequences  were  Mrs K made  redundant, or unable  to work 
through accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not Mrs K 
would have taken  out the policy  in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mrs Ks representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. 
In those circumstances, DISP App 3 says it should be presumed Mrs K would not have 
bought the PPI she bought unless, in the particular circumstances of the complaint, there is 
evidence to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mrs Ks 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mrs K 
found herself in as result of the sale was the same  position she would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mrs K believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mrs K in the position she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that she would not have taken out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that she would still have 
taken out the PPI had she been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy she was buying. So Im not persuaded it would  be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude Lloyds should pay Mrs K compensation, as that would put her in 
a better  position than she would have been in if everything had happened  as it should have 
done. 
Ref: DRN849193410Im also aware that Mrs K thinks Lloyds misrepresented  the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI. Whilst I accept  there  is a possibility a court  might conclude  some of 
Lloydss statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion  the reason why Lloyds failed 
to act fairly  and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  Lloyds gave Mrs K, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
1995 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mrs Ks representative says a court might take if it were 
to find Lloyds negligently misrepresented the contract to Mrs K and about the remedy  a court  
might award if it were  to find that Lloyds had been in breach of its duty of utmost good  faith.  
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mrs K in a better position  than if everything  had happened  as it should 
have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2021.
Asma Begum 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8491934