K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains, on behalf of his company  HC, that his broker,  Bollington Insurance Brokers 
Limited wrongly linked  HCs  motor  insurance policy with two other family businesses.  He 
also complains that Bollington wouldnt  separate  the claims histories for the businesses. He 
said this meant HCs premium went up around £600  per vehicle when he switched broker.  
background
I set out the background  to the complaint in my provisional decision,  a copy of which  is 
attached.
 
my provisional findings and the parties responses 
In my provisional decision I said I didnt intend to uphold the complaint. I thought  that 
Bollington took reasonable  steps to provide Mr H with the information  he required to decide  
whether to renew his policy for HC with the Bollington scheme policy. And to obtain  a 
separate quote for HC from another insurer.
Mr H ended the relationship with Bollington in September 2017 and instructed a new broker  
for the three  businesses. He said he hadnt  wanted Bollington to quote for policy renewals in 
2017, contrary to my provisional decision.  He said the drivers only worked  for one business 
and claims made against each business shouldnt be allowed to affect the others.  Mr H said 
it had been Bollingtons decision to combine  the claims experiences, not the insurers.
Mr H said he received  wrongly combined  claims experiences for the three businesses from 
Bollington on 12 October  2017. He said his wife requested individual  claims information  on 
17 October, but this wasnt received until 14 December 2017. He said this had been  
intentionally withheld by Bollington and was received too late for the new broker to act on 
HCs behalf.
Mr H said Bollington stated it had sent individual company claims on 12 October  2017.  But 
he said this was just claims listing reports from the insurer which arent required when 
seeking a renewal quote. Mr H asked that as these  reports separate the claims, why would  
Bollington state  that the insurer  required them to be sent in a combined  format. He said 
claims belonged  to each business  individually and cannot be shared with others. Mr H 
requested that the provisional  outcome of his complaint be reconsidered.
In my provisional decision I requested Mr H to provide copies of the policy documents  he 
received from HCs new insurer in October 2017  and 2018.  He hasnt done that and so I 
havent seen the insurance arrangements for HC since Bollington stopped acting as its 
broker, or the premiums  paid. Mr H has provided copies of the previous claims experiences 
from Bollington (2008 to 2011) and other insurers over the past 10 years.  He said these 
show that individual claims  information for each of the three businesses has been provided 
to him in the past.
Bollington said it had nothing further to add in response to the provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have carefully  considered Mr Hs further  
Ref: DRN82017742comments and the claims  experience documents hes sent us to decide if Bollington has 
treated HC fairly and reasonably. Having  done, so I remain of the view that the complaint 
should not be upheld. I realise  this will be disappointing to Mr H and I will explain the 
reasons why I have  reached this conclusion.
Mr H said he didnt request a renewal quote from Bollington in 2017. I can see that he told 
Bollington hed switched brokers a month before renewal. Bollington said it was still required 
to provide claims information  and a renewal quote, which he could ignore if he chose.  Mr H 
emailed Bollington just before HCs renewal on 12 October 2017 and said, I appreciate your 
efforts to obtain  the best terms  for our renewals. I think Mr H wanted the comparison that 
Bollingtons insurance  scheme could provide. But I can see that he didnt then renew HCs 
policy with Bollington. 
Mr H has provided documents showing that Bollington and previous arrangers of HCs 
insurance have  sent separate  claims information  for each  of his businesses  in the past. He 
thinks Bollington  didnt do this in 2017  because he had ended  his relationship with them. 
Bollington said it provided the exact same  information in 2016 as it did in 2017,  but Mr H 
didnt say it was unacceptable then.
I dont think Mr H was expecting the claims information in a combined format and requested 
separate information for the three  businesses on 17 October  2017.  Bollington  sent separate  
information from the policy insurer ahead of the renewal date, 26 October 2017.  
Bollington said that it had to provide the claims information in the format  required by the 
insurer and also said it was concerned that individual information might lead to an insurer 
providing an inaccurate quote. As I said in my provisional decision it was Mr Hs 
responsibility to make  an accurate presentation of the risk of his business to any prospective  
insurer. And in any event Bollington did send the information in a format acceptable to Mr H 
in December 2017.  
Having said this, Im not aware of any requirement on a broker to provide the claims 
experiences of insured businesses in a particular format. Although the information provided 
by Bollington shows claims information  for the three  businesses, each business has its own 
claims separated. 
Bollington also provided  Mr H with claims information from the policy insurer  before renewal 
which separated  the claims to each of the three  businesses. Mr H said this wasnt  the 
information required to obtain a renewal  quote.  The information from the policy insurer  
appears to me to be in a very similar format  to the individual  claims information  Mr H has 
sent us from previous years.  And so, its not clear to me why this information from the insurer  
wouldnt assist with a renewal. From what Ive seen I remain  of the view that Mr H was 
provided with enough  information  to obtain  quotes  from other  insurers  for HC in 2017,  
separate from the other family businesses.
I have seen the email  exchanges between Mr H and his new broker that are critical of 
Bollington. However,  I dont think Bollington  was required  to provide more  detailed 
information about the claims than it and the insurer  did in October 2017. I havent seen 
anything to suggest that Bollington was deliberately  frustrating Mr Hs attempts to change  
brokers or obtain new insurance  quotes.
I still dont know when  Mr H obtained  alternative quotes for HC or what  these were. And so, I 
dont know what,  if any, detriment  HC has suffered. However, as I dont think Bollington  has 
Ref: DRN82017743treated HC unreasonably  I dont think this matters. Having looked again  at this complaint  I 
remain of the view that Bollington has taken reasonable steps to provide Mr H with 
information to make an informed choice about  the renewal of HCs  policy.
I realise how strongly Mr H feels about  these  issues and so I should remind  him that by 
rejecting this decision all other options  remain open  to him in pursuing  his complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given above and within  my provisional decision it is my final decision 
that the complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 March  2020.
Andrew Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8201774