K822xComplaint
Mrs L and Mr N complain about Covea Insurance plcs handling of a claim under their 
commercial insurance policy.
Background 
Mrs L and Mr N own a bed and breakfast business  managed by a relative. The relative has 
represented them in making this complaint, but for ease of reference, I will refer below to any 
comments made by the relative as coming from Mrs L and Mr N.
Mrs L and Mr N have a commercial insurance  policy with Covea, which covers damage to 
the property owned by their business. 
They made a claim under  this policy after an escape of a large  amount of foul water  at their 
property in February 2017.
This event  was caused by an error  made by an employee of the local water  company. 
During a routine maintenance visit they inadvertently closed off a non-return valve  which   
when open - allowed foul water to move from the drain under the property into the main 
sewage pipe.
Foul water therefore backed up in Mrs L and Mr Ns drainage system and eventually  
escaped into their grounds.  
Mrs L and Mr N made a claim to Covea for the damage this event had caused. Covea 
accepted the event  was covered under  the policy and arranged for a Loss Adjustor to visit 
the property.
Mrs L and Mr N were  told by the Local Authority  that their grounds  were contaminated and it 
wouldnt be safe to continue to run their business  until the contamination was removed.  
To summarise, the water company removed the contaminated  land and restored the 
drainage systems to good working order. And Covea paid for repairs to a ha-ha wall that had 
been damaged  by the escape of water.
Mrs L and Mr N werent happy with this outcome.  They want  Covea to pay for further 
damage to their property.  They say drives, pathways  and car parks  were affected by the 
escape of water. They also want  Covea  to pay for landscaping  the affected  area.
And they say because  they werent  able to trade, they couldnt  maintain the house  and 
grounds, which have  fallen  into some  disrepair as a result. They  want Covea to pay for 
restoration of their property to its former  state.
They made a complaint  to Covea. They want Covea to cover  their claim in full. They  also 
complained about the communication from Covea after the incident and about  the Loss 
Adjustor. They said the policy  documents hadnt been provided to them  at renewal. They  
said the policy documents were unclear. And they said the policy and schedule were  
confusing and/or contradictory.
Ref: DRN80769672When Covea maintained their position,  Mrs L and Mr N complained to us. Our investigator 
looked into it and didnt think Covea had done anything  wrong.  He did note that Covea had 
suggested that the Loss Adjustor re-visit the property to determine whether the escape of 
water had in fact caused damage to drives,  pathways and/or car parks as well as the ha-ha 
wall  and he thought this was a fair way to resolve  the outstanding issues.
Mrs L and Mr N disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its very important for me to say at the outset  that there are two different issues at 
stake here in terms of the damage caused  by the escape of water. 
First, there is the immediate effect  of the sudden  and serious escape of foul water  which  
impacted the immediate  area in the grounds and damaged the ha-ha wall. It may also have 
damaged drives, pathways and/or  car parks  but that is still to be determined  because the 
Loss Adjustor at the time of the original  visit didnt fully consider any damage to these areas. 
And thats why Covea  have offered to re-visit.
Second, there are longer-term consequences  which are certainly  not directly caused  by the 
escape of water and are, at least in part, the result of other  causal factors  too  for example, 
the lack of maintenance of the house and grounds.
I should also say at the outset that matters  are complicated by the fact that Mrs L and Mr N 
are taking on-going  legal action against the water company.
When I consider the immediate impact of the escape of water, it appears most if not all of the 
damage has been addressed. The water company removed the contaminated land and 
restored the drainage systems to good order. Covea paid for repairs to the ha-ha wall.
I believe Mrs L and Mr N say there was other immediate  damage to drives, pathways  and a 
car park and to their landscaped  grounds.
Covea have offered  to re-visit to look again  at any immediate damage to drives, pathways 
and/or car parks. And I think thats  fair and reasonable. 
I assume the Loss Adjustor will attempt to determine what damage was caused  immediately  
by the escape of water event  which Covea  have accepted is covered  and what  damage 
may have  come about afterwards due to any lack of maintenance of the property. 
I assume Covea will also want to consider exactly what costs Mrs L and Mr N are pursuing in 
their law suit against the water company.  Clearly, Mrs L and Mr N cant expect  to recover  the 
same costs twice.
Turning to the landscaped  gardens  now, Covea have pointed out that the policy doesnt 
cover re-landscaping or restoration  of the grounds affected by the escape  of water. Mrs L 
and Mr N say it does   or should.
Ref: DRN80769673Ive carefully considered  the information  and definitions set out in the policy booklet and the 
schedule. I know this will disappoint Mrs L and Mr N but I think  its clear the policy  isnt 
intended to cover damage to land or gardens.
The policy first sets out what are effectively  the geographical bounds of the coverage.  It 
covers only the insured  premises. Premises are defined as the buildings  and land inside the 
boundary of the risk address.
It then goes on to define  the property within that geographical area which  is to be covered. It 
says the property insured  is:
buildings, trade contents, stock and specified  stock or any other  property as 
specified in the schedule...
Mrs L and Mr N say that their land is their property and so is covered under any other  
property in the definition  above. But thats to miss the point that the policy explicitly  covers 
any other property as specified in the schedule (my emphasis).
The schedule very clearly states that Mrs L and Mr N are covered for:
Buildings, contents (including refrigerated stock), employers liability,  public liability,  
equipment breakdown, business interruption.
So, I cant conclude Mrs L and Mr N are covered for damage to landscaped gardens  or 
grounds. I think thats reasonably clear  from the policy documents.  And I dont think  this is 
hidden in the small print of the policy, or obscured in any way. Nor is it unusual  for policies 
like this to cover buildings (as defined) but not land. 
So, I cant see that Covea  have acted in any way unfairly or unreasonably towards Mrs L 
and Mr N in declining  the part of their claim relating to damage to their grounds. As I say, 
Mrs L and Mr N may choose to pursue the water company for those costs, but thats  nothing  
to do with Covea.
Ill turn now to the question of the non-immediate  or knock-on effects  of the escape  of water. 
I can understand Mrs L and Mr Ns frustration and annoyance that an event which was not 
their fault has effectively stopped their business  from trading for a period of time. It must 
have been a very difficult and stressful time for them. They  will no doubt  want to consider 
what damages they seek from the water company, who appear to have accepted that the 
escape of water was caused by them 
I cant say its fair or reasonable though  that Covea should be asked to pay for restoration of 
the house and gardens  which have become damaged through lack of maintenance since  the 
event. I can understand  that Mrs L and Mr N dont have the finds to maintain the property, 
but I have to look at the policy and what part Covea should be asked to play in this.
Leaving aside all questions of fairness, the policy in any case explicitly  and clearly covers  
business interruption  (which is what Mrs L and Mr N say caused  their inability to maintain the 
property).
The policy says that, subject to certain limits, the insured business is covered for losses  
resulting from:
Ref: DRN80769674interruption or interference with the business carried on by you at the premises in 
consequence of any damage occurring at the premises to any property insured used 
by you at the premises for the purposes  of the business.
But that cover is only given in certain circumstances  which are then defined. The defined  
circumstance most  applicable to Mrs L and Mr Ns situation is where the business  suffers 
compulsory closure because of either: disease;  foreign  matter  in food or drink  provided by 
the business; murder,  manslaughter, suicide or rape on the premises; or defective sanitation  
or vermin  or pests.
Theres been some discussion between the parties about whether the business was 
compulsorily closed. Strictly speaking, it wasnt  but the Local Authority have been very 
clear that the business couldnt  operate until the contamination was cleared. If they had tried 
to continue trading,  its very likely an official compulsory notice would have been issued. So, 
I dont think Covea could  fairly turn down a claim for business interruption losses  on that 
basis.
However, I dont think thats significant, because Covea are entitled to turn down the claim, 
in my view,  for two other reasons.
First, none of the criteria  in the clause on compulsory  closure  are met. The business  closed  
because of contamination to the grounds of the property, not because of disease, foreign 
matter in food or drink,  a serious crime or defective  sanitation, vermin or pests.
Second  and perhaps more fundamentally  business interruption is only covered if it 
results from damage to any property insured . And as Ive already  explained,  Im satisfied 
the landscaped grounds (other  than paths, fences, drives, car parks etc. which are explicitly 
included in the definition of buildings)  arent  covered.  And the business was closed because  
of contamination  in the ground. 
So, again,  I cant conclude that Covea have  acted unfairly or unreasonably in declining the 
part of Mrs L and Mr Ns claim which relates  to interruption to their business. And they cant 
be expected to pay for the restoration of the house  and grounds  which  Mrs L and Mr N say is 
needed as a consequence of that interruption of business.
Ill summarise  my opinion on the claim itself.  
Covea proposed they should re-visit the property to assess whether there was any damage 
immediately caused  by the escape  of water  which  has not so far been covered. Thats  fair 
and reasonable.  And I would expect Mrs L and Mr N to allow the Loss Adjustor chosen by 
Covea to do that. To be clear, I cant see any evidence to suggest that Loss Adjustor has 
acted - or will act - in any way other  than impartially and fairly in assessing the claim.
The policy Mrs L and Mr N bought from Covea does not cover damage to their land. And the 
interruption to the business caused by the land being contaminated is also not covered.
Ill turn now to the other aspects  of Mrs L and Mr Ns complaint.
I dont think Covea failed  to provide policy documents  to Mrs L and Mr N in any material way. 
The documents were  available to Mrs L and Mr N when  they took out the policy. Any 
changes have been notified at renewal.  
Ref: DRN80769675Those policy documents are reasonably clear and straightforward. And I cant see anything 
to suggest the policy  booklet and schedule contradict each  other or are confusing when read 
together. All sections which are relevant to this complaint are reasonably  clear  and they 
arent in any way buried  or hidden in the policy documents.
Mrs L and Mr N were  unhappy with the lack of direct contact from Covea initially.  But Covea 
are entitled  to ask brokers, administrators and/or Loss  Adjustors  to act for them  and to 
interact with customers on their behalf.
As Ive already  said, I cant  see any evidence that the Loss Adjustor acted unfairly towards  
Mrs L and Mr N in assessing the claim. His findings  are, in my view, justified. In the first visit, 
he understandably concentrated mainly on the visible damage to the ha-ha  wall and the 
grounds, but he did say further  consideration would  need to be given to alleged damage to 
paths, drives and car parks. Covea  are proposing now to follow  this up with a further  visit.
To summarise, as theyve  already proposed, I expect Covea now to assess  damage Mrs L 
and Mr N say was caused to their paths, drives and/or  car parks by the immediate escape of 
water event. 
But I cant say theyve  acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mrs L and Mr N in their 
handling of this claim or in any other  respect.
My final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs L and Mr Ns complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr N to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 April 2020.
Neil Marshall
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8076967