K821x#15complaint
Mrs G says Nationwide Building  Society  mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
background
This complaint is about a single premium  PPI policy Mrs G took out with a loan in 2004. She 
applied for the loan and was sold the PPI during a branch meeting.
The loan was for £4,000  and had a repayment term of three years. The PPI policy  was paid 
for with a single premium  of £360.36  that was added to Mrs Gs loan and wouldve attracted 
interest over the term of the loan.  The PPI policy covered Mrs G against accident, sickness 
and involuntary  unemployment.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. Nationwide disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Gs complaint  because:
I dont think Nationwide  gave Mrs G clear  information about the policy.  And given Mrs Gs 
particular set of circumstances I think this would have made a difference  to her decision to 
take out the policy.
Mrs G was a few months away from her 60th birthday at the time the policy was sold to her. 
In 2004 that was the state retirement age for women.
Nationwide has shown  us a copy of the policy document from the time of the sale.  I can see 
it says that to be eligible for the policy the policyholder needed to be between  18 and 65. So 
Mrs G was eligible for the policy.
But I can see that on page seven of an eleven page  document in section eight, subsection 
(a) the policy document says that cover  and benefit  will end:
When you reach 65 or retire for section  2: unemployment, whichever happens  first.
I also see that in order  to make a claim for unemployment Mrs G would need to have 
registered with the relevant government  department.
If Mrs G had lost her job after just a few months of cover she would have been eligible to 
receive her state pension.  I think she would have been unable  to register  for unemployment 
benefits at that stage,  instead having to register for any other state benefits she may have 
been entitled to. 
Ref: DRN86045832The policy document itself doesnt give any definition  of the term retire. And if Mrs G was 
out of work and receiving her state pension, I think its likely the insurer would consider her 
to be retired. And the policy document states  that unemployment cover would cease on 
retirement before age 65. 
So if Mrs G had lost her job after only a few months, I think  shed have had great difficulty in 
making a successful claim for unemployment under the terms of the policy.
The policy document itself is quiet lengthy and itd difficult to find this important term of the 
policy so I dont think Nationwide  made  it clear to Mrs G when it sold her the policy.
If Mrs G had been aware shed not be able to make  a successful  unemployment claim after 
a few months of cover, I dont think shed have bought the policy.  So Mrs G has lost out and 
Nationwide needs  to put things right.
putting things right
Mrs G borrowed  extra to pay for the PPI, so her loan was bigger than it shouldve  been. She 
paid more than she shouldve each month and it cost her more  to repay the loan than it 
would have. So Mrs G needs to get back the extra shes paid.
So, Nationwide should:
Work  out and pay Mrs G the difference  between what she paid each month on the 
loan and what she wouldve paid without  PPI.  
Work  out and pay Mrs G the difference  between what it cost to pay off the loan and 
what it wouldve cost to pay off the loan without  PPI.
Add simple interest to the extra amount Mrs G paid from when she paid it until she 
gets it back. The rate of interest  is 8% a year .
If Mrs G made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Nationwide  can take off what  
she got for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Nationwide to take off tax from this interest.  Nationwide  
must give Mrs G a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and direct Nationwide Building Society  to pay Mrs G compensation 
as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2019.
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8604583