K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W are unhappy with their home  insurer CIS General Insurance  Limited.  They 
believe that since 2015 it has been  overcharging them for the cover provided.
background
In 2015 Mr and Mrs Ws premium  rose to £1,316.01, it had been  a little under  £600 the year 
before. It increased slightly again in 2016  before  falling slightly in 2017 and 2018, but the 
2018 price for cover was still more than the increased price charged in 2015.
Having seen the 2018 renewal price Mr W went  on-line. He arranged  another policy with 
CIS, with all the same coverage. He was charged £421.67. 
Mr W, seeing the new price, felt CIS must  have  been overcharging them  for cover  over the 
last few years. He was also concerned that some  of the price  increase might be to do with 
flood risk; his property is in a generally high flood  risk area but the location of his property 
means its highly  unlikely to flood. He asked CIS to review what  had been  paid and 
reimburse them £3,000 to make-up  for the overcharging.
CIS noted the loyalty Mr and Mrs W had shown  it over the years  and apologised for their 
being unhappy with the premiums. But it said it had asked its pricing team to check  back 
through the policy data and it had confirmed that Mr and Mrs W had been charged correctly. 
It said the increase  in 2015 had been due to a change in the way it viewed risk. And the new 
price Mr and Mrs W had obtained was heavily discounted as it had been viewed as a new 
policy application. Mr and Mrs W remained dissatisfied and complained to us.
Our adjudicator checked with CIS that it was happy for us to share with Mr and Mrs W that it 
was indeed the risk of flooding that had caused the price increase in 2015. It was and she 
did so. Also explaining to Mr and Mrs W that we arent the regulator and as CIS had shown 
us that Mr and Mrs W had been treated the same  as others, we were satisfied it had acted 
fairly. She also noted that the lower price Mr W had obtained in 2018 was considered  to be 
new business and was, therefore,  subject  to discounts.
Mr and Mrs W remained unhappy. They said it wasnt fair for them  to be penalised due to the 
risk of others,  and even  their neighbours (some of whom have suffered flooding) werent 
paying as much as theyd  been since 2015.  They said the individual risk of their property 
could be considered by reference  to ordnance survey maps or by conducting a site visit. 
They said given the huge difference in price  between  the 2018  renewal  and new cover,  they 
couldnt reconcile  this as being caused  only by new business discounts. Mr and Mrs W 
asked for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate how strongly Mr and Mrs W feel about  this. And, to an extent, I can understand 
their frustration. They had clearly been  with CIS for a long time and trusted that it would 
charge them  fairly.  And I can understand why, when  they were able to obtain a new price for 
cover which was so much  less than theyd been  paying for three  years, that they felt theyd 
Ref: DRN87291212been duped  into paying more than theyd needed  to. I also understand its frustrating for 
Mr and Mrs W to hear that their price  is affected  at least  in part by the general  risk presented 
by the area they live in, rather than the individual risk their property itself presents.
Unfortunately for Mr and Mrs W, whilst I understand all of that, Im not persuaded that CIS 
has done anything  wrong. As our adjudicator explained we arent the regulator and we dont 
make judgements about what  risks insurers see as important or how it then prices  against 
those risks. 
CIS has shown us that the price increased in 2015  was due to a review of flood risks. Im 
satisfied by what its shown us that Mr and Mrs W werent singled out or treated differently to 
others with a similar risk profile. I can also see that as the risk changed again in 2017  and 
2018, the overall price for cover decreased slightly. I understand from what  CIS has shown 
us why it never decreased to the level it was before, or anywhere  close  to the price Mr W 
obtained on-line. Im satisfied by CISs explanation  for this but cant  share the details  of it 
with Mr and Mrs W due to the commercially  sensitive nature of the data.  
Whilst I understand why Mr and Mrs W feel its unfair it is the case  that most insurance  
policies available  on the general market  set their prices, at least  in part, based on the risks 
presented by the area in general. That isnt restricted  to just flood risk. So if you live in an 
area thats recently been affected  by burglaries, your price  for cover might  go up, even if you 
yourself havent been a victim. Thats because home insurance generally  isnt a bespoke  
product  assessing each customers individual risk would be a far more  time consuming job 
which would, therefore, create another price  to factor into the policy.  It would also be quite 
difficult to manage;  gathering information, assessing  and determining  all of the risk factors 
that affect each  individual customer  would  be difficult to do when looking at a customer  base 
of thousands of people all starting and renewing cover at different times. 
Like many  areas of business, the basis for the price  being offered isnt set out in the policy  
contract documents. Rather the insurer carries  out its costing exercises, determines the 
price it wants  to charge  in certain circumstances (for those who meet  its accepted risk 
criteria and based on what  it wants to charge  in those  respects),  and makes an offer of 
cover, at that price to the prospective  or renewing  policyholder. That person can view what is 
being offered,  the price that is being  charged  for that, and decide  whether or not to enter into 
the contract. Whilst  some issues of pricing  have recently been reviewed by the regulator  
there is currently no regulation requiring insurers to be entirely transparent  and open about  
the basis for their charges.  
With transparency in mind though, and whilst  its quite often the case that insurers charge 
less for new customers,  the regulator has recently recognised that not everyone is aware 
that shopping around at renewal can be beneficial. This has resulted in a recent change to 
the information insurers are expected to include in documents provided at renewal. And 
I see that CIS included  the relevant information in Mr and Mr Ws recent renewal paperwork. 
Ref: DRN87291213This means  that the cost of the coming  years cover  against the price  charged last year is 
clearly set out. It doesnt though mean that a breakdown of the cost has to be provided. 
Similarly we wouldnt expect an insurer to disclose any allowance  it has given in its pricing 
structure for new customers. Again  wed see that as commercially sensitive data that cant  
reasonably be shared  with the public.  But effectively  most insurers  will have a price  for cover 
that, if offered,  would be unpalatable to the prospective policyholder.  So that price is 
discounted to what the insurer feels is a generally attractive level given the competitive 
nature of the insurance market. That initial discount is then gradually decreased at each 
renewal as time goes  on, making each  renewal more expensive and shopping around 
potentially beneficial. 
Having taken everything into account, Im satisfied that CIS has acted fairly and reasonably  
in respect of the charges  it has made to Mr and Mrs W for cover.  Im not going to make  it 
reimburse any amount  to them.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  I dont make any award against CIS General Insurance  Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 July 2019
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8729121