K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  that Bank of Scotland plc, (trading as Halifax), mis-sold them  a 
payment protection insurance, (PPI)  policy 
background
Mr and Mrs M took out the monthly-premium policy in 2000 in a meeting, at the same time 
as taking out a secured personal  loan. The policy covered just Mr M and the monthly 
premiums were about £13.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  As Mr and Mrs M 
disagreed, the matter  has come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Mr and Mrs M say that Halifax told them that they had to take out the PPI. But I think  that 
Halifax made it clear that they didnt and that they chose to take it out. I say this because 
Ive seen Mr and Mrs Ms signed  loan application. This has a section in it dealing  with 
PPI. It has two equally-sized boxes.  One to be signed to accept PPI, the other to be 
signed to decline  it. I can see that Mr M has signed  the first box. Because  the sale was 
so long ago I can understand  why Mr and Mrs M didnt remember this.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs M so it had to take reasonable steps to 
check that the PPI was right for them.  Based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at 
the time,  I think that it was. I say this because:
oMr M was eligible for the PPI and wasnt caught by any of its main restrictions  and 
limitations;
oMr M was entitled to sick pay from his employer  equivalent to nine months pay. But 
he and Mrs M didnt  have any other  insurance or savings to help make  their loan 
repayments had Mr M been off work.  Following a successful  claim, the policy would 
have paid out about £135 a month. In the case of Mr M having  had and accident or 
being ill, these  payments  would have continued for up 60 months and would have 
been in addition to anything he got from his employment. This would have left any 
sick pay available to help meet  Mr and Mrs Ms other expenditure while Mr M wasnt 
working. The policy would  also have paid out for up to 12 months had Mr M become 
involuntarily unemployed. Mr M says that his employer had a no redundancy policy, 
so he had no use for this part of the cover. But I dont think  I can fairly and 
reasonably assume that, at the time the PPI was sold,  Mr Ms employer was bound to 
retain such a policy for the whole term of the loan. So I think  that Mr and Mrs M had 
some use for the policy  as a whole;
Ref: DRN88722652oThe PPI was competitively priced by reference  to other policies available  in the 
market at the time and it had a reasonable benefit. And I havent seen anything to 
suggest that Mr and Mrs M couldnt afford  the premiums. In any event, as it was paid 
for monthly, Mr and Mrs M could  have cancelled the policy  at any time had they later 
felt that it was unaffordable for them or that they no longer  wanted it;
oMr M was the main earner, so I dont find that the fact that the PPI only covered Mr M 
made it unsuitable for him and Mrs M.
Mr and Mrs Ms signed loan agreement,  which Ive seen,  set out the monthly cost of the PPI. 
But its possible the other information  Halifax gave  Mr and Mrs M about the PPI wasnt  as 
clear and complete  as it should have been. But they chose to take it out - so it looks  like they 
wanted this type of cover. And as Ive concluded  that the policy was suitable for them. I dont 
think better information about  it would have put them  off taking out the cover.  I say this 
particularly bearing  in mind the serious  consequences that could have arisen if Mr and Mrs 
M had been unable to make their monthly repayments on the loan, which was secured on 
their home.
This means  that Halifax  doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs M.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs M have said - including  what they have said about:
Having life insurance. But that pays out in quite different  circumstances from PPI;
Mr M being  off work without making a claim on the policy.  I dont know why they didnt 
make a claim, since, as Ive explained above, following a successful claim  the PPI would  
have paid out in addition  to any other  payments Mr M was entitled to. And the fact that 
they managed  to keep up their repayments  at that time, without claiming against the PPI, 
doesnt mean that at the time they took out the policy  it was clear that they would always  
have been able to do so. This is especially if the period during which Mr M was off work 
could have been substantial; 
Other businesses having made  redress payments for PPI. In making my decisions I have 
to look the individual facts and surrounding circumstances of the particular complaint 
being considered. So the fact that other  claims may have been settled in Mr and Mrs Ms 
favour has no bearing on my decision.  
So these points dont  change my decision.
But Halifax  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs M because:  
Halifax got a high level of commission and profit share, (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs M about that. Because  Halifax didnt tell Mr 
and Mrs M, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Halifax  has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN88722653my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my decision is that the PPI policy wasnt  mis-sold  so 
Bank of Scotland plc does  not have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs M.
But Bank of Scotland does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs M any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 April 2019
Ros Barnett
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8872265