K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains about advice  given  by Abbey Life Assurance Company Limited to contract  
out of the State Earnings Related  Pension  Scheme (SERPS).
background
Mr W said he was advised by Abbey to contract  out of SERPS.  He said he felt that he was 
now worse off and the investment performance of the funds hadnt been  as good as he 
expected.
Abbey said it had provided  suitable advice at the time based on Mr Ws age, income and the 
fact his employer  didnt provide a workplace pension. It noted however  that his contributions  
had been invested in an international  fund and a managed fund. It said the international fund 
had an adventurous risk profile and might  not have  matched his needs. However it had 
recalculated the investment as though it had been  entirely invested  in the managed  fund. 
This showed that he was better  off and hadnt  suffered  any loss. It offered to allow  him one 
free investment fund switch.
The adjudicator said he thought Abbey had treated his complaint fairly. He said that based 
on his age at the time and income  the model suggested that it could be beneficial for him to 
opt out. In addition his employer didnt provide a pension scheme. So it seems that the 
advice was suitable at the time and the notes also suggested that it might  at some future 
point be beneficial to contract back in. Abbey had provided illustrations of investment 
performance but these  were not guaranteed. 
Mr W didnt agree. He said that hed been told hed be at least 50% better of and it was clear 
that wasnt the case.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  While I am sorry to disappoint Mr W I am 
not upholding this complaint. 
Mr W says he was told he would be at least 50% better off. I havent seen any written  
evidence to support  that claim.  But I have  seen a copy of the type of illustration and notes 
issued at the time. These  include a note to the effect that if you are under 30 your National 
Insurance Contributions could well produce  three times as much as the State Scheme. 
Given this I think it is quite  possible that statements suggesting he could be 50% better off 
may well have been made. However given the wording in the brochure on balance  I think it 
shouldve been  clear this would depend on investment performance and other  factors  
explained in the brochure.
I have seen a copy of the information Abbey says wouldve been provided re contracting  out. 
This includes information that indicates  that it would be beneficial for someone of Mr Ws age 
and income to contract out of SERPS  but this depends on future investment returns.  The 
investment returns were illustrated based  on regulator guidance at the time. So it seems that 
the advice was suitable at the time.
The brochure is clear  that returns depend on investment returns. I say that because the 
notes say the illustrations  dont represent the upper  or lower limits of the possible amount of 
Ref: DRN83806982future benefits. It warned the actual future  value  would be affected by the future movement 
in unit prices which could  go up as well as down and would also depend on other issues  
such as charges, future increases  in earnings  and future terms for converting cash into an 
annuity.
I am satisfied having reviewed these that the advice to contract  out was suitable based on 
the models and illustrations. 
I am also satisfied that the illustration didnt guarantee a particular level of investment return 
and were clear that this could vary.
I note that Abbey have accepted that the use of an international fund might not have been 
appropriate and offered  a free fund switch and confirmed that no financial loss has been 
suffered based  on assuming the investment had been 100% in the managed fund.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 May 2019.
Colette Bewley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8380698