K820x#14Complaint
Mr P is complaining that The Royal London Mutual  Insurance Society Limited didnt  make  it
clear that a Guaranteed Annuity Rate (GAR) applied  to his personal pension.  He said if it
had done, he would  have made different decisions  about his investments.
Mr P is represented by his wife, Mrs P.
Background
In 1996 Mr P took out a personal pension with Royal London. The pension  included a GAR
benefit.
Between March  1999 and April 2001  Mr P made  three lump sum payments to his personal
pension. In November  2001 he made a further  lump  sum payment which  was put into a
stakeholder pension, because new contributions to his personal  pension had been closed
with the introduction of stakeholder pensions on 6 April 2001.
In 2018 Royal London changed  the format of its annual  pension statement to make  the GAR
clearer. Mr P contacted Royal London  to complain. He said he hadnt known about  the GAR
before he received a statement in the new format. And he asked why the GAR didnt apply to
the lump sum payments  hed made  between 1999  and 2001.
Royal London replied  to say that the GAR on increased regular payments and lump sum
payments had been withdrawn on 1 March 1999,  so any lump  sum payments made to 
Mr Ps personal pension after this date wouldnt  qualify for the GAR - although it would still 
have applied  to his regular monthly  payments. It explained  that the change in the format  of 
how it showed Mr Ps pension estimate  on its annual statements was as a result of a recent 
change in legislation designed to highlight the value of the GAR.
Mr P referred his complaint to us and an investigator  looked  into it. The investigator didnt
uphold Mr Ps complaint.  He said, in summary, that the rules  for pension statements had
changed and they should now show an estimate of the value at retirement including  the
GAR. He also said that because the GAR was withdrawn in 1999  Mr P couldnt  add lump
sum deposits to his personal pension. He said he couldnt  look at Mr Ps complaint about
Royal London setting  up a stakeholder pension because  Mr P had already complained to
Royal London about this in 2002  and it was too late for us to look into it now.
Mr P replied  to say he thought the investigator  had misunderstood the position. He said the
payments he wanted to complain about  had been  paid into his personal  pension  and not his
stakeholder pension. He was unhappy  as he thought the GAR should apply to these lump
sum payments.
Mr Ps complaint was passed to me for review  and a decision.
My provisional decision
I issued my provisional decision on 10 March 2020,  explaining why I wasnt minded to 
uphold Mr Ps complaint.  This is what I said:
2002 complaint
Ref: DRN81366622The investigators already explained  that there are certain points were unable  to look into
under the regulators  rules. The rules say that a business can object to us looking at a
complaint thats  not referred  to us within six months of the businesss final response letter,
unless exceptional  circumstances  apply.
Royal London has objected to us looking into the points of complaint that were  raised  back in
2002. To be clear, these  points are (in summary):
Mr Ps lump  sum payment in November  2001 being put into a stakeholder  pension  rather 
than into his personal pension after the introduction of stakeholder  pensions  in
April 2001; and
Mr P not receiving regular statements for his personal pension.
I cant see that there are any exceptional circumstances which  would have prevented Mr P
contacting us within six months of the final response letter from 2002. So, because  the
business has objected  to us looking at this part of his complaint, Im unable to consider it.
The investigators also explained that the issue Mr Ps raised about intending to retire earlier
than 65 and so being unable to benefit from the GAR should be raised  with Royal  London
before we can look into it.
Lump sum payments  to personal pension
I can, however,  look into the points Mr Ps raised about the three lump sum contributions he
made to his personal pension in March 1999, April 2000  and April 2001.
I thought it would be helpful  to clarify  my understanding of the position  around these lump
sum payments, which is different to the investigators. The withdrawal of the GAR on Mr Ps
personal pension  happened in March  1999. At that point he could still make new
contributions to his personal pension, but they wouldnt qualify for the GAR. The new
contributions could still be used to purchase  an annuity, but at open  market rates. Mr Ps
personal pension  closed for new contributions  on 6 April 2001 when stakeholder pensions
were introduced.
Mr Ps said he didnt  know about  the GAR  until 2018. And he also said he stopped making
his regular payments  into his personal  pension in 2009 due to poor returns, but he would
have maintained his regular  payments if hed known about the GAR.
So I need to consider what Royal London was obliged to do to inform Mr P about  the GAR.
After Mr P took out his personal pension in 1996  there was no ongoing obligation  for Royal
London to remind  him he had a GAR  or to include it as a separate point  in his statements.
But I think there were two points in time when Mr P should have been told about the
existence of the GAR. The first is at the time of the initial sale and the second is when the
GAR was withdrawn.
Royal London says the GAR would have been  shown  in the schedule of the pension  when
Mr P took it out, but its not been able to give me a copy of Mr Ps terms and conditions or
schedule. It has, however,  given me a sample  document which  it says shows how the GAR
would have been set out in the schedule.  I think on balance its likely that the GAR would
have been set out in the schedule  in accordance  with Royal Londons  usual practice at that
time.
Ref: DRN81366623Ive also asked Royal London to tell me how it informed its customers  of the GAR being
withdrawn on 1 March  1999.  Its not been  able to give me any evidence of how or when this
was communicated  other than to say the adviser  would have told Mr P this when he invested
the lump sums.
When Mr P decided  to make the lump sum payments to his pension  between March  1999
and April 2001, he couldnt have expected a GAR would apply to them, because he says he
didnt know his pension  included a GAR. So, I cant see how he would have acted  differently
at that time even  if hed known the GAR  had been withdrawn before he made the payments.
The GAR would never  have applied to any new contributions,  and Ive not seen anything to
show Mr P had any other pension schemes  he could have invested in at that time. And if he
chose to set up a new pension instead,  its unlikely any providers were offering new policies
that still included  GARs.  So, I dont think  it would be reasonable  to ask Royal London to
apply the GAR to the lump  sum payments Mr P made after the GAR was withdrawn.
Mr Ps also mentioned that if hed known about  the GAR he wouldnt have stopped his
regular payment in 2009. I think its possible that if Mr P had been told about  the GAR  being
withdrawn back in 1999, it could have alerted him to the fact there  was a GAR that would still
apply to his regular monthly payments.  As Ive said, due to the passage  of time its difficult
for Royal London to demonstrate that they sent correspondence that would have alerted
Mr P to the existence  of the GAR. However, I think on balance  there  would have been some
correspondence from Royal London  in 1999  about  the removal  of the GAR, at least in
specific relation to his lump sums.
I think its likely Mr P didnt know about the GAR on his regular payments until the format  of
his statements changed to highlight it in 2018.  But I dont think  this means Royal  London did
anything wrong  in the way they communicated with Mr P about the GAR before then 
rather, that the intention of the change in legislation which  led to the format of the statements
changing was to make it clearer  to customers  when they did have a GAR, which  is what
happened in Mr Ps case. Royal London  wasnt under any obligation  in 2009 to remind Mr P
that he still had a GAR on his regular payments, or explain how valuable  it was. But it was
open to him to seek advice before making  the decision to stop making regular payments.
Overall, Im not going  to uphold Mr Ps complaint.  Im satisfied that, on balance, its likely that
Royal London did everything it needed to do under  the rules at the time to let Mr P know
about the GAR. And even  if he had known about  the GAR - and its subsequent withdrawal -
at the time he made the lump sum contributions, I dont think  he would have acted any 
differently.
I concluded that I couldnt consider Mr Ps 2002 complaint about his stakeholder
pension and not receiving regular statements because it was referred  outside  the regulators
time limits. And I wasnt minded to uphold Mr Ps complaint about the GAR not applying to 
his lump sum contributions. I asked Mr P and Royal London to reply with anything  else they 
wanted me to consider before I issued my final decision.
Royal London replied  to say it accepted the decision.
Mrs P replied on Mr Ps behalf. She said (in summary):
Royal London should be able to demonstrate it sent a letter in 1999 to say the GAR was 
being withdrawn  as this is standard practice for a change of terms and conditions;
Ref: DRN81366624Royal London should have pointed out the main  drawbacks of stopping  contributions  and 
the paperwork Mr P received at the time he stopped contributions doesnt mention the 
GAR;
The GAR term was hidden in the jargon of the policy  document and wasnt  highlighted as 
a selling point  as the sale was focussed  on performance of the policy which  was 
projected to be well above the GAR; and
Statements and correspondence werent sent to Mr P.
My findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I have some sympathy with what Mrs P has said in her response  to my provisional decision. 
Its frustrating  that Royal  London has been  unable to provide  any evidence that it told Mr P 
about the GAR being withdrawn in 1999. But I must also bear in mind  that this was over 
twenty years  ago and I must make a decision  based on what  I think was most likely to have  
happened at the time.  And I do think its most likely that Mr P was informed  about  the GAR  
being withdrawn  in some way, even if he didnt recollect or appreciate how this would have 
affected his pension when he chose to stop making regular contributions ten years  later.  And 
Ive already explained why I dont think this would have affected Mr Ps decision about  
investing the lump  sums.
As Ive said in my provisional decision, Royal London wasnt  under any obligation in 2009  to 
remind Mr P that he still had a GAR on his regular payments, or explain how valuable it was. 
So I dont  think it had to refer to the GAR  in any correspondence it sent about him stopping  
his regular contributions at this time.
I take Mrs Ps point about the GAR not being  a prominent selling point when the pension 
was taken out as it wasnt  intended  that it would be needed. But this doesnt  mean  that 
Royal London should have done  more to highlight the GAR at the time of sale. The point  of 
the new legislation which highlighted the GAR on the annual  statements was to bring  the 
GAR to the policyholders attention, as previous legislation hadnt  required this  and it had 
turned out to be a valuable benefit.  But I cant  say that Royal  London should have done  
more to highlight  the GAR  before this legislation came into force  as it wasnt required to do 
so.
Mrs Ps final point about not receiving statements isnt one I can consider because it has 
been brought outside the regulators time limits, as Ive already  explained  in my provisional 
decision.
Overall, I havent seen anything which would lead me to change my provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I cant consider Mr Ps 2002 complaint about his stakeholder
pension and not receiving regular statements because it was referred  outside  the regulators
time limits. And Im not upholding Mr Ps complaint about the GAR not applying to his lump 
sum contributions, for the reasons set out in my provisional decision and above.
Ref: DRN81366625Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 June  2020.
Helen Sutcliffe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8136662