K820x#14complaint
Its been agreed in this case that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL), as the 
insurer, should  accept responsibility for the complaint. To keep things  simple, Ill refer 
to FICL as the seller in my decision.
Mrs B says FICL mis-sold her a payment  protection  insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out alongside a store card in 2004.  It was sold 
in store.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs B disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint has been  passed  to me. Mrs B said,  in summary, that she was 
pressured into taking  out PPI, thinking shed more likely  get the card if she took PPI. She 
also said she couldnt really afford  the insurance and would never  have taken it. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Bs case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Bs complaint and Ill explain why.
FICL had to make Mrs B aware that the PPI was optional and get her consent before 
adding PPI. I dont  know what  was said at the time the policy was sold,  but FICL has 
provided a copy of Mrs Bs store card application form.
The form had a separate section for PPI and the option to take PPI was selected. Mrs Bs 
signed the application form. Mrs B said she felt pressured into taking out the PPI in the 
shop.
As some of the evidence is either incomplete or contradictory, Ive made  a decision on what  
I think is most likely  to have happened  based on whats available. Based on the limited 
information Ive got, I cant fairly find that more likely than not pressure was put on Mrs B to 
take out the PPI. She may have thought she stood a better chance of getting the card if she 
took PPI, but I cant see that FICL did or said anything in particular to mislead her into believing 
that. As our adjudicator explained, this is a very subjective area, and whilst Mrs B mightve  
felt under some pressure  in the store, that doesnt necessarily mean that the business was 
pressuring her into taking  out PPI. Also, as Mrs B was signing an important  financial 
document it wouldve been reasonable to expect her to take the time she needed  to read 
over the form before  signing it. The paperwork made  it clear  that PPI was optional.  So I 
think its likely FICL  made it clear that Mrs B didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose 
to take it out.
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Mrs B so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. But 
it did have to make  sure Mrs B got clear  information  so she could make and informed 
choice and decide if it was right for her and she wanted to buy it.
Ref: DRN82010612Its possible the information FICL  gave Mrs B about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve 
been. Mrs Bs told us she wouldve got up to three  months worth of sick pay from her 
employer. She didnt mention any savings. The PPI would have paid on top of Mrs Bs 
sick pay and potentially  for longer  than her work benefits, for up to 12 months per 
successful claim. She said she had life insurance,  but this didnt provide her with duplicate  
cover, so it doesnt  affect my decision. So, I still think the PPI could have been useful to 
her, in her circumstances.
Based on what Ive seen  of Mrs Bs circumstances  at the time it doesnt  look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover. As she couldve benefitted 
from everything the policy offered, I dont think having better  information  about these things 
wouldve affected her decision take out PPI. 
Mrs B said she couldnt really afford PPI. I havent  seen  anything to make  me the PPI was 
unaffordable and she couldve cancelled  it at any time. She took it out at the same time as she 
took out the card. I think it unlikely that the card wouldve been issued if Mrs B was in financial 
difficulty. I cant  see that Mrs B has lost out because of anything  that FICL did wrong, so I 
dont uphold this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above,  I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 November 2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8201061