K822xcomplaint
Ms P is unhappy with AXA Insurance UK Plcs (AXA) handling  of a claim she needed  to 
make under her motor insurance  policy.
background 
In January 2018 Ms P was involved in a collision  with another  driver.  So, Ms P needed to 
make a claim under her motor insurance  policy for the damage to her vehicle. AXA accepted 
the claim,  and the damage to Ms Ps vehicle was repaired. 
But Ms P said the collision was caused by the actions of the other driver. She said she had 
been turning right,  and the other driver, who was coming down the hill behind her didnt stop 
in time to allow her to complete  the turn she was making. So, the cars collided as she 
completed her manoeuvre. She felt the other driver should be held liable for the incident.
AXA contacted the other  drivers  insurer  and said it thought the other driver was at fault for 
the collision. But, the other party didnt agree. They thought Ms P was to blame. 
Ms P has explained that whilst a dispute about who was at fault for the accident has been 
ongoing AXA hasnt  moved her claim  forward  as it should have. She said she needed to call 
AXA on a number of occasions to see what was happening. And when she did speak to 
someone in July 2018 she was told information about the incident from the other driver had 
been provided to AXA in April 2018, but this hadnt  been acted upon. So, the claim was no 
further forward.
In November 2018 Ms P told AXA she had received a court summons from the other driver 
claiming that she was liable  for the collision, and seeking damages from her. Ms P feels  the 
other took legal action  because of delays AXA caused in moving the claims  forward.  She 
said that if had AXA taken more efficient action  on the claim the other  party wouldnt have 
issued court proceedings, and the matter would have been resolved.
Ms P also said that once  she had told AXA about  the court summons  she had to chase it to 
see what was happening. And when she called  AXA in early December 2018 to chase the 
matter she was told the legal team still hadnt been  instructed. Ms P was concerned about 
this, given she had a 14 day deadline to respond  to the court  action.
AXA accepted it hadnt progressed Ms Ps claim as it should have. And it apologised for the 
lack of contact she had received about  her claim.  After Ms Ps complaint was referred  to us 
AXA felt it would be reasonable  to offer her £250 compensation for these issues.
Our investigator considered Ms Ps complaint. She didnt think court proceedings would have 
been avoided  if AXA had handled things better.  She said it was the other drivers decision to 
take the matter  to court. But this was because both parties maintained each other  was to 
blame and liability  needed deciding. However she agreed the claim had been  handled  
poorly. She felt the £250 offered by AXA was a fair level of compensation to reflect  the upset 
Ms P has experienced.
Ref: DRN80588642Ms P didnt agree. She still thought  the other driver  wouldnt have decided to take the matter 
to court  if her insurer had responded  to the claim in a sufficient time. She also explained she 
didnt feel the £250 compensation offered was fair. Ms P explained she was distressed at 
receiving the court  summons,  and she wasnt adequately assisted when she told AXA about 
this. 
As Ms P disagreed with our investigators  opinion the complaint has been  referred  to me to 
decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided to uphold  
this complaint in part. 
Ms P said AXA didnt handle her claim promptly. She has said there were periods of time 
where nothing  appeared to be happening.  She had to chase AXA to get her claim moved 
forward, and to be provided with updates. AXA has accepted there were avoidable and 
unnecessary delays in its handling of the claim. And that it didnt update 
Ms P as it should have. So, I havent  needed to decide whether AXAs  handling could have 
been better  this is already agreed.
Instead, Ive needed to decide whether the £250 compensation AXA has offered is fair and 
reasonable to recognise the trouble and upset  Ms P experienced due to AXAs poor claims 
handling. 
Ive thought carefully about this. And I think the £250  offered is a fair reflection of the upset 
and inconvenience  Ms P experienced. I understand Ms P feels  that if AXA had acted more 
promptly in dealing with her claim the matter wouldnt have gone to court.  And therefore the 
compensation provided to her should be increased. But I dont think there is sufficient  
evidence to show that AXAs actions caused  the other driver to take the matter  to court.  
Unless either insurer accepts their driver is at fault and settles the claim the only way for 
liability to be decided is by a court. AXA did explain to the other drivers insurer that it 
thought the third party driver was liable  for the damage. And I cant see any evidence  they,  
or their insurer, would have changed  their position on this if AXA had done things differently. 
AXA has it is still defending Ms Ps position.  So, I dont require AXA to do anything  more in 
respect. 
But, its clear there were periods of inaction  during the claim  and that Ms P needed to 
chase AXA to make  sure her claim was moved forward.  I can understand how this would 
have been distressing to Ms P  particularly when she received a court  summons and 
needed to chase AXA in order gain a response to this. But, I think  the amount  of £250 
offered is fair and reasonable to recognise  the upset this caused as its in line with other  
awards our service makes  for cases of similar  seriousness. So, I dont require it to increase  
the compensation offered  here.
Ms P said the premiums she paid for her motor insurance policy for the years 2017-2018 
and 2018-2019 should be refunded, because she feels AXA hasnt sufficiently fulfilled its 
obligations under  her policy.  However,  whilst AXAs handling of Ms Ps claim could have 
been better,  Ms P has still had the cover  she needed in place, and had the benefit of this 
cover. So, I dont require AXA to refund the premiums Ms P paid.
Ref: DRN80588643my final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require AXA 
Insurance UK Plc to;
Pay Ms P £250 compensation, if this hasnt already been paid to her.
AXA should  pay this within  28 days  of us telling it Ms Ps accepted my decision.  If it pays 
later than this it should add interest  to the compensation at a rate of 8% simple  per year from 
the date of my decision to the date it makes  payment1. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 April 2019.
Rachel Woods
ombudsman
1 If AXA considers  that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Ms P how much  its taken  off. It should  also give Ms P a certificate showing this 
if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN8058864