K820x#14complaint
This complaints about Mr S and Mrs Rs mortgage with Barclays Bank  UK PLC.  Mr S and 
Mrs R applied for a new fixed rate product  in April 2017. Barclays  put the new product 
through but when Mr S and Mrs R applied to port the fixed rate to a new mortgage on a 
bigger house the following  year, turned  it down  on affordability grounds.  Mr S and Mrs R say 
theyve lost out because they went ahead with the move  by going elsewhere to get the 
bigger mortgage.  But in doing so, they paid, Barclays an early repayment charge (ERC), 
which they think is unfair. Theyd like the ERC  refunded to them.
background
By way of a provisional decision dated 13 June  2019, I set out, with reasons, the basis on 
which I was minded to determine this complaint, subject to the further submissions of the 
parties. I gave the parties until 27 June 2019 to reply; both parties  have confirmed receipt of 
the provisional decision. Barclays has provided  the calculations I asked for. Mr S and Mrs R 
have made  no further comment.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The ERC Mr S and Mrs R paid on redemption was £5,883.04,  and they also paid a product 
fee of £999 to make the switch in April 2017. So the total cost to them  of taking  the fixed rate 
was £6,882.04. Had they stayed on BBBR, theyd have avoided  that cost, but theyd have  
paid a lot more interest. The actual interest Mr S and Ms R paid on the fixed  rate between 
1 April 2017 and 20 December 2018  was £4,384.53.  On BBBR, in the same period, they 
would have paid £13,613.17; thats an extra £9,228.64.
What this shows is that, had Mr S and Mrs R not taken the new product in April 2017, theyd 
have saved themselves  the product fee and ERC, but after factoring in the extra  interest on 
BBBR, their overall position is that theyre  £2,346.60 better off. In that context,  Im not 
persuaded they suffered  detriment as a consequence of any failing  there might  have  been  in 
the way Barclays  handled the product transfer in 2017.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and below, my final decision is that I dont uphold this 
complaint, or make any order or award  against Barclays  Bank UK PLC. My final decision 
concludes this services  consideration of this complaint, which  means Ill not be engaging  in 
any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 August  2019.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN85610992CONTENT OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
This complaints about  Mr S and Mrs Rs mortgage with Barclays Bank UK PLC.  Mr S and Mrs R 
applied for a new fixed rate product in April 2017. Barclays  put the new product through  but when Mr 
S and Mrs R applied to port the fixed rate to a new mortgage on a bigger house the following year,  
turned it down on affordability grounds. Mr S and Mrs R say theyve lost out because  they went ahead  
with the move by going elsewhere to get the bigger mortgage. But in doing  so, they paid, Barclays an 
early repayment charge  (ERC), which  they think is unfair. Theyd  like the ERC  refunded to them.
background
Mr S and Mrs R started the mortgage in 2015; they borrowed £210,000 over 35 years, on the 
recommendation of a third party broker. The initial  rate was a fixed  rate product of 3.19%, running  
until 31 March 2017. Thereafter, if they didnt  take a new product, Mr S and Mrs R would switch to a 
variable rate of Barclays  Bank Base Rate (BBBR) plus 3.49%. Mr S and Mrs R did take a new product 
in April 2017,  this time on Barclays recommendation directly.  It was a new fixed rate of 1.23% running  
until 31 May 2019. 
Soon after that, they put their house on the market and began looking for a bigger  home. Mr S and 
Mrs R applied for a new mortgage to buy a bigger home in the summer of 2018;  they again  applied 
through an independent broker, and the plan was to port  the existing fixed  rate product over to the 
new mortgage  to avoid paying  an ERC.  But Barclays turned down the application for a bigger 
mortgage, on affordability grounds. They applied to another lender and were  approved for the 
mortgage, but this meant repaying the Barclays mortgage whilst  an ERC was still chargeable.  
Mr S and Mrs R thought this was unfair. Firstly, they said Barclays should  have granted the bigger 
mortgage, especially after theyd given  their broker (to pass  on to the bank)  evidence of their 
resources to repay other consumer  debts. Secondly, they said that when taking the product switch in 
April 2017, theyd told the bank of their intention to move in the near future, and werent given any 
reason to think this would  be a problem.
Barclays rejected  the complaint, and when  it came here, our investigator didnt recommend upholding 
it. He didnt  think  Barclays  had assessed the new application unfairly, and as far as the 2017 product 
switch was concerned,  he noted that on the application, it had been recorded  that Mr S and Mrs R 
wanted stability for two years and would look to move after that. Mr S and Mrs R said this note bore 
no relation to the conversation theyd had with the mortgage advisor, and that theyd specifically  
mentioned their plans to move and were told porting was possible. Unfortunately, theres no recording 
of that conversation.
Mr S and Mrs R asked for their complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
my provisional  findings
Before I address the merits of the case, Ill make some general observations. Im aware  Mr S and Mrs 
R have raised concerns  about how the investigator has handled their complaint;  theyve accused him 
of bias towards Barclays. We have a separate process for dealing with complaints from consumers 
who are unhappy with the service weve provided, and Mr S and Mrs R have received a response 
from the investigators manager, along with guidance on how to escalate matters to the Independent 
Assessor if they wish to. 
Here, my focus is the underlying complaint against Barclays, but I will say this. Our role is to assess 
the evidence provided by both parties, and reach a conclusion on what  we think is fair. Invariably that 
means reaching a decision that disappoints  someone, but that isnt bias.  Im satisfied thats what  the 
investigator did, and to be clear, even though my conclusions differ  from his, Ive approached the 
case in broadly the same way.
Ref: DRN85610993Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. I trust Mr S and Mrs R wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive 
condensed their complaint  in the way that I have.  Ours is an informal dispute  resolution service, and 
Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint.
I dont doubt that this is very important for Mr S and Mrs R, but although Ive read and considered the 
whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its 
not because Ive not considered it but because I dont think I need  to comment  on it in order to reach  
the right outcome. 
This service is impartial  between, and independent from, consumers and businesses. What this 
means is that we dont  represent either party,  and I dont act under eithers instructions  or take 
directions on how a complaint will be looked at or what questions should  be asked or answered.
As a starting point, no one is entitled to borrow money; even where a lender  has lent before, its not 
obliged to do so again. But a lender must treat customers fairly. In the context of an application for 
lending, that means assessing it fairly in accordance with the banks lending criteria.  Lenders criteria 
are commercially sensitive and not generally  made public. So if an application  is unsuccessful, a 
lender isnt obliged to say why. 
Here, Im satisfied Barclays assessed the 2018  application fairly, and that its decision to say no was 
reasonably reached  and in accordance with its lending policy on income multiples. Generally 
speaking, its not the role of an ombudsman to interfere with a lenders  commercial judgement on how 
much it will lend, and I see no reason to depart from that position here. 
Once Mr S and Mrs R knew  Barclays  wasnt willing  to lend them  the money they wanted, they had to 
choose an alternative course of action. One possibility would have been to wait until the end of the 
current ERC period in May 2019 before moving house. They didnt do that but instead moved and 
repaid the existing  mortgage whilst the ERC  was still live. That was their prerogative of course, but it 
was also their choice, and one that they made knowing  that the ERC  was a price of doing  so.
But thats not the end of the matter. Mr S and Mrs R have also said that if theyd known in 2017 that 
porting the mortgage to a new house wasnt guaranteed, theyd have let the mortgage go onto the 
variable rate rather than tie themselves into a new ERC  period  by taking another fixed rate. Ive given 
that a great deal of thought.
The available  evidence isnt conclusive either way. As I said in the background, Barclays notes  say 
Mr S and Mr R planned  to move after two years; they dispute that but theres unfortunately  no 
recording for the telephone call for me to decide  either way.  Thats not say I attach no weight to Mr S 
and Mrs Rs testimony on what they told the advisor  about their intentions. But if I take what Mr S and 
Mrs R have said on face value, it means that instead of going onto the new fixed rate in April 2017, 
theyd have allowed the mortgage to go to the variable rate specified in the original offer from 2015.  
Im not sure that Mr S and Mrs R have fully thought through the implications of doing  that.
Its true that they wouldnt  have had to pay an ERC when  they redeemed the mortgage on moving 
house in December 2018. But its also true that instead of paying  the fixed rate of 1.23%, theyd have 
been paying the variable  rate of BBBR (0.25% according  to the fixed  rate transfer offer  but it went 
up to 0.5%  in November 2017) plus 3.49%.  That means that for almost 21 months between 1 April 
2017 and 20 December 2018, Mr S and Mrs R would have been  paying 3.74% (3.99% from 
November 2017)  instead of 1.23%; so, a differential of 2.51% (2.76% from November 2017).  
The opening balance of the mortgage in April 2017  was just over £204,000, and at 3% the maximum 
ERC that could be charged was around £6,100. It would have  been less in December 2018. Bu in just 
one month  on BBBR, the extra variable interest would have been almost £427.  This was a capital 
repayment mortgage, so each successive months interest would have been slightly  less, but there is, 
nonetheless, a strong possibility that 21 months extra variable interest  at 2.51% (2.76% from 
Ref: DRN85610994November 2017)  could actually be more  than the ERC Mr S and Mrs R paid when they redeemed  the 
mortgage.
Our investigator has asked Barclays for a notional calculation of now much extra  variable  interest Mr 
S and Mrs R would have  paid on BBBR between 1 April 2017 and 20 December 2018. Hes also 
asked it for evidence of the actual amount of the ERC that was charged on redemption.  Barclays 
should ideally provide both pieces of information as part of its response to this provisional decision.   
That will enable  me to assess  whether  Mr S and Mrs R are better  or worse  off as a result of having  
taken the fixed rate switch  in April 2017, which in turn will inform my final decision on their complaint.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, but subject to the further submissions of the parties by 27 June 2019,  
my provisional  decision  is that this complaint should be settled by Barclays providing the notional 
calculation Ive outlined above. Depending  on what that calculation reveals,  my final decision will be 
one of the following outcomes:
in the event the recalculation  reveals  the ERC  Mr S and Mrs R paid is more  than the extra 
variable interest they would have paid on BBBR between 1 April 2017 and 20 December 2018, 
Barclays must refund the difference (with  interest at 8% simple from the date of redemption to the 
eventual date of settlement)  and pay Mr S and Mrs R £200 compensation for their time,  troubled 
and upset; or
in the event the recalculation  reveals  the ERC  Mr S and Mrs R paid is less than the extra variable 
interest they would have  paid on BBBR between 1 April 2017 and 20 December 2018, then the 
complaint wont be upheld and Ill make no order  or award against Barclays.
Ill review my provisional decision after 27 June 2019, or sooner than that if both parties  confirm 
theyve said and provided  all they wish to that is materially new.  Theres no need for either party to 
repeat anything theyve already said.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8561099