K820x#14complaint
Mr B is unhappy that QIC Europe Ltd turned down a claim he made on his home  insurance  
policy.
background
In December 2018 Mr B made a claim on his home insurance policy to pay for repairs to his 
property. He says the damage to his property  was caused by a storm.
QIC instructed a surveyor to attend  the property  and prepare a report.  Relying on the 
contents of that report, QIC declined Mr Bs claim on the basis that the damage  wasnt 
caused by a storm. Mr B didnt think that was fair. He was also unhappy with the contents of 
the surveyors report.
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mr Bs complaint. He didnt think  QIC had unfairly declined 
Mr Bs claim. Mr B disagreed and requested his complaint  be passed to an ombudsman. So 
I need to make a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  it.
The policy says (subject to the other  terms of the policy), QIC will cover:
 loss or damage caused by storm winds  of force 10 or above
However this cover  doesnt  include:
 anything that happens gradually
Whilst there may have  been storm winds in the area where the property was situated around  
the time Mr B says, I dont think QIC has unreasonably relied on the contents of the 
surveyors report when concluding  that the damage  being claimed  for wasnt  caused by the 
storm winds.
The surveyors report says:
External damage is to the fascia at the back of the houseI  have had a look at this 
and found it to be in a poor condition as a result of age and lack of maintenance. It is 
clear to see that this has been leaking for quite  some  time. The timbers  behind the 
fascias are rotting and it has very little fixings in it therefore this is the reason why it 
has come  down. This is a direct result of age and poor workmanship on the fixings  
would not be considered  to be a one off insured  event.  
Im satisfied that QIC was entitled to rely on the conclusions of the report when declining  the 
claim.   When  making this finding, Ive taken into account what Mr B says about the 
surveyors report listing the property  as a bungalow  when  it was in fact a mid-terrace  house. 
I also note that the risk address on the report is different to address of the property which 
was inspected. 
Ref: DRN87490082I think its more likely than not that the property type and risk address  detailed on the report  
doesnt match the property which was actually  inspected  because the surveyor  or whoever 
typed the report  on his behalf   imputed the wrong address. The risk address detailed in the 
report does however match the correspondence address listed in the policy  documents   
which is a bungalow;  whereas the property which was inspected  is listed as the insured 
property in the policy documents. So, on balance, I think this was an administration error. I 
dont think this undermines the conclusions of the report because the surveyor had 
inspected the right property and the report includes photos of the mid-terrace house  and 
damage being claimed for. 
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im 
required to ask Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 4 November 2019.
David Curtis-Johnson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8749008