K822xcomplaint
Miss T complains that a car she has been financing through an agreement  with 
Specialist Motor Finance Limited  (SMF)  has not been of satisfactory quality.
background 
Miss T took receipt of a used car in September 2018. She financed the deal through a hire 
purchase agreement  with SMF. At the point of supply the car was about seven years  old and 
had already completed about 118,000 miles.
Miss T has had problems with the car. She says that a few weeks  after she took receipt of it 
the Engine Management Light (EML) came on. The dealership repaired the Exhaust Gas 
Recirculation (EGR) valve but that problem reoccurred in March  2019. And when a further 
fault with the throttle sensor was repaired in late 2019 the EGR fault returned.  There were  
also repairs to a brake calliper in November 2018 and to a temperature sensor in March of 
that same  year.
Miss T was also upset to find that, although the car was advertised as having a full service 
history, the service  book only had one stamp in it.
She complained to SMF but they didnt support her complaint so she referred it to this 
service and our adjudicator provided  his opinion.  He suggested  Miss T may wish to 
commission an independent  inspection to support her view that the problem  with the EGR 
valve had been  present  or developing at the point the car was supplied  to her. But as Miss T 
didnt do this he didnt  think  he had sufficient evidence to support a finding that the car was 
faulty at the point it was supplied to Miss T. He noted it had completed a high mileage and 
he thought it was more likely the fault was related to normal wear and tear.
He did think there was evidence the car had not been provided with a full service record.  He 
wasnt persuaded that this omission  induced  Miss T to sign up for the deal but he did think  
SMF should  compensate her for the lack of a full history. In the circumstances he thought 
£200 would  be reasonable.  
SMF accepted the adjudicators view but Miss T didnt. She said the service history  was very 
important to her and she explained that the EGR  valve problem persisted and shed been 
informed by a mechanic  that the problem would not be resolved easily. She therefore asked 
for a final decision by an ombudsman.
  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view.  I know that will disappoint Miss T so please let me 
explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Ref: DRN82350482Miss T acquired  her car under a hire purchase  agreement. The hire purchase agreement  is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement  and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.  
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the car should  have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied.  If it wasnt then SMF, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant  law also says the quality of goods  is satisfactory  if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price  and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied  to Miss T. The car 
here was around  seven  years old and had completed a significant  mileage of about 118,000 
miles. 
I understand that Miss T will have been very frustrated by the issues  shes experienced with 
the car. But I think its reasonable to suggest  that a car of this age and mileage would be 
experiencing signs of wear and tear and that at this mileage some of the engine  components  
in particular would be reaching the end of their useful life.
Ive not seen sufficient evidence  that the faults  Miss T has experienced with the car are not 
related to normal wear  and tear. This would usually  be supplied  through  an independent  
inspection but thats not been provided here.  So I dont think theres  evidence  that this car 
was of unsatisfactory quality when supplied.
The service  book doesnt show a full service  history but the advertisement for the car 
suggested it did have  one. Im not persuaded that theres sufficient information to suggest 
Miss T wouldnt  have entered into the deal had she known the service  history was 
incomplete. There were other  considerations such as the make, model and specification of 
the car. I think these  would be likely  to have weighed  more heavily on the decision to 
proceed. The adjudicators suggestion  that SMF compensate Miss T for the trouble and 
upset caused  by the omission seems a reasonable one in the circumstances. I agree that 
£200 would  be fair.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint in part and tell Specialist Motor  
Finance Limited  to pay Miss T £200  to compensate her for the trouble and upset shes been 
caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 June  2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8235048