K820x#14complaint
Miss F and Mr T complain  that Assurant Intermediary  Limited (Assurant) mis-sold payment 
protection insurance (PPI)  to them alongside  a mortgage in 2008.  
background
Miss F and Mr T initially bought a PPI policy in 2003. In 2008,  they bought a further policy 
when Assurant wrote to them to tell them their original  cover was about to expire. 
The parties have  already  been notified that the sale from 2003 is not within  the jurisdiction of 
this service and so I cannot consider  what happened when that policy  was sold.  However, I 
can consider the sale that took place  in 2008. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Miss F and Mr T disagreed with 
that view. They said they werent  happy because theyd been paying  for a policy for a 
number of years that they say they didnt need.  As the parties are not in agreement  with our 
adjudicator, the matter  has been  passed  to me to make a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account  in deciding 
this case.
Miss F and Mr T have  pursued their complaint diligently and cogently  and I am grateful to 
them for their efforts in doing so. I have considered the issues  raised in this complaint at 
some length.  I am sorry to disappoint Miss F and Mr T, but I havent upheld their complaint. 
Ill explain  why below.  
As I said above, its most  likely  that in 2008,  PPI was sold to Miss F and Mr T when Assurant 
wrote to them to say their old policy was about to expire. Whilst Assurant hasnt been able to 
send me the exact letter that was sent to Miss F and Mr T, it has provided us with a copy of 
the type of letter it used  at that time. For the policy to proceed, the covering letter says that 
Miss F and Mr T would  have had to call or email  for the cover to be set up. 
The first thing Ive considered is whether  Miss F and Mr T would have known they could 
have refused the PPI if they didnt  want it. Looking at the sample  letter that Assurant sent to 
us, I can see that it says that their existing policy (that is the one they took out in 2003) 
would not renew  and that they had to take some action if they wanted to be covered. So I 
think it would  have  been reasonably clear to Miss F and Mr T that they didnt have to take 
this policy  out and to refuse the cover, they could have just done nothing. 
The evidence doesnt suggest that there  were any changes to Miss F and Mr Ts mortgage  
in 2008. So I dont think they would  have been  led to believe that taking PPI was a condition 
of their borrowing. Overall, I think it would have been clear to Miss F and Mr T that the PPI 
policy was optional. 
Ive considered at length whether this was an advised sale. By that, I mean  whether 
Assurant tailored its recommendation to Miss F and Mr Ts personal circumstances. There  
wouldnt have been scope to find out about their circumstances  on the covering  letter.  I cant  
Ref: DRN86815252know what was said to them on the telephone  or by email. But Ive seen some sample 
paperwork that would have been sent to them afterwards to confirm some details. It appears  
likely to me that Assurant  would have confirmed Miss F and Mr Ts basic eligibility for the 
PPI. But the evidence Ive seen doesnt  suggest Assurant said this policy  was right for Miss 
F and Mr T after a comprehensive review  of their circumstances. 
Even so, Assurant still had to give Miss F and Mr T enough information  about the cover so 
they could decide for themselves whether it was a good fit for their needs. That information 
had to be fair, clear  and not misleading. Given theres limited  information about what was 
said during the saleI accept its possible  that Assurant didnt tell Miss F and Mr T everything 
it should have  done about the cover. 
So the question  for me now is whether Miss F and Mr T would  have acted differently if 
Assurant had told them everything it should  have  done about  the PPI. To help me decide 
what they would have done,  Ive looked at what Miss F and Mr T told us about their personal 
circumstances. And Ive also considered the terms and conditions that apply to this policy.  
I can see that if theyd had to make  a claim,  Miss F and Mr Ts mortgage payments would 
have been covered for up to 12 months  if they became unwell or if they lost their jobs. They 
were covered for 50% of the premium  each. 
From the evidence Ive seen, Miss F and Mr T appear to have been eligible for the PPI. They 
told us they were in good health at the time and so I cant see they would have been affected 
by any of the exclusions about  medical conditions. And I havent seen anything  unusual 
about their circumstances that would have stopped them from being able to make a 
successful claim  if they needed  to. 
A crucial part of Miss F and Mr Ts complaint is that they didnt need PPI. They told us they 
had some generous  savings and Miss F had an income protection  policy. Ive carefully  
considered what  they said on these points.  
Miss F and Mr T kindly sent us a copy of Miss Fs income protection  policy, which Ive 
carefully considered.  I can see that having  PPI could have  affected  what  she would have 
been able to claim on her income protection cover. Ive considered this matter  with great 
care. But as this wasnt an advised sale, Assurant didnt have to check whether the cover 
was suitable for Miss F and Mr Ts needs. Their obligation was to provide information about  
the PPI cover only. Essentially, as Miss F and Mr T were aware  of Miss Fs income 
protection cover, it would have been up to them to consider the impact PPI would have had 
on that policy. So I cant say more or better  information about the significant terms of the PPI 
would have put them off buying  that cover. Thats because it was the terms and conditions of 
the income protection policy which would have restricted their ability  to claim.  
I think its important to say that from what I have  seen, the income protection policy would  
have covered Miss F only. Looking at Mr Ts sick pay arrangements, the PPI would have 
lasted for longer than his full sick pay. 
Ive also considered carefully and I accept what Miss F and Mr T told us about  their savings. 
However, I understand that the funds were kept in a PEP/TESSA account and so its not 
entirely clear  how accessible those savings would have been. It is important for me to stress 
that the mortgage was obviously secured on Miss F and Mr Ts home.  Objectively, if the 
savings were accessible, Miss F and Mr T could have used those funds on their other  
Ref: DRN86815253essential expenditure at what would no doubt have  been a very stressful  time if one of them 
was out of work. 
Taking account of everything before me, I cant say that more  or better information 
specifically about  the PPI would have put Miss F and Mr T off buying this cover.  I appreciate 
Miss F and Mr Ts frustration in that they paid for this insurance when an income  protection 
policy would have provided similar cover  for Miss F. I hope  they will be able to understand 
why I cant find that the potential  duplication is as a result of anything  Assurant did wrong. 
I have considered this case  with some considerable care. I am sorry to disappoint Miss F 
and Mr T, but Im afraid I dont uphold their complaint. I dont need to tell Assurant to take 
any further action  in respect of it. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I havent  upheld this complaint. I dont need to tell Assurant 
Intermediary Limited to take any further action. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss F and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 November  2019. 
Nicola Bowes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8681525