K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2008. Miss H says Bank of Scotland plc (BoS)  trading as Halifax  mis-sold her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Hs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Miss H bought the PPI policy in a meeting. Miss H and BoS havent  been able to 
provide any detail about what was said in this meeting. And there  isnt much 
paperwork from the time of sale either. Thats understandable given the time that has 
passed. But it means I dont know what was discussed. So Ive thought carefully  
about what Miss H and BoS have said. And Ive also used what I know  about BoS 
sales processes to help me make my decision.  Having done  this, I dont have enough 
to say that its likely  BoS told Miss H that she needed to buy a PPI policy to start the 
mortgage. So, overall, I think BoS made  it clear that Miss H didnt have to take out 
the PPI and she chose to take it out  although  I can understand why she cant 
remember this.
BoS recommended the PPI to Miss H so it had to check  that the PPI was right for her 
 and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time,  I think that it was. 
For example she wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover and she seems to have had a need for the cover. And I can see that Miss H 
has made a claim on the policy when  she was unemployed for a period of time so it 
did provide a benefit to her.  
Its possible the information BoS gave  Miss H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for her if something went  wrong.
It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI 
would have put her off taking out the cover. 
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So BoS doesnt need  to refund everything 
Miss H paid for it. But BoS has already  offered to give Miss H back some of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
BoS will make arrangements  to pay Miss H now Ive issued my final decision.  
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 April 2019.
Ref: DRN84775122Andy Burlinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8477512