K820x#14complaint
Miss W complains about the handling of a claim by Admiral  Insurance Company Limited 
under her motor insurance policy.
background
In December 2017 Miss W was involved in a road traffic accident. The police told Admiral  
that Miss W failed a breathalyser test at the roadside. The reading was 81 mg/100ml of 
breath whereas the legal  limit is 35 mg/100 ml.
Miss W was then taken to a hospital  in order to provide a urine sample for analysis. The 
police told Admiral that Miss W failed this test as well. The reading for this was 155 mg/100 
ml of urine  whereas the legal limit is 107 mg/100 ml.
Despite this, the criminal  prosecution against Miss W was dismissed, due to errors with the 
urine sampling procedure. 
Admiral declined Miss Ws claim under  the terms and conditions of the policy and is seeking 
to recover from her any costs its incurred as a result of the accident. It said that on the 
balance of probabilities, it considered that Miss L was found  to be over the legal limit of 
alcohol at the time of the accident.
Miss W complained to Admiral as she said it was unfair to decline her claim when the 
criminal case  against her had been  dismissed. She also said she was made  to feel 
uncomfortable when  Admiral asked her personal  questions and that she felt discriminated 
against. She also raised issues  with the length of the claims process and that she hadnt 
been regularly  updated.
Admiral accepted that it could have done more to keep Miss W updated and offered  £100 in 
recognition for the trouble and upset caused.  However, it stuck  by its decision to decline  the 
claim and said it dealt  with hers in the same way it would any other claim.
Miss W didnt agree  and so brought the complaint to our service. Our investigator looked  into 
what happened and didnt think Admiral had done  anything wrong. He said that under the 
terms and conditions of her policy, Admiral was able to decline  the claim if she was found to 
be over the prescribed  limit for alcohol or to be found driving whilst unfit through drink. 
Our investigator accepted that the criminal case against Miss W was dismissed. But he said 
that if Miss Ws case against Admiral were  to go to court,  it would be a civil law case. 
Evidential requirements are different in criminal  and civil cases. Civil law cases have to be 
proved on the balance  of probabilities  not beyond  reasonable doubt. So Admiral was 
entitled to rely on the evidence the police had provided it with and come  to the conclusion 
that on the balance of probabilities, Miss W was over the legal limit.
Our investigator felt that the questions Admiral asked Miss W were  fair as was the £100  offer 
for poor communication.
Miss W remains unhappy, so the complaint has been passed to me to issue a decision.
Ref: DRN88036752my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain why. 
Admirals terms  and conditions explain that: 
If an accident happens whilst You or any person entitled to drive under Section 5 of Your 
current Certificate of Motor Insurance: 
is found to be over the prescribed limit for alcohol
is driving whilst unfit through drink or drugs,  whether  prescribed or otherwise
fails to provide  a sample of breath, blood  or urine when required to do so, without 
lawful reason 
No cover under the policy will be provided  and instead, liability  will be restricted to meeting  
the obligations as required by Road  Traffic law. In those circumstances, We will recover from 
You or the driver, all sums  paid (including  all legal costs), whether in settlement or under a 
Judgment, of any claim arising from the accident.
So this means  that if Admiral thinks that Miss W was found to be over the prescribed limit for 
alcohol at the time of the accident,  its entitled to decline  her claim. It also means that 
Admiral is able to recover  its outlay from Miss W where its obliged  to pay for third party  
costs associated with the accident.
Miss W argues that Admiral cant fairly  say she was over the prescribed limit as the criminal 
case against her for drink driving  was dismissed  by a criminal court. Although  I understand 
Miss Ws argument, the terms and conditions  dont state she needs to be found by a criminal 
court or convicted to be found to be over the prescribed limit for alcohol.
I think Admiral  was entitled to take the view that on the balance  of probabilities she was 
found to be over the prescribed limit by the police when the accident occurred. I say this 
because theres no dispute that Miss W was found  to be over the prescribed limit on the 
roadside breathalyser  test. When asked during a phone call with Admiral the day after the 
accident happened, Miss W said that the breathalyser  test was around  80 mg and Admiral  
later had this confirmed as 81 mg with the police.
I understand from the letter  from Miss Ws solicitor that she disputed  the procedures  
whereby the police took a sample of urine  from her and this ultimately led to the charge 
against her being  dismissed. However,  even  if the urine sample  was disregarded, I still think  
it would  be fair for Admiral to rely on the breathalyser reading.  This reading showed that 
Miss W was significantly over the legal limit, and as such, I understand why Admiral reached  
the decision it did. Im satisfied that its decision  was fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. 
Ive also considered the length of time taken to deal with the claim and the level of 
communication given  to Miss W throughout. Ive listened to a number of calls between Miss 
W and Admiral  and from these its clear that Miss W was very frustrated with the claim 
process. And I understand why. The claim  took around nine months to be decided and 
during that time she was left paying  for a vehicle she was unable to drive. However, I dont 
Ref: DRN88036753think Admiral were  responsible for the delay as it was unable  to decide the claim until the 
court proceedings had been  dealt with.
 
I also think Admiral  was fair to ask the questions it did regarding  Miss Ws alcohol intake 
prior to the accident. She had provided  conflicting  information about how much she had 
consumed before she drove. And so Admiral wanted to determine its indemnity position - 
due to the driving while unfit through drink and/or drugs exclusion in her policy.  So I cant  
agree that Admiral  treated  Miss W differently to how it would any of its customers under 
these circumstances.
Admiral has acknowledged that it didnt respond to all of Miss Ws emails  and that it couldve 
done more to keep her updated. But as Ive explained, this didnt affect the progress of her 
claim and so I feel the £100  offered  is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
So taking into account all of the above,  I think Admiral  fairly declined the claim and I wont be 
asking it not to recover its outlay from Miss W. I also dont think Admiral caused any undue 
delays and so I wont be asking it to increase its offer of £100  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 November 2019.
John Norton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8803675