K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that  Aviva Life & Pensions  UK Limited failed to action his new direct  debits  
for two policies which  led to him having  to pay £800  in back-payments  after the problem  
was finally  discovered.
background
An investigator at this service thought that Mr M had acted  correctly  and that Aviva  was 
more likely than not at fault in misplacing the direct debits  for reasons she explained.  She 
recommended it pay £100  in lieu of the trouble and upset this had caused  Mr M.
Aviva did not agree,  and said:
The original direct debits were mistakenly  cancelled by Mr Ms bank
It did not receive the new direct debits and as his policies were in revivable lapse  
status it would not have sent any reminders (to inform him it still did not have the 
necessary direct  debits)
Mr M shouldve checked his bank statements to ensure the direct debits were being 
taken; he did not do so for nine months
In 2011 when there was apparently a problem with direct debits Aviva and its current  
partner company Friends Life were separate businesses and so information  could not 
have passed between them
It allowed the policies  to be reinstated after 11 months and without a new health  
declaration  and it feels  this was sufficient and reasonable
The investigator responded, saying:
Mr M had pursued his bank about its lapsing over the original direct debits and was 
recompensed for this
Given this experience she was satisfied he then took the appropriate action to get 
new direct  debits  set up i.e. contacting Aviva, receiving an emailed  new mandate,  
attempting to send  it electronically and then posting it as Aviva  had advised
Therefore Mr M would reasonably have assumed that all was well
Further, Mr M said that his wife's policy is logged under the correct address so it is 
reasonable and plausible that any address change made on a householder's policy  
would've included  all applicable details to be changed
Looking at the details of the casefile review it seems generally agreed  that there'd  
been confusion  over whether the instruction had been sent to Friends  Life or Aviva  
and whether or not this would've  been communicated between  departments
Aviva  appears to have  upheld  this part of the complaint
Ultimately,  she was persuaded by the testimony of Mr M that he took reasonable 
steps and did everything necessary  to ensure the policies  were-established
He then had to borrow a significant  amount  of money to bring his policies out of the 
recoverable lapse
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case I agree with the investigator  and for the same reasons.
Ref: DRN84611392For all the reasons she outlined, I am satisfied that it is more likely than not that Mr M sent 
back the new mandate/s and therefore  it is reasonable to conclude that these were received 
by Aviva.  This service frequently receives  complaints where  a customer claims not to have 
received a key document. 
Our broad approach  is if there is convincing evidence that a letter was sent we believe it is 
more likely than not to have been  safely delivered  to the correct address. In this case  I think 
Mr Ms testimony represents convincing evidence.
Given this I think it is more  likely  than not that Aviva mislaid it. All businesses  (and 
customers) make mistakes on occasions  as is clear from the complaints we consider  and 
in this case I think it is more likely  than not that Aviva made a mistake.
Further, Aviva  admitted that it did not have Mr Ms correct  address so even if it was not 
require to send  out reminders  on a policy in lapse it still did something wrong which  delayed  
Mr M becoming aware that the new mandate had not been  actioned.
It is clear from what Ive read that Mr M find it troublesome to have to find £800 to pay for the 
arrears in one go and immediately so I feel £100 is a reasonable figure for Aviva  to pay him 
in compensation  for this.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and instruct  Aviva  Life & Pensions UK Limited  to pay £100  to Mr M.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8461139