K821x#15complaint
Mr S says Northern Bank Limited mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy.
background
Mr S bought  the policy at the same time as applying for a credit card in 2008. The policy  
protected his card repayments if he couldnt work  due to disability or unemployment and it 
also included life cover.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the PPI had been mis-sold. Mr S disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion so the complaint was passed  to me to review afresh.
my final findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account  in deciding  
Mr S case.
Having done so, I dont believe Northern Bank mis-sold the PPI to Mr S. Ill explain  why.
Northern Bank had to make it clear that the PPI was optional and get Mr S agreement to 
take it. Mr S has told us that he didnt know PPI had been added.  
Northern Banks given us a copy  of the application  form Mr S signed  in 2008, which included 
a section headed Payment Protection Insurance. The section shows  a printed X next to a 
statement indicating Mr S wanted PPI. I note also that, later in the form, Mr S indicated  he 
didnt want another  card-related insurance  policy. So it seems  to me that Mr S would have 
been aware of the choices he had regarding the various insurances Northern Bank was 
offering and made his decisions accordingly.
I also note that the credit  card agreement Mr S signed included a boxed marked with an X 
to confirm hed separately  applied for PPI and that he understood it was optional.
So, based  on everything Ive seen, I think Northern Bank made Mr S aware he had a choice 
about the PPI and he agreed to take it out, knowing he could refuse  it if he wanted.
Northern Bank says it recommended the PPI to Mr S. That meant it should have checked if 
the PPI was right for him. And, based  on what I know about his personal circumstances, I 
think it was. I say this because:
Mr S appears to have been  eligible  for the PPI and doesnt seem  to have been 
affected by any of the main exclusions to, or limits on, the cover.
Mr S was entitled to sick pay for a time but the policy benefits would have paid out 
on top of that and for longer, at up to 12 months per claim. And it covered him for 
unemployment too. So I think the PPI provided him with useful additional protection.
The PPI appears  to have been  affordable to Mr S. And it was flexible in that he could 
have cancelled it at any time if he decided he no longer  wanted  it.
Ref: DRN86311992Northern Bank also had to ensure it gave Mr S clear information  about the PPI to allow him 
to make an informed decision about  whether to take it. As Ive said,  I think  that Mr S chose to 
take it out  so it looks like he wanted  this type of cover. And it seems  like it would have 
provided useful  and affordable protection for him if something went  wrong. So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put him off taking out the cover.  
Which means Northern Bank doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr S. But 
Northern Bank will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr S because:  
Northern Bank got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium)  so it should have told Mr S about that. Because Northern Bank didnt tell 
Mr S, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Northern Banks basically  offered to pay back the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium   and I think that 
offers fair in this case.
what the business needs  to do
Northern Bank has to pay back to Mr S any commission  and profit  share it got that was more 
than 50% of the PPI premium if it hasnt already  done so. Northern Bank should also pay 
back to Mr S any extra interest he paid because of that.
Northern Bank should re-work the credit card account and pay back to Mr S the difference 
between what Mr S owes and what he would have owed if the commission and profit share  it 
got hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Northern Bank should also pay Mr S 8%* 
simple interest if he paid off his credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr S can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Northern Bank  Limited doesnt have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI.
But Northern Bank Limited does  have to pay back any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium, if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 August 2019.
Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8631199