K820x#14complaint
Miss S complains  that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) has unfairly  declined  a claim she 
made under her contents insurance.
background
Miss S allowed her then  now former   partner (Mr D) to move  in with her around 
November 2017.  Miss S asked Mr D to move out in February 2018 following an argument. 
He did so and Miss S believes he then returned very shortly after using a spare key she was 
unaware of, and stole a number  of valuables from her.
Several days later, Miss S agreed to let Mr D return to the home. She said this was through  
fear and intimidation, and because he had told her he was homeless and believed  he was 
seriously ill. Subsequently more items went missing from the home.
Miss S has described how she was manipulated by Mr D during their relationship  and 
beyond, and that he had played mind games  with her. This included making untrue 
comments about others being  in the property,  leaving  doors  unlocked,  turning pictures 
upside down and claiming his own items  were  also going missing amongst other things.
Miss S questioned  Mr D about the missing  items  but she was persuaded by him that the 
items were either misplaced or stolen  by a ghost. Miss S packed up Mr Ds belongings and 
moved him out of the home in early  March 2018. She then reported  the stolen items and 
theft to the police, and while no items  were  found  at Mr Ds address, a warrant was put out 
for his arrest.
Miss S contacted Aviva  to make  a claim under her contents insurance policy  for these  stolen 
items and this was declined. Aviva said this action would be classed as theft by deception 
which was excluded under the policy. 
Aviva also said the claim was excluded as the policy wouldnt  cover criminal acts caused  by 
someone living with the policyholder. Aviva said Mr D had a key, his items were at the home  
and he was sleeping  there with no fixed date to leave so it did consider him to be living at the 
property.
Miss S brought her complaint to our service. She said she understood the items were  stolen 
after she allowed Mr D to return to the property would  not be covered. But the items initially  
stolen shortly after he first moved out should be. She said this was because  Mr D did not 
have her permission  to access the property. 
Miss S also said Mr D did not contribute financially or in any other way to the running of the 
home and lived in his own room, cooking,  eating and socialising independently from her. 
So she said Mr D shouldnt fall within the policy exclusion of living with her.
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  and didnt uphold it. She said the policy 
exclusions said it didnt cover any loss deliberately  caused or arising  from a criminal act 
caused by someone  living  with the policyholder. The investigator said Miss S had noticed  
items going missing  a day after Mr D had moved  out. But soon after Miss S allowed Mr D to 
move back  into the property as he explained  he was unwell.
Ref: DRN84272772The investigator said she felt it was possible items  were taken over time, and prior to Mr D 
moving out as it wasnt disputed he had lived there.  Miss S said Mr D moved out following an 
argument  but he moved  back in a matter  of days later. She felt it was reasonable for Aviva  
to consider Mr D as living in the property as he was only absent for a couple of days. So 
overall she felt it was reasonable for Aviva to decline Miss S claim under this exclusion.
Miss S disagreed and said shed not been in a relationship with Mr D for a long time at the 
time of the incidents, and she reiterated Mr D had left her home, but was allowed to return  
for a short period as she believed he was unwell. Miss S asked for an ombudsmans  final 
decision, so the complaint has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain  why.
When considering  this complaint, Ive thought about Avivas obligations under ICOBS 8.1. 
This says an insurer must:
(1) handle  promptly and fairly;
(2) provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim and appropriate  
information on its progress; 
(3) not unreasonably  reject a claim (including by terminating or avoiding a policy);  and
(4) settle claims promptly once settlement terms are agreed.
Ive looked at the theft exclusion within Miss S policy that Aviva  has relied on. This says 
Aviva will not cover  theft by deception, unless deception is used  only to get into the home. 
So I have  to consider whether the thefts  in question  were  as a result  of deception. And if I 
think they were, I need to ask whether this deception was used only to get into the property.
Miss S has explained that she was previously persuaded by Mr D that stolen and missing  
items were related to paranormal activity. And this was alongside ongoing untrue comments  
about others in the property, as well as hiding items and moving pictures   in Miss S words 
mind games.
Its not in dispute  that Mr Ds behaviour  caused  Miss S a lot of distress. She has given us a 
lot of detail about the relationship she was previously in, and the ongoing pressure and 
manipulation caused by Mr D. I am very sympathetic to her situation,  and I can only imagine  
how stressful this experience has been for her.
I think Mr D did deceive Miss S over a period of time as a result of his behaviour. It has been 
disputed when these  items were  taken  whether Mr D was living in the property at the time 
or whether the theft took place after he had left. Its very difficult to say when the theft took 
place as Miss S has said herself; some items disappeared and reappeared over time. And 
others were  only found to be gone after Miss S carried out a thorough search  of her home.
Ref: DRN84272773But in this case I think the deception exclusion would apply to either scenario. I say this 
because Miss S has explained  how Mr D persuaded her that he hadnt  stolen items when 
she challenged him  and he returned  to the home after the period Miss S believes he first 
stole her belongings. And it wasnt until sometime  later she did believe hed stolen  valuables  
and subsequently reported  the crime to the police.
I think this shows the deception was prolonged, and not only for the purposes  of gaining 
entry to her home. So Im satisfied the claim is not covered because of this exclusion.
Ive also looked  at the general exclusions of the policy that Aviva has relied  on. Under the 
heading Deliberate  and Criminal Acts it says it will not cover any loss or damage 
deliberately caused  by, or arising from a criminal act caused by; you or any other person 
living with you.
The police put a warrant out for Mr D in relation to the stolen items. So Im satisfied  Mr D is 
most likely responsible for the criminal act. Miss S has explained she wasnt in a relationship 
with Mr D, and his time in the property was temporary. I understand this is a very sensitive 
so I want to be clear the exclusion requires me to consider  whether Mr D was living with 
Miss S  not whether they were in a relationship.
Miss S has agreed Mr D was living  with her for a number of months  prior to asking him to 
leave in February 2018. And a few days later Mr D moved back into the home.  Miss S has 
said this was only temporary because she believed he was unwell and was homeless. I 
appreciate this may have been  her intention,  but he was staying in the home during this 
period with the exception of a few days.  So in the circumstances I think its reasonable for 
Aviva to have considered  Mr D to be living with Miss S at the time of the theft. And I think 
Aviva has declined the claim under this exclusion fairly and in line with the policy  terms.
I appreciate this will be a great  disappointment  to Miss S, but overall  I think Aviva has fairly 
declined her claim and I wont be asking it to do anything further.
my final decision
For the above reasons, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 February  2019.
Jack Baldry
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8427277