K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) has overcharged 
him for insurance at renewal and treated  him unfairly in how its changed  the policy price due 
to his circumstances changing.
background
Mr L took motor insurance with LV in 2016. The following year his policy was due to renew 
and he was sent a quote which  showed an increase in the premium from the previous year.  
Mr L was unhappy  with the quote.  When he spoke to LV he was offered a small reduction. 
Mr L spoke to a member of staff at LV to discuss the price.  He still felt it was too high and 
asked for a further  discount. He was told that wasnt possible and agreed to take the policy  
at the price quoted with the original reduction. Having given his payment details he then 
mentioned that his address had changed  a few days previously. When  the change of 
address was entered into LVs system  there was an additional premium  to be paid of just 
over £50. Mr L was unhappy  and as a result of the conversation his policy was cancelled.  
Mr L complained to LV about its pricing  and argued  that the fact that he was offered a 
discount proved  that LV had failed to provide him with the best possible price. He felt that 
this was a breach of regulations and has made  a number  of accusations including  
references to fraud and a lack of management within the business.  He also felt that he was 
treated unfairly  and rudely when calling.  He said that he hadnt  cancelled the policy  but 
rather had asked for it to be suspended while he shopped around  with other insurers.
LV explained  its approach to pricing and that it hadnt treated Mr L unfairly. It said that it had 
offered him a discount  as a goodwill gesture  but that the change of address had 
necessitated an increase in price  due to its underwriting approach  rating the new property as 
a higher risk location. 
Mr L complained to this service. Our adjudicator felt that LV had acted fairly and didnt 
uphold his complaint. Mr L has asked that his complaint  now be looked  at by an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I agree with the findings of the adjudicator 
so dont intend to uphold  this complaint.
LV has provided  this service with an explanation of the underwriting  rules applied to Mr Ls 
policy and the change of address. Such information is commercially sensitive so I wont 
share the detail  here. But Im satisfied that LV has applied its standard approach to Mr Ls 
policy pricing and treated  him fairly. That includes both the goodwill gesture reduction and 
the change when Mr L notified  it that his address had changed. 
The fact that LV has chosen to offer a small discount to keep Mr Ls business is something 
they have discretion to do. Having  done so doesnt  make their original price unfair.
An insurer  is entitled to offer insurance  at whatever price it thinks  appropriate. The consumer 
can accept that price or not and has freedom  of choice from a range of other  suppliers in the 
Ref: DRN86645292market. Insurers apply  different approaches to risk and what  price  they require in order  to 
take on that risk. And that is substantially impacted by the policy  holders address. Im 
satisfied that LV has applied its approach fairly  in Mr Ls case, that is that it hasnt treated 
him differently to other customers and that theres nothing  wrong  with its approach  in this 
case.
Ive listened to the telephone conversation which Mr L had with LV. Hes since suggested 
that he didnt cancel the policy.  He made  a written comment to this service  that he asked for 
it to be put on hold while he shopped around and referred to the call handlers rude  and 
abusive behaviour.  In that call Mr L clearly and repeatedly required the policy  to be 
cancelled, including  confirming  his wishes when the call handler  explained  the meaning of 
his request. In my view there was no abusive  behaviour on the part of the call handler.  On 
the contrary she was thorough  and seemed to do her best to help Mr L understand how 
underwriting works. On a couple of occasions  she asked Mr L to listen  to her which could be 
taken as a form of rudeness. But in my view theres no basis  for Mr Ls claims and certainly 
not that he didnt intend  for the policy to be cancelled.
Mr L has dismissed, as untrue, LVs comments that prices  change regularly. But Im aware 
that they do, and in fact that many insurers use very dynamic pricing systems which  change  
from moment to moment  based  on substantial data sets. In my view theres no basis in this 
case for Mr Ls contentions. 
Ultimately, Mr L was offered a policy at a price  he didnt like. When he was offered a small 
discount he accepted that. In fact, during the call when it was confirmed that no further 
discount was possible he made a point  of saying that he would accept  and commented  on 
how well hed been treated by LV during a previous claim. It was only when he notified LV of 
his change of address,  and it explained there was a further price rise payable, that he 
became upset and cancelled  his policy. 
In my view LV have  treated Mr L fairly. LV chose to offer Mr L £50 compensation for any 
distress that its handling caused him but I understand that he hasnt accepted it. I dont 
require LV to do anything  more than it has already done. If it seeks  to continue the offer of 
£50 to Mr L and he wishes to accept it then that is between the parties but I dont  require it to 
take any action  as a result  of this complaint coming  to me.    
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 May 2019.
John Withington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8664529