K820x#14complaint
Miss F has complained that PSA Finance UK Limited charged her twice for a service  to her 
car.
background
On 13 March 2015, Miss F entered into a hire purchase agreement for a new car. The 
agreement ended in April 2018. PSA Finance arranged  for an end of contract  inspection.
The inspection found several areas of damage. It also found that the service history was 
incomplete. PSA Finance  sent Miss F an invoice for £523 for the service and repairs to the 
car. It subsequently  reduced the service  charge to £392.25, as a gesture of goodwill.
However, Miss F said she received a second invoice for the service charge. She raised it 
with PSA Finance. It told her the invoice was for missed payments. 
Miss F wasnt  happy with this response  so she brought  her complaint to this service. She 
said shed never  missed any payments or been  in arrears.
An investigator looked into her complaint and decided not to uphold  it. She confirmed there 
was only one charge  outstanding and that was the service charge of £392.25.  Nothing  more 
was due. The investigator also concluded  that the service charge was fair and in line with the 
terms and conditions of the hire purchase agreement.
Miss F has asked for an ombudsmans final decision. She doesnt think its fair that she 
should pay for a service  charge for two years.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The investigator wrote a detailed view that sets out, in full, the facts,  the areas of damage, 
how they are costed, and the terms and conditions of the HP agreement.  Miss F has not 
objected to any of this information,  so I wont repeat every  detail  here, only those, which  form 
the basis of my decision.
It seems  there was a misunderstanding about  the second letter, asking for payment. PSA 
Finance has explained to this service that this was a generic letter, which  is sent when a 
customers account is in arrears. The only payment outstanding was the service charge, 
which hadnt been paid. It confirmed there were no missed hire purchase payments. 
I am satisfied that the only sum, which  Miss F owes, is £392.25. Perhaps PSA Finance  could  
have been clearer  in its communications, but I consider this issue  has now been resolved.  
I understand that Miss F has also asked  if a service charge for two years is fair. 
In this case, the HP agreement requires  the car to be serviced annually  or 
every 10,000 miles, whichever is sooner, in order to ensure  it stays  in the best condition and 
prevents faults  from occurring.  The  agreement also states that the consumer must
Ref: DRN88817012 keep the vehicle in good condition (see clause 18), carry out repairs  and replace 
parts when necessary and maintain and service  the vehicle in accordance  with 
the manufacturers recommendations. It is [the consumers]   responsibility to 
ensure that the repairer stamps the vehicles service book each time the vehicle 
is serviced (the service book must be returned  to us on the day of collection if the 
vehicle is recovered  by us for any reason)
There are similar requirements in the manufacturers handbook and the British Vehicle 
Rental and Leasing  Association (BVRLA) standards,  which the investigator  has referred to, 
in detail, in her view.
The terms and conditions  also state that upon termination the consumer will also pay for 
servicing, providing replacement parts and carrying out repairs which  are needed to put the 
vehicle in good condition following its return (Clause 9).
Miss F admitted that she hadnt serviced the car during the time she had it because  she 
didnt know she had to do this with a new car. The inspection found  areas  of damage but 
they were not substantial. However, the damage, combined with the incomplete service 
record, affected the resale value. 
Based on this evidence,  I consider it was fair and reasonable for PSA Finance to charge 
Miss F for the service  and repairs to the car. 
Im sorry  this is disappointing news for Miss F but I hope the reasons for my decision are 
clear.
my final decision
My final decision is that I am not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 July 2020.
Razia Karim
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8881701