K820x#14complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Shop Direct Finance Company  Limited  didnt credit  a returned item 
back onto his account. He wants it to locate  the returned item and refund all charges  and 
interest applied.
 
background
Shop Direct said in its final response that when an item is returned via the Post Office a 
Proof of Return  slip is provided containing a tracking number. This is used to identify an item 
when received in its warehouse. It can only locate an item in its warehouse if Mr S provides 
the Post Office  Proof of Return slip. Without  it, its not able to apply  a credit to his account. 
Our investigator felt this complaint  shouldnt be upheld.  He said that although Mr S says he 
returned an item on 19 October  2018, hes unable to provide the Proof of Return slip with the 
tracking number. And Shop Direct says it wasnt received the item. As proof  of return  and the 
tracking number havent been provided  he cant say Shop Direct received the returned item. 
So, its fair that Shop Direct hasnt credited Mr S account for it. He also cant  ask it to search 
its warehouse for the returned item.
Mr S doesnt  agree  and has asked for an ombudsman  review. He says he still doesnt think 
Shop Direct has been helpful  in trying to locate the item. He guarantees he sent it back.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 
I agree  with the investigators conclusions for the same reasons.
Without the Post Offices Proof of Return slip and tracking number theres nothing to show  
this item was returned to or received  by Shop  Direct. 
As a result I dont think I can fairly or reasonably require  Shop Direct to credit  Mr S account  
with the value of the item as hed like.
Overall, although I recognise  Mr S frustration, I dont think Shop Direct  has done anything  
wrong. And I dont  see any compelling  reason to change the proposed outcome in this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this case.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 July 2019.  
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8200594