K820x#14complaint
Mr G has complained that a car he acquired under a conditional sale agreement with 
Vauxhall Finance  plc (trading as G.M.A.C.) wasnt of satisfactory quality.  He also complains 
about: 
the supplying  dealership leading  him to believe he would be acting as a guarantor, 
and not as the borrower
the advice  he received  from the supplying dealership when he contacted it about the 
problems he was having with the car
Vauxhall Finances  actions when terminating  his agreement
Mr Gs brother has represented him throughout but, to make things simpler, Ill just refer to 
Mr G. 
background
Mr G acquired  a used car under a conditional  sale agreement with Vauxhall Finance in 
March 2016. The car was about four years old and had covered around 28,000 miles when 
he acquired it. It cost around  £9,000. Mr G says he thought he was only acting as a 
guarantor for his brother,  who would be the main user of the car. But he later found out that 
he was the sole borrower  under the agreement.   
In August  2017,  Mr G took the car back to the supplying dealership because the engine was 
misfiring and a warning  light had come on. The supplying dealership  inspected  the car and 
told Mr G that it required  a replacement  coil pack,  water pump, front brake discs and pads. 
At this point, the car had covered around  45,000 miles. Mr G says that the supplying 
dealership wanted him to make a payment towards the repairs before it would carry out any 
work on the car. He says it also told him to cancel his payments towards his finance  
agreement while he was unable  to drive the car. 
Mr G complained because he says the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when he bought it. 
To resolve  the complaint  he requested  the majority of the payments he had made back in 
recognition of the inconvenience caused.  
Vauxhall Finance  didnt  agree. It said Mr G had the car for 17 months and covered  a 
significant amount  of miles, so it believed  the car was satisfactory quality at the point of 
supply. It pointed out that it appeared Mr G hadnt  serviced the car since  the start of the 
agreement. It also noted Mr G had declared the car off-road and that it wasnt insured, 
thereby breaching the terms of the agreement. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt uphold it. He said there was insufficient 
evidence to show the car wasnt  of satisfactory quality at the point of sale.  He also didnt 
think there was enough  evidence  to show the agreement was mis-sold. He couldnt obtain a 
statement from the person who sold the agreement because he no longer  worked  at the 
supplying dealership. But he thought it was more likely than not Mr G was made aware of 
the type of agreement he was entering  into and that the signed paperwork  was clear. Our 
investigator also noted that Mr G had entered into another  agreement to acquire a car 
around a month before taking  out the agreement with Vauxhall Finance, so he ought to have 
been aware of how these  sorts of agreements  work.  
Ref: DRN86711742Mr G didnt agree, so the case has been passed to me for a final decision. Since bringing the 
complaint to us, Vauxhall Finance terminated  the agreement  and sold the car at auction. 
Mr G has also complained  about  the way it has handled the termination.  
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
quality of the car
The finance  agreement in this case is a regulated conditional sale agreement.  So our service  
is able to consider  complaints relating to it. Vauxhall Finance is the supplier of the goods 
under this type of agreement and so is responsible  for dealing with a complaint about  their 
quality.  
The Consumer Rights Act 2015  covers  conditional  sale agreements. Under  a conditional 
sale agreement,  there  are implied conditions that the goods supplied will be of satisfactory 
quality. In Mr Gs case, the car he acquired  was used   so there would be different 
expectations compared to a new car. But the car still should have been of satisfactory  quality 
 given the price  paid and its age and mileage  at the point of supply.  
The problem in Mr Gs case is theres  insufficient evidence to show  that, on balance,  the car 
was of unsatisfactory quality when supplied to him. Mr G has said there  were  problems with 
the car shortly after acquiring it. I acknowledge what he has said here, but unfortunately 
there isnt any evidence to support what he has said.  I can see that there are faults with the 
car now. But Ive not been sufficiently persuaded those faults were most  likely present at the 
point of supply,  or that the car wasnt sufficiently durable. Its unlikely Mr G would have been 
able to cover  17,000  miles in the car if the coil pack, water pump, front brake  discs  or pads 
were faulty  at the point of sale. 
Mr G has pointed out that the coil pack should  last for around 100,000 miles. But not every 
coil pack will last this long. There are a number  of different factors and conditions that could 
contribute to an earlier failure. This is particularly so when the car hasnt been serviced in 
line with the manufacturers guidelines,  as appears  to be the case here. I dont think the coil 
pack or the water pump were faulty  when Mr G acquired the car. He was able to cover  
17,000 miles in it before the faults  were identified. Unfortunately, something caused the parts 
to fail, but I dont  think theres sufficient evidence to demonstrate that the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr G. 
I also think the brake discs and pads are components of the car that will need  replacing from 
time to time. And given  the use Mr G had of the car, on balance, I dont think  the recent 
faults with the brake discs or pads mean that the car wasnt  of satisfactory quality at the 
point of supply.  
Therefore, it follows that I dont require Vauxhall  Finance  to take any action in relation to the 
quality of the car. 
Ref: DRN86711743sale of the agreement 
While Vauxhall Finance didnt broker the conditional  sale agreement, it can be held 
responsible for the negotiations carried out by the credit broker, which  in this case  is the 
supplying dealership. 
Mr G has said he was led to believe he was going  to be acting as a guarantor  for his brother. 
The sales  representative  no longer works at the dealership so wasnt able to offer any 
comments about what happened. But Vauxhall  Finance, through the supplying dealership, 
has said all the documents were  in Mr Gs name  and that he was aware of what he was 
signing. It also said it would have provided  Mr G with pre-contract information  to read before 
signing the agreement  and that he would  have been  properly informed. 
Mr Gs brother has provided  us with copies of text messages that he exchanged with the 
supplying dealership. The texts were about  finding someone to fund the purchase of the car 
for Mr Gs brother.  So its quite possible that Mr G initially spoke to the supplying dealership 
about being a guarantor  for the purchase. But its also possible that Mr G was aware he was 
entering into the agreement by himself. 
Both accounts are quite  plausible  so Ive thought about the documentary evidence  thats 
available. Mr Gs details are the only details on the conditional sale agreement. Had he been 
acting as a guarantor I would have expected his brothers details to be on the agreement as 
well. And from looking  at the signatures, it looks like only Mr G signed  the agreement, and 
not his brother. I think the agreement was clear enough to show that Mr G was the sole 
borrower under the agreement. 
So taking everything into account, Im not persuaded Mr G wasnt adequately informed about 
the structure of the agreement prior to entering  into it. 
dealerships customer  service
I can fairly consider  a complaint  about  the antecedent negotiations  carried out by the 
supplying dealership against  Vauxhall  Finance because section 56 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974  provides  that the finance  provider is liable for these negotiations.   
But I cant fairly hold Vauxhall Finance liable for the supplying dealerships  customer  service 
after those  negotiations were concluded.  So while Mr G is unhappy with what the supplying 
dealership told him when  he handed  his car back, I cant  hold Vauxhall Finance  responsible  
for this advice.  
Mr G could take up his concerns  with the supplying dealership directly.  But I should point out 
that if hes unhappy with its response, it may not be something  our service can look into if it 
is about customer service after the agreement was entered  into. 
termination of the agreement
Mr G is also unhappy with how hes been  treated since handing his car back.  But this is 
something that wasnt included in his original complaint and, for the most  part, has taken 
place since the complaint  was referred  to us. So, like our investigator explained to Mr G, 
Vauxhall Finance  needs to be given an opportunity to respond to this complaint. And if Mr G 
is unhappy with its response,  we may be able to look into things for him. 
Ref: DRN86711744So all things  considered, while  I know it will disappoint Mr G, Im not persuaded the car was 
of unsatisfactory  quality  nor that Mr G wasnt properly informed about the nature of the 
agreement he was entering into. Were unable to consider the complaint about the supplying  
dealerships customer  service against  Vauxhall Finance and Mr G will need  to raise a 
complaint about  the termination  of the agreement with Vauxhall Finance  in the first instance.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 February  2019.
Simon Wingfield
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8671174