K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about the sale of a mortgage payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy.  
Mrs L has complained  on behalf of herself and the estate of Mr L, saying that Lloyds Bank 
PLC mis-sold them the PPI.
background
Mr and Mrs L took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in early 1996. They paid for the PPI with 
a regular monthly premium, which didnt  attract  interest. It covered Mr L only,  in case he was 
off work sick or lost his job. In 1998,  Mr and Mrs L took out a further advance,  and increased 
the PPI to cover the new payment.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs L disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion,  
so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
Having done that, Ive decided that this PPI policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain my reasoning.
The mortgage application had a list of topics  it said the adviser discussed with Mr and Mrs L, 
one of which was PPI. And when Mr and Mrs L submitted their application for the mortgage, 
its recorded that they enclosed a PPI application  too. Lloyds hasnt been able to give us a 
copy of that PPI form, but I think thats understandable given just how long ago it was and 
that the policy has long since been closed. Mrs L doesnt remember  taking out PPI, and 
I think thats also completely understandable  for the same reason. 
Lloyds was able to provide a copy of the PPI application that Mr and Mrs L submitted with 
their further  advance in 1998. There, they confirmed they didnt need PPI for the original 
mortgage as theyd already taken it out, so they were aware  they had PPI. And they both 
signed the application to increase the PPI for their further advance.  The form set out the 
policys cost as being separate from the mortgage payments, rather  than as something that 
was necessarily included.  And in both 1998 and 1996, it looks like the PPI was applied  for 
separately to the application for the loan itself. Overall, I think  its most likely that Lloyds 
made Mr and Mrs L aware they had a choice about buying PPI, and that they chose to take it 
at the time.
Lloyds recommended the PPI for Mr L, so it had to check it was right for him. And based on 
what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think it was. For example, Mr L doesnt 
appear to have been affected by any of the policys main exclusions or limitations. And so far 
as weve  been  told, he doesnt  seem to have had any other  protection  in case  he was off 
sick or lost his job. Its worth bearing in mind  that at the time, Mr L was the main earner, and 
if Mr and Mrs L fell behind  on their mortgage  payments  they risked  losing  their home.  So the 
PPI couldve really  been useful for them in protecting  their home.
Ref: DRN87784812Its possible that the information Lloyds  gave Mr and Mrs L about PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  The question, then,  is whether  I think better information was likely to have 
changed their minds. Here, it looks like Mr and Mrs L chose to take out PPI, which implies 
they wanted this type of cover. And as I said above, Mr L doesnt seem to have been 
affected by any of the main things the policy didnt cover, and it couldve really been  useful to 
Mr and Mrs L in case something  went wrong. It also looks like the policy  wouldve been  
affordable. So taking everything  into account, I dont think that better information was likely  
to have put them off taking out the cover.
my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs L to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 March  2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8778481