K820x#14complaint
Ms S complains  about U K Insurance  Limiteds  (UKI) handling of a claim made on her 
home insurance policy.
background
Ms S holds a home insurance policy provided by UKI. She made a claim for damage  to her 
property.
She was unhappy  with the way UKI dealt with the claim and brought  her complaint to our 
service. She accepted  our final decision. The final decision, in part, said UKI should:
Recalculate its settlement offer so as to represent the reasonable cost that Ms S will 
have to pay for the relevant repairs and
Deal with a claim for all the damage  that was found not have been caused by water  
leaking from external  downpipes and gutters,  and for any damage  caused by the 
spillage of oil. It should do this by taking  the cover for accidental  damage to the 
building into account.
After further assessments  by UKI, Ms S was unhappy with its offers of settlement and the 
way in which it intended to deal with her claim for the other damage. Shes brought  a new 
complaint to our service.
Our investigator reviewed  her complaint. He thought UKIs proposals were fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances, and that they reflected  what  the ombudsman had asked it 
to do. She said that what UKI had offered was not what  she understood was being required 
by the ombudsmans final decision.  Shes asked for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the outset I should say that I wont be looking again at the original  complaint,  or amending  
the original final decision in any way. Ms S complaint here can be summarised in two parts.  
Firstly, she says UKIs offer of settlement for her claim is insufficient. And she doesnt agree 
with the way UKI intends to deal with her claim for other damage which  has been identified  
in the property.
UKIs settlement offer
UKI made a settlement  offer to Ms S for the original claim for damage caused  by an 
overflowing gutter, and when it did this, gave  Ms S the opportunity to provide quotes  for the 
agreed work  and said it would consider  increasing its offer depending on these quotes.  Ive 
seen nothing to show Ms S provided  these quotes  to UKI. So I dont  think I can say UKI have 
done anything  wrong here. It calculated what it thought would be a reasonable settlement 
figure taking  into account its liability and obligations  but gave Ms S the option to provide 
further information if she believed a higher amount should be paid. Im not persuaded I 
should ask it to increase the settlement in the absence of any evidence  showing its offer is 
too low.
Ref: DRN81410232I can also see that UKIs made an offer to settle  other parts of Ms S claim it had originally 
said it couldnt make payments for. Our previous final decision said if Ms S provided more 
evidence UKI should consider making  a payment for flooring which had been damaged. 
Even though  UKI hasnt received any further  evidence of the damage, its included costs for 
flooring in its latest settlement offer. Its also said itll cover the replacement of a patio door, 
as it couldnt say damage to it hadnt been caused  by the overflowing  gutter. It also agreed 
to cover the cost of redecorating a lounge,  and included a figure for this in the settlement 
offer. Finally,  it agreed to cover repair costs  to a bathroom, having previously said it couldnt  
cover those costs because work had been  done  before it was told about what  had happened  
and so couldnt assess the damage and whether it was covered by the policy.
Ms S says the amount  offered  in settlement of these elements of the claim is insufficient. 
She argues the amount offered isnt enough to carry out the necessary work. But she hasnt 
provided anything  to support this position.  I havent seen any quotes  or invoices showing 
that the amounts offered are too low. I can see that UKI have based their offer on estimates 
for the work  to be done. So based on the evidence  available to me, I cant  say UKI have 
made an unreasonable offer in settlement of the claim.
 
The claims for other damage
I can also see that UKIs made an offer to settle  other damage to the property which it says 
wasnt damaged  by the overflowing gutter.
UKI says a bedroom  has been damaged by water from a chimney  detail. And another 
bedroom has been damaged, UKI says,  by condensation and leaks  from a flat roof. So it 
says, with two separate causes of the damage, in two different rooms, two claims would 
need to be registered for the damage. Its estimated the costs to repair the damage and 
made an offer to Ms S for these amounts. And even though  both would ordinarily have had 
an excess applied to each  claim,  its agreed to waive the excess on both claims as a gesture 
of goodwill.  It also said two claims would  be recorded against  the policy. 
I can see UKIs explained how it believes the damage was caused, and why its not linked to 
the original overflowing  gutter.  Its identified specific causes  for the damage, and how the 
areas in which  the damage has occurred supports its conclusions.  Its shown how it 
calculated the amounts  its offering  and has said it wont  deduct the excesses from the 
claims. 
Im satisfied UKIs acted  fairly here. The evidence shows it has considered  these claims in 
accordance with the terms  and conditions of the policy. This is what  Id expect it to do. As 
the damage noted to the bedrooms doesnt appear to have been  caused by the overflowing 
gutter which led to the original claim,  UKI would be entitled to treat these as new claims and 
so deduct an excess from each of them in accordance  with the policy  terms and conditions. 
Ms S denies there was a leak from a flat roof at the property. But I cant  see any evidence 
from Ms S of what has caused damage to one of the bedrooms if it isnt a leak of this kind.  
She hasnt  provided  anything to refute  UKIs view about what has caused damage to the 
other bedroom. UKIs evidence gives reasons for why it believes the damage  was caused in 
the ways it says, and explains  why it doesnt believe that an overflowing  gutter  caused  this 
damage. In the absence of anything  to refute  what UKI says,  Im not persuaded that I should 
ask UKI to settle  the claims for the damage  to the bedrooms as part of the original claim.
UKIs also said it cant offer any settlement in respect of damage  caused by an oil spillage. 
Ms S told UKI that a spillage had occurred when an oil tank was being  filled. But UKIs not 
Ref: DRN81410233been provided any detail of the incident,  including  when  it happened or who was responsible 
for the spillage. It says it cant consider any claim for the spillage in the absence  of any 
information about what happened. It also says that Ms S reported the claim late, and that 
this late reporting  along with the lack of information  meant it couldnt  carry out any 
investigations into the claim. So it says its position  has been prejudiced and so wont 
consider making  a settlement  for this claim.
Im persuaded that UKIs position here is reasonable.  In the absence of any proof of the 
claim, it cant  determine whether such a claim is covered by the terms and conditions of 
Ms S policy. I wont be asking UKI to further  consider the claim  for damage caused by the oil 
spillage.
my final decision
Its my final decision not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 March  2020.
Ben Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8141023