K820x#14complaint
Mrs S complains about the poor service  she received from Lloyds Bank PLC when she 
experienced financial hardship  and was unable to maintain  her credit card repayments.  
Mrs S is represented in this complaint by Mr S.
background
Mr and Mrs S have  made a number  of complaints about Lloyds bank relating to a range  of 
banking products the bank was providing  to them. For the avoidance of any doubt I am 
considering here only Mrs S complaint about the service she received from Lloyds with 
respect to her credit card.
In 2009 Mrs S entered into a debt management  plan (dmp)  because of her financial 
difficulties. This dmp included repayments to Lloyds towards her outstanding  credit card 
debt. In 2012 Mrs S complained to the bank about the way it had then continued to chase 
her about  her credit card arrears. Lloyds refunded all interest  and charges applied  since  the 
end of 2009 and paid Mrs S £50 compensation.
Mrs S complained again in April 2015  and accepted the informal settlement offered by the 
bank namely: a refund of all fees and charges  (over £680); a freeze on all interest and 
charges until the balance  was paid off; £150  compensation for distress and inconvenience 
caused and £16 to cover the cost of letters and phone calls. Mrs S cleared the outstanding 
balance in August  2015, but some  years later complained  to Lloyds about the way it had 
treated her. In January 2019  Lloyds  replied saying essentially that it believed it had dealt 
with Mrs Ss complaint fairly and wouldnt consider any further refunds.
Mrs S remained dissatisfied and brought her complaint to us.
Our investigator produced an initial view, which he subsequently changed  in the light of 
responses from the bank.  His settled  second view was that he considered  that Lloyds had 
dealt fairly  with Mrs S complaint and that it had provided an acceptable  resolution.  He also 
considered that the banks letters about the account arrears were reasonable.
Mrs S disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In summary she said that Lloyds 
had harassed her over a prolonged period despite  her maintaining  the repayments she had 
agreed as part of her dmp; that it continued to send her threating letters  knowing  that she 
was in financial difficulty and that she had considerable  health  problems;  that it arbitrarily  
reintroduced an interest rate charge on her account  having previously reduced this to 0% 
and that it had generally not acted in the spirit of the Lending Code.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are rules determining the complaints we can consider,  and in general we can only 
look at complaints about events that took place in the six years preceding the date of the 
complaint. In this case that means that I will consider  the service provided  by Lloyds to Mrs 
S with respect to her credit card from 2013 until that account was closed in 2015.
Ref: DRN82862102In essence Mrs S is complaining that Lloyds  didnt treat her in the way that it should have 
done given the standards  and good  practice requirements set out in the Lending  Code. In 
the context of that code Mrs S was a vulnerable  customer as she was in financial difficulty  
and had health problems. She should therefore have been treated positively and 
sympathetically by any organisation she had dealings with that subscribed to that code, as 
Lloyds did.
Before considering the detail of what happened  here I should note that the code is not 
prescriptive about  the actions banks  should take when  working  with vulnerable  customers. 
But it does  make suggestions, offers guidance and generally makes it clear  that banks 
should act sympathetically towards  such customers.
In 2013 Mrs S was making repayments towards  her credit card as part of a dmp. Although  
Mrs S has complained about Lloyds obstructive attitude in establishing the dmp, this issue 
pre-dates 2013 and so is not something that I can consider here.
The evidence shows that Mrs S maintained her agreed dmp repayments until September 
2014. She then appears to have stopped paying and in November and December 2014 the 
bank sent her letters asking her to pay the arrears  that had consequently accumulated, or to 
make contact if she was unable to do so. Mrs S may have regarded these letters  as 
harassing and threating, but having  read them, my opinion is that they were very much in 
line with those generally sent out by banks when  customers miss payments. I would expect 
these letters to be relatively firmly worded  as they are being sent to customers in breach  of 
their agreement to pay money  they owe. And the Lloyds letter  did make clear  that Mrs S 
should contact  the bank  if she couldnt  pay the arrears.
Although Mrs S was making repayments through a dmp, Lloyds was apparently still applying 
interest to her account. Although  there  is no requirement on banks to suspend  interest and 
charges when customers are in long term financial difficulty I would normally  except that they 
would. And so when  Mrs S complained  to Lloyds in April 2015 the bank took the action that it 
is likely  I would have required it to do if Id have dealt with the complaint at that time, which 
was to refund all interest and charges. It also froze these  for the duration  of the debt and 
paid Mrs S £150 compensation and £16 for the cost of her phone calls and letters.  I consider 
that response from Lloyds  to have been  both fair and reasonable and one it likely offered 
because it probably  realised that it hadnt  previously responded  to Mrs S difficulties as well 
as it might have done. But in taking  the action it did, I consider that Lloyds  set matters right, 
albeit belatedly.
Although Mrs S accepted Lloyds resolution at the time, she subsequently decided  that the 
bank hadnt sufficiently compensated her for the distress  it had caused  her over a number of 
years. She highlights  the frequent aggressive phone calls from bank staff and the many  
letters she received.
Mrs S had a number of concurrent debts with the bank and Lloyds contacted her about them 
all. She has said that the bank rang incessantly  and it wasnt always clear  to her which debt 
the call related to. Mrs S therefore  considered that Lloyds  was harassing her about all of her 
debts, including  her credit card.
But whilst I have much  sympathy  with Mrs S about the unfortunate circumstances in which 
she had found  herself,  Im afraid  that on the basis of what she has said I cannot safely 
conclude that Lloyds was harassing  her by phone about her credit  card.  Mrs S credit card 
debt was being managed  by the banks collections department, and I would have  expected 
Ref: DRN82862103those staff to continue to make contact with Mrs S about her possibly changing financial 
circumstances even  though she was in a dmp. Lloyds  hasnt said that this is what happened, 
but if it had - and I recognise that Mrs S would most likely have found such calls both 
worrying and distressing - it wouldnt inevitably lead me to conclude that she was being 
harassed by the bank.  And on the limited information I have Im afraid that I cant reasonably 
conclude that Lloyds harassed  Mrs S by phone about her credit  card debt. 
With regard to Mrs Ss complaint that she received many menacing letters about her credit  
card debt, I have already  commented on the two letters sent when she missed some 
payments. My view on those was that I found them to be reasonable under the 
circumstances. And Im unaware  of any other letters  sent by Lloyds to Mrs S about her credit  
card during  the time period I am considering that could be viewed as other  than routine when 
customers owe banks money.   
In summary  therefore I consider that there  was merit in Mrs S complaint that Lloyds didnt  
treat her as well as it should have done between 2013 and 2015, but I am satisfied that the 
actions the bank took in response to her 2015 complaint were both appropriate and 
sufficient. And so although  I uphold Mrs S complaint I dont require Lloyds to do more than it 
already has.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold Mrs Ss complaint about Lloyds Bank PLC,  but do not require the 
bank to do more  than it already has.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 November  2019.
June Brown
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8286210