K820x#14complaint
Mr Z complains about issues hes experienced with a car supplied  with finance  from BMW  
Financial Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS).
background
In August  2018  Mr Z was supplied with a used car and entered  into a hire purchase  
agreement with BMWFS.
Mr Z has experienced issues with the car including:
Flat battery
Blocked washer  bottle
Cigarette lighter not working
Incorrect on-board  computer reading  regarding  the brakes
Illegal  tint on drivers window
Mr Z raised  these issues with the supplying dealer. The dealer replaced the battery  and 
cleaned the water bottle.  It said the incorrect reading  on the brakes  was a software issue 
and rectified this.
Mr Z remained unhappy and complained  to BMWFS. He asked to reject the car and for his 
deposit to be refunded.
In its final response BMWFS said the battery  required  replacement because  the lights  had 
been left on. It said the blocked washer  bottle wasnt a manufacturing defect but part of the 
regular maintenance of the car. It also said the incorrect reading  on the brakes wasnt  a 
manufacturing defect  and that this had been successfully repaired. BMWFS said it wouldnt 
accept rejection of the car.
Mr Z wasnt happy with the response  and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He didnt think the issues  were manufacturing 
defects but were instead due to maintenance and general wear and tear.
Mr Z didnt  agree. He said he hadnt left the lights on and that hed recently  experienced new 
issues with the transmission.  He didnt think a car should have so many  problems.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because BMWFS has supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement theres an implied  
term that it is of satisfactory quality.  Satisfactory is what a reasonable person would regard 
as acceptable,  taking into account all of the relevant circumstances such  as (amongst other  
things) the age and mileage of the car and the price paid. I would expect a used car  such 
as that supplied to Mr Z  to have a degree  of wear  and tear. So in order to uphold  this 
complaint I would need to be satisfied that there  was an inherent  fault with the car as 
opposed to general wear  and tear.
Ref: DRN81199392Where a fault occurs  within the first 6 months theres  a presumption that it was present  at the 
point of supply  unless the business can show otherwise. The business is allowed one 
opportunity to repair the fault. After 6 months  the burden of proof  is reversed and its up to 
the consumer  to show that the fault was present at the point of supply.
Ive considered the issues which  Mr Z has experienced  with the car. I wouldnt expect a 
battery to be flat at the inception of finance. Theres a dispute between  Mr Z and the 
dealership as to how the battery  became flat but I can see that its been replaced  by the 
dealership in any event. The subsequent issue with the loose battery  connection is, I think, 
related to human error when fitting  the new battery. Whilst I understand Mr Zs concern 
about this, I can see that this has also been rectified  by the dealership.  In both cases  the 
flat battery  and the loose battery  connection  Im unable  to say that this is an inherent fault 
with the car.
Ive considered the other issues which Mr Z has mentioned but Im of the view that these  are 
due to general wear  and tear and to be expected in a used car. I dont think  a faulty cigarette 
lighter warrants rejection,  and I can see that the incorrect display on the computer has been 
fixed by the dealer.
On balance, and whilst  I appreciate Mr Zs frustration, Im of the view that the issues are due 
to general wear and tear as opposed  to inherent defects or manufacturing faults. The 
dealership has repaired the issues and has offered compensation which  I think is fair and 
reasonable. So I wont be asking BMWFS to do anything further.
I understand that Mr Z has experienced a new issue with the transmission since he brought  
his complaint to this service. This hasnt yet been looked into by BMWFS, so he would need 
to raise it with them first.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or reject  my decision before 24 July 
2020.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8119939