K820x#14complaint
Mr L has complained  that Amtrust Europe  Limited (Amtrust) declined  his claim for a stolen 
laptop.
background
Mr L had his laptop stolen when an intruder  climbed  through a 1st floor window and into his 
home. The laptop was left in the room,  plugged  into the wall charging. Mr L had been in the 
house at the time and it was only on returning to that room  that he realised his laptop had 
gone. Mr L reported the theft to the police.
Mr L submitted a claim with Amtrust for the theft of his laptop  but this was declined. Amtrust  
said it didnt fit the policy definition of theft.
Theft Exclusions-
We will not pay any claim:
Where the gadget has been stolen from any premises unless force, resulting in damage  to 
the premises, was used to gain entry or exit. A copy of the repairers  account  for such 
damage must be supplied  with any claim.  
Amtrust said the theft had occurred from an open  or unlocked window and so no force had 
been used.
Mr L then submitted a claim  under loss. Which is defined  in the policy  booklet as:
Loss-
Means that the gadget  has been  accidentally left by you in a location and you are 
permanently deprived  of its use.
Amtrust declined this claim. It said that as the laptop was within the home and charging 
when it was taken,  it had not been accidentally left in a location. Mr L also provided  
testimony that a friend of his had called Amtrust to ask if his situation  would  be covered and 
it said it would.
Our investigator looked into the case.  As part of the investigation she corresponded with Mr 
L to see if he could  provide  any evidence that showed the loss or theft met the definitions of 
the policy. Mr L provided a statement from the police.  And photos of what  Mr L said was 
damage to spikes from an external wall below the window. 
Amtrust responded  to say that the statement from the police did not mention anything  about 
a forced  entry  or damage. And the photo of the spikes  were inconclusive  in terms of how 
they were removed and when.  Amtrust  pointed out that the remaining spikes  looked like 
theyd lifted and might fall off. So it said there wasnt enough  evidence  to say theyd  been  
removed as part of a break  in.
Amtrust noticed in the pictures  of the spikes that a security camera  was present. It said if Mr 
L could provide  evidence  of the CCTV it could reconsider its view. But unfortunately Mr L 
confirmed that the camera  was just a deterrent  and wasnt in use.
Ref: DRN82418862As our investigation was ongoing, Amtrust told us that the address the theft took place at, 
wasnt the address  that was registered  as on the policy. But it said in any event this didnt 
make much difference, as the exclusion  remained  the same
We will not pay any claim:
where the gadget has been stolen from any premises  unless force,  resulting in damage to 
the premises, was used to gain entry or exit. A copy of the repairers  account  for such 
damage must be supplied  with any claim
The investigator said based on the evidence  she couldnt recommend that it be upheld  as 
she didnt think force or damage had occurred  in the theft.  Mr L didnt agree and so the case 
has been referred for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The key issue to decide here is whether Amtrust have been fair and reasonable in declining 
Mr Ls claim and whether they can rely on the exclusions specified.
Mr L has tried to claim for the laptop  under the theft part of the policy  and also under  loss. 
Having looked  at the policy and the circumstances of the theft of the laptop, I think  its clear 
that it does not fall under the definition of loss.
Mr L left the laptop  in the home and it was charging.  I dont think  this reasonably fits the 
definition of accidentally left by you in a location.
The theft didnt  occur at the address Amtrust  had registered on the policy as Mr Ls. But 
whether the theft of the laptop happened in his home or another  building the terms under  the 
policy didnt differ. Under the policy, a theft claim from a premises requires evidence that 
force resulting in damage has been used to gain entry.
Mr L has told us the laptop  was stolen  from a first floor open window, so no force or damage 
occurred in opening the window. Mr L provided pictures of security spikes  from the wall 
outside the window. These spikes were on the floor and no longer  attached  to the wall. But I 
dont think I can reasonably conclude that this evidence shows  that force  was used.  The 
remaining spikes, as Amtrust pointed out, are in some disrepair and they look like they have 
lifted and could fall off very easily. And there isnt any corroborating  evidence to say these 
spikes were damaged or removed during the theft of Mr Ls laptop.
Theft from a premises as defined under  the policy terms, requires  force to be used to gain 
entry, and it doesnt  seem from the evidence provided that this occurred when Mr Ls laptop  
was taken.
Mr L has my sympathy, I can understand his frustration having something stolen and yet its 
still not covered  by the insurance that was bought to cover  that specific purpose. However, 
the requirement of force  to gain entry for theft claims from premises is not an uncommon  
one. And I dont think Amtrust has been unfair in declining  the claim.
Ref: DRN82418863With regards to Mr Ls friend calling Amtrust to test its position on this type of theft, I dont 
doubt that Amtrust  may have said this would be covered. But an error made by a member  of 
staff in this situation,  doesnt change what the policy terms say. I know  that from Mr Ls 
position it looks like Amtrust were dishonest. But a member of staff fielding incoming calls 
may make a mistake for a number  of reasons. This would be a training or feedback matter 
for Amtrust  with the member of staff rather than it proving Mr Ls claim should be paid. Had 
Mr L rang Amtrust  before  purchasing the policy and been told that this situation would be 
covered then that might be a different story. But thats not what has occurred here.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I do not uphold Mr Ls complaint and make  no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 March 2020.
Simon Hollingshead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8241886