K820x#14complaint
Mr S and Mrs S complain, on behalf  of the estate of Mr S1, that they couldnt  sell their late 
fathers shares when  they wanted  to due to delays by HSBC  UK Bank  Plc in sending out the 
relevant forms. The share price  fell during these delays resulting in a loss.
background
Mr S, the Executor of his late fathers  account,  says he informed HSBC  of his fathers death 
on 2 February 2018 and suffered many  delays receiving the necessary forms. But HSBC  
said its records showed that it sent letters containing the investment form of authority on 26 
May 2018, 19 April 2018, 25 June 2018, 11 July 2018, 4 August and 29 August 2018. Mr S 
says he didnt receive all of these letters while those he did receive didnt  contain  the form of 
authority he needed to sell the shares.
An investigator at this service said she acknowledged Mr Ss contention that he wouldnt 
have kept requesting forms if hed received them  but she felt the records provided reliable 
evidence that the forms were sent (including the correct authorisation document).  So even if 
she accepted  that Mr S had not received them she couldnt safely say this was due to any 
failure by HSBC.
In further exchanges Mr S acknowledged that more letters had been received but said that 
these did not include the payment form allowing the shares  to be sold.  HSBC said this form 
had not been requested until Mr S had put in a complaint.
After listening to the key phone  calls,  the investigator agreed that Mr S had not made clear 
he wanted forms to allow him to sell the shares. So she still felt, on balance, that HSBC had 
sent all the relevant forms but even if it hadnt  enclosed the P1 share sale form she didnt 
think this was sufficient  to uphold the complaint given  Mr S had not explicitly said he wanted 
to sell the shares.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case I agree with the investigator  and for the same reasons. Given  this, I am not sure 
what more I can add. I recognise that various family members rang on different occasions 
and there  was, at times, some confusion  about  what was needed, what had been sent and 
what was still outstanding. I also recognise that the family may not have received certain 
documents; hence further requests.
But HSBCs records indicate that the requested documents were sent on a number of 
occasions. Given this, I dont think there is sufficient evidence  to safely  conclude  that HSBC 
failed to act appropriately (beyond  the short delay it admitted to and paid £50 in lieu of).
I understand that the family will find this decision disappointing but I do not believe the 
evidence clearly indicates that HSBC  made  significant mistakes.  
my final decision
I do not uphold  the complaint or make any financial award.
Ref: DRN82525112Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S, 
as representatives  of the estate of Mr S1, to accept or reject my decision before 
30 November 2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8252511