K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage Mr C has with Banco Santander Totta  SA. For ease of 
reading Ill refer to the business simply as Santander, but to be clear this refers  to Banco 
Santander Totta SA rather than the UK-based Santander UK plc.
Mr C is unhappy with how hes been treated by Santander whilst hes been in financial 
difficulties following a heart attack in 2015.
background
Mr C took out this mortgage  with Santander in 2005,  and its secured on a property abroad 
where Mr C lives. The application was agreed  through the lenders London office, and Mr C 
generally dealt  with that office.
In February 2015  Mr C contacted Santander  to explain  hed had a heart attack  and was 
unable to work. At that time Mr C was already in arrears on his mortgage. Santander agreed 
to accept reduced payments for three  months whilst  Mr C was due to be off work,  and then 
higher payments after that to work towards  repaying the arrears. Unfortunately Mr C never 
reverted to paying even his contractual  payment,  let alone an amount  towards  the arrears 
and so Santander wanted the property to be sold to repay the debt.
Mr C put the property on the market in December 2017 with four different agents for a sum 
of just under  €800,000. As it hadnt  sold he reduced  the price  by about €125,000 in 
September 2018 and listed it with seven agents.  Then in January 2019 Mr C added an 
eighth agent. I understand the property is still unsold.
Mr C raised various heads  of complaint,  but in summary they are broadly about how 
Santander has treated  him, and about  a valuation Santander had carried out when 
discussing the sale of the property. Mr C says there are errors in the valuation so hes 
concerned the value  given is substantially lower than it should be, and that Santander wants 
him to sell the property  for that lower amount. Santander rejected  his complaint.
The adjudicator who considered this complaint  didnt recommend it should be upheld. Mr C 
didnt agree and so it comes to me to determine.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Mr C has set out his account  of events in 
considerable detail. I trust he wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed his complaint 
in the way that I have. Ours  is an informal dispute  resolution service, and Ive concentrated 
on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint.
I dont doubt that this is very important for Mr C, but although Ive read and considered  the 
whole file Ill keep  my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific  
point its not because Ive not considered  it but because I dont think I need  to comment  on it 
in order to reach the right outcome. This service  is impartial between, and independent  from, 
consumers and businesses. What this means  is that we dont represent either party,  and I 
dont act under eithers instructions or take directions on how a complaint will be looked at or 
what questions should be asked or answered.
Ref: DRN84969732We operate according to a set of rules which determine, amongst other things, who may 
bring a complaint to us, what types of financial products and/or activities  we can look at and 
whether a particular  financial  business  is covered  by our service.  
We cant look at any complaint about the valuation itself. This is because the company that 
carried the valuation  out isnt a business  thats covered by our service, which means I dont 
have the legal power to look at complaints against it. Ive also no power to consider a 
complaint against  Santander concerning the surveyors competence or the valuations 
accuracy, as the firm of surveyors  is a completely  separate  business from Santander.
The only obligation required of Santander was to instruct a professional  surveying firm to 
carry out the valuation  a requirement that it fulfilled by appointing the company it did (which  
I will not name here as its not party to this complaint). In doing so, Santander didnt at the 
same time assume responsibility for any errors  or omissions by the surveyor.
I understand Mr C feels the property  is worth significantly more than the surveyor  said,  and 
hes worried  Santander wants  to force  him to sell it for that lower amount if he gives 
permission for the agents to speak to Santander  as Santander has asked. But the property 
has been on the market since December 2017 with multiple agents and has had a significant 
price reduction in that time. Despite  this its still not sold. 
A property  is only worth  what a person is willing to pay for it, and Santander has been more 
than patient in allowing Mr C so long already to try to sell his property  at the higher amount. 
If it comes down  to it Santander  has the right to seek possession of the property due to the 
arrears and then it will sell the property  for whatever it can achieve,  plus there will be the 
extra costs  involved in that which will be added to the mortgage  debt. Its in Mr Cs interests  
to sell his property himself before that happens,  but to do so it seems he may need to be 
more realistic about the price hes going to be able to obtain. He will also need to co-operate 
with Santander  and give it all the information  and permissions  its asked  for, as without that 
theres no reason  why Santander should  hold off starting action to seek possession.
Mr C has said hes not had any default  statements or arrears notifications  from Santander,  
and he wasnt notified of its change in stance  towards accepting his lower payments. Whilst 
Ive had regard  to Mr Cs recollections on this, Santander has provided a lengthy email  trail 
between it and Mr C about his arrears and the amounts he needed to pay. I wont replicate  
that all here because, as I said, its lengthy.  But to quote  from just a few of those emails:
With regards to payments to the mortgage during your recuperation, the Bank are 
prepared to accept  that you make  payments  of 50% of the current  Contractual Monthly 
Instalment of €930.21 for 3 months, with effect from 18 February 2015.
The account  is currently in arrears of €852.46.
Today, I can confirm that we have today received your payment of €320.00, thank you 
for arranging the transfer.
The arrears  on the account now stand at €2,084.16.
I would once more  kindly request that you get back to me as a matter of priority with 
regards to your intentions for meeting  your contractual mortgage obligations during your 
recuperations and if you will be returning to full time employment and when.
Ref: DRN84969733Should the Bank only receive a minimum  of €320.00  in April 2015, I need to advised that 
you will need  to recommence payments of a minimum of €1,100.00 with effect  from 
18 May 2015.
With regards to the current  situation with your Mortgage Facility, the Facility is currently 
in arrears of €2,673.78.
This is now at a level that the Bank cannot  allow to increase  any further, the Bank are 
empathetic to the situation with your health and have  allowed concessionary payments 
from February 2015, however it did not help that the account was already in arrears of 
€849.26 at this time.
We therefore now need to insist that payments of a minimum  of the full Contractual 
Monthly Instalment  of €930.21 are met with effect  from May 2015 and that these  
payments are received by no later than the last working day of the month.
The arrears on the account stand at €3,014.68.
With reference to my previous e-mails, to which I note we have not received  a response,  
the Contractual Monthly Instalment  of €930.21 for April has now fallen due leaving the 
account with the arrears  figure above.  I need to again remind you should the Bank  only 
receive a minimum of €320.00,  which must be received by no later  than  
Wednesday 29 April 2015, you will need to recommence  payments  of a minimum of 
€1,100.00 with effect from 18 May 2015.
We have no further  leeway with the current arrears balance to offer any further 
concessions and failure to comply  with the above will lead to the Bank instigating legal 
proceedings to protect its security.
With reference to my previous  e-mail,  I note that the Bank only received  a payment of 
€350.00 on 1 June 2015 and the arrears on the account  now stand at €3,306.29.
Please find attached letter for your urgent attention.
The attached letter confirmed the account  was in default under the terms of the Facility 
Letter, and demanded immediate repayment of the debt.
Its clear from the email trail that Santander only ever agreed a three-month concession, and 
that it notified Mr C of the payments it required from him, the growing arrears situation, and 
the default. Santander has never agreed to Mr C continuing to make  payments that are 
significantly less than his contractual monthly instalment. Just because  it kept the payments 
Mr C made   rather than return them to him  doesnt mean it agreed it was acceptable  for 
him to just make those  lower payments. Clearly Santander wouldnt return  the lower sums to 
Mr C as he owes it money,  so any payments made  are better  than none.  But that doesnt 
mean there was any agreement to that by Santander.
I would urge Mr C to make contact with Santander and provide all the information and 
permissions its asked  for. Mr C needs to have an open and honest dialogue with Santander 
Ref: DRN84969734about how the situation is to be resolved as Santander can look to take action to take 
possession of the property due to the level of arrears. Im not saying Santander should or 
shouldnt do so - I just feel I need to put Mr C on notice that this is a possibility and that 
Santander doesnt have to simply just allow him more time. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out, my final decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint. My final 
decision concludes this services consideration of the complaint, which means Ill not be 
engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2019.
Julia Chapman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8496973