K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  that TSB Bank  plc gave them incorrect information about  whether 
they could port their mortgage. As a result  they applied for a new mortgage and paid an 
early repayment charge  (ERC), which theyd like refunded with an apology for the stress this 
caused.
background
Mr and Mrs S had a part repayment/part interest  only mortgage with TSB. They  took out a 
new fixed interest rate product in 2013. This said the mortgage  could be ported, subject to 
certain conditions, which  would mean  they wouldnt pay an ERC if they moved house.
Mr and Mrs S wanted to move house  and put their property on the market in mid-2017.  Their 
sale and purchase  completed in early 2018. Mr S says he contacted  TSB and it told him they 
couldnt port their mortgage. They took out a new repayment mortgage with TSB and paid an 
ERC of about £3,500.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld.  He said the evidence  
suggested Mr and Mrs S were only offered the option of a new mortgage.  TSB didnt discuss  
their options  with them, despite advising them on the new mortgage. He said if Mr and Mrs S 
had been told they could  port the mortgage it was likely theyd have done so to avoid the 
ERC.
The investigator said TSB should  refund  the ERC, with 8% interest, taking into account the 
lower interest rate Mr and Mrs S benefitted  from. TSB didnt agree, and so the complaint has 
been passed to me.
my provisional decision
I didnt agree with all of the investigators recommendations, so I sent a provisional  decision  
to the parties  to explain what  I thought  should  happen. In summary, I said TSBs  mortgage 
adviser should have discussed with Mr and Mrs S the option of porting their mortgage and 
asking to switch  onto a full repayment  basis and a new product when the ERC no longer 
applied in May 2018. I thought this would have cost Mr and Mrs S less overall. 
Mr and Mrs S wanted the ERC refunded in full. But I thought it was fair to take into account 
the interest they will save by taking  out a new product  instead  of porting their old product. I 
asked TSB to provide calculations to show how this would  work.
Mr and Mrs S said they didnt know how the calculations  would work out, but thought TSB 
should refund the whole amount of the ERC.
TSB provided calculations, but said it would be fairer to calculate the benefit to Mr and Mrs S 
in a different way. 
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
Ref: DRN80597682words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
Mr and Mrs S took out a new mortgage product in 2013. An ERC was payable if the interest 
only parts  of the mortgage were repaid before May 2018. The product was portable. 
Mr S says they put their property on the market in May 2017. He says he was told two or 
three times before making the application for the new mortgage that porting wasnt  possible.  
TSB cant provide copies  of call recordings or contact notes for these calls.
Regardless of whether  Mr and Mrs S had asked about porting before, I think  TSBs 
mortgage adviser should have discussed  it with them  before recommending  a mortgage.  
TSBs mortgage adviser made a note of a call in early November 2017 that says Mr and 
Mrs S were  happy to pay the ERC out of equity if it means a better rate. TSBs 
recommendation letter to Mr and Mrs S says: you were able and willing to pay an early 
repayment charge  on your existing loan if it was appropriate and cost effective to do so.
Mr S says any discussion with the mortgage adviser about porting was on the assumption it 
wasnt possible, because  this is what hed been told. TSBs notes suggest to me that, to the 
extent porting was discussed, Mr and Mrs S wanted to do whatever was financially  
beneficial. 
The new mortgage  product recommended by TSB had benefits:  it had a lower interest rate 
fixed for five years. And it was on a full repayment basis. However,  Mr and Mrs S incurred an 
ERC of nearly £3,500 when they repaid their existing mortgage. 
TSB has said the mortgage could have been  ported.  The ERC period was due to end in May 
2018. 
I think the mortgage adviser should  have discussed  with Mr and Mrs S the option of porting 
their mortgage and asking to switch onto a full repayment basis  and a new product when the 
ERC no longer  applied  in May 2018. I think this would have cost Mr and Mrs S less overall.  
TSB says the product  Mr and Mrs S took out wasnt available by May 2018 and Mr and 
Mrs S would have had to take out a product  with a less favourable  interest rate. It calculates 
that after about five years the difference in the interest would be about the same as the cost 
of the ERC. But I think there would have been a benefit to Mr and Mrs S in making  a saving 
of £3,500 immediately, rather than over five years. And once the ERC ended in May 2018 
theyd also have been able to choose whether to take out a new product with TSB or 
refinance with a different provider.
On balance, I think if this had been discussed with Mr and Mrs S theyd have chosen to port 
the mortgage  or at least the part that the ERC  applied to  and switched to a new product 
and on to a repayment basis when the ERC no longer applied.  So I think its fair that TSB 
puts matters right. 
I think TSB should put Mr and Mrs S into the position  they would have been in had it not 
made the error. That is, they would have  ported  their mortgage product and avoided  paying 
the ERC.  However,  Mr and Mrs S wouldnt have benefitted from their current  product,  which  
has a lower interest rate than the one theyd have ported, from February 2018. And in May 
2018 they might not have been able to secure an interest rate as low as the one they have. I 
Ref: DRN80597683think this should  all be taken into account.  But I also need to take into account  that Mr and 
Mrs S will only benefit  from some  of these interest  savings  some years after paying the ERC. 
TSB provided the calculations I asked for in my provisional decision. This resulted  in a 
refund to Mr and Mrs S of £1,644.15  (plus 8% interest).
TSB said Mr and Mrs S will make  lower monthly payments up to 2023 and have a lower 
balance in 2023 as result of taking out the new product. It says deducting this from the 
amount of the ERC  to be refunded would  be fairer. Based on the numbers provided by TSB,  
Mr and Mrs Ss total monthly payments will be £1,259.22 lower,  and their balance in 2023 
will be £1,359.28 lower.  This totals  £2,618.50,  which after its discounted by 50% is 
£1,309.25. This results  in a refund to Mr and Mrs S of £2,129.56  (plus 8% interest).
Mr and Mrs S say the whole ERC should be refunded. Ive thought about what theyve said. 
But I dont think its fair to require TSB to refund the ERC in full without taking  into account 
the benefit to Mr and Mrs S of taking out a new product in February 2018. Mr and Mrs S also 
asked whether the product fee they paid was taken into account. It was  but as theyd have 
paid a product  fee if theyd taken out a new product in May 2018, this has little effect  on the 
amount of the refund.
TSB said using the monthly payments and projected balance  is a fairer basis  to calculate  the 
benefit to Mr and Mrs S here. This results  in a larger refund to them.  In the circumstances, I 
think its fair and reasonable to use this as the basis for the calculation,  which  results  in a 
refund to Mr and Mrs S of £2,129.56  (plus 8% interest).  
Ive also re-considered what Mr and Mrs S said about the upset this has caused them.  They 
said that they found making a new application  stressful. But theyd have needed  to apply to 
port the mortgage and later apply  to switch to a full repayment basis  and a new mortgage 
product  so this couldnt have been  avoided. Nonetheless, I think  TSB should  pay 
compensation for the upset caused by its error. I think £100 would be fair and reasonable, in 
the circumstances.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I order TSB Bank plc to pay to Mr and Mrs S:
£2,129.56  plus interest at 8% simple from the date Mr and Mrs S paid the ERC to the 
date of settlement*; and
£100.
*If HM Revenue & Customs requires TSB to take off tax from this interest, it must give Mr 
and Mrs S a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if they ask for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 September 2020.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8059768