K821x#15complaint
Miss W complains about the amount that shes been charged by Volkswagen Financial 
Services (UK) Limited, trading as Volkswagen Finance, for damage  to a car that she 
returned when  her hire agreement ended.
background
A new car was supplied  to Miss W under a hire agreement with Volkswagen Finance that 
she signed in June 2015. She returned  the car in August 2018 when the agreement ended 
and it was inspected  by a third party  on behalf of Volkswagen Finance. There were some 
issues with the arrangements for the inspection  which  meant that Miss W wasnt present 
when the inspection took place. The inspection report identified  damage to the car for which 
a total charge of £595.71 was recommended.  The cars mileage at the time of the inspection  
was 50,339 miles.
Volkswagen Finance charged Miss W £595.71 for the damage.  She complained to the 
inspection company and then to Volkswagen Finance. She said that she hadnt been told 
about the damage, the inspection company didnt turn up on the agreed date and that her 
complaint hadnt  been responded to. Volkswagen Finance partially  upheld  Miss Ws 
complaint and due to the delays and her dissatisfaction  it agreed  to reduce the charge by 
20%.
The investigator recommended  that this complaint should be upheld  in part. He said that he 
was unable to confirm that the dent to the left hand  rear quarter panel was more than 15mm 
in diameter  so he recommended that Volkswagen Finance should remove  the charge of 
£138 for that damage.  But he believed that the other  charges should  remain chargeable. He 
said that Volkswagen  Finance had confirmed  that it caused delays which  have caused 
distress and inconvenience for Miss W. And he recommended that it should also pay her 
£100 for the distress and inconvenience  caused.
Volkswagen Finance hasnt responded to the investigators recommendation. But Miss W 
has asked for her complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. She says,  in summary, 
that:
there hasnt been a repair to the rear insert on the bumper  which has been 
identified as being repaired poorly;
the inspection  company  booked the inspection on the wrong date so it had to take 
place the following  day when she wasnt available  but she arranged  for her father 
to be there and he says that he was told that the inspector would phone Miss W (but 
never did so) and her father  wasnt shown  any damage and wasnt  asked to sign any 
paperwork to accept  responsibility for any damage  on her behalf;
the car was collected in August 2018   nearly  a year ago  and Volkswagen 
Finances response to her complaint was extremely poor: it never  replied to e-mails 
or returned calls;
she feels that Volkswagen Finance should  do more  than waive charges of £138  and 
pay her compensation  of £100  because of the anxiety and stress that shes  been 
caused; and
shes been told by the driver who delivered  her new car that Volkswagen Finance 
would try to bill her for lots of damage.
Ref: DRN82624002my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The car was inspected by a third party on behalf Volkswagen Finance when the hire 
agreement ended. The inspection report identified the following damage and recommended  
charges:
Broken air vent  £100.71
Insecure rear bumper  insert - £9.00
Dented left hand  rear quarter panel  - £138.00
Dented right hand rear quarter panel  - £138.00
Scratched right hand front wheel - £36.00
Scratched right hand rear wheel - £36.00
Dented left hand  front wing - £138.00
And the report included photos of the damage. The British Vehicle Rental and Leasing 
Association has issued  guidelines on what damage  constitutes fair wear and wear  and what  
would be chargeable. I consider it to be clear  from the photos  that the damage identified  in 
the report was present  on the car when it was returned by Miss W. The investigator said that 
he was unable to confirm that the dent to the left hand rear quarter panel  was more than 
15mm in diameter   and Volkswagen Finance hasnt responded to the investigators finding. 
Im not persuaded that theres enough  evidence to show that the dent to the left hand rear 
panel is more  than fair wear and tear. But I consider that the other  identified  damage is more 
than would reasonably be considered to be fair wear and tear  so I find that its fair and 
reasonable for Volkswagen Finance to charge  Miss W for that damage. 
The vehicle condition report  includes a space  for the customers signature.  But Miss W 
wasnt present when the car was inspected  and the report notes that the car was: Left with 
father for inspection and that he was: Not authorised  to sign the report.
I consider it to be more  likely than not that that the inspection company had made  an error 
with the date of the inspection which led to Miss W not being present for the inspection.  
I consider that Miss W (or her father)  shouldve  been given a copy  of the inspection report or 
told about the damage before she received the invoice for it. But I dont consider that her 
presence at the inspection or her receiving earlier notification of the damage wouldve 
changed the amount that was charged. 
Volkswagen Finance accepts that Miss W has been  caused distress and inconvenience  
and it has reduced the charge for the damage  by 20% to compensate her for that distress 
and inconvenience.  But it says that the 20% reduction is from £595.71 to £496.43.  Yet a 
20% reduction from £595.71  gives £476.57. In addition to that reduction, I consider that the 
distress and inconvenience that Miss W has been  caused justifies  further compensation of 
£100. 
I consider that it would be fair and reasonable for Volkswagen Finance to waive the £138 
that its charged Miss W for the dent to the left hand rear quarter panel  which  reduces the 
charge for damage to £457.71  and that it should then apply the 20% reduction that it has 
agreed to that amount  leaving £366.17  payable by Miss W for the damage. And I consider 
that it should also pay her the further £100 compensation for her distress and inconvenience. 
But Im not persuaded that it would  be fair or reasonable  for me to require Volkswagen 
Ref: DRN82624003Finance to pay her any other compensation  or to take any other  action in response to her 
complaint.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I uphold Miss Ws complaint in part. And I order 
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited,  trading as Volkswagen Finance, to:
1.Waive the £138  that its charged  Miss W for the dent to the left hand rear quarter 
panel (and to apply  the 20% reduction to the then remaining balance).
2.Pay £100 to Miss W to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience that shes  
been caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 September 2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8262400