K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that NewDay  Ltd hasnt reimbursed him for transactions he says are 
fraudulent.
background
Over the course of 2018 Mr W raised four fraud  claims in relation to payments he didnt 
recognise on his Aqua  credit card. NewDay replaced his credit  card each time and 
reimbursed him for several payments in relation to his earlier claims. 
This complaint is in relation  to the claim he raised on 14 November 2018 for payments on 
the card active between 9 April 2018 and when he reported the fraud. NewDay  declined  this 
claim and withdrew Mr Ws credit  facility on 29 November 2018.  It also reconsidered a 
previous claim because it believed the payments were authorised by Mr W. 
Mr W says he kept his card in his wallet and would keep  it on him when he worked.  He says 
no-one had access  to his card, PIN number, phone, or laptop.
Mr W hasnt specified which payments hes disputing, but he has confirmed that he isnt 
disputing payments to his mobile phone provider or payments local to his home  address  
including cash withdrawals. This mainly leaves  online payments; while there are some online 
retail purchases, the majority of the remaining payments that appear disputed are to adult 
websites. These are for relatively low values, typically under £100,  but often multiple times a 
day. The total claim investigated by NewDay is around £3,000.
NewDay said one of the reasons it declined Mr Ws claim was because  the IP address  for 
one of the disputed payments matched one that was genuine  to a music store. Mr W has 
since said he didnt make either payment.
Mr W has said he doesnt use his card online and that he would provide evidence  from his 
mobile internet  provider  showing he couldnt  have accessed adult websites.  Hes also said 
that he would provide  tachograph data from his lorry to show  his whereabouts. Mr W thought 
his account with at least  one retailer had likely  been  hacked.
It was left open that if Mr W provided further evidence to NewDay that support that he hadnt  
authorised the payments then it would  consider  whether  this affected his claim.  But after it 
declined his complaint it continued  to pursue him for the debt.
When Mr W brought his complaint to our Service, the adjudicator  didnt uphold  the 
complaint. He noted that it wasnt clear exactly which  transactions  Mr W was disputing,  but 
in summary he thought,  on balance, it was more likely than not that Mr W had authorised the 
payments on his credit card.
Mr W disagreed  with the outcome and let us know hes also unhappy that hes found  out 
NewDay have registered a CIFAS marker  against  him. He said hes hired a solicitor  in 
relation to a different business that something similar has happened  with and they have new 
information about the addresses that certain goods were  delivered to.
The complaint has been passed  to me for a final decision.
Ref: DRN80233562my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For clarity,  Im not making a finding here on how NewDay has acted in relation to debt 
collection since the account was closed, nor am I making a finding  on whether it was 
appropriate for NewDay to record information  with CIFAS or any other fraud  prevention 
agency in relation to Mr W. This complaint concerns whether NewDay  has acted fairly in 
holding Mr W responsible  for transactions hes disputed.
The relevant  law here is the Payment Services Regulations 2017,  and broadly speaking 
Mr W is responsible  for any payment that he has authorised, and he isnt responsible  for 
unauthorised payments.  So, the key question  here is whether NewDay has acted fairly in 
concluding that Mr W did authorise the disputed payments. I think it has and Ill explain why.
For a payment to be authorised, NewDay must show that it was authenticated  correctly and 
why it thinks Mr W consented to it. Here NewDay has provided audit information to show that 
for the online payments the card information  including the secure  CVV code was used. It has 
also shown that for the cash withdrawals Mr Ws genuine card was used - as the chip was 
read and his PIN was correctly entered. This means the payments were correctly  
authenticated. The remainder of this decision focuses  on the issue  of whether Mr W 
consented to the payments.
Consent must be given  in the form and procedure agreed  between  the parties,  here this 
means the terms of the account. Mr Ws Aqua credit cards  terms and conditions say the 
following.
12 Making payments
12.1 The authorisation of a transaction can include authorising any single transaction, a 
series of recurring transactions (including transactions for an indefinite  period) or pre-
authorising a future transaction of a certain  or uncertain amount. A transaction will be 
regarded as authorised by you or an additional cardholder where you or an additional 
cardholder:
12.1.1 authorise the transaction  at the point  of sale by following whatever instructions are 
provided by the merchant  to authorise the transaction
Mr W hasnt specified to us which transactions he disputes, but Im satisfied Mr W has been 
given ample time to provide  this information and any evidence  that he may wish to. Where 
information or evidence is unavailable, I must determine what  I think  is more  likely than not 
to have happened, based on the evidence  available. 
At this time Mr W hasnt  provided the evidence  hes referred  to, in particular:
evidence from his solicitor or retailers detailing delivery information
evidence from his internet provider showing he couldnt access adult material  / 
websites
tachograph data from his previous  employer  to evidence his whereabouts
evidence that any genuine retail accounts he had have been  hacked / compromised
For clarity,  Mr W doesnt need to have  physically carried  out a payment himself or been  in 
receipt of any good purchased in order to have authorised them. Whilst this is of course 
Ref: DRN80233563relevant to whether its likely that he did consent  to them. Payments  would still be authorised 
if Mr W allowed  someone else to make  these payments or to act on his behalf.  Ill set out my 
findings by payment type.
Card present
There was only one ATM withdrawal which wasnt local to Mr Ws home  this was for £50. It 
isnt clear if Mr W disputes this payment, but the audit provided by NewDay shows his 
genuine card was used and his PIN was entered correctly. Mr W has also used his card for 
undisputed cash  withdrawals. Given Mr W still has his card and hasnt provided  any 
plausible explanation for how a third party obtained  this or his PIN number, I think its more 
likely than not that he did authorise this withdrawal. 
Card not present 
Turning to the online payments, there  appear to be several online payments to well-known 
retailers from Mr Ws card that he hasnt  said hes disputing or raised with Aqua as part of 
his fraud  claim so I wont comment on them individually. Mr W has been clear that he didnt  
make the two payments to music shops, payments to at least  one retailer or to any adult 
websites and so Ill focus on these.
As these  payments  were online,  Mr W wouldnt have needed to be physically  present.  Our 
adjudicator obtained some  information from a third-party billing company for some of the 
adult websites and this didnt match Mr Ws. This does support his position  that he didnt 
make the payments, but this isnt enough  in itself to show Mr W didnt consent to them.  So, 
Ive needed to weight this up against  the other evidence available to decide whats  more 
likely than not to have happened  here.
To date, I havent been provided with a plausible explanation for how an unauthorised third 
party could have  obtained  Mr Ws card information. This includes his secure  CVV number.
Ive also reviewed Mr Ws statements and can see that around £14,000 was paid into the 
account between  August  and November 2018 when  many of the disputed  payments were 
made. For example,  there are credits  of £1,000 each on 11th,  17th, 24th 27th, and 29th 
September 2018. Mr W hasnt commented on why he made these payments.
Bearing in mind the account had a credit limit of £1,400 and the timing of these payments, 
which appear to coincide  with when funds were  needed to make further purchases,  I think 
this suggests  Mr W was aware of the account  activity and that he took steps  to ensure 
further purchases would  be possible.
Many of these payments  were to the same providers as payments that were  the subject  of 
Mr Ws previous  fraud claims. I would have expected Mr W to be checking his statements 
regularly and reporting any further  concerns promptly. I note Mr W switched to electronic 
statements in September 2018 and so would have  been able to see these even if hed been 
away from home working. And as above,  his payments into the account suggest he was 
aware of the balance  and activity. However, Mr W appears to be disputing payments that 
took place over months but didnt raise  his fraud claim  until November 2018.
Taking the above into account, I think NewDay has acted fairly in concluding that Mr W 
consented to the payments from his account.
Ref: DRN80233564my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 September 2021.
Stephanie Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8023356