K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) policy  taken out in 
1999. Mr B says Yorkshire Building  Society (YBS)  mis-sold  him the MPPI.  
The policy covered Mr B for unemployment.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Mr B case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why. 
Mr B says that he didnt know he had MPPI,  and that he didnt  need  it. But I think  YBS 
made it clear that Mr B didnt have to take out the MPPI and that he chose to take it out  
although I can understand why he cant remember this as it was 20 years ago. I say this 
because YBS has provided  copies of Mr Bs mortgage and MPPI applications. On the 
mortgage application, I can see that the MPPI is presented as optional  and directs  a 
customer to fill in an application form if they want to take it. The separate application 
form has been completed, and Mr B has signed  this, agreeing to the policy.  Mr B also 
made a successful claim on his MPPI policy. 
YBS didnt recommend the MPPI to Mr B so it didnt have to check if it was right for him. 
But it did have to make  sure Mr B got the information  he needed to decide if it was right 
for him. 
Its possible the information YBS gave Mr B about the MPPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But he chose  to take out the MPPI - so it looks  like he wanted this type 
of cover.  Based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he 
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the MPPI cover  - so it would have 
been useful for him if something  went  wrong. It also looks  like the MPPI was affordable. 
So I dont think better information about the MPPI would have put him off taking out the 
cover. 
This means YBS doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the MPPI to Mr B.
But YBS will pay back some  of the cost of the MPPI to Mr B because: 
YBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the MPPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr B about that. Because  YBS didnt tell Mr B, that was 
unfair. 
To put that right, YBS has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the MPPI premium - and I think  that offer is fair in this 
case.
Ive thought about everything Mr B has said - including what hes said already having an 
unemployment policy in place. But from what Mr B has said about  the unemployment policy 
Ref: DRN86712452he had (that he took it out in 1999  and that it covered him if he was unemployed for up to 
12 months) I think that its possible  he is actually  referring to his MPPI policy,  as it provided 
this cover and was taken  out in 1999. He also made  a successful claim on this policy.
I should also say that MPPI is a blanket  terms used to describe this kind of policy  individual  
businesses might call their policies different names. In Mr Bs case, YBS refer to their MPPI  
policy as Mortgage  Payment Insurance.
In any event, even  if the cover Mr B is referring to is a different policy to the MPPI, then as I 
think Mr B knew hed taken out the MPPI, he did so knowing what he already had in place. 
So this point  doesnt change my decision,  and I dont think the policy  was mis-sold.
what the business needs  to do
YBS has to pay back to Mr B any commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% 
of the MPPI premium. YBS should  also pay back to Mr B any extra  interest he paid because  
of that.
YBS should  pay back to Mr B the extra  he paid each month  because  the commission and 
profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of MPPI. YBS should also pay Mr B 8%* 
simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr B can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The MPPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Yorkshire  Building Society  does not have to pay back  
all of the cost of the MPPI to Mr B.
But Yorkshire Building Society does have to pay back  to Mr B any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the MPPI  premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 March  2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8671245