K821x#15Complaint
Mrs P complained about advice given by Alexander David Securities Limited  (trading as St 
Pauls Marketing) to transfer her personal pension and invest in unsuitable securities.
Background
Mrs P had a personal pension (PPP)  valued at £31,343 as of 1 May 2016. In 2016, Mrs P 
said she was cold called  by representatives of St Pauls Marketing and subsequently visited 
at her home. She recalls being  told that the charges  on her current pension  were too high,  
and that she should transfer. She also recalls  explaining  that she wanted her pension  money  
to be safe, explaining she wanted something that would not go down too much and would 
match inflation. She recalls being told the investment  had a minimum guaranteed 
percentage return.
Mrs P opened a self-invested personal  pension (SIPP). Her PPP worth £31,368 was 
transferred to the SIPP account on 28 May 2016.  An amount of £30,500 was used  to buy a 
Debenture on 28 September 2018.  
The SIPP provider confirmed that St Pauls  Marketing were  the introducing firm.
The following  year Mrs P turned 55 and accessed  her tax-free cash,  though she explained it 
took several months to complete the withdrawal.
She complained to Alexander David. They did not respond to the complaint, so it was 
brought to this service.
 
One of our investigators  considered the complaint. He thought Mrs Ps version of events 
seemed credible and was supported by the evidence from third parties.  Alexander  David  had 
told us St Pauls Marketing only introduced  clients to the SIPP provider, but they did not give 
advice.
The investigator concluded Mrs Ps version of events was likely to be true and she 
transferred her PPP as a result of what she had been told by representatives of St Pauls  
Marketing.
The investigator went on to consider  what  kind of service St Pauls Marketing provided Mrs P 
and whether it was appropriate. He considered the definition of a personal recommendation 
as defined in the FCA handbook. Based on Mrs Ps version of events, he thought that St 
Pauls Marketing made a personal recommendation to her.
The investigator  thought  the personal  recommendation  was not suitable  for Mrs Ps 
circumstances.  Before  the transfer,  Mrs P was in a PPP with 1charges  of 1% a year and 
was invested  in a Managed fund. The fund was diversified  into a range  of equities,  bonds  
and cash.  Mrs P also explained  that in 2016  she was a low risk investor,  could  not afford  
to lose any of her pension  benefits  and had no capacity  for loss.  Again,  the investigator  
accepted  Mrs Ps evidence  as Alexander  David  had not responded.
Ref: DRN84399512The debenture  was issued  by a single  company  which  the investigator  understood  was 
concerned  entirely  with peer to peer lending.  According  to Companies  House  website,  
the company  was first incorporated  on 29 April 2013.  So when  St Pauls  Marketing  
approached  Mrs P, it had only been  in existence  for about  three  years.  It was a brand  
new company  in a fledgling  industry,  and Mrs Ps entire  retirement  provision  was 
invested  in it. This had the effect  of magnifying  the risk significantly.  The investigator  
thought  Mrs P would  have  been  willing  to take some  amount  of investment  risk, as 
demonstrated  by the investments  in her PPP.  But the debenture  was speculative  and 
unsuitable.
Mrs P explained  that she had withdrawn  her 25% tax-free  cash  sum and left the rest of 
her funds  invested.  So the investigator  thought  a SIPP  account  would  have  been  useful  
to her given  that she was close  to 55 and looking  to use the flexibility  it offered.  
However,  the investment  was unsuitable.
Even  if Alexander  David  could  show  that a personal  recommendation  was not made  to 
Mrs P and they only arranged  an investment  they should  have  assessed  whether  it was 
appropriate  for Mrs P. That was because  the debenture  is a non-readily  realisable  
security.  Following  a direct  offer,  they would  have  been  obliged  to assess  Mrs Ps 
appropriateness  for the investment  by asking  her to provide  information  regarding  her 
knowledge  and experience  as set out in COBS  10.2.1.  Had this been  done,  they should  
have  determined  that Mrs P did not have  the necessary  experience  and knowledge  to 
understand  the risks  involved  in the debenture.
The investigator also thought Alexander David failed to treat Mrs P fairly  or act in her best 
interests as required by the Principles and COBS 2.1.1. Without the involvement of 
Alexander David, the investment would not have happened.
Mrs P accepted the investigators conclusions. Alexander David has not replied.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
investigator and for the same reasons.
There is very little evidence available to establish  what happened and how Mrs P came to 
invest in the debenture. In the absence of any substantive evidence from Alexander David,  I 
have given Mrs Ps evidence considerable weight. I agree with the investigator that her 
evidence is credible.
I accept that a representative from St Pauls  Marketing  visited  Mrs P at her home.  Following 
that meeting she transferred her PPP to a SIPP and invested in the debenture. I think that is 
unlikely to have  happened unless Mrs P received  advice to do so. She had very little 
investment experience and had no intention of using her pension funds before the meeting. 
In my experience, it is unusual for consumers to invest in non-mainstream  investments 
without receiving advice.  I accept Mrs Ps evidence  that she was advised  to transfer to the 
SIPP and invest in the debenture. Given that St Pauls Marketing is recorded as the 
introducer by the SIPP provider and no other  firm appears to be involved, I think  it is likely  
the advice came from St Pauls Marketing.
Ref: DRN84399513I also agree  with the adjudicator that the debenture  is a non-readily  realisable security.  
Alexander David should have assessed  whether the debenture was appropriate  for Mrs P, if 
they did not give advice.
The debenture was not suitable or appropriate for Mrs P as it was high risk and speculative.  
Alexander David should not have arranged the SIPP for Mrs P and should  not have 
introduced the debenture to her. I am satisfied that Alexander David caused any loss Mrs P 
has suffered.
Fair compensation
My aim is that Mrs P should be put as closely as possible into the position she would 
probably now be in if she had been  given  suitable  advice.
I take the view that Mrs P would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely  
what she would have  done differently. But Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair 
and reasonable given  Mrs Ps circumstances and objectives when she invested. 
What should Alexander David do?
To compensate Mrs P fairly,  Alexander  David must:
Compare the performance of Mrs Ps investment with that of the benchmark  shown  
below. If the fair value  is greater  than the actual value there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value , no 
compensation is payable.
If there is a loss, Alexander David should  pay into Mrs Ps pension  plan to increase 
its value by the total amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid 
should allow for the effect of charges and any available  tax relief.
Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance. 
If Alexander David is unable to pay the total amount  into Mrs Ps pension plan, it 
should pay that amount direct to her. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it 
would have provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced 
to notionally allow for any income tax that would  otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mrs Ps expected marginal rate of 
tax in retirement. Mrs P does not have any pension  provision other  than the state 
pension. I think  it is unlikely she will be a taxpayer in retirement, so no reduction 
should be made.
Pay to Mrs P £250 for the distress  and inconvenience caused  by the potential loss of 
her pension  benefits.
Ref: DRN84399514Alexander David should add interest as set out below. Income tax may be payable on any 
interest paid. If Alexander David deducts income  tax from the interest  it should  tell Mrs P 
how much  has been  taken off. Alexander David should give Mrs P a tax deduction certificate 
if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.
investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
Debenture still existsfor half the 
investment:  
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return  Index;  
for the other 
half: average  
rate from 
fixed rate 
bondsdate of 
investmentdate of my 
decision8% simple  a 
year from date 
of decision to 
date of 
settlement  
Actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
It may be difficult  to find the actual  value of the investment. So, the actual value should be 
assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. Alexander  David  should take ownership of 
the illiquid investment by paying a commercial value acceptable to the pension provider. 
This amount should be deducted from the compensation  and the balance  paid as I set out 
above.
If Alexander David is unable to buy the investment, the actual value should be assumed to 
be nil for the purpose  of calculation. Alexander David may require Mrs P to provide an 
undertaking to pay Alexander  David any amount she may receive from the investment in the 
future. That undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on 
drawing the receipt  from the pension plan. Alexander David  will need to meet  any costs in 
drawing up the undertaking.
Fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark,  Alexander 
David should use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by 
the Bank of England. The rate for each month  is that shown as at the end of the previous 
month. Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually  compounded basis. 
Any additional sum paid into the investment  should be added to the fair value calculation  
from the point in time when it was actually paid in. 
Ref: DRN84399515Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from 
the fair value  at the point  it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue  any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there  are a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if Alexander David totals all those payments and deducts that 
figure at the end instead of deducting periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method  of compensation because:
Mrs P wanted capital growth  with a small risk to her capital.
The average rate for the fixed  rate bonds  would be a fair measure  for someone who 
wanted to achieve  a reasonable  return  without  risk to her capital. 
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices  
with different asset classes,  mainly UK equities  and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some  risk to get a higher return. 
I consider that Mrs Ps risk profile was in between, in the sense that she was prepared  
to take a small level of risk to attain her investment objectives. So, the 50/50  
combination would reasonably put Mrs P into that position. It does not mean  that 
Mrs P would have invested 50% of her money in a fixed  rate bond and 50% in some 
kind of index tracker  investment.  Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise  that 
broadly reflects  the sort of return Mrs P could have obtained from investments suited 
to her objective and risk attitude.
My final decision  
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Alexander David Securities Limited  should  pay 
the amount calculated  as set out above.
Alexander David should provide details  of its calculation to Mrs P in a clear, simple  format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs P either to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 July 2020.
Roy Milne
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8439951