K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains that Inter Partner  Assistance SA (IPA) have not handled his claim fairly.
IPA use intermediaries to administer their legal expenses policy,  so any reference  to the 
insurer within this decision should be read as including the acts or omissions of any such  
intermediaries.
background
Mr F holds  a home insurance  policy with IPA that includes cover for legal expenses. He 
purchased a property  in July 2015 and thought he was entering  into an agreement to receive 
shares in the property  management company once all plots on the development had been  
sold. The final property was subsequently sold, but the management company refused to 
make Mr F a shareholder  and said he had misunderstood  the contract. 
Mr F referred the matter  to his conveyancing solicitor and contacted IPA for assistance in 
pursuing legal action against  the property developer. He also disputed  the service charges 
applied to his property as he says he discovered several discrepancies  and irregularities 
concerning the amounts he had been charged. 
IPA declined Mr Fs claim for legal expenses  as they said it did not satisfy the policy  criteria.  
They believed that both the share dispute  and service  charge issues  related to the purchase  
of the property, and that the only cover  provided  for property disputes  was for nuisance  and 
trespass claims  of which Mr Fs dispute  was neither. They said his claim  was also 
specifically excluded under the remaining policy terms and conditions. 
Mr F complained as he was unhappy with IPAs decision, and also thought they had 
incorrectly linked the service charge and share issues, which  should have been  considered  
separately. He says that the service charge would be considered to be a service  in law and 
that it was not a contract made in connection with the purchase of his property. So he says 
that this element of his claim should be covered  under a different section of the policy.  
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mr Fs complaint. She didnt think that either of his claims fell 
within any of the insured  perils under the policy, and agreed that it would also be excluded 
under the terms  and conditions. Mr F disagreed, so the matter  has been passed  to me to 
determine.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it. 
shares
Considering first Mr Fs share dispute, this stems  from a contract  he entered  into with the 
property developer in July 2015  for the purchase  of his property. He disputes the property 
developers claim that the contract  does not entitle him to shares of the property  
management company.
The legal expenses  policy  provides cover for certain  insured perils, such as employment 
disputes and personal injury  claims. But in relation to Mr Fs contractual dispute regarding  
Ref: DRN84734062the shares, there  is no specific peril that appears  to cover this legal  claim.  There is a section 
for property  infringement claims which covers:
Costs to pursue  Legal  Action for nuisance  or trespass against the person or 
organisation infringing your legal rights in relation  to your main home.
Mr Fs contractual dispute is neither a claim for nuisance, nor trespass. So it does not fall 
within this section of cover.  Furthermore,  the policy sets out that it will not cover disputes  
directly or indirectlyin relation to a contract  you have entered into. Given that Mr Fs 
dispute was directly concerned with a contract he had entered  into  and given that it cannot  
be construed as legal action for nuisance  or trespass  Im satisfied that IPA correctly 
concluded that there was no cover available under this section.
The only other section  of cover that could perceivably encompass Mr Fs dispute is for 
Consumer Pursuit claims,  which covers:
Costs to pursue  Legal  Action following a breach of a contract you have for buying or 
renting goods  or services  for your private use. The contract must have been made 
after you first bought this insurance unless you have held this or equivalent cover 
with us or another insurer continuously  from or before the date on which the 
agreement was made.
Given that Mr Fs contract  was for the purchase of real property,  it cannot  be considered as 
a contract for buying goods (i.e. chattels)  or services, so this section would not apply either. 
But even if real property  could be considered as goods, this section still wouldnt apply 
because it was a contract  that he entered into in 2015, which  was prior to the policy  being  
taken out in 2018. This section also expressly  excludes claims arising from the purchase or 
sale of your main home. 
So I dont  consider IPA to have acted unreasonably in declining cover for Mr Fs contractual 
dispute, as there is no insured peril and the circumstances of the dispute are caught  by the 
exclusionary terms of the policy in any event. 
service charges
Mr F says that his legal  claim in relation to his propertys service charges should  not be 
considered as a contract made in connection with the purchase of his property, as it is a 
service. 
Mr Fs obligations  in relation to his service charges are set out in his lease:
Lessees covenants
1.To pay to the Lessor the yearly ground rentand to pay to the management 
company the service  charge  at the times and in the manner aforesaid  and without  
any deduction
The contract for the purchase of Mr Fs property makes express reference to the lease, and 
states that it is:
the Underlease of the Property by the Seller to the Buyer pursuant  to this Contract in 
the form of the Underlease annexed to this Contract .
Ref: DRN84734063So I do not accept  that a dispute in relation to Mr Fs service  charges would not be 
considered as a claim arising from the purchase of his main home  which is expressly  
excluded under the Consumer Pursuit section of the policy. And similarly to the contractual  
dispute about the shares, the service charges legal claim does not fall within any other 
insured perils under the policy, such as property infringement (for the same reasons set out 
above). So again, I do not consider IPA to have acted unreasonably by declining  Mr Fs 
claim in relation to his service charges as it is not covered under the policy.  And I also do not 
think it was unreasonable for them to consider both of his claims together, given  that they 
both arose  from the purchase of his property.  
other considerations 
I understand Mr F is also unhappy  with how the policy was sold to him and that he does not 
consider it to be fit for purpose. But Mr F would need  to direct such concerns to the 
appropriate business that sold the policy to him. And given that IPA are not responsible  for 
the sale of the policy,  I will not be commenting on this matter within my decision. 
In summary,  I do not think IPA have acted unfairly by declining  Mr Fs claim.  And having  
reviewed the way theyve  handled the claim, I do not think they have done anything  
substantially wrong  that would  warrant an award  of compensation either. So it follows that I 
do not uphold  this complaint. 
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 January 2020.
Jack Ferris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8473406