K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Uncle Buck  Finance LLP lent him money  he couldnt afford to repay.
background
Mr H took out five loans  with Uncle  Buck as follows:
 
No date applied for loan amount instalments Repayment date
1 9 June 2015 £100 3 @ £47 28 August 2015
2 1 September 2015 £300 3 @ £148 27 November 2015
3 21 December 2015 £500 3 @ £266 31 March 2016
4 3 October 2016 £400 3 @ £196 27 February 2017
5 7 June 2017 £400 3 @ £192 30 August 2017
Mr H says he borrowed significant sums from Uncle Buck. Mr H says he was a gambling  
addict and had been unemployed at times. Mr H thinks  that it was irresponsible of Uncle 
Buck to agree to lend,  particularly after hed fallen into arrears with an earlier loan.
Mr H wants Uncle Buck to pay him compensation, remove the negative entries from his 
credit file and refund  the last loan.
Before agreeing to lend each time,  Uncle Buck asked Mr H for details  of his net monthly 
income and outgoings. It recorded an income figure of £1,450 for loan one and £1,487 for 
the remainder of the loans. Mr H declared  his monthly outgoings  to be £600 for loan one, 
£755 for loans  two and three  and £900  for loans four and five.
Uncle Buck  also carried  out credit  checks which it says didnt  reveal anything  of concern and 
didnt demonstrate a reliance by Mr H on short term lending.
The adjudicator didnt recommend that Mr Hs complaint be upheld.  He thought Uncle  Buck 
did enough checks before  agreeing loans one and two. The adjudicator thought  the two 
loans appeared affordable. 
The adjudicator thought  that by loan three, Uncle Buck shouldve also asked Mr H about his 
other short term lending  commitments. But as Mr H didnt have any at the time, the 
adjudicator didnt think this wouldve changed Uncle  Bucks decision to lend.
There was a gap of more than six months  between Mr H repaying  loan three  and taking out 
loan four and then a further  gap between repaying loan four and asking for loan five. The 
adjudicator didnt think that Uncle  Buck had reason  to think  that Mr H might be reliant on 
short term lending at this point so he thought its checks went far enough.
Mr H doesnt agree with everything that the adjudicator has said.  Mr H does think that it was 
reasonable of Uncle  Buck  to agree loans one and two. Mr H thinks  that by loan three, Uncle  
Buck could see a sustained pattern  of repeat borrowing. Mr H thinks  it was reasonable to 
expect Uncle  Buck to consider his credit  file, employment and affordability again. 
Mr H says that despite there being a gap between repaying loan three  and taking out loan 
four, hed made several  rejected attempts to borrow money from Uncle Buck. Mr H thinks 
that this shouldve prompted Uncle Buck to carry out a more  thorough  check  again. 
Ref: DRN86391882Finally, for loan five, Mr H points out that he didnt  repay loan four in time. Mr H says he was 
in severe financial  difficulties and doesnt consider  it was reasonable of Uncle Buck  to agree  
to lend.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Uncle Buck  was required to make  sure Mr H could repay any money that it lent to him. Any 
checks had to be proportionate to things  such as the amount of the loan, the repayments 
and any borrowing history. But there  wasnt  a set list of checks  it had to carry out.
loans one and two
I agree  with the adjudicators recommendation in relation to loans one and two. As Mr H 
appears to agree that it was reasonable of Uncle Buck to agree loans one and two, I dont 
consider I need  to say anything further about  them.
loan three
By this time, Uncle Buck could see a history of borrowing  by Mr H. I think it was reasonable 
to expect Uncle Buck to ask about  Mr Hs other short term lending  commitments in addition  
to his regular outgoings As Uncle Buck hasnt given me evidence to suggest  that it asked 
about Mr Hs other  short  term loans, I dont think its checks were proportionate. 
Just because I consider  that Uncle Buck shouldve carried  out further checks, doesnt 
necessarily mean that I must go on to uphold Mr Hs complaint. I would need to be 
persuaded that if Uncle Buck had carried out the proportionate checks  I think were 
reasonable, it wouldve discovered  that Mr H couldnt afford some or all of the loan 
repayments.
Around the time that Mr H asked for loan three, I can only see one very small credit from 
another payday lender  a few days before. Although Mr H was also using a revolving credit  
facility around the same  time, it wasnt a short  term loan. So even if Uncle  Buck had asked  
Mr H specifically about his other  short term lending commitments,  I cant reasonably  say that 
it wouldve  said no to loan three. 
loan four 
I appreciate what Mr H says about  the rejected loan applications. It looks as though  Uncle 
Buck declined two applications that Mr H made in May 2016. Mr Hs applications  might  have 
been unsuccessful  for a number of reasons. For example, Uncle  Buck says the debit card 
that Mr H provided at the time of the loan applications was due to expire during the period of 
the loan he applied for. And Mr H also declared a higher than usual monthly income.  So I 
dont think I can say that just because Uncle Buck rejected two applications means that 
Uncle Buck  shouldve performed additional  checks when Mr H asked for loan four more than 
five months later.  
When Mr H applied for loan four, Uncle Bucks Uncle Bucks credit check  didnt show  any 
defaults within the previous 12 months. And it only showed one account opened within the 
previous six months  with no short term loans taken out in the previous six months.
Ref: DRN86391883Given the time between  making the failed  applications and asking to borrow again, I cant  
reasonably say that Uncle Buck  shouldve  been  alerted to a possible dependency  by Mr H 
on short  term lending at this point. I think it was reasonable of Uncle Buck  to agree to lend 
based on the information that Mr H gave and its own credit  checks.
loan five
Mr H waited around three months after repaying loan four before asking Uncle Buck  for loan 
five. 
I understand what Mr H says about  defaulting  loan four. He thinks  that this means that Uncle 
Buck shouldve done more to make sure he could afford to repay loan five. 
Even if I was to accept  this and say that Uncle Buck shouldve asked Mr H about his other 
short term lending commitments, I dont think it wouldve made a difference.  This is because 
although Mr H had taken  out a short term loan with a different  lender earlier  in 2017, Mr H 
had repaid this by the time he asked for loan five. And he didnt go on to borrow  from the 
other payday lender until after hed taken out loan five.
Throughout all of the time that Mr H was borrowing money from Uncle  Buck, I dont think  it 
was reasonable  to expect Uncle Buck to independently verify the information that Mr H gave 
by asking to see bank statements for example. This means that Uncle  Buck couldnt have 
known about Mr Hs gambling addiction unless hed disclosed it.
I appreciate that Mr Hs financial situation  was worse than he told Uncle  Buck but I dont 
consider proportionate  checks wouldve revealed this. Its for this reason that Im not 
upholding Mr Hs complaint. I understand that Mr H is likely to be disappointed and Im sorry 
about this.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2019.
Gemma Bowen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8639188