K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs O say the Governor & Company of the Bank of Ireland (GCBoI)  mis-sold  them  
a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs O bought  the policy, to cover  only Mr O, in 1986 at the same time as taking out a 
mortgage in joint names.  At the time it was bought the policy  was called  Redundancy  
Insurance and would repay an amount to the mortgage if Mr O was made redundant and 
became unemployed. Mr and Mrs O applied for the mortgage and the policy in branch. 
The policy provided  cover  for Mr O for unemployment only at the time it was taken  out  
subject to its exclusions and limitations. At the time Mr O selected cover that repaid £100 a 
month towards Mr and Mrs Os mortgage balance  in the event of a successful claim, his 
mortgage repayment each month being  £94.23 according to the mortgage  offer.  At the time, 
the policy cost £2.00  a month. 
The mortgage application form completed during the meeting indicates that Mr O was 
employed as a Coach  Builder.  He has told us he was entitled  to sick pay and redundancy 
pay, plus death in service  from his employer. Mr O has said he was in good  health at the 
time of the sale. 
Mrs O was not covered  by the policy so whilst I have considered  her circumstances in the 
overall situation, I am not referring  to them in detail in this decision about the insurance. I 
shall focus and refer mainly to the circumstances of Mr O who took out and was covered by 
the policy.
GCBoI has sent us copies of the mortgage  statements  to show  that the mortgage account 
closed in June  2006. 
Mr and Mrs Os representative has made lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf. However many of the issues raised  are not relevant to this policy  which only covered 
redundancy and subsequent unemployment at the time of sale.
I will not restate all the representations  made  here, but I have read and considered  them all 
carefully. In summary,  Mr and Mrs Os representative says:
 
GCBoI failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr O wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr and Mrs Os 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means GCBoI  should have 
told Mr O about  the poor value;  
Ref: DRN86173172The common law duty of utmost good faith also means GCBoI  should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr O and the impact  they 
would have had on Mr Os chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mr O received was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs O disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Os. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Os complaint.
This sale took place  in 1986 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2006. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
The first industry codes of practice for sellers of insurance were introduced in 1989,  which  is 
after GCBoI  says it sold Mr O this policy. Prior to this there were fewer  requirements on a 
business when  selling  insurance  such as this. But GCBoI doesnt appear to have considered 
Mr and Mrs Os complaint  any differently   it seems to me they have considered  the sale of 
the policy against these later standards. So on the basis that it puts Mr and Mrs O in a more 
favourable position,  I have taken into account  the later industry codes of practice in 
considering what  I think  is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN86173173In particular, The Association of British Insurers General  Insurance Business Code of 
Practice for all intermediaries (Including  Employees  of Insurance  Companies) other than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Building  Societies 
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Building  Societies  Ombudsmans terms of reference  the Ombudsman  
was required to decide complaints by reference to what  was, in his opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
GCBoI was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mr and Mrs Os complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
If GCBoI gave advice,  whether it advised  Mr O with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for Mr O, given his needs 
and circumstances.  
Whether GCBoI gave  Mr O sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to enable  
him to make  an informed  choice about  whether to take out the policy, including 
drawing to his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr O, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr and Mrs O suffered loss 
or damage and what I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Ref: DRN86173174Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs O 
and GCBoI, Ive decided  not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Os complaint. Ive set out my reasoning 
below. 
did Mr O know  he had a choice?
GCBoI had to make  it clear that the policy was optional. 
GCBoI have  been  able to provide some limited  documentation from the time of the sale. On 
the mortgage application form there was a section about insurance  and one part of this 
related to Redundancy Insurance. I can see that in this section  it has been stated Yes, that 
Mr O wanted the cover.  In addition, a totally separate  application form was completed  for the 
policy and signed  separately by Mr O. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr O knew the policy was optional  
and he agreed  to take it out without undue pressure. 
did GCBoI  provide advice?
Both GCBoI and Mr and Mrs O agree  that advice wasnt  provided  during this sale.  
This means  GCBoI didnt  have to check if the policy was suitable for Mr O. Instead, it had to 
give him sufficient, appropriate  and timely information to enable  Mr O to make  an informed 
choice about whether  to take out the policy, including drawing to his attention and 
highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main provisions of the policy and 
significant limitations and exclusions. 
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr O should  have  been aware of what  the policy was 
intended to cover, the policy was named Redundancy  Insurance  and I think  he would  have 
been given a broad description of what the policy was intended to cover   - that is that the 
policy would protect  his mortgage payments plus a little more, if he was unable  to work 
through redundancy resulting in unemployment.  The application form for the policy  gave 
choices for the amount of benefit and of the costs. And I think its unlikely Mr O would  have 
taken out the policy  without any sense  of what the policy  was for and of how much the 
premium might be.
The evidence from the time of sale shows that on the policy application form Mr O selected 
the level of benefit he wanted,  at the time this was ticked for £100.00 per month and this 
form also sets out the cost was £2.00  per month  for this level of benefit. But there  is nothing  
from the time of sale that tells us whether GCBoI gave sufficient information about the 
exclusions or limitations before Mr O agreed to take out the policy. 
So I cannot be sure GCBoI gave Mr O sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to 
enable him to make an informed choice about whether to take out the policy, including 
drawing his attention  and highlighting   in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and any significant limitations and exclusions. 
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
Ref: DRN86173175In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Os representative has raised  a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Os. Ive 
considered these carefully and summarised them as:
The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Os representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr O about  the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Os representatives views on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs O have suggested. And taking into account  the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that GCBoI ought to have done either. 
what effect did GCBoIs  shortcomings have  on Mr O? To what extent  did Mr O suffer 
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that its likely GCBoI didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  to Mr 
O. So Ive gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude he 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Mr O 
would have still taken  out the policy, had GCBoI done things properly. 
Mr O says he would not have taken it out and believes I should presume this to be the case 
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr O had to weigh up in his own mind  the cost of the policy  
against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if he didnt insure against the 
risk of being  made redundant and so was unemployed. 
As Ive found above, Mr O chose to take this policy out. So I consider that its reasonable to 
conclude he had some  interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But he made 
this decision based  on incomplete information.  So what Mr O thought he was getting is not 
exactly what he got. The extent to which this differed is a relevant consideration when 
determining if Mr and Mrs O have suffered any loss or detriment.  
The information Mr O was given  about the cost and benefit was clear. But the information 
about other aspects  of the policy, such as the limitations and exclusions wasnt  as clear as it 
should have been.  
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr O thought he had bought and 
what he actually bought were the following:
Ref: DRN86173176The policy excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr Os occupation was such that 
unemployment was a regular or recurrent  feature; 
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mr O pause  for thought  and may well have caused  him to conclude  that the policy 
wasnt as good  as he thought and he might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on 
the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might have dissuaded 
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr O from taking out the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr Os circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy  
wasnt fundamentally wrong for him. Mr O was eligible for its benefits and it provided cover 
that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable to should the insured 
risks have become  a reality. I also havent  seen any evidence to suggest  Mr Os occupation 
wouldve been caught by the significant exclusions as unemployment was not a regular 
feature of his job. So, I still think he had some  good  reasons  to take the policy out.
Mr and Mrs Os representative has made numerous  points about  the restrictions it says were  
unacceptable, such as back pain and mental  health  conditions and pre-existing medical 
conditions etc. However, these are totally irrelevant when considering this case as the policy  
did not cover  anything other than Redundancy and the resultant unemployment, at the time it 
was bought.  
GCBoI may not have  told Mr O that any claim he made would be limited  to a 12-months.  
This may have differed  from what he expected and might have hoped for  but 12 months 
was a longer period than the six months redundancy entitlement Mr O would have received.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr O would still have thought  a policy  that paid up 
to 12 monthly mortgage payments would have  been of benefit  to him and Mrs O and would  
help Mr and Mrs O manage the consequences  should Mr O be made  redundant and become 
unemployed. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made, it could  help reduce Mr and 
Mrs Os outgoings at a difficult  and uncertain time and ensure their home was not placed at 
risk and might potentially help preserve  Mr Os redundancy money for other  use.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr O would still have taken out the policy. The policy was sufficiently close  to what  
its likely  he thought he was getting  and provided  benefits that would  help Mr and Mrs O 
manage the consequences  if Mr O was made  redundant. In the circumstances I consider it 
more likely than not that Mr O would have taken  out the policy  in any event notwithstanding 
the limitations on cover.
Mr and Mrs Os representatives say the rules  about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
Ref: DRN86173177the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr O would  not have bought the policy he bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted  
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr Os 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr O 
found himself in as a result of the sale was the same  position he would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs O believe  the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that Mr O would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs O in the position they would have been in if 
Mr O had not bought  the policy. 
That is because,  while I accept its possible Mr O wouldnt have taken out the policy, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that he would  still have taken 
out the PPI had he been given clear,  fair and not misleading information about the policy he 
was buying. So Im not persuaded  it would be fair and reasonable in those  circumstances, to 
conclude GCBoI should pay Mr and Mrs O compensation, as that would put them  in a better 
position than they would  have been in if everything  had happened  as it should have done.  
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs O think GCBoI misrepresented  the terms of the policy in how 
it described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
GCBoIs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why GCBoI  failed 
to act fairly  and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  GCBoI gave Mr O, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
1986 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Os representative says a court  might  take 
if it were to find GCBoI negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr and Mrs O and about 
the remedy a court  might award if it were to find that GCBoI  had been in breach of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs O in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Ref: DRN86173178Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 May 2021.
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8617317