K820x#14complaint
Mr F complained that Advantage  Insurance Company Limited wouldnt pay for all his repair 
costs when he claimed under his motor insurance  policy.
background
After Mr Fs car windscreen was damaged, he claimed under his policy.  Advantage agreed  
to pay for the windscreen replacement and authorised an estimate from Mr Fs garage. But 
his garage invoiced  him for more than the estimate.  They said theyd had to do more  work 
than they anticipated because parts of the car were damaged during their repair of the 
windscreen. 
Mr F wanted Advantage to reimburse  him the full amount of his garages bill. He said that the 
additional repair costs  were necessary for the windscreen replacement.  He also wanted 
Advantage to pay him some compensation to reflect the stress and inconvenience he said 
that the situation had caused him. But Advantage wouldnt  pay any more. They said theyd 
paid him what their policy required.   
The adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld.  He thought that 
Advantage had dealt  with his claim fairly. Mr F didnt agree and so the case has been 
passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read Mr Fs policy and on P42 it says that, in respect of glass  damage, it covers Broken 
glass in the windscreens or windows of your car and any scratching too your cars  bodywork 
as a result  of the broken  glass.  It says that Advantage  will pay for the glass  to be repaired or 
replaced. It doesnt claim to cover  any other  work. It also says that Additional charges or 
limited cover  may apply  if you do not use your insurers nominated  Windscreen  repairer .
Mr F used  his own garage and sent Advantage their estimate of £390  for the windscreen 
replacement. Advantage approved this estimate. Mr F did think  about  using a different 
garage, who estimated £410.  He asked Advantage to cover this but they wouldnt agree to 
more than the £390 theyd  authorised  and they said hed need to contribute  the remaining 
£20 himself. So Mr F chose the original  garage to do the work. But the garage charged him 
several hundred  pounds  more than their estimate. They said it was because  theyd had to 
deal with the cars clamshell fittings  breaking during the windscreen repair  because  they 
were corroded. 
Advantage said they hadnt agreed  to pay more than £390. But Mr F said he couldnt 
Advantages approval for the higher amount  because the garage  didnt ask him before doing 
the work.  As Ive noted above, the policys  windscreen cover  section does say that 
Additional charges or limited cover may apply if you do not use your insurers nominated  
Windscreen repairer . I think that this is clear and that it does entitle Advantage to pre- 
authorise his garages repair costs  as they did. Theyd also made  it clear  to Mr F, when they 
wouldnt authorise the higher estimate from his alternative garage, that they wouldnt pay 
more than the £390 for the windscreen  glass to be replaced. 
Ref: DRN86131562But in any event, the extra amount Mr Fs garage  charged him wasnt  for the windscreen 
itself, it was for the additional work required by the clamshell fittings.  The garage said that 
these were seized because of corrosion and had to be cut away during the screen repair  and 
there was no alternative. But Advantage said that as the fittings were corroded, this was due 
to wear and tear and so wasnt covered by his policy. I can see that wear and tear is 
included on Page 30 of Mr Fs policy under What is not covered.
Mr F has referred  to a previous  ombudsman  decision  which  he feels  supports  his 
case.  But I wont  comment  on that other  to say that the facts  and circumstances  
of every  case  are different.  In this case  it wasnt  in dispute that the clamshell  fittings 
were corroded. Mr Fs garage  said they were. What  is in dispute is whether fixing or 
replacing them was a necessary and unavoidable part of repairing the windscreen. Mr F 
thinks that it was, because he says that the fittings wouldnt have broken if the windscreen 
hadnt needed replacing, as he thinks that theyd otherwise  have lasted for the rest of the 
cars life. But I dont think that  fixing/replacing the fittings was a necessary  and unavoidable  
part of repairing the windscreen, as Ive not seen anything to suggest that those fittings 
would necessarily break during windscreen repair. Its accepted that they broke in this case 
because they were corroded. And as that is wear and tear, its not something that Advantage 
are responsible for under  the policy. 
I do see that Mr F was put in a difficult position and has been left with an unexpected bill 
because he didnt get any warning of the additional repair  costs.  But that wasnt Advantages 
fault, and overall  I dont  think  that it was unfair of Advantage to not cover the additional work 
his garage did. And as theyve done  what they need to under the terms of his motor 
insurance policy, I dont  require them to do anything else.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive discussed above,  its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 August 2019.
Rosslyn Scott
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8613156