K820x#14complaint
Miss F complains that RCI Financial Services Limited (RCI),  trading as Nissan  Finance, 
have not allowed her to refinance, the final payment due on her finance agreement, on the 
same terms.
background
Miss F took receipt of a new car in March  2016.  She financed  the deal through  a hire 
purchase agreement  with RCI. Under  the agreement she was required to pay 36 monthly 
instalments and then a final payment  of a little under £8,500 if she wanted to take ownership  
of the car at the end of the agreement. The APR was 4.99%.
She says she was told by the dealership that at the end of the agreement she could 
refinance the final payment on the same  terms. So, when  it came to refinancing the final 
payment, she was surprised to be told by RCI that if she wanted to refinance  the final 
payment shed have  to pay a higher APR  the one prevailing at the time.
She complained to RCI but they explained that they could only offer the APR that was 
available at the time of the application  to finance the final payment.  They  said it would never  
have been possible  to promise the same  APR as market rates change and they explained 
that Miss F didnt need to finance the repayment through them;  she could obtain finance 
elsewhere.
Miss F was disappointed  with RCIs response so she referred her complaint to this service 
and a couple of our adjudicators provided opinions. They both agreed that the application  to 
finance the final payment was a new application  that would only be arranged  at the end of 
the hire purchase  agreement and would therefore be subject to whatever interest  rates were 
available at the time. They thought the terms of Miss Fs hire purchase agreement  were 
clear and that there was no promise of the APR continuing if the final payment was 
refinanced. They understood that Miss F said the dealership had promised otherwise but 
they didnt think  they had sufficient information to demonstrate this was the case  and they 
therefore didnt  think that RCI needed to take any further action.
Miss F disagreed with the adjudicators view and she therefore asked for an final decision by 
an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view.  I know that will disappoint Miss F so please let me explain 
why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Ref: DRN85210262Miss F acquired  her car under a hire purchase  agreement. The hire purchase agreement  is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement  and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.
I understand that Miss F says she didnt receive the pre contract information before the 
agreement started. So Ive considered  what was stated  in the finance agreement, which  
Miss F did sign to confirm she agreed with it.
The agreement mentioned the monthly payments and the final payment that would be due. It 
explained that the APR for the agreement would be 4.99%  but it made no promises about 
what the APR would be if Miss F chose to refinance the final payment.
It would, I think, be highly unusual for the APR for refinancing  the final payment to be shown 
on the hire purchase  agreement. Thats because at the point the agreement  is signed the 
finance company  wouldnt  be aware  whether the consumer would eventually;  return the car; 
part exchange the car; pay the final payment to take ownership or refinance the final 
payment.
So when, and if, a decision  is made  to refinance the final payment that will be a new finance  
request that will be subject to a new credit check and whatever APR the business is able to 
offer at that point in time.  Miss F could of course  choose not to refinance the final payment  or 
to refinance it through other means.  But I dont think it would be fair to suggest  RCI have  
done anything  wrong here and Im therefore not asking them  to take any further action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 June  2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8521026