K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs E complain  about the administration of their commercial  mortgage by Mars 
Capital Finance Limited.
background
In 2014, Mr and Mrs Es commercial mortgage  was transferred to Mars Capital. They 
complain that it has:
Increased the monthly payment so that the arrears  balance is repaid within the originally 
agreed mortgage term. Despite that, it has demanded repayment of the full balance  of 
the mortgage and applied  interest  and charges to the arrears balance.  
Appointed receivers  to manage the property  even though theyve made the monthly 
payments in full and on time.  
Declined several offers from Mr and Mrs E to bring the account up to date. So they had 
to repay the mortgage in full to avoid repossession. Mr and Mrs E says that as a result,  
they had to pay for their own solicitors, were  caused a great deal of stress and have 
been left in a difficult  situation  financially.  
Applied unfair fees and charges.
Subject to any further submissions, I provisionally found that:
Mars Capital had automatically capitalised the arrears on the mortgage.  That is where  
a lender automatically included  the arrears  balance in calculating the monthly payment, 
but continued to treat the arrears balance as outstanding  and due. I dont consider that 
Mars Capital treated Mr and Mrs E fairly in the way it administered the loan while it 
collected payments  where the arrears  had been  automatically capitalised
Mars Capital was consistent in saying that the mortgage was in arrears  and that Mr and 
Mrs  E needed to take further  steps to avoid the appointment of receivers.  I considered 
they had reasonable time to take those steps  before the receivers  were appointed but 
chose not to do so  and noted  that by the time the receivers were appointed the 
automatic capitalisation had been reversed. I considered it was reasonable for Mars 
Capital to appoint  receivers when it did.
As Mr and Mrs E didnt provide evidence of their income and expenditure it wasnt  
unreasonable for Mars Capital  not to formally  accept  a payment offer from them.
It wasnt fair for Mars Capital  to apply arrears fees from September 2015 when Mr and 
Mrs E were paying  the amount it had asked for. It had already agreed to refund those 
fees and it should  honour its offer to also refund the fees from May and June 2015.
Mars Capital should pay Mr and Mrs E £300  for any confusion caused  by the automatic 
capitalisation of the arrears.  
Mars Capital had nothing  further to add. Mr and Mrs E responded to make a number  of 
points, including:
Ref: DRN86640172They didnt provide their income  and expenditure details because  Mars Capital told them 
it was unlikely to be accepted  and they understood the arrears  had already been 
capitalised.
Their understanding was that as the arrears had been capitalised the arrears had been 
extinguished.
They were forced  to repay the mortgage  as they were threatened with repossession.
They offered to repay the full arrears  in November 2017  but Mars Capital wouldnt accept 
this and insisted  on the full balance  being  repaid.
The fees charged by the receivers and solicitors are extraordinary and dont reflect the 
work carried out.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the change in monthly payments
I consider that Mars Capital did automatically  capitalise  the arrears  on Mr and Mrs Es 
mortgage. I accept  this wasnt fair and has caused some confusion. 
I am required to take into account the relevant regulators guidance in deciding  what  I 
consider is fair and reasonable in the individual  circumstances of this complaint. The FCA 
has said that automatic  capitalisation is unfair  and has issued guidance  that sets out what  
lenders should  do to put things right. 
But Mr and Mrs Es had an unregulated commercial  mortgage. The FCAs guidance  on this 
matter only applies to regulated mortgage contracts. So the FCAs guidance does not apply 
to Mr and Mrs E. Its unlikely that I could  reasonably  say that Mars Capital should go further   
on a commercial mortgage than it would be required to on a residential mortgage  applying 
the FCAs guidance. And it doesnt  necessarily follow that action  taken by a lender while it 
was automatically capitalised the arrears  was unfair. I note by the time that Mars Capital 
appointed the receivers it had stopped automatically capitalising  the arrears  and had 
reduced the monthly payment.  
In any event, even  if I were to apply  the FCAs remediation  and to be clear  it doesnt apply 
to Mr and Mrs Es mortgage  then I dont think it helps them. I say this as the standard 
approach would be to unwind the automatic capitalisation. But that would mean the arrears 
would still be more  than two months in arrears. So the overall  position  would be largely the 
same as it was when the receivers were appointed.  
The other potential  remedy would be to say that the arrears should be extinguished. That 
would only be applied  on a case-by-case  basis. But it would  only be a fair outcome if we 
could reasonably say that the increased  payments were affordable on an ongoing  basis. 
Without evidence  of Mr and Mrs Es income  and expenditure (which  I will deal with in more  
detail later) I dont  see how I could say that Mars Capital should have kept the higher 
payment in place.  It was reasonable  for it to ask for income and expenditure information  to 
check that the payment was genuinely affordable  and sustainable.  
Ref: DRN86640173I note the FCAs guidance  also covers  what  should happen where a lender has started 
repossession proceedings. It says that lenders  should consider whether a different outcome 
would have occurred  had the account  been remediated in line with the above.  It follows that 
it accepts that there are circumstances where lenders could take possession action even 
where automatic  capitalisation had occurred. 
But for the same reasons  as above,  I dont consider this would have made  any difference  to 
the position of Mr and Mrs Es mortgage. It follows that if Mars Capital had taken any action 
during the period in question it would not have  gone  against the FCAs guidance (if it had 
applied here).
The FCAs guidance is intended to protect consumers, not businesses. And Ive found  that 
even if I were to apply the remedies available to consumers I dont see how the position  
would be any different for Mr and Mrs E. So it is difficult for me to say that it would be fair or 
reasonable for Mars Capital to go further  than that in the individual circumstances of this 
case. In any event, the arrears werent  automatically  capitalised  at the time the receivers  
were appointed.
appointment of receivers
Where a commercial mortgage  is in arrears by more than two months, a lender can 
legitimately appoint receivers to manage  the property. When the receivers  were appointed 
the arrears were no longer being  automatically  capitalised. So whether  the arrears  were 
extinguished as a result of the automatic capitalisation isnt relevant here.
While there  might have been  some  confusion during the period where the arrears  were 
automatically capitalised,  I cant see that Mars Capital ever told Mr and Mrs E that the 
arrears had been formally  capitalised and the arrears balance cleared.  It was also in regular 
contact with Mr and Mrs E looking for an arrangement to clear  the arrears.  
Mars Capital has provided its notes of telephone conversations and the letters it sent Mr and 
Mrs E. Im satisfied, on balance, that they are an accurate reflection of what  was discussed. 
So I consider it likely than not that Mars Capital discussed formal  capitalisation,  payment  
arrangements and term extension and set out what information it would need to do that. This 
is in line with the steps that I consider it would be reasonable for a lender  to take in these 
circumstances. Looking  at the information  we have, I consider it less likely  that Mars Capital 
told Mr and Mrs E that it would not accept their income and expenditure or there was nothing  
it could do to help.
The correct  position  was set out clearly in Mars Capitals final response of 25 May 2017 and 
subsequent letters  yet Mr and Mrs E didnt provide the information  it asked for. I think it is 
difficult for me to say that Mr and Mrs E could not have understood what they needed to do 
to avoid any further action. I consider they had a reasonable  time to do so before the 
receivers were  appointed in October 2017.  And even if they had provided this information, 
its not clear that Mars Capital would have agreed  a concession.  I note again  by the time the 
receivers were  appointed Mars Capital had reversed  the automatic  capitalisation
There has clearly been  a breakdown in trust between  Mars Capital  and Mr and Mrs E. The 
confusion around  the automatic capitalisation didnt help. But Mars Capital  hadnt  received 
the information it needed to consider any concession for Mr and Mrs E. I think that before it 
instructed the receivers it had set out to Mr and Mrs E what it needed. Because  of the 
Ref: DRN86640174arrears and as Mars Capital didnt receive the information it needed it was reasonable for it 
to instruct receivers when  it did.  
Mars Capital did formally threaten to repossess the property. But that was after it had made 
reasonable attempts to find a sustainable way to bring the mortgage up to date.
declined offers
Without receiving details of Mr and Mrs Es income and expenditure, it wasnt  unreasonable  
for Mars  Capital not to formally accept  a payment offer from Mr and Mrs E. Thats because it 
needed to assess  whether  the offers were affordable and sustainable. Id note that the 
evidence we have  supports that Mars Capital did say that it wouldnt refuse payments from 
Mr and Mrs E. So I consider it less likely, on balance, that Mars Capital told them  not to 
repay the full arrears  balance. 
interest, fees and charges 
Ive found that the action taken by Mars Capital wasnt  unfair  and unreasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
The receivers were acting  for Mr and Mrs E not Mars Capital.  As Ive found it wasnt 
unreasonable for Mars Capital to appoint receivers, it isnt responsible for any fees or 
charges applied by the receiver. That is something that Mr and Mrs E would have to raise 
directly with the receiver.
In the circumstances, it was reasonable for Mars Capital to appoint solicitors.  The solicitors 
fees arent out of line with what in my experience  lenders would apply in these 
circumstances. So I dont  consider they should  be refunded.
Mars Capital has already refunded arrears fees for May and June 2015  and all of the arrears 
fees after September 2015. This is in line with what I would award. 
putting things  right
The way that Mars Capital administered Mr and Mrs Es account  has caused confusion  - 
both in respect of the automatic capitalisation and in the incorrect information  it gave Mr and 
Mrs E. I can see this has caused a great deal of upset and stress for Mr and Mrs E. But a 
large part of this was because  of the arrears,  the action taken by Mars Capital and the steps  
they had to take to repay the mortgage. But I dont  consider Mars Capital is responsible for 
the upset those things caused.
I say this as Mars Capital set out what it needed  to agree a concession  in a reasonable 
amount of time before  instructing solicitors  and receivers.  It was Mr and Mrs Es decision not 
to provide that information and repay the borrowing. But it means that it was reasonable for 
Mars Capital to take the action it did at that point where there was no agreed  forbearance  in 
place. So I cant ask it to pay for any trouble and upset caused by its actions in respect  of 
those things.
My award is only intended to compensate  Mr and Mrs E for the trouble and upset caused by 
the automatic  capitalisation and other incorrect information from Mars Capital. Looking at 
what happened, its clear this has added  to Mr and Mrs Es trouble and upset  but a large  
part of that was caused where Mars Capital hasnt acted unfairly.  Overall,  I consider it would 
Ref: DRN86640175be fair for Mars Capital  to pay Mr and Mrs E £300 for trouble and upset. This reflects the 
length of time the arrears were  automatically  capitalised and the confusing  information Mars 
Capital gave them  along with other incorrect information.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs E will be disappointed  with my decision.  I accept that at times 
Mars Capital hasnt  treated them fairly. Ultimately, it did give them enough  time to co-operate 
and reach  an agreement how to address the arrears on the account. It was Mr and Mrs Es 
decision not do so and to repay the mortgage  instead. I cant  fairly  hold Mars Capital 
responsible for that decision. It was reasonable for Mars  Capital to say that repossession  
was a possibility  as the mortgage wasnt up to date and Mr and Mrs E hadnt  put forward  a 
plan to repay the arrears that it was satisfied was viable.
my final decision
My final decision is that Mars Capital Finance Limited should:
Refund any arrears fees and associated interest applied  in May and June 2015 and any 
fees applies  since September  2015,  unless it has already done  so.
Pay Mr and Mrs E directly £300 for trouble and upset.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 February  2019.
Ken Rose
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8664017