K820x#14complaint
Mrs R complains about interest that was added to the balance of her catalogue shopping
account with J D Williams  & Company Limited, trading as Ambrose  WiIson.
background
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in June 2020. In that decision I explained  
that I wasnt expecting  to uphold the complaint. An extract from that provisional decision is 
set out below.
Mrs R purchased goods between 17 and 26 May 2018 which were shown on her May 2018 
statement. She says she returned some  items  within seven to ten days but on her next 
statement there was a charge for credit  and it was clear that shed been  charged some 
interest on the products she bought but returned in that month.
She complained to Ambrose Wilson but they explained that the charges had been  made in 
line with the terms  of her contract with them.
So Mrs R referred her complaint to this service and our investigator provided his opinion.  He 
noted that the terms of Mrs Rs account said that interest would be calculated  on the 
outstanding balance of the previous  statement. So he thought  Ambrose Wilson had 
calculated the interest  correctly. 
He went on to consider  whether it was reasonable for the business to charge Mrs R interest  
on items even if they were  returned. He noted  that the terms explained:
when we calculate  interest, we ignore any payments we receive during that period. If you 
buy and return an item and both transactions appear on the same  statement, we will not 
charge interest  for that purchase.
But he noted  that this meant that if purchases were made late in the month  and returned  on 
time, they would attract interest. So whilst  he understood  that the contract  allowed Ambrose 
Wilson to charge interest he didnt  think it was fair of them to do so.
He therefore thought  they should  recalculate  the £28.31 interest theyd  charged  and remove  
any interest on items that had been returned with 14 days. He also thought  that the business 
hadnt provided an adequate explanation  of how interest was charged  on items that were 
returned and that Mrs Rs complaint could have been resolved earlier  if it had. He therefore 
suggested Ambrose Wilson pay her £50 to compensate her for the distress and 
inconvenience shed  experienced.
Ambrose Wilson  didnt  agree with the investigators opinion.  They  said they had applied  
interest in line with the agreed terms and conditions  of the account.  They  also thought  the 
investigator had been  unreasonable when suggesting they hadnt  given  Mrs R a clear  
account of how interest  was calculated on her account. They  explained that the terms and 
conditions explained  this clearly. Overall they didnt think  theyd done  anything wrong and 
they asked for a final decision  by an ombudsman.
Ref: DRN87218382My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont currently agree with the investigators opinion  and Im not currently  expecting  to 
uphold Mrs Rs complaint.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think  I need  to comment on it in order  to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
I think the contract allows Ambrose Wilson  to charge  interest  on an item thats  returned  if the 
return transaction is not shown on the same  statement the purchase is shown on. So it 
would not be fair to suggest the business were wrong to impose the charges they have. I 
dont think theyve been unreasonable when applying interest to Mrs Rs account.
Im not persuaded the terms  are unfair  either. Mrs R wasnt a prisoner to the terms. She 
didnt have to deal with Ambrose Wilson  under those terms as she could switch to a 
competitor. The terms werent changed after Mrs R signed up for the service either. So I 
dont think it would be reasonable to tell Ambrose Wilson to take any action here.
My provisional decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  Im not expecting to uphold this complaint.
Neither Mrs R or Ambrose Wilson  provided  any additional information.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  No additional information was provided so 
my decision  is unchanged.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 November  2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8721838