K820x#14complaint
Miss W complains that The Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc is holding her responsible  for a loan 
that should be in the name  of a business  she is no longer  involved with.
background
Miss W says that in February  2017 she ceased  to be a director of a company. And she says 
that a consolidation loan taken then included borrowing that should not be in her name. This 
should be the responsibility of her ex-husband and/or the company.
Our investigator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. Miss W had an 
involvement before with the limited company. But here wed accepted  that she was bringing 
her complaint as a micro enterprise and separate to that company and so we could  look into 
it. The loan in question  was applied for on 1 February 2017 and was refinancing existing 
business agreements  and a personal loan. The customer identification number for the loan 
matched that for Miss W (under her then married name) trading as a sole proprietor. The 
terms of the loan set out that she was personally responsible for it whether or not she had an 
interest in that business any longer. RBS was not able to provide a copy  of the signed  
agreement, but he was satisfied that the loan was taken in her name. Payments had been 
made to the loan it seems from the third-party  company.
Miss W did not agree. She did not think that her complaint  had been  considered  fairly. There  
was no reason for her to take on a loan after she had ceased  to be a director.  She said that 
her husband  had a number  of health issues affecting his judgement and it was obvious that 
he was reckless. She had not said that the company was paying for the loan now.  Those  
company payments stopped over a year ago and she has had to struggle to make  the 
payments for this business lending. The documents for the loan were not sent to her trading 
address, she did not sign them, and she should  not be responsible  for the borrowing.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I asked our investigator to request further  information from RBS to support the comments  it 
made in a final response letter of 24 September 2019. It had then referred to a call Miss W 
had with it on 31 January  2017 about the consolidation of the loans and to the signed loan 
documents being returned. 
These have regrettably  taken some time to obtain but I have  now seen them.  The case 
notes record that on 23 January  2017  its collections team became involved with the 
borrowing. And that on 31 January 2017 Miss W had a conversation  with that team and said 
that she was struggling to make loan repayments  and it was noted this does include partner 
loans as well. It says she has 2 business loans and 1 personal loan. She would like her 
partner loans to be included too. 3 additional loans.  It was noted that three loans ending 
with the three digits 518,  944 and 085 would be refinanced with the new loan monitored  for 
three months. It was recorded that the loan documents were sent out on 1 February  2017 
and returned on 8 February  2017. A letter was issued on 9 February 2017 quoted  as starting 
by saying that I am pleased to confirm  that your new loan is in place.. The borrowing 
returned to normal  management on 15 May 2017.
Ref: DRN85227172These notes are helpful in supporting what RBS says but it is accepted that there is 
incomplete information here about  what happened  and as Miss W highlights there is no copy  
of the signed loan agreement from 2017. 
Im going  to look at the key areas and decide  what I think most likely  happened dealing with 
the points Miss W has made  about  them.
should the loan be in the name of the company?
Miss W ceased  being the director of the company she refers to on 1 February  2017 having  
been a director  since incorporation. Her husband  became the director  on that day. RBS says 
that the consolidation loan was applied for on 1 February 2017 and has shown  it was drawn 
on 8 February 2017. So, I dont  see that Miss W could have applied for or signed  an 
agreement then to commit the company. The evidence is that this loan is recorded  under a 
customer identification number relating  to Miss Ws sole trading business and the copy  of the 
loan documentation  is in her name. I dont agree on the available  evidence  that this loan is in 
any other partys name than hers.
the loan agreement was not signed
It would have been helpful to have seen a signed loan agreement but not having this is not 
the end of the matter. RBS records that it did receive a signed  agreement and I find it 
unlikely that it would  have released  the monies without this. Ive also seen a copy of the 
application which sets out the intended terms and that the only party  to it was Miss W. 
these were not Miss Ws debts
Ive seen statements  for three loans that were  consolidated into this one. All of them  refer 
only to Miss W in the narration.  It seems to be accepted by RBS based  on the notes that 
some of the borrowing related to a business  Miss W operated with a partner. She explains 
that one loan dated from 2013 and was later added to. The company she refers to wasnt 
incorporated until 2014. She has not provided any further information to show  her financial  
arrangements and any agreement with her husband. Or to support that she did not willingly 
take this borrowing at the time. It may be as noted  that she agreed to take over some 
borrowing when she left the company. But in any event I am satisfied that she did take 
responsibility for this new loan in her name
the company was paying the loan
Ive looked at the statement for the loan itself. Its right that the narrative says different 
parties have been  making payments including from a party that Miss W says she has no 
involvement with. And then from August 2019  the narrative indicates Miss W has been  
making weekly payments.  I cant resolve  here what arrangement Miss W and any other party  
came to over the repayment of the borrowing. Thats not something  I see evidence  RBS was 
involved with agreeing and does not affect  her liability for the borrowing to RBS.  Miss W 
explains that she is divorced from her husband.  There may have been a financial settlement, 
but I dont see how that affected RBS position  either.
conclusion
I appreciate Miss W has strong feelings  about what happened here.  I cant  resolve  all the 
business arrangements  she had with third parties.  I can only look here at the actions of RBS.  
Ref: DRN85227173Im satisfied that given  some issues with payments borrowing was reviewed by its collections 
team. A refinance was reviewed and agreed  with Miss W. And the documentation supports 
that she agreed to and benefitted from this and then continued as a sole trader.  I dont have 
a basis to find that RBS has made an error  or is unreasonable  in holding Miss W responsible  
for the borrowing. I consider any disagreement  about the background to how this borrowing 
arose fairly to be a civil matter that does not involve RBS.
If Miss W does not accept my decision  she remains free to pursue this in court  subject to any 
relevant time limits.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 October  2020.
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8522717