K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that Rock Insurance Services Limited mis-sold him a branded  travel  
insurance policy. 
background
Mr M took out an annual  travel insurance  policy through  a broker  - Rock Insurance. 
Mr M and his family went on holiday abroad. They missed a return  flight home  to the UK due 
to extreme weather conditions delaying their journey to the airport. Mr M booked  new flights 
(to a different  UK airport)  and paid for a night in a hotel and train travel  to get home.
Mr M contacted the insurer  to make a claim for the extra costs he had to pay due to the 
missed flight. These expenses totalled  £1,030.70.
The insurer  said a missed  inbound departure wasnt covered under the travel insurance 
policy Mr M had. It said Mr M would  have needed  to take out optional  travel disruption 
cover, which  included  extended missed departure cover  for most of his additional  
expenses to be covered.  
Mr M complained to Rock  Insurance about  his claim being declined  by the insurer. He said 
he believed  the policy had been  mis-sold, as it wasnt  made clear to him that he wouldnt be 
covered for a missed departure on a return  journey to the UK. And he said he thought this 
was misleading. He said if hed known that missing the scheduled departure of his flight  back  
to the UK wasnt included,  he wouldnt  have  taken out the policy.  He said missing  the return 
flight to the UK was a significant risk which he wanted to be covered for.
Rock Insurance  didnt  uphold Mr Ms complaint. It said the policy  was taken out without 
advice and said Mr M had needed  to make  his own decision about its suitability. It said it had 
provided Mr M with links to the policy documentation and that it was his responsibility to read 
it carefully. It said the policy document is clear  enough on the fact cover was only included 
for the outward part of a journey. 
Unhappy with Rock  Insurances response, Mr M brought his complaint to us. 
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision which said:
As far as I can tell, Rock Insurance didnt recommend  the policy it sold to Mr M. This means 
when it sold the policy under the regulations covering the sale of insurance products, it had 
to provide Mr M with sufficient information  for him to be able to make an informed decision 
on whether it was right for him. This included drawing any significant limitations or exclusions 
to his attention.  And it also had to provide information in a clear, fair and not misleading way.
I think Mr Ms expectation that hed be covered for additional expenses he incurred as 
a result of his family missing the scheduled  departure of both the outbound and inbound 
flights was reasonable.  But, its up to each  individual insurer  to decide  which  risks they do 
and dont want to cover as standard and what risks they want  to charge extra  for or dont 
want to cover at all. Mr Ms insurer decided to limit the standard cover to expenses  incurred 
due to the insured persons missing the scheduled departure of their outbound flight. This 
Ref: DRN88539422means hes not covered for the losses he incurred as a result of missing  the departure  of his 
familys inbound flight. 
But I think that the lack of cover for expenses incurred as a result of insured  persons missing 
the scheduled departure of their inbound  flight is a significant limitation  and needed to be 
properly drawn to Mr Ms attention in a clear,  fair and not misleading way when  he bought 
the policy.
When selecting the policy online Mr M had to answer  a series of questions.  One of the initial 
questions related to whether or not he wanted  to add winter sports cover to the policy. And 
Mr M chose  to do this. To the right of the first page where Mr M had to answer questions, 
a list of optional  extras was displayed which said the following. 
You can upgrade  your [brand  name]  Travel Insurance to include all the cover you need. 
Winter sports cover 
Overseas wedding  cover 
Cover for pre-existing medical  conditions  
Cover for golf equipment 
The policy document lists several types of optional cover including winter sports, golf, cruise 
and travel disruption cover. The travel disruption cover section of the policy lists the following 
types of extended cover  as being included within this upgrade: travel delay, missed 
departure and catastrophe cover. 
However, the list shown  on the webpage  didnt mention  the travel disruption  or extended 
missed departure cover which was available as an upgrade at all.
Later on in the sales process Mr M was presented with a page which  listed  the levels  of 
cover included with the policy.  The information about missed  departures was not 
immediately presented here either   Mr M would have  needed  to click a show all cover 
details button.  If this button  was clicked, missed departure on the outward journey was 
listed within the cover levels available, although it didnt specifically state  cover  on the 
inbound journey wasnt included. 
I dont think this was good enough for me to say Rock Insurance fulfilled its obligation to 
draw this limitation to Mr Ms attention.  I say this as it relied on Mr M actually  clicking  on 
a button he may not have felt the need  to click on to find out about it, whereas I think it 
should have been clear  without the need  for him to open a separate document. And even  if 
he did click on it, this didnt state  the fact the policy didnt cover missed departure  on the 
inbound journey. 
Neither do I think Rock Insurance fulfilled its obligations by providing links to the policy 
documentation. I say this because the policy summary didnt mention the limitation  of the 
cover for missed  departure. And providing  links to the policy  document, which  did set this 
out, is not the same as specifically drawing  attention  to this significant limitation. 
The reality  is most  customers dont read the full policy document. And I think this is why the 
regulations covering the sale of insurance  products say the seller must specifically provide 
enough information (in a clear, fair and not misleading way) to ensure the customer can 
make an informed decision on whether the policy is right for them. This includes highlighting 
Ref: DRN88539423significant exclusions and limitations, as opposed to expecting the customer to pick them  up 
by reading the full policy document.  
As I dont think Rock Insurance fulfilled its obligations when it sold Mr M the policy,  I need to 
think about what he would have done if it had done so. This is because I think  the fair and 
reasonable outcome to this complaint is to put Mr M in the position he would have been in if 
Rock Insurance  had fulfilled its obligations.  
I think the fact Mr M made a decision to add optional winter sports cover to the standard 
policy suggests he was thinking about what kind of cover he needed. And that he was taking  
note of any extensions  hed need  to buy based  on the information provided to him. Im also 
mindful of the fact that Mr M was going on a winter  sports holiday, so would have realised 
there was a possibility  of him missing the scheduled departure of his flight  back to this UK 
due to poor weather. So I think he would have realised he didnt have the level of cover he 
wanted. 
But I dont think Mr M would  have  simply bought  the extended missed  departure cover, as it 
would have been clear to him this wouldnt cover  any expenses  he incurred if his transfer to 
the airport for his familys inbound flight was delayed and they missed  the flight.  This is 
because he was not using scheduled  public transport  (as defined under the policy) to get to 
the airport. He was using a taxi. 
So I think Mr M would have shopped around  and bought a policy that provided  the cover  he 
needed. And  if hed done this  his claim for the majority of the expenses  he incurred 
would have been covered. I appreciate he may have had to pay a higher  premium and that 
there would most likely have been an excess per person deducted.  
To put Mr M back  in the same position  he would have been in if Rock Insurance had fulfilled 
his obligations,  I need to make sure he receives  compensation  equivalent  to what hed most 
likely have got if hed made a successful claim under a policy providing the cover he needed. 
Ive taken a look at policies available now and have found that its possible to obtain the 
cover Mr M wanted elsewhere.  The policy Ive referenced covers winter  sports,  missed  
departures on the inbound and outbound journey and closely matches the other cover limits 
Mr M had within  the policy sold by Rock Insurance.
So assuming  Mr M would have taken out a policy similar to the one that Ive found,  hed 
have been able to claim for reasonable accommodation and travel  expenses due to the 
missed departure. He would  have been  unable to claim for the amounts he spent on food 
and drink, but his flight, train and hotel  costs would have been  covered, subject to an excess 
of £50 per person and a limit of £5,000 per person. Mr M was travelling with three family 
members, so £200 would  have  been deducted to take into account  the excesses.
The amount  Mr M has evidenced  he had to pay for travel and accommodation due to the 
missed departure is £978.04. Mr M has said he didnt receive any refund for the original  
missed flights, which I accept. This means  Mr M would have received a settlement of 
£778.04 if his claim  had been  paid.  
But I also think its appropriate  to deduct the extra  Mr M may have paid for a different policy. 
And with the policy Ive used for reference this would have been £35.68. This is to reflect  the 
fact he would most likely  have had to pay a higher premium  for another  policy.  I appreciate  
Ref: DRN88539424the difference could have been more or less than this, but I think its the fairest way to reflect  
what hes likely to have paid.
So, to put Mr M back as closely as possible to the position he would have been in if Rock  
Insurance had fulfilled  its obligations, and to provide a fair and reasonable outcome to this 
complaint, I think Rock Insurance needs  to pay Mr M £742.36. This is £978.04, less £200 for 
excess and less £35.68 for the extra premium  hes likely to have paid. 
the response to my provisional  decision 
Rock Insurance  responded and Ive summarised the points  it made as follows:  
travel  disruption cover  is offered alongside all of the other cover options as part of the 
purchase path;
the policy terms are clear that only missed departure on the outward journey is 
covered; 
the policy providing no cover for missed departure on the return journey is not an 
exclusion or limitation and this is not detailed in the terms  because  the insurer has 
chosen not to provide that benefit;  and
as Mr M didnt  query the cover he had purchased,  it was assumed he was happy with 
it.
Mr M didnt  respond.  
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with Rock  Insurance  that travel disruption  cover was offered alongside the other 
additional cover  options  this was towards the end of the purchase process. However, the 
point I made  in my provisional decision was that earlier in the process on the first webpage,  
four of the additional cover options were displayed, but travel disruption cover was not one of 
them. 
Rock Insurance  has said that it doesnt think the lack of cover for a missed departure on a 
return journey is a limitation.  Many policies provide cover for missed departures on both an 
outbound and return journey. What Rock Insurance has said hasnt changed my mind  about 
this being a limitation of the policy. So, I still think Rock Insurance should have highlighted 
this to Mr M. 
Rock Insurance  has said it thinks its reasonable to assume that Mr M was happy with the 
policy because he didnt  raise any queries.  Mr M had previously  said he didnt know  that 
missing the scheduled departure  of his flight back to the UK wasnt  included, and if he had, 
he said he wouldnt have taken out the policy. So, I dont think Rock  Insurances assumption 
is reasonable. Had it highlighted the lack of cover  for a missed departure  on a return journey, 
I think its most likely  that Mr M would have queried this. As I said in my provisional decision,  
he was going  on a winter sports holiday, so he was aware there was a risk of him missing 
his flight back to this UK due to poor weather. 
Ref: DRN88539425As the points Rock  Insurance  raised  havent  changed my mind,  I see no reason to depart 
from the conclusions  set out in my provisional  decision  above.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given in my provisional  decision and above,  its my final decision that I 
uphold Mr Ms complaint. And Rock Insurance Services Limited must pay him £742.36  in 
compensation. 
Rock Insurance  must pay the compensation within  28 days  of the date on which we tell it 
Mr M accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 January 2020.
Gemma Warner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8853942