K821x#15complaint
Mr H took out a SIPP in 2016,  in which the underlying investments were managed by 
Barclays Bank UK PLC. In 2017  Barclays said it could  no longer provide a discretionary 
investment management  service to Mr H because he was resident  in Australia. Because of 
this Mr H transferred his investment management  to another provider. Some of Mr Hs SIPP  
holdings were transferred  in-specie and some sold and the cash  transferred. Because  of 
administrative issues, that cash couldnt immediately be reinvested  at the new provider. Mr H 
complains that the actions  of Barclays meant  that he couldnt access or reinvest the cash  
with his new provider.  He also complains about the size of the fee Barclays  charged to set 
up the original  SIPP   given that it required him to transfer about a year later.
background
I issued a provisional decision on 5 February 2021.  A copy is attached and forms part of this 
final decision. In the provisional decision I set out why I was intending to uphold  the 
complaint.
Barclays did not accept  the provisional  decision. In summary,  it said that:
The finding that the transfer should  have  completed by 1 March  2018 is very tight  
given the transfer  was instructed on 18 January 2018. 
Although it strives to achieve a transfer  in 36 days, fund manager actions are not 
within its control.
There were  two main issues with the transfers. The first was that five of the assets 
were missed from the original instruction and not included on the transfer  order   this 
was human error. The second  was that processing of existing and new orders was 
delayed.
It does accept some fault but it believes it harsh  to apply the timescales set out in the 
provisional decision, and that it cover the entire  investment loss. 
Mr H accepted the provisional decision.  Further information was supplied as to the 
withdrawals that were intended  and had actually been made:
It was stated that Mr H had always planned to withdraw about £100,000 from his 
pension in the second  half of 2017 to pay for property  renovations. The contract for these 
renovations had been signed with a builder in 2017. He had been assured a pension 
drawdown would be available when  needed. Because he could not withdraw this money 
in late 2017 and 2018  Mrs H had to pay for the works from her savings.  So it was Mrs H 
that was disadvantaged, as she would  have otherwise  gained value through investment. 
This should be recognised.
By the time the pension  was accessible there wasnt the original need  for the withdrawal 
(the building works). Mr H withdrew  funds more  gradually  to cover  other  works  and 
expenses. Mr Hs new financial adviser  advised  that the cash transferred  in 2018 was 
invested across  a range  of investments. It may be difficult to work out what the return  on 
these investments was.   
Detail about the withdrawals made since September 2018 was provided.
Ref: DRN88062522my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to thank  the parties  for their responses  to the provisional decision and in 
particular Mrs H for providing the background to the intended withdrawals  and withdrawals 
that were actually made from September 2018  onwards.
I would confirm I did not say in the provisional decision that Barclays should have completed 
the transfer by 1 March 2018. I said it was reasonable  to assume a completion date of 1 May 
2018. I arrived at that date considering  the specific circumstances  of the complaint. That 
allowed a period approaching four months for Barclays  to have completed the transfer. 
Bearing that in mind, I did not hold it liable for all investment losses, only those caused 
since mid-May 2018. I remain  of the view that this is a fair approach in the circumstances.
I have noted what  Mrs H has said on behalf of Mr H about the background to the intended 
withdrawal in 2017/2018. I appreciate that, because money was not forthcoming  from the 
pension, money had to be found from other  sources.  I could not say it was fair, in any event, 
to hold Barclays liable for a lack of access prior to May 2018  as that is when I thought  it 
would be fair to say the transfer should have completed. And then, I have awarded 
compensation that would  make good investment  loss since mid-May 2018. So whilst I do 
acknowledge that Mrs H has not obtained  a return on her money, Mr H has obtained a 
balancing return.
I appreciate what Mrs H has said about the various  different investments that were  made  
with the cash,  but Barclays should  be able to calculate an average return. It may need an 
authority from Mr H so that it can approach his new pension provider for information.
As to the withdrawals  that have been taken since September 2018, my view is that Barclays  
should be able to take them into account when undertaking the calculation. The fair 
approach would be for it to take into account the individual  withdrawals as and when they 
were made. I will allow for that, although that might  be administratively difficult,  so I will leave  
it for Barclays to decide whether it wishes to take into account the withdrawals.     
fair compensation
I set out what I believed was fair compensation in the attached  provisional  decision. 
However I have modified  this to take into account the withdrawals that were  made.  
I believe a fair date to assume for reinvestment (of the cash transferred) is 15 May 2018.  
On that basis Barclays  should calculate  redress as follows. It should pay the sum of (a + b)  
c, where: 
a)The total cash amount transferred
b)An amount  equivalent  to the growth on a at the rate equivalent  to the growth which 
Mr H achieved overall on the reinvested cash  to the date of my final decision.
c)The value of the pension holdings as at the date of my final decision represented by 
the cash amount  transferred
Ref: DRN88062523Barclays can allow for, when applying the return to a, the withdrawal amounts as and when 
they were made. In simple terms this would  mean  deducting the withdrawal amounts from 
the capital sum to which the return is applied, when they were made, and then applying the 
return to the remainder until the next withdrawal is made, and so on. It may, however, for 
ease of calculation,  add the withdrawals  together and deduct  them  at the end of the 
calculation.  
 
I also believe that these  matters would have caused  Mr H significant upset and 
inconvenience. For the reasons set out in the provisional decision, Barclays  should  pay him 
a further £1,000.  
My understanding is that Barclays waived the fees in respect of the transfer out. But if any 
were levied then they should be refunded to Mr H.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint and order Barclays Bank  UK PLC calculate  and pay compensation as 
set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 April 2021.
David Bird
ombudsman
Ref: DRN88062524copy provisional decision
complaint
Mr H took out a SIPP in 2016, in which the underlying investments were  managed by Barclays Bank 
UK PLC. In 2017 Barclays said it could no longer provide a discretionary investment management  
service to Mr H because he was resident  in Australia. Because of this Mr H transferred his investment 
management to another provider.  Some of Mr Hs SIPP holdings were  transferred in-specie  and 
some sold and the cash transferred. Because of administrative issues, that cash couldnt  immediately 
be reinvested at the new provider. Mr H complains that the actions of Barclays meant that he couldnt 
access or reinvest the cash with his new provider. He also complains about the size of the fee 
Barclays charged to set up the original SIPP   given that it required him to transfer about a year later.
 
background
Mr H was advised  to start a SIPP by a Barclays adviser in 2016.  The money  transferred to the SIPP 
was to be managed  by Barclays on a discretionary basis. In 2017 Barclays confirmed  that it could no 
longer provide that discretionary service. Mr H decided to use another  business  to manage his 
pension funds  and started the transfer process. It took some  time for all the resulting  cash and 
share/fund holdings to be transferred and this caused a delay in the cash  becoming available  for 
reinvestment.  Mr H complained to Barclays about that delay as well as its decision to cease to 
provide the discretionary service.
Barclays considered  Mr Hs complaint. It acknowledged there had been some delays transferring  Mr 
Hs SIPP  holdings.  It said that it did not receive  an instruction to transfer the holdings until January 
2018. The holdings that had to be sold were converted to cash in late January and early  February. On 
12 February 2018 the cash  was transferred to the new provider. Some stocks were also transferred in 
late February, March, April and May 2018. Barclays said that five of the stock transfers had been 
delayed and offered £200 for any inconvenience caused. It also offered £50 for the delay in 
responding to Mr Hs complaint. It confirmed  that no charges had been levied  for managing  the SIPP 
assets since  the end of December 2017.
Mr H referred his complaint to this service and it was considered  by an investigator. She thought  the 
complaint should be upheld in part. She felt that Barclays  decision not to offer services to Australian 
residents was a business  decision and likely couldnt have been predicted when the advice was given 
to start the SIPP. 
Bearing that in mind, she did not think it was reasonable  to refund the SIPP set-up fees, as they paid 
for the initial work of allocating funds and building  the SIPP investment portfolio. She felt that most  
assets were transferred in-specie, which  meant that Mr H kept the benefit of fund choices  and their 
management up until the transfer of each fund. Mr H had informed the investigator that because his 
and his wifes capital combined had reached a certain threshold, they didnt have to pay additional 
set-up fees with their new provider.
The investigator didnt think the recommendation  of certain share or fund classes was unsuitable 
based on the fact that they could only be held by certain instructions. It was not known when these 
were chosen  for investment  that Mr H would  have  to transfer to a business  that might not be able to, 
or had not agreed to, hold them. The investigator said that Barclays had confirmed that management  
fees were only charged until January 2018.  
In terms of the complaint about delays to transfer assets and cash, the investigator said there 
appeared to be delays between  February 2018 and April 2018  mainly due to Barclays requesting re-
registration details more than once  and a system migration.  She also set out that Barclays had 
recognised that there were delays of five stock transfers and these  could have been completed 
earlier.   
Ref: DRN88062525She said that the pension provider  had confirmed that, due to HMRC rules, the cash could  not be 
released for reinvestment  until the transfer had been completed in full  because of restrictions on 
partial transfers. Because of this there  was a significant delay before the cash could be reinvested.
The investigator said that when the SIPP provider  eventually received the closing statement, market 
values of funds were missing from the statement. It requested the values  from Barclays on 11 July 
2018 but only received these on 26 July 2018. The SIPP provider detected discrepancies with the 
overall value given in November 2017. This prompted further communication between the SIPP 
provider and Barclays.  The SIPP provider  requested clarification on in August 2018 and only received 
the required information with an additional closing statement  on 31 August 2018. During this time the 
release of the cash was held up and the cash couldnt be moved or invested. The investigator noted  
that Barclays had said there werent any discrepancies with the values but felt that the material  issue 
was the lack of prompt communication from Barclays in providing all required values  to speed up the 
process. 
The investigator set out that it took from January 2018 to June 2018 for all the stocks to be 
transferred. There was then a further delay until August 2018 cause by Barclays communication. 
Barclays had recognised that it had caused certain delays. Mr H couldnt  reinvest his cash during this 
time and he also did not have any access to his pension throughout this time. She said that Mr H had 
confirmed that he was put into a position at which he couldnt  comply with Australian tax law which  
required him to provide the authorities with the full pension value for capital gains  tax deductions.
The investigator thought that the transfer should have completed  by 1 March  2018  by that point the 
relevant shares had been sold and transferred as cash and the relevant  re-registration  details had 
been provided  to Barclays. She recommended  that Barclays compensate Mr H by comparing the 
value that the transferred cash would  have  attained had it been reinvested as of 1 March 2018  in the 
assets Mr H eventually  chose  for it.  She also thought Barclays should pay 8% simple  interest on the 
£100,000 Mr H intended  to withdraw  but couldnt. 
 
Barclays did not agree.  In summary it said:
It only provided investment advice, not pension  advice and it didnt  believe it was obliged to 
deviate from its investment  process to account for pension rules. So it didnt believe  it was 
responsible for the delay  in reinvesting  the money transferred  as cash. 
It didnt  believe the transfer  should have completed by 1 March  2018 as its usual timescale of 
36 days  doesnt account  for the time taken by third parties  such  as the SIPP provider  and 
fund managers.
It agrees that five funds were overlooked but this had been rectified by 20 March 2018  and 
there were delays outside  of its control  such as awaiting  registration  details and the return  
of stock transfer forms. The delay  in the final stock  transfer  (Robecco) was outside of its 
control as the fund manager did not return the STF,  despite reminders. 
The fund was fully closed in June 2018 and all closing statements  were issued. The SIPP 
provider then raised queries in July and August  but there  were no further changes or 
amendments to the portfolio or assets. So it doesnt agree  that there was any discrepancy 
after June 2018. 
It didnt  have to proactively provide a portfolio valuation prior to the assets being  sold or 
transferred unless the receiving scheme requested it. And in any event a portfolio  valuation 
was, not generally a match for an end to end process, as the value would alter due to stock  
being sold to cash crystalizing  the amounts due, whilst in-specie  stock would continue to 
remain invested and fluctuate in value.
Ref: DRN88062526Making an award that compensated for investment return  on the cash and then making an 
interest award as if some of that had been  withdrawn, was compensating  Mr H twice. It had 
also not seen any evidence of the intention to make such a withdrawal. 
It didnt  agree that its offer for inconvenience caused  should be increased   as it was not 
responsible for all of the delays the investigator had referred to. 
In response, the investigator provided  information  from the new investment platform which  she said 
showed that it had sent re-registration details  and STFs  to Barclays several  times. And she felt that if 
Barclays communications had been better then delays could have been avoided.  She remained of 
the view that the delays that caused the cash to be withheld could have been avoided. She clarified 
that her redress was based on interest being paid on any cash that was withdrawn by Mr H after the 
transfer had been completed, with the remainder  based on investment returns. However it seemed 
that Mr H had reinvested all the transferred cash. 
Barclays did not agree.  It summary it said:
The time taken and the intentions with third parties were fairly typical of this kind of transfer 
and it was not responsible  for the time taken by third parties.  Apart from the five funds  that it 
agreed were delayed for a time,  this was the reason  why some transfers took longer. It didnt 
believe some minor  communication issues made it liable  for all the time taken to transfer. 
It cant be held responsible for the SIPP providers  interpretation of pension  rules  in relation to 
the onward transfer  of funds. 
Its unfair that Barclays is held liable for all losses.
Barclays later reviewed the complaint and said it remained of the view that it was not responsible for 
the SIPP  providers interpretation of tax rules. It complied  with the SIPP providers requests during the 
process. As to loss, it had seen an estimate from Mr H but it would  need accurate  information from 
the investment  platform. It does not agree that it should  be responsible  for losses when  the funds 
were no longer in its control and it did not prevent the SIPP provider from making  the transfer. It would 
be open to considering  some  loss, but not without further loss information.     
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
I have first considered  the reason for the transfer  itself.  
In 2016 Mr H was given advice by a Barclays Wealth adviser. For the purposes of this complaint, it is 
sufficient to say that advice  was given to set up a SIPP  where the assets would be managed  by 
Barclays. The advice also covered Mr Hs objectives and needs in retirement as well as existing  
pension benefits  and assets. The adviser noted that: 
 
You are planning on spending 6 months of the year in Australia now that you have both ceased work 
and are in the process of purchasing a property out there.
It was also noted at the time that Mr H was considering changing his residence  for tax purposes to 
Australia.
Barclays charged an initial  fee for the pension advice  of about £8,500.  
I have seen a letter dated 31 May 2017 from Barclays to Mr and Mrs H. It was set out in the letter  that 
the Barclays  licensing status in Australia  had changed, meaning that it would  no longer be able to 
Ref: DRN88062527provide them with investment services. It gave  formal  notice of termination of their discretionary 
agreement on 31/07/2017.  
The options  were to either  sell the assets or transfer them to another investment service. 
Barclays said that, If we do not receive  your instructions  by the above date, your service  will be 
terminated and we will then hold your assets on a Custody-only basis in an Execution Service 
account. 
This meant  that, You will not be able to purchase any new investments or add to existing positions 
and, Your assets will be held pending sale or transfer away from Barclays. 
It seems clear therefore that Mr H was required to transfer his holdings in the SIPP  at least  if he was 
to continue with the kind of arrangement he had  but with another  business.  And this was because 
of a unilateral decision by Barclays in response to a licensing change.
My understanding is that the advice originally provided  by a Barclays adviser to take out the SIPP was 
on the basis that the SIPP would be a fairly long term arrangement where the management  of the 
SIPP assets were overseen by Barclays. Mr H paid (via his pension) for the advice on that basis.  
Barclays withdrawal  of that service deprived Mr H of that service and caused  him, essentially, to have 
to transfer. 
Given that, I appreciate why he has questioned having to pay for an initial  fee that was derived from 
advice to set up a long term investment arrangement, which Barclays decided not to maintain. 
Barclays can make commercial decisions such as this, but if those decisions  unfairly affect Mr H then 
he can be compensated  for that. And I believe  he should be compensated.  This is bearing in mind  the 
particular circumstances of this case  where Mr H had to transfer about a year after the SIPP and 
investment management was set up. My finding is not affected by the Barclays advisers knowledge  
or otherwise  of the change that was made to offer services to Mr H. It is based on Barclays decision 
not to offer the services  to Mr H that it had previously agreed  to within such a short space of time.  
However I note that the advice did cover  other  issues  than the type of pension  to take out. There was 
a fairly  extensive assessment of Mr Hs assets and future needs, as well as how to take pension 
benefits. That did remain valid, despite the fact that Barclays  later took the decision that it could not in 
future manage the assets within the SIPP.  It also made recommendations as to what areas to invest  
in. Many of those investments were maintained (transferred  in-specie), although a significant amount 
was sold and transferred as cash. I am conscious that this would  have needed to be invested when  
transferred. But, materially, the solution to Mr Hs objectives that was originally proposed by the 
adviser was a transfer to the SIPP and the removal  of the investment management arrangement  did 
not change that. 
I do believe that Barclays  is liable for Mr H having to transfer his pension  funds but I do not believe 
appropriate compensation  for that is to ask Barclays to refund the initial fee. As I say, that fee was 
derived not just for the ongoing management of the SIPP assets. I think  fair compensation  would be a 
payment to recognise the significant inconvenience of having to transfer funds, or sell funds and 
transfer the cash. I will consider that later in this decision. 
I do however believe that any additional  fees levied  for Mr H transferring away should be refunded 
(although it is indicated that these have already been waived). 
I have also considered the transfer  of SIPP assets.  
The evidence  I have seen indicates  that Barclays received authorisation  to transfer (or re-register)  
the assets in January  2018  (this is when it received the re-registration  form). In February  2018 the 
stocks that could not be transferred in specie  were sold and Standard Life has indicated it received 
the cash  amount  from Barclays  on 13 February 2018. 
Ref: DRN88062528However the SIPP provider could not, at that point, release  the cash because of restrictions 
applicable to partial pension transfers. The transfer had to be completed before  it could do so, and so 
the time then taken to complete the transfer materially  determined the point when the cash could be 
released for reinvestment.  And clearly  Barclays were  to play a material part in this. I have considered 
the actions taken  to enable the transfer and it does seem to me that it is more likely that Barclays did 
delay the completion of the transfer and did not provide the (reasonably) required information  to the 
SIPP provider so that it could take the necessary actions to release the cash. 
There is a considerable amount of information  about the various exchanges  between the parties 
involved and I will not detail that all here. In summary, Barclays  has acknowledged that it did cause 
delays in the transfer of some stocks  and it is also likely  that certain system  issues created further 
delays. Furthermore the evidence  suggests that Barclays did not instruct that some  of the holdings 
should be transferred until late March/early April. As I understand  it, the transfer completed in June 
2018 but the SIPP provider could not release the cash until mid-September 2018 because  of delay in 
receiving information from Barclays  that would allow it to do so. In the main that would  appear to be 
market values  of the transferred stock. In addition, as I understand it the final cash amount from 
Barclays was not received  until 31 August 2018.     
I appreciate that the evidence suggests that certain fund managers  took some  time to take the 
necessary actions  I note in particular that it took a significant  amount of time to transfer the 
Rebecco stock  and a considerable  amount  of time taken here was outside of Barclays control. The 
investment platform  also took some  time to take action at points. So I dont think  it is correct  to say 
that Barclays are responsible for the entirety of the delay. But it is, in my view, liable  for a significant 
part of the delay in completing the transfer and allowing the cash to be released. When  considering 
the delay for which it is fair to apportion to Barclays, it is difficult  to be exact, especially as transfers of 
this nature, with many different holdings, can take time. I dont believe it would be fair to say the 
transfer would have completed by 1 March 2018  considering what  was required and the specific 
nature of the transfer. Taking  a pragmatic view and what I have seen about the actions taken  during 
the transfer, I believe that a reasonable point at which  the transfer and consequent  release of cash  
could have been completed, was 1 May 2018.  
I have noted that Barclays has said that it should not be held responsible for delays after the transfer 
had been completed and that it shouldnt  be held liable  because of delays caused by pension  or tax 
requirements (because it was only dealing  with investment  matters). 
However I do not agree. In my view Barclays did cause part of the delay  after the funds were 
transferred which led to a delay of the release of cash. I can see no reason why it should not follow 
that Barclays are responsible for the ramification of that delay. Also,  the reason why Barclays held the 
stocks and held them within  a pension was a direct result of the advice its adviser gave to Mr H only 
about a year previously.  So it is reasonable  to consider the consequences of the transfer in the 
context of it being subject to pension requirements. Even if Barclays hadnt given the advice to set up 
the pension initially, I see no reason  why it shouldnt  be liable for the foreseeable  consequences  of it 
managing assets within a pension contract. 
It should not be forgotten that the genesis of these  issues  was the requirement for Mr H to transfer in 
the first place. As Barclays has said, transfers of the nature are not generally straightforward  and the 
kinds of issues that caused  Mr H to have  delayed  access to his cash were foreseeable. So are there 
are persuasive  overriding  reasons why Barclays should fairly redress the results of that enforced  
transfer. 
Although Mr H is understandably most concerned with the cash  in his SIPP I have  considered the 
stock transfers.  But as these were  in-specie (i.e. they remained  invested regardless  as to when they 
were transferred) I dont believe he will have likely suffered any material financial loss. However the 
delay in the transfer completing would  have inconvenienced Mr H and I think caused some upset, and 
I will consider that.  
Ref: DRN88062529fair compensation
As discussed, I believe  a fair date to assume for release of the cash  is 1 May 2018. As I understand it, 
Mr H did reinvest  the cash when he received it. I think it is fair to assume  that Mr H would have taken 
some time to reinvest. So the reinvestment date should be assumed to be 15 May 2018.  
On that basis  Barclays  should calculate redress as follows. It should  pay the sum of (a + b)  c, 
where: 
d)The total cash amount  transferred
e)An amount equivalent  to the growth on a at the rate equivalent to the growth which  Mr H 
achieved overall on the reinvested cash to the date of my final decision.
f)The value of the pension holdings as at the date of my final decision represented  by the cash 
amount transferred
It is possible that this may be difficult to calculate if Mr H has withdrawn significant amounts of capital 
from his pension. If he has, he should let me know. The redress may need to alter to take this into 
account, but the overall aim is to compensate Mr H for the delay in investment of his cash from 15 
May 2018. 
I also believe that these  matters would have caused Mr H significant upset  and inconvenience.  As 
discussed earlier in this decision, he had to arrange the initial step of transferring because of Barclays 
decision to effectively  cease  to provide the service it advised him to take only about a year earlier. 
That would have been upsetting and caused him to undertake significant  work to facilitate, when he 
thought he had arranged  his pension and investment affairs at least for the medium term.  
Furthermore, the delays would have caused an additional layer  of upset  and inconvenience  with his 
pension income and financial  support  significantly  affected for some  months.  Given this I believe a 
significant award  in this respect  is warranted. I therefore intend to award Mr H a further £1,000.  
My understanding in that Barclays waived  the fees in respect of the transfer out. But if any were levied  
then they should be refunded to Mr H.
my provisional  decision
I uphold the complaint and intend to award  the compensation detailed  above.
David Bird
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8806252