K822xcomplaint
Mr H complains that his adviser  of Arthur Brown (Insurance Brokers) Limited (Arthur Brown)  
did not handle  the transfer of his pension with due care. In particular, Mr H says that the 
adviser; made mistakes, acted against his instructions and provided  misleading information.
background 
In 2018 Arthur Brown advised Mr H on transferring two of his Occupational Pension 
Schemes (OPS).  Mr H says that he had already found that transferring was in his interest, 
but he sought advice as he was required to do so. This complaint relates to only one of the 
schemes, the one that was transferred second.
Mr H emailed Arthur Brown 28 February 2018, he said:
I would definitely like to proceed  with the transfer  of both funds and I'll get the signed  
terms of business  to you shortly.
That said,  I have an outstanding complaint with the [name  of the second OPS] and I 
ideally want to delay  any indication that I'm transferring  out until they've replied. 
They're investigating at the moment,  however, there's a possibility that the 
investigation will go beyond the date the transfer  value is guaranteed  until (12 th April) 
so I'm in a dilemma.
Reading [name  of the second OPS] letter dated  25th January, it says ... if you wish to 
exercise your right to this transfer value,  you should  make a written  request to the 
trustees within three months  of the guarantee date. My interpretation of this is that 
providing we communicate a wish to transfer  by 12th April, the transfer value will 
remain available and fixed even if the actual transfer  of money might take place after 
that date. If that's the correct interpretation,  I'd like to leave things as long as possible 
before proceeding, although if I've misinterpreted  and the transfer has to actually 
complete by 12th April, I'll need to reconsider my feeling is that it would be too much 
of a risk to let the deadline go by in the hope of getting it extended  or getting a new 
transfer value  without a fee, or indeed  to risk getting  a lower transfer value.
One other point; when  I wrote to the [name  of the second OPS] to complain, it took 
them a couple  of weeks to refer the matter to the trustees for investigation, and as 
the wording says written  request to the trustees, I would be wary of just writing to the 
administrators at the last moment as that might not satisfy  the notification  
requirement.
On 12 March 2018, Arthur Brown prepared a Pension Transfer Report.
Mr H raised some concerns in response  to this. On the same day Arthur Brown responded to 
Mr Hs queries about the charges, it said:
To be clear those costs I am offering  are perhaps the cheapest  in the market  and 
any move  to the [name of fund] would incorporate  those fees.
I have offered you costs  that would not be replicated in the market at all and to move 
to the [name of fund] would involve them.
Ref: DRN81446332I will leave it with you and let me know if its something you want to do or not.
And
For reference it's only the [name of fund] that has the adviser charge. Other funds 
are essentially  bought via an online platform in the form of etfs [sic] so are charged at 
cost.
Please do some research  and understand the costs that are on offer. If you can get 
them better that may be something you want to do.
I would hope you can understand that the advice so far has essentially saved you
thousands.
As I say if its not something you want to persue [sic] I am happy to close  the file and 
leave it at that.
Upon receipt of the paperwork in relation to his new pension Mr H emailed  Arthur Brown 
saying:
My preferred retirement  age has been  set at 65. I suspect this doesnt affect anything 
and Ill be able to change it to 59 once everythings set up, but to note in case  it does 
have an impact on anything.
Your Ongoing advisor charges  have been quoted at 0.25%, which  is fine for now,  but 
theres no reference to the cap of £1,200 we agreed. Once everythings in place, 
could you let [name of provider]  know  about  the cap please.
The Initial advisor charges quoted suggest that £3,600 will be paid out of the first 
transfer of £217,667.90, but as weve agreed a £2,000 fee for the [name of first OPS]  
transfer and a further £1,600 for the [name of second OPS] transfer, I expected  these 
amounts to be taken  from each  of the transfers  as and when the money moves to 
[name of provider]. Could you clarify please, and if it has been set up incorrectly,  
have it amended so that the separate amounts are paid out of each transfer.
Arthur Brown responded to his queries and Mr H confirmed:
Ok, Im comfortable  with what youve  said below about the charges.
As for the [name of second OPS] scheme,  as I mentioned  earlier, on my reading of 
their letter, their only requirement is a written  request to the trustees by the guarantee 
date of 12th April, which I can send by Special Delivery about a week before the 
deadline; and we then have a further three months  to complete the transfer per the 
first bullet point on the Transfer  Discharge. However, please let me know if you 
believe its different and we need  to act more  urgently than that.
In relation to Arthur Brown  contacting the ceding  scheme Mr H said:
This email also gives  you my formal authority to do all the remaining required work 
short of notifying  [name of second  OPS] relating to transferring  the [name of second 
OPS] final salary money of £207,742.43  As discussed, I'd like to delay notifying  
[name of second OPS]  until nearer the 3-month  guarantee deadline  of 12th April 2018 
to give them as much  time as possible to answer my complaint before telling them  
I'm planning to transfer out of their scheme. Please see below on this.
Ref: DRN81446333And
[name of second  OPS] only require a written  request to the trustees  within 3 months 
of the guarantee date. If it's ok with you, I'll send  that written  request, and to cover all 
the bases I'll send something at the same time to the administrators, the trustees and 
the pension partner who I can email internally at work. We then have a further 3 
months to complete  the transfer.
On 5 April 2018,  Arthur Brown wrote to Mr H asking to submit the documentation to the 
second OPS to ensure that he did not miss out on the guaranteed  transfer  value. He 
responded saying:
Please find attached letters I'm sending by Special Delivery today. I don't believe we 
need to send anything else at the moment.
Mr H wrote to the second OPS on the same  day. He submitted the documentation  in relation 
to the transfer.  He confirmed his intention to transfer but said that the execution of the 
transfer had to wait until his complaint had been  resolved.
On 12 April 2018, Arthur Brown  emailed  Mr H, he said:
A quick note to say I spoke with [name of second  OPS] today and they have  dealt 
with all the paperwork and requested  the disinvestment as of the 17th April so it 
should be sent to [name  of provider] within 3 days of that date.
On the same  day Mr H responded expressing his anger that the adviser  had told the second 
OPS to go ahead with the transfer,  saying that the adviser had acted against  his instructions.
He said:
I've clearly instructed  you not to do anything further with the [name of second OPS]  
transfer until I'm ready, to allow time for my complaint against them to be resolved 
before anything is progressed. I've given [name of second OPS] notice of my 
intention to transfer and copied  you in on the letters. Why have you progressed 
things further  without my permission? You must  put the transfer  on hold immediately, 
pending resolution of my complaint against  [name of second OPS].
After finding out that the adviser had instructed the scheme to effect the transfer,  Mr H got in 
touch with the scheme to make sure that the transfer did not go ahead until his complaint 
had been resolved. Amongst other  things  he said:
I would also be grateful  if you could  clarify  the requirements for guaranteeing the 
transfer value.  On my reading of your letter  dated  25th January  2018, the requirement 
to guarantee the transfer value was to send a written request to the Trustees by 12th 
April (within three months of the Guarantee Date). According to the Transfer 
Discharge form,  the transfer  value  would then remain guaranteed providing it's paid 
by 12th July (within six months of the Guarantee Date). My financial advisor, however, 
tells me that you required receipt of all the documents by 12th April, namely the 
completed Transfer Discharge form, the completed  Scheme Information  and 
Warranty form,  evidence  of the receiving  scheme's HMRC approval,  my birth 
certificate and a written  statement from my financial advisor confirming I've received 
advice on the transfer. I would  like to know which interpretation is correct please.
Ref: DRN81446334The scheme responded within half an hour. It confirmed that the adviser had been  in touch 
to ensure that the transfer was put on hold,  it also responded to Mr Hs queries about the 
transfer process. It said:
With regards to the guarantee date,  the date of 12 April is the date by which we 
have to receive all of the required  documents  in order  to secure the valuation,  we 
then have a further 3 months (12 July) to make  the payment to you.
Correspondence between  the adviser and the second OPS:
21 March 2018:  -
The scheme rang the adviser having  received  some  paperwork from the receiving
provider. The adviser confirmed that the paperwork should not have  been  sent to it
as the transfer  was on hold pending  the outcome of Mr Hs complaint. The scheme
confirmed that the guarantee  expired on 12 April 2018.
11 April 2018: -
The adviser called and told the scheme that Mr H wanted to go ahead  with the
transfer despite the ongoing complaint as he did not want to risk a drop in the
transfer value  if were to be recalculated.
13 April 2018: -
The adviser called to tell the scheme  that Mr H did not want  to go ahead  with the
transfer and wanted the transfer  value held pending the outcome of his complaint.
summary of the complaint background
Unhappy with the advice process and Arthur Browns actions Mr H raised  a complaint.
Arthur Brown responded to the complaint raised, it did not uphold  the substance of the 
complaint, but it did offer to refund  the ongoing fees that had been charged  before Mr H had 
cancelled these. In summary it said:
Mr H originally spoke with the adviser on 30 January 2018,  at that point it was 
confirmed that the cost of the advice  would be £3,600  Mr H said this was 
unacceptable.
A few weeks later Mr H contacted the adviser again and confirmed that he had 
looked around and decided that he was happy  to proceed with Arthur  Brown.
The terms of business were ultimately signed  confirming the agreement  to pay 
£3,600 for the transfer advice.
Arthur Brown undertook research and recommended that Mr H transfer his OPS 
benefits to a personal pension plan.
Both during  discussions and in the suitability  report the adviser recommended Arthur 
Browns annual advice service.
Mr H agreed  to the initial fee but said that he did not want  ongoing advice. The 
adviser explained that the ongoing fee would only apply to one fund and that Arthur  
Brown would only usually agree to advise  on this where there  was going to be 
ongoing advice.  Ultimately, Mr H agreed to the ongoing advice fee as well.
Ref: DRN81446335The adviser then proceeded with the transfer of the first OPS and the set-up of the 
personal pension.
The transfer of the second  OPS was not processed at the time because Mr H had 
requested that this be delayed as he had an outstanding complaint against the 
scheme. Mr H had told the adviser that the scheme  only required a letter by 12 April 
2018 stating that he wanted  to transfer,  and the transfer could be effected in the next 
three months.
That statement was incorrect as it transpired, and the adviser  and the new provider 
dealt with the transfer and submitted the paperwork before  12 April 2018  if this had 
not been done then the transfer  value would have  been  recalculated  and this could 
have been lower.
Arthur Brown did not prejudice Mr Hs complaint  and the ceding scheme could not 
have allowed Mr Hs intention to transfer to prejudice the complaint.
The adviser provided Mr H with the correct information in relation to the transfer 
process and the documents required.
It typically has ongoing relationships with the clients it advises, so it is normal  for an 
ongoing fee to be applicable  and the adviser  gave  Mr H the option to go to elsewhere  
if he was not happy  to proceed  with the charging structure on offer.
But, the fee was not mandatory  and Mr H had cancelled it via the provider, so it 
offered to refund the £221 he had been charged  prior to cancelling the fee. In 
addition, whilst it did not think that the advice  fee could reasonably be refunded due 
to the work that had been undertaken, it offered to refund  £250 as a gesture of 
goodwill.
Mr H referred  his complaint to our service, in summary, he said:
If he had not intervened, his complaint against  the ceding scheme could have been 
prejudiced.
He had made it clear  that the ceding scheme  was not to be informed of his intention  
to transfer in case it prejudiced his complaint.
The transfer did not need to complete  for another three months  after 12 April 2018,  
so there  was no need to tell the ceding scheme  to proceed with the transfer on 
11 April 2018.
Arthur Brown ignored his instructions  and kept him in the dark as to what  was going 
on.
The first he knew  of these events was when he received  the advisers email of 
12 April 2018.
Had he not received  the email and intervened he believes the outcome of his 
complaint against the ceding  scheme may have been different and he could have 
missed out on the £62,000 uplift he received. When the adviser told the ceding  
scheme that  "[Mr Hs name] wants to go ahead with the transfer regardless of the 
ongoing complaint. He doesn't want to risk a drop in transfer value  if recalculated" the 
adviser was lying as he had given no such instruction.
The advisers behaviour was misleading  and deceitful.
Our investigator reviewed  the complaint and concluded that it should  not be upheld as the 
offer made by the business was fair.
Mr H disagreed and made further  submissions in support of his complaint. I have read these 
submissions in their entirety,  here I have briefly  summarised the key points:
Ref: DRN81446336The advisers actions  would have prejudiced his complaint against the second OPS.  
The scheme agreed to increase his pensionable  service, resulting in an increase in 
transfer value  of £62,000, as a gesture of goodwill. His complaint against the scheme 
would have been time-barred, so if it had not agreed to increase his pensionable 
service, he would  not have had recourse  to pursue this further.
The discharge form confirmed that ...I hereby discharge the Trustee(s)  from 
responsibility for providing benefits to or in respect  of me under the Transferring 
Scheme." Given  the wording of the form and that he knew that he was time barred 
from pursuing the complaint against  the scheme, he was justified in being concerned 
about informing  the scheme  of his intention to transfer before the complaint was 
resolved.
There is a distinction between the deadline to inform the scheme  of his intention to 
transfer in order  to secure transfer  value (12 April 2018) and the three  months after 
that he had to execute the transfer.
On 11 April 2018, during a telephone  conversation with the scheme  the adviser told it 
that "[Mr Hs name] wants to go ahead with the transfer regardless of the ongoing 
complaint. He doesn't want to risk a drop in transfer value if recalculated". This was 
not true, he had given no instruction to execute the transfer.
Based  on the above conversation the scheme  disinvested his pension  in preparation 
for transferring  it, had he not intervened the transfer  would have gone  ahead.  If this 
had happened  the scheme  would not have  increased the transfer value as the money 
would already have transferred and the scheme  discharged of any further liability.
The adviser was in contact with the scheme  as early as 21 March  2018, but he failed 
to inform Mr H of this.
Mr H formally notified the scheme  in his letter  of 5 April 2018 of his intention transfer 
this, as it subsequently became apparent, was not necessary  as the adviser had 
already notified  the scheme on 21 March  2018  (although the scheme had been  told 
to disregard this for the time being).
More importantly, on 11 April 2018  the adviser lied to the ceding scheme when he 
told it that Mr H wanted to execute  the transfer  he only instructed Arthur  Brown to 
inform the scheme of his intention to transfer.
Arthur Brown led him to believe that he could not access the recommended  product 
without paying  for ongoing advice  this was not true, but Mr H only found  this out by 
speaking to the provider.
The only reason Mr H sought advice because he was required to, he had already 
established that the transfer was favourable, but Arthur Brown was still required to 
act with due care and professionalism.
Our investigator issued  a further view, she explained why she remained of the view that no 
compensation beyond that offered by Arthur Brown was due. Mr H disagreed and made 
further submissions.  Briefly, he said:
The information provided by the ceding  scheme does not answer  the key question of 
whether or not his complaint against  the scheme would have been prejudiced  and 
his transfer value not increased  had he not intervened, and the OPS had 
transferred in April 2018.
It is not true that everything had to be submitted by 12 April 2018 and it was then the 
scheme that had three months  to execute  the transfer (rather than it being open  to 
Mr H and the adviser to decide to execute the transfer at any point  in the three  
months following  12 April 2018,  so long as the scheme was informed of his intention 
to transfer by that date). The transfer of his pension was in fact stayed until his 
Ref: DRN81446337complaint against  the scheme was resolved   the scheme was happy  to stay the 
execution of the transfer even beyond the three months.
Arthur Browns adviser lied about  ongoing  advisor fees being mandatory, this is 
serious and has not been viewed sufficiently critically.
He is not happy  with Arthur Browns investment advice, the pension he manages  
himself has done  a lot better over the same time  when compared  to the pension 
Arthur Brown recommended to him. He had intended transfer the two schemes to 
that pension before  Arthur Browns advice  and he would  have been  better  off if he 
had done this.
Our investigator remained of the view that Mr H was not due anymore compensation than 
that offered  by Arthur Brown. In relation to Mr Hs comments about the suitability of the 
product and funds  he transferred into, she explained  that he would need to raise  these  
separately with Arthur  Brown.
During the course of our investigations Mr Hs ceding scheme  confirmed that if the transfer  
had gone ahead in April 2018,  this would not have  impacted his complaint, it said:
I can confirm that if the transfer took place in April 2018 that this would not have 
changed [Mr Hs] complaint in any way. The complaint  would have been dealt with 
whether [Mr H] had transferred out of the Scheme or not.
The increase  in the transfer value that was paid in September  2018 was partly due to 
an increase in [Mr Hs] pensionable service and not goodwill.
I sent my provisional decision to Mr H and Arthur  Brown,  explaining why I thought the offer 
Arthur Brown had made was fair in the circumstances  my provisional  findings are attached 
and form part of this decision. 
Mr H disagreed with my provisional  decision and made further submissions, briefly, he said 
that:
If Arthur Brown had read the letter he wrote informing the ceding  scheme  of his intent 
to transfer, it ought to have understood that his initial intentions  (of transferring 
regardless of his complaint) no longer  applied.
Arthur Brown ought reasonably to have  read the letter  and, at very least  sought  
clarification as to his intentions prior to giving instructions to the ceding scheme, as it 
knew that things  had moved  on. 
Also, from other communications,  it would have been clear that he believed  that he 
had another three  months to effect the transfer.  
If the transfer had gone ahead his complaint may have been prejudiced.  
The information provided about  having  to pay for ongoing  advice to access  the fund 
was misleading  and made him think that he had no choice but to accept  these. 
It is unacceptable for an adviser  to lie to a client for financial gain and this combined 
with Arthur Brown providing  the ceding  scheme  with the instructions to transfer 
against his wishes  means its service  fell considerably below that of a professional  
financial adviser, so he should not have to pay £3,600 for its services.  
Because agreement  could  not be reached, this complaint has been  passed to me for final 
decision.
Ref: DRN81446338my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I have  taken  into account relevant law and
regulations; regulators  rules, guidance and codes of practice; and what  I consider to have
been good industry practice at the time.
Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here),
I reach  my decision on the balance  of probabilities  in other words, what I consider  is most
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
I have thought carefully about what Mr H has said and I do appreciate that he feels  strongly 
about the issues he has raised  but I am satisfied that the findings I reached in my provisional 
decision are fair and reasonable under the circumstances. My attached provisional findings 
form part of this decision  a number of the arguments raised by Mr H in response  to my 
provisional decision cover  issues that I have already  considered  and addressed within  that 
decision, so I have not repeated my findings in respect of these at length again.
Mr Hs letter to the scheme informing it of his intention to transfer did specify that he wanted  
to wait for his complaint to be resolved  before going  ahead with the transfer. This letter was 
also sent to Arthur Brown but it still instructed the scheme to go ahead with the transfer 
regardless of the complaint  when the deadline  to transfer came about. I dont think it did so 
intent on going  against Mr Hs wishes, I think it is most likely that it did so to try and ensure 
that he did not miss out on the guaranteed  transfer  value. But, in any case,  the transfer did 
not go ahead after Arthur Browns  instruction so no actual loss was incurred and the ceding  
scheme has confirmed that the outcome of Mr Hs complaint would not have changed if the 
transfer had gone ahead. 
I understand that Mr H has his doubts  that the transfer would actually  not have prejudiced 
his complaint but, based on the information available, I cannot  reasonably  conclude  that 
Arthur Brown risked prejudicing Mr Hs complaint  against the ceding scheme. 
Whilst I agree that the information provided in relation to the ongoing  advisor charges was 
misleading, I remain of the view that the way in which Arthur  Brown has proposed to put 
things right is fair in the circumstances.  
my final decision
My final decision is that Arthur Brown (Insurance  Brokers) Limiteds offer is fair. I direct
it to pay Mr H the ongoing advisory  fees he incurred prior to cancelling  these and £250 for
any distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 February  2021.
Nicola Curnow 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN81446339MY PROVISIONAL  FINDINGS
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide  what  is fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I have taken into account relevant law and
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and codes of practice;  and what I consider to have
been good industry practice at the time.
Where the evidence  is incomplete,  inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here),
I reach my decision  on the balance  of probabilities  in other words, what  I consider is most
likely to have happened in the light of the available  evidence and the wider circumstances.
Ref: DRN814463310It is my role to fairly and reasonably decide if the business has done anything  wrong in
respect of the individual circumstances of the complaint made and  if I find that the
business has done something  wrong  award compensation for any material loss or distress
and inconvenience suffered by the complainant as a result of this.
The parties  to this complaint have provided  detailed submissions to support their position
and I am grateful to them  for doing so. I have  considered  these submissions  in their entirety.
However, I trust that they will not take the fact that my decision focuses on what  I consider to
be the central issues as a discourtesy. The purpose of this decision is not to address  every
point raised  in detail, but to set out my findings and reasons for reaching them.
I have not considered the suitability of the advice  Mr H received, I have only addressed his
original complaint  as our investigator explained if he wishes to pursue this, he will have to
raise this with Arthur Brown separately.
Mr H has raised a number of concerns about Arthur Browns conduct. I have considered this
more generally  but, I think the two key aspects of his complaint  are Arthur  Brown
instructing his ceding scheme to effect the transfer against his wishes  and the information he
was provided  in relation  to the ongoing adviser fees. I have  addressed these in turn below.
Did Arthur Brown act without  instruction and risk prejudicing  Mr Hs complaint against his
ceding scheme?
I understand that Mr H feels strongly that Arthur  Brown acted against his instructions and
risked prejudicing his complaint against his ceding scheme.  I am not persuaded that Arthur
Brown intentionally acted  against Mr Hs instructions. I have set out the correspondence
between Mr H and Arthur Brown in some detail in the background to this complaint.
Based on the evidence I have seen,  Mr H highlighted that he wanted to wait to inform one of
the schemes of his intention to transfer due to his ongoing complaint  with it. But, he initially
indicated that he did not want to risk missing out on the guaranteed transfer value  regardless
of his ongoing complaint.  It is not until his letter  informing the scheme  that he wanted to
transfer that he specified that he did not want  the transfer to go ahead until his complaint  had
been resolved.
Arthur Brown was contacted by the ceding scheme on 21 March 2018 because the receiving
provider had sent forms to it  the adviser  informed  it that this had been done  in error and
that it should  hold off for now. This contact  was not initiated  by the adviser and I think that he
dealt with it reasonably. It arguably  would  have been best practice to inform Mr H of this  despite it 
not being  the advisers fault  in case he wanted to take action. However, no harm
resulted from this.
When the date of the expiry of the guaranteed transfer value came about, the adviser
instructed the scheme  to go ahead and effect the transfer to ensure the guaranteed value
was not lost. As I have said, I do not think that Arthur Brown  did so intending to act against
Mr Hs instructions, I think it is more likely  that it was acting in line with his initial intentions.
That said, if it had read the contents of Mr Hs letter to the scheme informing  it of his
intention to transfer, it ought  to have understood that he did not want  the transfer to go
ahead before  his complaint  was resolved. In any case, Mr H was promptly notified of the
instruction. Both he and the adviser  contacted the scheme and put a stop to the transfer 
and, based on what the ceding scheme has said, I am not persuaded that the transfer would  have
prejudiced his complaint if it had gone ahead. So, I am satisfied that Arthur  Brown did not
prejudice Mr Hs complaint  and I am not persuaded that its actions risked prejudicing  the
complaint.
Did Arthur Brown provide misleading information  in relation to ongoing fees?
Ref: DRN814463311Arthur Brown set out the fees payable  including  the ongoing advisory fee on one of the
funds. When Mr H raised concerns about these Arthur Brown said that if Mr H was unhappy
with the charges he could look elsewhere.  Ultimately, Mr H agreed to proceed on the basis
of the information provided. Arthur Brown was free to make the commercial decision to only
advise on certain products  and/or investments on the provision that it would be providing
ongoing advice. That said,  I think that the information  provided was misleading,  it suggested
that the relevant fund could not be accessed without incurring the charge but that was not
true.
I do not know  if this was deliberate  or if the email was just poorly  worded. In any case, Mr H
has since cancelled  this fee, so he will not have to pay it going forward. Arthur  Brown has
offered to pay to Mr H the fees he incurred  prior to the cancellation. It has also offered to pay
him some compensation.
I understand that Mr H believes that this is insufficient recognition of the seriousness of what
Arthur Brown did. It is clear that he feels strongly about this  but, under  the circumstances,  I
think that the offer is fair.
Ref: DRN8144633