K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy sold to Miss G by 
Lloyds Bank  PLC (Lloyds). The PPI was sold to Miss G to cover  credit card repayments.
background
One of our adjudicators assessed  this case and was of the opinion the complaint shouldnt 
be upheld. 
Miss G disagreed and so the complaint has been  passed to me to consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.  
Ive reached my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what  I consider is most 
likely to have happened in light of the available evidence  and the wider  surrounding  
circumstances.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Gs complaint and Ill explain the reasons 
for this.
Lloyds records show that Miss G took out her card in 1992. Paperwork from the time of the 
sale is no longer  available, because both the sale and the closure  of the credit card took 
place many years ago. In cases  such as these its not unusual for information  to be 
incomplete or missing.  The date of sale of the policy is unknown. So Ive used my knowledge 
and experience of PPI sales  to help me think about whats most  likely to have happened.  Ive 
also looked carefully at what  the parties have  said. 
First of all Ive looked at whether  Lloyds made  it clear to Miss G that the PPI was optional.  
Miss G told us that she thinks she applied for her card by post.  Lloyds gave us a sample of 
what the application form would have looked like. However, as this sample dates from the 
year after Miss G started  her credit card, I dont feel it would be reasonable to place a 
significant amount  of weight on it. 
Due to the lack of information thats  available I cant be sure about how the PPI was 
presented to Miss G. Shes told us that she doesnt think it was made  clear  to her that the 
policy was optional. However Ive noted  that Miss G is unable  to recall a great  deal of the 
detail of the sale. Ive taken  into account  its obviously  possible that Miss Gs recollections of 
the sale arent particularly strong.  This would be entirely understandable, given how much 
time has passed.
  
Overall, having carefully considered the available evidence,  Im not persuaded that its more 
likely than not that Lloyds failed to make it clear to Miss G that the policy  was optional. So 
without stronger evidence  that Lloyds failed  to make it clear  to Miss G that the PPI was 
optional I dont think that the complaint should  be upheld  on this basis.
Ref: DRN83215512Lloyds has conceded  that it might  have recommended the PPI cover with the credit  card so 
this means it was under an obligation to make sure it was suitable for Miss Gs situation.  I 
looked at her age, job, health and general  circumstances  to help me decide about  this. I 
think that Miss G was eligible for the policy and I dont think  she would have been  caught by 
any of the major exclusions we tend to see in these  policies. Over the years she had it, the 
cost was between  £0.59 and £0.79  per £100 of the outstanding monthly balance  on 
her card. 
Miss G told us that if she was too ill to work or was made unemployed she would have been 
entitled to six months full pay and half pay for six months thereafter. But I havent seen 
anything that necessarily means  the PPI wasnt suitable for her. In the event of a successful 
claim for example, she would have been able to have her outstanding balance  reduced by 
10% each  month for up to 12 months.  These benefits were  accessible in addition  to any 
other means  she had in place at the time.  Taking all these things into account,  I think  the 
policy was suitable  for her.
Finally, Lloyds had to give Miss G information that was clear,  fair and not misleading  so she 
could make the decision for herself about whether or not to take the PPI. Ive considered  that 
Lloyds didnt give her clear enough information about the cost, benefits,  main exclusions and 
restrictions of the policy.  But as I set out above,  I dont think Miss G would  have been  
affected by the main  exclusions  and restrictions under the policy. And the cost was 
comparable to the cost of other, similar  policies available at the time. Overall  on balance,  I 
dont think having  better  information about these issues  would have dissuaded Miss G from 
buying the PPI. So having considered  all the available information, I dont think its likely that 
Lloyds did anything wrong in this complaint and I wont  be requiring it to put anything  right.
my final decision
Im sorry  to disappoint Miss G but Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 March 2019.
Katrina Hyde
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8321551