K820x#14complaint
The complaint is about a Total Mortgage Protection  Plan (TMPP) policy  taken out in 2009. 
Miss M and Mr B say Bank of Scotland PLC, trading  as Halifax, mis-sold them  the policy. 
Halifax refunded  the premiums Miss M and Mr B paid for the payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) element of the policy,  but Miss M and Mr B also feel they were  mis-sold the life and 
critical illness elements of the cover. 
background
A TMPP  is a type of protection policy which can be made up of three  different elements   a
PPI policy, life cover and critical illness cover (CIC). The individual elements of the TMPP 
can be added or taken out as the consumer  wishes.
The TMPP policy Miss M and Mr B took out included all three elements of cover.  As Ive said 
above, the PPI element has already been  refunded to Miss M and Mr B, so this complaint 
only deals with the life and critical illness elements of the cover. 
This complaint was investigated by one of our adjudicators. He felt the life and critical illness  
cover was not mis-sold. Miss M and Mr B rejected the adjudicators  findings.  They  requested 
the complaint  be reviewed  by an ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done this Ive decided not to 
uphold Miss M and Mr Bs complaint  and Ill explain  why.
Halifax advised Miss M and Mr B to take out this policy  including the life and critical illness  
elements. And I can see from the screen shots provided by Halifax and the Demands and 
Needs Statement  that Miss M and Mr B were asked a number of questions about  their 
financial situation, employment and health  which  suggests to me they had discussed this 
type of cover  with a Halifax  adviser.
Ive also seen a copy of a welcome letter which was sent to Miss M and Mr B after the sale 
of the policy  concluded. This says Thank you for choosing  our optional Halifax total 
mortgage protection plan  and goes  on to record that Miss M and Mr B accepted  all the 
elements of cover. So I think Miss M and Mr B wouldve  been  aware  the policy was optional 
and if they hadnt agreed  to the life and critical illness cover they wouldve questioned this 
with Halifax when they received this letter.  
So I think on balance theres  enough  to suggest that Miss M and Mr B agreed to take out the 
life and critical elements  of the cover  to protect their mortgage.
Miss M and Mr B say they felt pressured into take out the cover.  But they havent said what it 
was that made them feel pressured. As this was an advised sale I think  its likely Halifax told 
them they should take out the cover  to protect themselves in the event something went  
wrong. But I dont  think  this alone  amounts to a pressured sale,  and I havent seen any other 
evidence to persuade me they were  pressured into taking out the cover.  
As Halifax recommended the policy to Miss M and Mr B it should  have  made sure the cover  
was suitable for their circumstances  and based  on what Ive seen I think it was.
Ref: DRN86315092I say this because  Miss M and Mr B seem to have been eligible for the cover  and not 
caught by any of the major exclusions we tend to see in these policies. Ive also seen that 
Miss M and Mr B were  advised to take out a decreasing term assurance policy  for their full 
mortgage amount.  And as their mortgage was arranged on a repayment basis,  where the 
capital amount borrowed reduced every month   I think it was right for Halifax to advise them  
to take out a policy which would also decrease in the amount of cover  in line with the 
mortgage. And as this was a joint mortgage, this policy wouldve helped  to repay their 
mortgage commitment if one party died. So there was clearly a use for the life cover.  
Miss M and Mr Bs mortgage was a significant  and long-term financial commitment  for them  
and was secured  against their home. The consequences of them  not being able make  the 
repayments could  have been  serious. The critical illness cover was designed to provide 
them with a lump  sum in the event one or both of them became seriously  ill during  the life of 
the policy. Miss M has told us that she wouldve received significant sick pay from work  if 
she was too sick to work. But in the event  either  Miss M or Mr B were diagnosed  with a 
critical illness, the CIC element of the policy wouldve paid out a lump sum that could pay off 
the mortgage or it could be used to help them  with their general living costs or to cover 
medical expenses  if necessary. This would leave  her sick pay for other expenses.
Miss M also says that based on her medical history and some  uncertainty about her family 
medical history she wouldnt have been able to successfully claim on the policy.  Miss M says 
she told Halifax about this at the time. Based on what shes  told us, there is nothing about 
Miss Ms medical  history  that would stop a successful claim being  made  under the life or 
critical illness cover. And from what  shes told us about her family medical history, it doesnt 
seem like this would have  caused any problems either.  
So overall I think the life and critical  illness  elements of the TMPP were  suitable for both 
Miss M and Mr B. It follows that I dont think the life and critical illness  cover  was mis-sold.
my final decision
For all the reasons outlined above,  I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M and Mr B 
to accept or reject my decision before 30 November 2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8631509