K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that Share In Ltd (trading as Simple Crowdfunding) failed to provide fair 
risk information about a crowdfunding  investment.
background
In August  2018,  Mr S invested £300 with Simple Crowdfunding into a property development 
opportunity. Mr S accepts  this was a higher risk investment  and says there  were  two key 
risks. First,  that the planning  permission application  might fail. Second, the option  agreement 
to purchase the property  might expire  before  planning permission had been obtained.
It is agreed that Simple Crowdfunding provided  information about the first risk but not the 
second. Mr S says that had he been made aware of both risks, he would have invested 
differently. The investment failed because the option agreement expired prior to planning 
being obtained.
Simple Crowdfunding say Mr S was aware this was a high-risk investment  and he was 
aware of the risk of planning permission  failing. Simple Crowdfunding considered the option  
agreement as part of their due diligence process and confirm that it would have been 
provided to Mr S if he had asked  for it. Simple Crowdfunding  also point out that Mr S had 
experience investing in similar projects.
Our investigator considered the complaint.  He thought the small window  to complete the 
planning application before the option  agreement expired was important  information  that 
should have been shared with investors.  He took into account that Mr S had invested in 
similar projects, but the length of time on those  option agreements  differed. On balance,  our 
investigator thought  that Mr S would have  invested  differently if information  about this risk 
had been provided.
Simple Crowdfunding do not agree with the view. They maintain that Mr S was not a typical  
retail investor, he had experience in other crowdfunding investments. Mr S didnt ask the 
developer about  matters  on which  he was unclear and he didnt ask to see the option 
agreements. 
The matter  has now come to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Simple Crowdfunding were promoting this investment, so it was for them to provide clear,  
fair and not misleading information  to potential investors so they could make an informed 
decision about whether or not to invest.  
Ive considered the information provided by Simple Crowdfunding at the time, in which  three 
exit strategies were  explained: first that the option agreement  would  be sold to another 
buyer, second that planning permission would be granted and the development built. Both of 
which had potential for Mr S to achieve  a return.  Investors stood to lose their investment 
under the third exit strategy, in which planning permission wouldnt be granted  and the 
option agreement  wouldnt  be exercised.  Im satisfied that the risk of planning  permission 
Ref: DRN86122072failing was explained. But no information  was provided about the risk of the option 
agreement, to purchase the property, expiring  before planning permission  was granted. 
The timeline is relevant  here. The option agreement was dated 11 May 2018 and ran for 
three months until 11 August 2018. There  was a possibility to extend  but this came with 
conditions and the extensions were for 10 working days at a time.  The long stop date was 11 
November 2018.  Mr S invested in August, a few days before the initial  option  period expired, 
so prompt planning  approval was required,  even if extensions were secured. In my view the 
tight timeline increased the risk of the project failing. So, this information would have made a 
material difference to Mr Ss assessment of the risks.
Simple Crowdfunding had the information  contained in the option  agreement.  Theyve said 
they didnt share the information  because it was commercially sensitive. But thats 
inconsistent with their response  that the agreement  would have been provided  to Mr S, if he 
had asked for it.
It was for Simple Crowdfunding to provide clear, fair and not misleading information about 
the investment.  They held information  about the option agreement,  which had a material 
bearing on the likelihood of the project  failing. It wasnt for Mr S to second  guess what  
information Simple Crowdfunding might  have held. On balance,  its my view that Simple 
Crowdfunding failed to provide clear  information about this material  risk.
Its common ground that Mr S had made  similar  investments in the past but Simple  
Crowdfunding hadnt provided option agreement  information on those projects. Further,  the 
timelines were different  as the option  periods were longer in those investments, so it isnt fair 
to say that Mr S should have been  aware  of the risk in this instance because  of his past 
experience.
Had Simple Crowdfunding provided  information  about the risk of the option  agreement 
expiring before planning permission was granted and the relevant timelines, I consider that it 
is likely  that Mr S would  have invested differently.
In these circumstances, I think its fair and reasonable  to put things right for Mr S by 
refunding the £300 investment plus 8% interest on this amount, from the date of the 
investment until the date of settlement. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  I am upholding this complaint. I direct  Share  In Ltd, to put things right 
as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2020.
Sarah Tozzi
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8612207