K820x#14complaint
Miss Ns complaint is about the level of commission received  by Santander Cards UK 
Limited (Santander) on her payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy that was attached  
to a store card.
background
Santander says it looked at Miss Ns store card account to determine whether it was going to 
offer any compensation for the level of commission and profit share it received. It said that 
as Miss N hadnt paid any premiums  after 6 April 2007 it didnt  have to pay her any 
compensation.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. They explained that we can only look at whether 
Santander treated  Miss N unfairly about  commission from 6 April 2007 and as it didnt look 
like Miss N had paid any PPI premiums after 6 April 2007, they didnt think Santander had to 
refund any of the commission Miss N paid.
Miss N disagreed as she thought she had paid PPI premiums after 6 April 2007. As the 
matter hasnt been resolved it has been  passed  to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Miss Ns complaint and Ill explain why.
In this decision Ive only considered the complaint about the commission and profit  share 
Santander (as the lender) got due to the PPI. Miss Ns complaint  about the sale of the PPI 
has been looked at separately.
why 6 April 2007  is an important date
We can only look into complaints where we have the power to. The rules  we follow (set out 
in FCA handbook)  gives a list of activities that we can look at complaints about.
Before the 6 April 2007, we couldnt look at complaints about some  consumer  credit  
activities, including complaints about  store cards. On 6 April 2007  our powers were extended 
and complaints about store cards, like Miss Ns, became  something  we could look at. But 
only about things  that happened  on, or after 6 April 2007.
Put simply, this means I dont have the power, in this case,  to look at what  happened  before 
6 April 2007. I can only look at what happened  from 6 April 2007 onwards. 
what does this mean for Miss N.
This means  that I can only look at whether Santander treated Miss N unfairly in relation to 
the commission and profit share  it received after 6 April 2007  and not before.
Ref: DRN89017202Santander has said that Miss N wasnt charged any premiums after this date so no 
commission was received. So as Miss N didnt pay anything, there  is nothing  for it to 
consider giving back. 
Miss N provided some  statements showing that she was charged for PPI in January 2007.  
So Miss N thinks she was charged for PPI after 6 April 2007. 
But Santander has provided a transaction summary of Miss Ns store card account. It shows 
the last premium Miss N paid was on 28 January 2007. Miss N wasnt charged for PPI after 
this date, although I can see her store card account  did carry on.
Having considered the evidence provided by both Miss N and Santander, I think  its unlikely 
Miss N paid any PPI premiums after 6 April 2007. That means  I cant  tell Santander to pay 
Miss N back any of the commission or profit share  she paid for the PPI sold with her store  
card.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above I dont uphold Miss Ns complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 May 2019.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8901720