K821x#15Complaint
Miss H has complained that Bank  of Scotland plc (trading as BOS) unfairly  applied  
increased charges  to her overdraft when she was experiencing financial difficulty.
Background
One of our adjudicators looked  at this complaint and thought that BOS  should have realised 
that Miss H was experiencing difficulty in June  2018 and so it needed to refund all the 
interest, fees and charges it added to Miss Hs overdraft from this point. 
BOS didnt respond to our adjudicators  view so the case was passed for an ombudsmans 
decision.   
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
BOS will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at whether a bank  treated a customer fairly and reasonably  when applying  
overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything  provided,  I also think BOS acted unfairly when it 
continued charging overdraft interest  and associated fees from when the facility  appears to 
have been renewed in June 2018. By this point, BOS appears to have been told Miss H was 
struggling financially  as a result of the charges to its overdraft charging structure, as Miss H 
had already complained about this. 
BOS would also have  seen that Miss H had been  hardcore borrowing for a number of 
months. In other words, Miss Hs account remained persistently overdrawn for lengthy 
periods, even when  her salary was credited, without returning to credit. A look at Miss Hs 
statements in the months  leading  up to the renewal also show payments to at least one debt 
collection agency. In these circumstances, I cant see how BOS reasonably concluded that 
Miss H would more likely than not have been able to sustainably  repay  her overdraft within  a 
reasonable period of time either.  
As this is the case, Im satisfied that BOS should have stopped providing the overdraft  on the 
same terms,  in June 2018, and treated  Miss H with forbearance rather  than adding  even  
more fees and charges on the overdraft . As BOS  didnt  react  to Miss Hs overdraft usage  as 
well as what it was told and instead continued charging in the same  way, I think it failed to 
act fairly and reasonably towards her. 
Miss H ended up paying additional interest,  fees and charges on her overdraft at a time 
when she was already experiencing difficulty.  So I think  that Miss H lost out because  of what 
BOS did wrong and that it needs  to put things right.
Fair compensation  what  BOS  needs to do to put things  right for Miss  H
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Miss Hs complaint for BOS  to put things right by:
Ref: DRN85764912Reworking Miss Hs current overdraft balance so that all interest,  fees and 
charges applied to it from June  2018 onwards, which havent already been 
refunded*, are removed.
AND
If an outstanding  balance remains on the overdraft once these  adjustments have 
been made BOS  should contact Miss H to arrange a suitable  repayment plan for 
this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Miss Hs credit 
file, it should backdate  this to June 2018.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest,  fees and charges results  in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra  should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Miss H along  with 8% simple  interest on the overpayments  from 
the date they were  made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments  have been made, then BOS 
should remove any adverse information  from Miss Hs credit  file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires BOS to take off tax from this interest.  BOS  must give 
Miss H a certificate showing how much tax it has taken  off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, upholding Miss Hs complaint. BOS Bank PLC to put things 
right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 July 2021.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8576491