K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  about the advice they were  given by Yorkshire Building Society 
(YBS) when  they took their mortgage out. Theyre unhappy that theyre  unable  to transfer 
one part of their mortgage to another  lender.
background
Mr and Mrs B originally  took out a mortgage  with Norwich & Peterborough  Building Society.  
This is now currently owned by YBS, so I will refer to YBS throughout my decision.
Mr and Mrs B had an existing mortgage with YBS and around December 2016, they got in 
touch with YBS as they wanted to port (transfer) their existing rate product to a new property.  
They also wanted  to borrow some additional  funds  to help with the house purchase. They 
completed a telephone interview with an adviser from YBS.
YBS provided a mortgage offer to Mr and Mrs B on 16 January 2017. They later provided a 
new mortgage to Mr and Mrs B which included the ported interest rate and a new interest 
rate for the additional borrowing.  Their  existing fixed interest rate which was at 2.98% had 
approximately 32 months remaining.  The new interest  rate for the additional amount they 
wanted to borrow  was fixed for 60 months   five years.
In November 2018, Mr and Mrs B contacted YBS as they wanted to see what options they 
had available. They say it was at this point  that they realised  they were  unable to move  one 
part of their mortgage to another  lender without incurring an early repayment charge (ERC) 
on the part of the mortgage that was still on the fixed rate. They  complained to YBS as they 
felt this was unfair and that it wasnt explained  to them at the time they took their mortgage 
out.
YBS sent a final response letter to Mr and Mrs B in December 2018. They said they 
understood why Mr and Mrs B may have  thought  they were able to transfer  one part of their 
mortgage, but as a lender, they were not required to provide any further  information  about 
this at the interview stage. They agreed to pay £75 to Mr and Mrs B as recognition  that their 
service didnt meet their standards.
Mr and Mrs B remained unhappy with this so they brought the complaint to our service. It 
was looked at by one of our investigators, who didnt think the complaint should be upheld. 
He said that he thought,  after listening to the telephone call that he wouldnt have expected 
the YBS adviser to have  done anything different based on the conversation he had with 
Mrs B at the time.
Mr and Mrs B didnt  agree with this. In summary  they said that YBS didnt make it clear  that 
they would  not be able to move the first part of their mortgage  to a new lender while  the 
second part of the mortgage was still on a fixed rate. They said that the inter-relatedness of 
the two products was never  made clear. Mr and Mrs B also said that they have now ended 
up without any flexibility or certainty  which is not what they wanted.
They asked for the complaint to be reviewed  by an ombudsman, so it has come  to me to 
decide.
Ref: DRN81929572my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  While Im sorry to disappoint 
Mr and Mrs B, I agree  with what  the investigator has said so I wont be upholding this 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
As our investigator has explained, it is not unusual  in the mortgage  industry  for a lender to 
split a mortgage in two parts. This can happen when  an existing product has been ported 
and additional  borrowing  has been  taken out  as it is in this case.  Thats because the ported 
product covers the old mortgage balance  but cant be extended to apply to new borrowing, 
because that product  isnt available any more. So the borrower has to choose a new rate, 
from the current range, to apply to the new borrowing. As a result,  the mortgage operates  on 
two separate interest rates at the same time.
I have taken on board Mr and Mrs Bs comments around this as they have said they wouldnt 
have known this was common practice in the industry and they would have expected YBS to 
make this clear to them. So Ive gone on to consider what happened at the time and what 
information Mr and Mrs B were given when  they applied for the mortgage.
Ive listened to the telephone call recording of the mortgage interview which took place 
between Mrs B and the adviser at YBS. The adviser  explained  that the existing mortgage 
had three  years remaining and there was a discussion around  how long Mrs B would want 
the new interest rate on the additional  borrowing part of the mortgage   the second part. The 
adviser asked Mrs B if they had considered taking a shorter product term so that both parts 
of the mortgage  finished  at the same time. 
Mrs B responded saying  that she wasnt sure when  they would complete on the house 
purchase and she seemed to want to go for a five year fixed rate as it gave them some 
stability and certainty. At this point, the adviser gave a scenario where YBS interest  rates 
had gone up and one of the loans fixed rate product had ended. He suggested that at this 
point Mr and Mrs B could move to another  lender,  but he explained  that they would incur an 
ERC on the part of the mortgage  that was still fixed. He asked  Mrs B if they would be happy  
to take that risk. 
Mrs B responded to say that in some ways she likes the idea of offsetting the risk and that 
they could then decide what  to do with the larger part of the mortgage  when the shorter one 
ends. Mr and Mrs B believe that it was clear  at this point that she thought  they would be able 
to deal with the larger  part of the mortgage separately and that she wasnt  told otherwise.
Ive thought carefully about what Mr and Mrs B have  said and Ive considered what  was 
discussed on the telephone call. I havent  heard anything which  would make  me think that 
the adviser said anything that would mislead  Mrs B about the way the mortgage accounts 
work. He made it clear on the call that they would incur an ERC should  they want  to move  
their mortgage to another lender before the end of the five year fixed rate. There is nothing 
else that I would expect the adviser  to do.
Im satisfied after listening to the call that the adviser  did explain this to Mrs B. And from 
what she has said, she understood it at the time  even if she doesnt remember  the 
implications of it now. But even if Mrs B hadnt understood what was being discussed,  I dont  
think they would have done  anything  differently  because she said they wanted stability  and 
certainly around the mortgage. 
Ref: DRN81929573Ive also looked  at the mortgage offer that was provided to Mr and Mrs B and it highlights the 
two separate loans  and the information  about the loans  such as the term, the interest rate 
and the amount of the loan. Section  10 of the mortgage offer asks what happens if you do 
not want this mortgage  anymore? This section highlights both loans and details examples of 
what the ERC would  be if Mr and Mrs B decided to repay the loan or transfer it to another 
lender if they paid it off in full. I think in addition to the call, the mortgage  offer is clear about  
what would  happen  in this situation.
YBS previously offered to pay Mr and Mrs B £75 in recognition of their complaint and if they 
should wish to accept  this, they should let YBS know. 
Our investigator mentioned that YBS were  offering new products to their customers so 
Mr and Mrs B have  the option of discussing this with YBS to see what is available   so that 
they dont go onto the standard variable rate when their fixed  rate ends  if they dont want  
to. For example, as there is about two years difference between the two rates, they may be 
able to take out a two year rate on the ported balance which would end around  the same  
time as the five year rate. Our investigator also said that Mr and Mrs B may want to seek 
independent financial  advice to see what options  are available  to them. Mr and Mrs B may 
want to consider one or both of these  options  to help them  decide  what to do with their 
mortgage moving forwards.
While I appreciate that Mr and Mrs B will be disappointed with my decision, I wont  be asking 
YBS to do anything further. Im satisfied that they did what  they needed to do when they set 
the mortgage up for Mr and Mrs B. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 December 2019.
Maria Drury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8192957