K822xcomplaint
Mr S has complained that Amtrust Europe Limited didnt pay for all of the claimed  repair 
costs for damage he said were caused  by a recovery  agent. Mr S sought assistance under 
his roadside assistance insurance policy.
All reference to Amtrust includes its agents.
background 
On 11 June 2018 Mr Ss car broke down and he called Amtrust for assistance.  While his car 
was being recovered, a rubber slide from the recovery truck slipped and caused damage  to 
Mr Ss car. 
Mr S reported the damage to Amtrust that day and said he would arrange for his car to be 
repaired at a garage. The garage wasnt able to source  one of the replacement  parts  to 
repair the undertray. So it repaired the wheel arch liner and Mr S collected his car on 
16 June 2018.  He returned  his car on 20 July 2018  for the repair to the undertray to be done 
as this was when the garage had the available part.
However, when the garage elevated Mr Ss car on the ramp,  a mechanic identified a crack to 
the front bumper  which he said was caused  by the impact of the slide. Mr S wanted Amtrust  
to cover the costs to repair  the bumper. 
Amtrust didnt agree.  It said it couldnt see how the bumper  could  have been  damaged  by 
the rubber slide.  As Mr Ss car had carried out almost 200,000 miles, it expected  the bumper 
to show signs of wear and tear. There wasnt enough to show  that the bumper had been  
damaged in the incident. It said Mr S had driven his car between  16 June and 20 July 2018  
so it was possible the damage could have been caused then. 
Our investigator thought Mr Ss complaint should be upheld. She recommended  Amtrust  
meet the costs  to repair Mr Ss bumper.  It could decide to do this by settling the invoiced 
costs directly with a garage   or paying  Mr S directly  the equivalent sum. 
Mr S accepted the investigators findings.  
Amtrust didnt agree.  So the case has been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I intend  to uphold it. Ill 
explain why. 
I havent seen  a job sheet from the recovery agent   and Mr S said he made notes on the 
sheet to record the damage  done to his car which he could see  but the recovery  agent 
didnt give him a copy of the sheet.
As Amtrust  agreed to pay for the repairs to the undertray and front left wheel arch liner,  I 
think it accepts that the recovery  agent  caused damage to Mr Ss car. 
Ref: DRN88582022So the remaining  issue for me to decide is whether the damage to the bumper identified on 
20 July 2018 was also caused  by the incident.  
Mr S provided a detailed  estimate from a dealership approved garage for the repairs to the 
front wheel arch liner, the undertray and the front bumper. Mr S also provided  video and 
photos of the damage to Amtrust. 
Amtrust asked Mr S to provide a second repair invoice from another  garage by way of a 
second opinion.  Mr S did this. Both estimates are similar in price.  
Amtrust said that its Director of Networks has reviewed the photos  and videos  provided  by 
Mr S. In his opinion he doesnt  believe  the slide could have caused this amount  of damage.  
And there is a time lapse  of almost a month between Mr Ss car being back  on the road and 
being returned for the undertray  repair. Its clear that the bumper was not in prime  condition - 
and so any claim for a new bumper  would be a betterment of parts that were  not new at all. 
However, Im more persuaded by Mr Ss account  which has been  consistent throughout. He 
reported the incident on the day it happened. Its not reasonable to expect a consumer to 
identify any unseen damage.  But he took his car to a dealership garage that day  and on 
further inspection  in July 2018 they identified damage to the bumper when  it started the 
repair to the undertray. There was a delay in obtaining the part to repair/replace  the 
undertray. As Mr Ss car was roadworthy there  was no reason for him not to use his car 
while he waited for the garage to tell him it had the correct part. Any delay here isnt 
something Mr S was responsible for  and I can see from the emails  provided that he kept 
Amtrust updated during this period. Amtrust accepts the undertray  and front wheel arch liner 
was damaged during recovery. The front bumper damage identified is in the same  area of 
impact.
The dealership garages invoice estimate is to replace  the front bumper and near side front 
wheel arch liner and reads due to damage  caused  by recovery. When asked, Mr S 
provided a second  garage report which listed the repairs for a similar total price. This shows  
that the first estimate provided seems reasonable. 
So I think the evidence  Mr S has provided to support his complaint is persuasive. I cant see 
that Amtrust referred the estimates to an engineer for consideration  and there isnt 
anything to suggest the damage happened  between  16 June and 20 July 2018. 
Amtrust says that if it pays to replace the front bumper, Mr S will be in a position  of 
betterment. But I think  on balance  that the recovery agents actions caused damage  to 
the front bumper.  So I think its fair and reasonable for Amtrust  to pay for the appropriate 
repairs. If the repairs require the bumper to be replaced, then I think its reasonable for 
Amtrust to cover these  costs. 
Ref: DRN88582023Its up to Amtrust how it settles  Mr Ss claim for the bumper repairs. It can either settle  the 
costs directly with a garage  once the repairs have  been carried out. Or it can pay Mr S a 
cash in lieu settlement for the equivalent sum of the first (slightly  higher) estimate  Mr S 
provided. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Amtrust Europe Limited to cover  the 
costs to repair or replace Mr Ss front bumper in line with the first estimate  he provided dated 
20 July 2018 from a dealership garage. Amtrust  can do this by either  settling the invoice 
directly with the garage  or paying  Mr S a cash in lieu settlement for the equivalent sum. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 October  2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8858202