K820x#14Complaint
Mr and Mrs H are unhappy  with Red Sands Insurance  Company (Europe) Limiteds  decision 
to decline a claim made on a pet insurance  policy.
Background
Mrs H took out an annually renewable policy with Red Sands. Mr and Mrs Hs pet needed 
treatment and they made a claim in July 2018.  Red Sands declined  the claim on the grounds 
it was excluded by the policy terms with respect  to dental or gum treatment.  
Mr and Mrs H didnt agree with Red Sands decision, so they brought their complaint to us. 
Our investigator assessed the complaint and ultimately recommended  it be upheld.  They  felt 
the cause of the claim wasnt dental  or gum-related and that the exclusion clause didnt fairly 
apply. They asked  Red Sands to reconsider the claim and pay £100  as compensation for its 
handling of it to date.
 
Red Sands  didnt agree with the investigators findings, so the complaint was passed to me 
to review afresh.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our established approach is that, where an insurer wants  to rely on an exclusion clause to 
turn down a claim, its for the insurer to show its fair for it to do so. Its not for the consumer  
to show the clause doesnt apply.
Having considered all the information  with that in mind, Ive decided to uphold the complaint. 
Ill explain  why. 
The policy set out what Red Sands  wouldnt cover  under the policy. These things included:
Any dental  or gum treatment including root canal treatment
Red Sands  points out that Mr and Mrs Hs pet was found to have an oral lump according to 
the information given by the vet on the claim form. The histology report  showed a diagnosis 
of mild periodontal  ligament haemorrhage following testing of a tooth and gum tissue. Red 
Sands says this all indicates the problem was dental  or gum-related.
On the other hand, we have the evidence from the treating vet. In August 2019, the vet wrote  
that the pets lesion was originating from the bone of the jaw. As such,  they felt the condition  
wasnt considered  to be dental  or gum disease.
The vet elaborated in November 2019,  saying there appeared to be confusion over the 
diagnosis. They said that although the histologist had identified some  periodontal disease 
within the sample, the histologist was able to rule out neoplasia,  which in turn left the vet with 
the clinical diagnosis  of bone  cysts within the jaw. The vet confirmed the periodontal disease  
noted on the histology was incidental to the pets primary condition  of bone cysts. 
Ref: DRN85311332On reviewing the clinical evidence very carefully, it seems to me that the condition  
diagnosed by the histologist was related to the periodontal ligament and so would 
reasonably be excluded by the relevant policy  term. 
That said,  I understand from the vets reports that the condition  diagnosed  by the histologist 
was incidental to the pets primary condition. And that the histologists findings allowed for a 
primary diagnosis of bone cysts which, in my view, wouldnt reasonably be excluded  by the 
policy term quoted  above. 
Taking everything into account,  I believe Red Sands  should  reassess  the claim on the basis  
that any costs incurred for bone cysts, as described  by the vet, are covered  albeit in line 
with the remaining policy terms.
Mr and Mrs H ask what recourse they have if Red Sands deals with the remainder of the 
claim unfairly following  this decision.  It would be open for them to approach Red Sands in 
the first instance and, if necessary, to refer the matter  to us as a new and separate  case.
Finally, Im also satisfied that Red Sands could have  handled  the claim better than it did. For 
example, an item of correspondence regarding this claim was sent by Red Sands to a third 
party in error. I think that only added to the concerns Mr and Mrs H already had. So, I think  
its fair for Red Sands to pay £100 as compensation, if it hasnt already done  so. 
My final decision
For the above reasons, Ive decided to uphold this complaint. I require Red Sands  Insurance  
Company (Europe) Limited  to reassess the claim for bone cysts without reference to the 
relevant exclusion  clause, and in line with the remaining terms. 
Red Sands  Insurance Company (Europe) Limited  should also pay £100 as compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience  its handling of the claims caused, if it hasnt already done  
so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 July 2020.
Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8531133