K820x#14complaint
Mrs B complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (Natwest) mis-sold her a        
mortgage payment  protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a regular premium  MPPI  policy taken out by Mrs B in March 2008  
alongside a mortgage. The policy protected her mortgage repayments in the event Mrs B 
had an accident,  was sick or was unemployed.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mrs B disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Bs case.
I have decided not to uphold Mrs Bs complaint about the sale of the policy.  Here are my 
reasons:
I think Mrs B was eligible  for the policy given her circumstances and the MPPI terms and 
conditions that applied.
I have been  able to see sales documentation from the time of sale including a direct  
debit form relating to MPPI and another form called  giving  your agreement. I have also 
read Mrs Bs recollections provided by her representatives. 
I cant be sure what was discussed  between Mrs B and Natwest during the meeting in 
one of its branches. Its completely understandable  that Mrs Bs recollections are not 
detailed as the sale took place  a number of years ago. So I have looked at the sales 
documentation to see what  was provided  by Natwest at the time of sale.  I can see on the 
direct debit  mandate for MPPI, that it is presented as optional. Mrs B has signed  
separately for it at the bottom of this form. Within the giving your agreement  document,  
MPPI is also highlighted as optional. It says I want  to apply for mortgage repayment 
protection through Natwest and then a box is ticked next to this statement. Mrs B has 
also signed this form.  So  after seeing  these documents, I think  on balance, Natwest 
gave Mrs B a choice to have the MPPI.
Moving on, I need to consider next whether Natwest provided  advice to Mrs B or not 
during the sale.  If it did, it would  have had an additional responsibility to ensure the policy 
was suitable for her. But on looking at the information provided and also taking into 
consideration of what I know of Natwest sales  during this time, I dont think advice was 
given. Natwest still had to ensure  that it provided  information  to Mrs B in a clear, fair and 
not misleading way however, so that she could make an informed decision on whether 
she wanted the policy. 
Ref: DRN86723452And based on the information Ive seen,  I cant be entirely  sure that Natwest  did provide 
clear information to Mrs B. That said, I am not sure she would  have acted differently (that 
is, not taken out the policy) if she had been properly informed.
I say this after considering Mrs Bs circumstances  at the time of sale. Because,  although 
Mrs B says she had 6 months  sick pay and around  £4000  in savings, the MPPI policy  
would have paid out for longer than her provisions in addition  to this. Having the policy  in 
place would mean Mrs B could use any other  means she may have had to cover  other  
expenses. I dont think her means are sufficient for me reasonably  to say that she 
wouldnt have had at least some use for the policy. 
Mrs B was not affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main  benefits, such 
for someone that had a pre-existing medical condition.  It is unlikely  Mrs B needed better 
information about the policys exclusions and limitations and if she had received clear 
information on these  terms  I dont think it would have put her off.
 
Finally, I havent seen enough  that would suggest to me that Natwest disclosed the costs 
of the policy  in a clear  way, but even  if it did, I dont think Mrs B would have done 
anything differently for the same  reasons  as I have already given. Ive also seen nothing 
to suggest it was unaffordable.  So overall,  I think it unlikely Mrs B would have made  a 
different decision about  whether  to take out PPI if better information  had been  provided.
In conclusion, I do not think the policy was mis-sold.
my decision
For the reasons  set out above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs B to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 June 2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8672345