K820x#14complaint
Mrs G is unhappy with how National Westminster  Bank Plc handled  matters  when she was 
trying to repay a debt with it, delays she encountered in receiving confirmation that the debt 
had been repaid and how it handled  a refund it promised her.
background
I set out the background  to this complaint and my provisional conclusions by way of a 
provisional decision  a copy of which is attached and forms part of this final decision. For 
the reasons I set out, I concluded that part of Mrs Gs complaint was out of our jurisdiction as 
it was brought  more  than six months after NatWest  issued  its final response letter. I said that 
I dont think I can reasonably hold NatWest liable for the losses Mrs G was claiming 
regarding delays she encountered in receiving confirmation her debt was repaid, and that 
the £50 offered by NatWest for its handling  of the refund was reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
I invited both Mrs G and NatWest to let me have any further comments  they wished to make  
in response to my provisional conclusions. 
Response to my provisional findings
NatWest accepted my provisional findings,  but Mrs G didnt. She said (in summary):
She didnt agree  that the final response letter of 6 June 2016 should  be considered 
as shed still not received the required confirmation that the debt had been  cleared at 
that point. A letter from NatWest dated 4 April 2017  shows her complaint was not 
brought out of time. 
A PPI refund had been sent to her trustee in bankruptcy which  indicates the bank 
knew the trustee was involved. Mrs G says it should have sent them confirmation of 
the debt repayment. If the PPI refund had been taken in part repayment of the debt 
rather than being sent to the trustee, shed have  had to find less to repay  it which will 
have helped her cashflow.
Her trustee contacted NatWest again on 22 July 2016 for written confirmation  of the 
repayment of the debt, which  was sent on 29 July 2016.  Mrs G says this is 79 days 
after the first request,  and it wasnt done quickly enough. 
Her trustee has provided  evidence to us that the NatWest  debt was the only one 
outstanding preventing  the lifetime mortgage from going through.
The £50 compensation for the problems  with the NOSIA  refund is unsatisfactory.
my findings
After receiving responses from both parties, Ive reconsidered all the available evidence  and 
arguments to decide  whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances  of this complaint. 
Having done so, Im minded to proceed with my final decision along the same lines as set 
out in my provisional  decision. Ill explain why.
Mrs Gs main objections focus on the jurisdiction  aspect of the complaint. I said Im unable to 
look into matters dealt  with by NatWest in its final response of 6 June 2016 because  shed 
referred her complaint  to us too late. 
Ref: DRN82009312Mrs G said NatWest issued a further  final response on 16 February 2017 and this was 
referred to again  in its letter of 4 April 2017.  As she referred her complaint to us in June 
2017, she feels she was in time. 
The final response  letter of February 2017 refers to her complaint about  the NOSIA  and 
delays in sending  the discharge  letter to Mrs Gs trustee in bankruptcy. It doesnt deal with 
the activities covered  by the final response in June 2016. Ive considered Mrs Gs complaint 
about the NOSIA  and delay in the discharge  letter in my provisional findings.  But I cant  
consider the complaint points that were dealt with in the final response dated 6 June 2016  as 
they werent raised with us until May 2017. Its not that I dont want  to look into those points, 
simply I have  no power to do so for the reasons  set out in my provisional decision. 
Theres no dispute that NatWest knew Mrs G had been made  bankrupt and she had a 
trustee working with her. Its for this reason that it sent the PPI refund  to the trustee. But I 
dont think its reasonable to assume  that because it knew of the trustees involvement, it 
follows that it should automatically have  known that it should  forward  confirmation of 
repayment of the debt to them too. I say this because, while NatWest accepts it might have 
been better if it had written to both parties, written confirmation had been sent to Mrs G on 
3 June 2016. 
Mrs G has said that her trustee has confirmed to us that the NatWest debt was the only one 
that prevented  the lifetime mortgage  from going ahead, and I acknowledge that the trustee 
did provide that evidence  to us. But Ive seen nothing to suggest that either the trustee or 
Mrs G brought it to the attention of NatWest at the time. In other words, Ive seen  nothing  
which suggests NatWest  was  or ought  to have been - aware  of the urgency  of the trustee  
receiving the confirmation  directly  from it, or what the consequences were if such  
confirmation was delayed. 
Ive acknowledged  Mrs Gs dissatisfaction  with NatWests actions regarding  the NOSIA 
refund and the delay in getting it to her. But once its mistake was brought to its attention, 
NatWest dealt with it in reasonable time and paid £50 compensation for this. I think  this is a 
reasonable payment and in line with awards wed make in similar circumstances. 
Ref: DRN82009313my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out here, and in more detail in my provisional decision, I dont 
require National Westminster Bank Plc to take any further action  in response to this 
complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 March  2020.
Richard Hale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN82009314COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mrs G is unhappy with how National Westminster Bank Plc handled  matters when  she was trying 
to repay a debt with it, delays  she encountered in receiving confirmation that the debt had been 
repaid, and how it handled  a refund it promised her.
background
Mrs Gs concerns about how the bank has treated  her go back  further than the events Ive looked  at. 
As she and the bank  are aware, Im unable  to consider events  relating to the repayment of her debt 
which were  covered in NatWests final response letter of 6 June 2016.  This is because  Mrs G didnt 
refer her complaint to us until after the time limit to do so had expired. So this complaint focusses on 
events after the final response was issued; that is the delays in confirming the debt was repaid and 
how the bank handled the refund it promised.
Mrs G had a loan with NatWest and subsequently entered into bankruptcy. In 2016, she was 
planning to take a lifetime  mortgage with another lender. In order to release the money  secured 
through the lifetime  mortgage,  the lender  required  confirmation from Mrs Gs trustee in bankruptcy  
(trustee) that all the debts included  in the arrangement  including the NatWest loan  were fully 
settled.
Mrs G sent a bankers  draft to fully repay the loan on 25 May 2016. NatWest wrote to her on 3 June 
2016 confirming receipt and that she had no further debt with it and there were  no other costs to 
pay. The lifetime mortgage  offer was due to expire on 7 July 2016; this was later extended until 14 
July 2016. But NatWest didnt write  to the trustee to confirm the loan had been fully repaid until 29 
July 2016, by which time the mortgage offer had expired.  Mrs G was subsequently able to 
rearrange the mortgage but this was at a higher  rate of interest.  She also incurred  more fees from 
her solicitor and trustee  as a result of the further work.
On 9 December 2016, NatWest wrote to Mrs G to say it had made mistakes in handling  arrears on 
the loan while it was in existence. NatWest said it had been required to send  a Notice of Sums in 
Arrears (NOSIA)  letter and annual statements,  but it had either failed to do so or there were  
mistakes in the documents. As a result, it said it wasnt entitled to charge  interest or fees on the loan 
for correctly.  So it said Mrs G was due a refund of £1,352.78.
Mrs G called the bank a month or so after receiving  the letter, as she hadnt received the refund. 
She was told the bank  had kept it as she still owed  it money. She complained  to NatWest about  that 
and the delays in 2016 which she said had caused her to lose the cheaper mortgage offer and to 
incur additional costs.
NatWest looked into Mrs Gs complaint. It agreed it shouldnt have kept the NOSIA  refund as shed 
repaid everything  she owed.  It sent her a cheque for that sum, and an overpayment  of £36.63. It 
also paid a further £50 for the inconvenience caused.
NatWest also said it received a letter from Mrs Gs trustee dated 13 July 2016 requesting 
confirmation that the bank had no further  interest in her bankruptcy.  It responded on 29 July 2016 
confirming it didnt.  It acknowledged Mrs Gs comments that this caused her mortgage offer to be 
withdrawn and that she was seeking reimbursement of costs incurred as a result. It asked for 
evidence to support her claim which Mrs G provided.
In response to the further evidence from Mrs G, NatWest said she had additional outstanding  debts 
with another lender at the time she was seeking confirmation from it. While NatWest  acknowledged 
some delays on confirming repayment of the loan, it said Mrs Gs other debts meant the information  
Ref: DRN82009315it provided wouldnt  have been enough to allow the lifetime mortgage to be granted. So it declined 
her request for reimbursement but said if she could  provide evidence of additional costs incurred 
solely as a direct result  of its delay, it would consider  refunding them.
Mrs G referred her complaint  to us and one of our adjudicators looked into it. The adjudicator said 
(in summary):
Shed spoken with the trustee and they confirmed  NatWest was the only lender that 
hadnt confirmed their debt had been repaid.  All other creditors had given their 
confirmation in time for the first lifetime  mortgage agreement to have been completed.  So 
she felt that mortgage   at the lower interest rate  would have gone  through  if NatWest  
had confirmed  to the trustee that debts were cleared  when it was first asked. And Mrs G 
wouldnt have incurred extra costs from her solicitor and trustee though having  to arrange 
a new mortgage.
It seemed NatWest  hadnt marked the debts as settled when it wrote to Mrs G about the 
NOSIA refund, so it gave her incorrect information. The adjudicator  acknowledged 
however, that the money was paid to Mrs G on 15 February 2015.
To resolve the complaint,  our adjudicator recommended  that NatWest should:
Pay Mrs G £21,284.11 representing the difference in costs of the two mortgages 
including extra intermediary fees, the increase  in interest rate, solicitor and 
conveyancing fees and trustee fees.
£300  for incorrect information and distress and inconvenience caused to her.
Mrs G accepted our adjudicators assessment,  but NatWest didnt.  It said:
Both the trustee and Mrs G asked for confirmation that the debt was settled. It agreed it 
may have  been better to write to both parties  but had only written to Mrs G. It said it had 
done so promptly after the loan was repaid  and was unaware of any time pressures for 
doing so.
The trustees letter  of 13 July 2016  says they note from your correspondence  that the 
balance on the account  has now been reduced to zero. NatWest says this suggests  
the trustee did in fact have the confirmation they needed before  the mortgage offer 
expired the following day.
Both the trustee and Mrs G were aware  that the bank had only written to her in time to 
have been able to make  sure the trustee  had the information it needed to allow the 
mortgage to go ahead.
As there  was no agreement, the complaint has been  referred  to me for a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in 
the circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, Ive reached a different conclusion  from that 
of our adjudicator  and will explain why and how I think the complaint should be resolved.
There are three parts  of this complaint that I can consider, and Ill deal with each in turn:
Whether we can consider the early events leading up to the problems with the 
mortgage and increased costs.
Whether NatWests  failure to send a discharge  letter to Mrs Gs trustee  meant she couldnt 
draw the mortgage on the original  terms and should pay her increased costs.
The problems  with the NOSIA refund.
Ref: DRN82009316can we consider the earlier events?
Some of the events leading up to Mrs Gs claim for costs, relate to events  leading  up to the 
repayment of the loan about which she complained in the first half of 2016. NatWest looked  into her 
complaint at the time and issued its final response on 6 June 2016. In that letter, it explained that 
she had six months in which  to refer the complaint  to our service,  and that if she didnt do so, we 
wouldnt have its permission to look into it. We would only be able to do so if there were exceptional 
circumstances which led to the delay. This is in line with the rules which govern our service and are 
set out in the Financial Conduct Authoritys  (FCAs)  handbook,  specifically the Dispute Resolution 
section (DISP).
Mrs G didnt refer her complaint to us until May 2017  more than six months after the banks final 
response. And our adjudicator rightly  explained  to Mrs G, that we can only look at complaints brought  
to us outside that six-month period  if NatWest gave us consent to do so. But NatWest had refused.
However, our adjudicator didnt consider  the whole of DISP 2.8.2  the relevant  rule in this matter. 
While I think  she correctly  addressed the time in which the complaint was referred  to us and 
NatWests lack of consent, she didnt  address the part of the rule that allows us to consider  a case 
if, in the view of the ombudsman, the failure to comply with the time limits...was as a result of 
exceptional circumstances.  DISP 2.8.4 says an example of exceptional circumstances might be 
where the complainant has been or is incapacitated.
So Ive gone on to consider whether the delay  in referring the complaint to us was due to 
exceptional circumstances.
Mrs G wrote to us after receiving our adjudicators letter  on this point. She said she felt it was unfair 
to use the final response of 6 June 2016 in this way because,  at that time,  NatWest had not sent a 
letter to the trustee confirming  the loan had been fully repaid. She went to on explain  that it had been 
a stressful time for her leading up to October 2016 when  the recognition that everything was clear 
was finalised.
While I recognise the matters Mrs G was dealing  with at the time, I dont consider they amount  to 
exceptional circumstances. They were simply other things that she was having  to handle at the 
same time. And I dont think its unfair to use the final response of 6 June 2016 to begin the six 
months timescale for the issues  it covered,  which  relate to the actual  payment of the loan rather 
than confirming  to the trustee that it had been.
I know it will be a disappointment to Mrs G, but I dont think we have the power to deal with the 
complaint points raised prior to the banks final response letter of 6 June 2016. I can  and have  
gone on to consider events after repayment of the loan not covered in that final response.
NatWests failure to send  a discharge letter to Mrs Gs trustee
NatWest sent a letter  to Mrs G on 3 June  2016  confirming  it had received full repayment from her. It 
confirmed that she had no further debt with the bank and there were  no further costs  to pay. 
NatWest acknowledges  that both Mrs G and her trustee had requested such a letter. There  is no 
dispute that NatWest didnt write to the trustee and the bank has accepted that it may have been 
better if it had written to both.
Be that as it may, by early  June 2016 Mrs G was in possession of a letter issued by the bank 
confirming her debt was repaid and no further amounts were due. There doesnt appear to have  
been any reason why this letter would not have met the proof  of payment requirements of the court.
Ref: DRN82009317did Mrs G enough to prevent  any loss?
The trustee wrote to NatWest on 9 May 2016 to say they were  aware  of Mrs Gs intention to settle 
the debts in full. They  said she was doing so to avoid the need for enforcement of an order to 
possession and sale of her property and confirmed they has no objection to this. They asked the 
bank to confirm,  on receipt of funds, that it had no further claim under the bankruptcy.
Mrs G wrote to NatWest with a bank draft to settle the debt on 25 May 2016 and asked for 
confirmation of receipt and that there were no further costs.  There was no mention of a deadline 
for receipt  of such confirmation or any indication of one.
NatWest wrote to Mrs G on 3 June 2016 confirming  the debt was settled in full. Mrs G says she 
assumed the bank  had also written to the trustee.  At that time, there was still five weeks until the 
first mortgage  offer expired, and this was later extended by a further week.
Ive seen nothing which suggests NatWest was  or ought to have been  aware of the urgency of 
the trustee receiving  confirmation  direct  from it that the debts were cleared, or what  the 
consequences were  if such confirmation was delayed. As Ive said, Mrs G repaid the debt on 25 
May 2016 so at that stage there would have been time for Mrs G to make  the bank  aware of the 
deadline for acceptance of the lifetime mortgage.
NatWest has accepted  it may have  been  better  if it had written to Mrs G and the trustee with 
confirmation that the debt was cleared. But I dont think I can reasonably hold it liable for the losses 
Mrs G is claiming  because she had the opportunity  to take reasonable steps to avoid  them. For 
example, she could have ensured  the bank  was aware  of the deadline for the mortgage and could  
have shared the letter  she received with the trustee.
the problems with the NOSIA refund
NatWest agrees it shouldnt have held on to the refund as it did. Its clear that by the time it wrote to 
Mrs G on 9 December 2016 about its handling  of the arrears, the loan was fully repaid.  And it should  
have made  sure the information it gave in its letter  that a refund was due  was accurate  so as not 
to mislead Mrs G.
Mrs G contacted the bank on 9 January 2017 to say shed not received the refund and quite 
reasonably complained about the response she received (that the bank had retained the funds as 
there was still an outstanding debt). She wrote to NatWest on 18 January  2017 providing evidence  
to show  the debt was settled. I dont think she shouldve  had to do that. And NatWest wrote to Mrs 
G on 31 January  2017 confirming that a refund had been authorised and a cheque  would  be sent.
Its clear NatWest made a mistake in retaining  the funds and put Mrs G to some inconvenience 
having to prove the refund was rightfully  hers. But I think the payment  of £50 compensation as well 
as an apology  for its error was a reasonable  way to correct  things, so Ill not be asking it to do 
anymore in this regard.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision, subject to the further  submissions  of the parties, is that I dont  intend to 
require NatWest to take any further steps to resolve  Mrs Gs complaint.
Ref: DRN8200931