K820x#14complaint
Mr N, and his former  wife Mrs N, complain that they were mis-sold a decreasing term 
assurance policy by Leeds  Building  Society   trading as Halifax  Building Society  now 
under the Bank of Scotland  Plc, referred to as the business. 
In short,  Mr N says:
They were forced  to take out the policy as a condition of their mortgage. 
Mr N had employee benefits in place so didnt need life cover. 
background
The business didnt  uphold the complaint. In short, it said:
It doesnt hold any information on the sale of the policy.  
When the policy started in 1979, there  was no regulatory obligation to retain any 
documentation regarding  any recommendation made for life assurance,  pension and 
investment products.  The regulations didnt  come into force until 1988 and therefore  
its applied the rules as they did at the time.  
It can see from the schedule provided  by Mr N that the policy  was a temporary life 
assurance providing a decreasing amount of cover over a set term, in respect  of a 
£20,000, joint mortgage with Mrs N, over a term of 25 years.
Mr N was the sole life assured,  and the policy was designed to pay out a lump sum in 
the event of his death. This is different to Payment Protection Insurance  (PPI) which  
is designed to cover the monthly repayment such as a mortgage  payment, for a 
limited amount of time.  
Despite Mr Ns recollections, it has nothing  to say the policy was a condition  at the 
time. Its sorry  if Mr N felt pressured  into taking the policy.  
Its sensible to take out life cover in respect  of a mortgage, and Mrs N (as a joint 
mortgagor) wouldve benefitted  from the policy in the event of Mr Ns death. 
Mr and Mrs N wouldve  been  given paperwork that explained the general nature and 
operation of the policy, and they wouldve had the option to decline to go ahead with 
the policy or even  cancel it once it was in place. Instead they maintained  it for the 
duration of their mortgage. 
It offered  to pay £50 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by the 
delays in responding to the complaint. 
One of our investigators  considered the complaint but didnt think  it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
Given the passage  of time, its difficult to know what Mr and Mrs N were  and werent 
aware of. 
Before September  2001, life cover was generally a condition  of most residential 
mortgages. This suggests that life cover  was  more likely than not  a condition of 
Mr and Mrs Ns mortgage. 
A decreasing term assurance policy in respect  of a repayment  mortgage  that 
matched the mortgage term and amount  is generally considered  a sensible 
protection. 
Mr N mightve  had death in service  benefit  from his employer, but theres no 
guarantee that hed remain in the same job with the same  benefits without the 
Ref: DRN86599842employer changing  them. So, a standalone  policy is seen as more secure form of life 
cover compared to employee benefits.   
The policy was designed  to pay out a lump sum in the event of Mr Ns death, 
ensuring that Mrs N  who wasnt working  and didnt  have an income  would be left 
with a mortgage-free home. 
The £50 compensation offered by the business for the distress and inconvenience 
caused is fair and reasonable  the circumstances. 
Mr N disagreed with the investigators conclusions. In summary,  he made the following  
points:
The business is refusing to disclose  vital information that would  confirm  its 
requirement to have life cover  and building cover. This is evidence  of malpractice 
which is no different to the PPI scandal. The documentation provided shows  they had 
no choice but to take out cover.  
He disagreed with the investigators  comments about job security. With his 
postgraduate qualifications, and industry  expansion, he had a choice of companies to 
work for, with attractive salaries, benefits  and absolute job security.  
The employee benefits were written  into his contract that couldnt be removed without 
providing equivalent compensation. His death  in service benefit made life cover  
completely unnecessary.  
The investigator hasnt mentioned  buildings  insurance which  was available cheaper 
with other providers. 
Mr Ns former wife was working  between  1970 to 1975.  She only stopped  after 
having their daughter   it was decided that their daughter would benefit from daily 
care rather  than Mrs N going  out to work.  
The situation remained until they separated, sold their house and terminated the 
mortgage. 
The investigator having considered the additional points wasnt  persuaded to change his 
mind. In short, he said:
Given the length of time  over 40 years  since the policy  was sold  its not 
unreasonable that the business doesnt  have more information. His findings are 
based on the limited  available  information.  
Despite Mr Ns circumstances, it doesnt  mean  that the policy  was unsuitable, 
particularly given  that his former wife wasnt working  throughout the majority  of the 
time the policy was in place. 
Mr N disagreed with the investigators view and asked  for an ombudsmans  decision. He 
made the following key points:
At the point of sale, hed been with his employer for 18 months with guaranteed  
death in service benefit, which  wouldve  more  than covered his mortgage. 
The business was made aware  but still insisted on them  purchasing life cover, 
without which they wouldnt be granted the mortgage. So, the business  forced  them 
to purchase life cover they didnt want or need.
He had continuous guaranteed death  in service benefit from his employer and 
doesnt understand the relevance of mentioning his former  wife not working after 
1975. The policy was granted in 1979 purely  based on his earnings. 
Ref: DRN86599843The investigator made the following  submissions:
He appreciates that Mr N was employed but having separate life cover  that isnt 
dependent on remaining with an employer  isnt unreasonable.  
He appreciates  with the benefit  of hindsight  Mr N remained  with his employer for 
a considerable  period but despite  what Mr N says, there was no guarantee that was 
going to be the case,  when the policy  was taken out. 
In 1979 Mr Ns former wife wasnt working. 
The business was entitled to set the conditions of its lending, so hes unable to say 
buildings insurance was an unreasonable requirement. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions, for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint.
 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what  Mr N says, Im unable to safely  
say the business has done anything wrong  by recommending a decreasing  term assurance 
policy in respect of a repayment mortgage. 
Because Mr and Mrs N took out the decreasing term assurance  policy  before the Financial 
Services Act 1986 came into force in 1988, there were different requirements when giving 
advice. The common law duty to act with reasonable skill and care when making a 
recommendation applied, rather than the suitability requirement which  applied  afterwards. In 
other words, any recommendation had to be appropriate for the consumers circumstances  
(ie a reasonable fit).
Therefore, I must consider this complaint  in relation to the rules  and regulations  as they were  
in 1979. At the time the business  wasnt  required  to retain detailed  paperwork about any 
conversations that took place. Therefore, its understandable that there  may not be 
documentation to show what  specific  advice  was given. So, its no surprise  that given the 
passage of time  roughly over 40 years since the point of sale  only a very limited number 
of documents  relating to this policy are available. This isnt something  I can blame the 
business for. In any case, businesses arent required to retain  information  indefinitely. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what  Mr N says, Im unable to say that 
the recommendation in 1979  was inappropriate for them  at the time in respect of their new 
mortgage that they were taking.
But before I explain  why this is the case, I think its important for me to note that I recognise 
Mr Ns strength of feeling about this matter. He has provided detailed  submissions to support 
the complaint,  which Ive read and considered carefully. However,  I hope  he wont take the 
fact my findings focus on what I consider  to be the central issues, and not in as much  detail, 
as a discourtesy.  
The purpose of my decision isnt to address  every  single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented  by him and the business, and reach what I think  is an independent, 
fair and reasonable decision based  on the facts of the case. 
Ref: DRN86599844In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must take into account the relevant law, regulation 
and best industry  practice, but Im not bound  by this. Its for me to decide, based  on the 
information Ive been given, whats more  likely  than not to have happened.  I can confirm that 
I dont need any further information  in order to reach a decision in this case. 
Despite what Mr N says, on balance Im unable to agree that this recommendation was 
inappropriate.
In the event of Mr N dying  before the mortgage was repaid,  the recommended  life policy was 
designed to fully repay the outstanding borrowing. And the policy  was designed  to go down 
in line with the outstanding loan amount, over the term of the mortgage.  So, in the 
circumstances I don't think the policy was an inappropriate  recommendation. And given the 
length of time that it was maintained, I cant say that Mr and Mrs N didnt meet the 
affordability and eligibility requirements for the policy either.
Im aware that in the late 1970s and the 1980s, life cover was a common  condition amongst 
many mortgage lenders,  particularly for domestic  mortgages. In this instance,  I note that the 
business is unable  to say for sure, whether (or not) it was a condition of Mr and Mrs Ns 
mortgage. 
However, on a balance of probabilities, I think its more likely than not that life cover was a 
condition. But nevertheless, in my opinion the complaint doesnt hinge  on life cover  being a 
condition of the mortgage.
If life cover wasnt  a condition, its possible that the adviser recommended  Mr and Mrs N 
take out life cover to protect their mortgage. If he did it, Im not persuaded that he was wrong 
to do so. 
In the circumstances, I would expect the business to advise Mr and Mrs N to take out life 
cover as there was, despite what Mr N says, evidently a need. So that in the event of Mr Ns 
death, Mrs N is left with a mortgage-free property. And thats probably why they chose to 
maintain the cover rather than cancel it early. 
In my view, Mr N has drawn conclusions, based upon the available  information, which  he 
says proves that the advice was inappropriate. But I simply dont agree with the conclusions 
hes reached.
Im mindful of the points made by him about his employee benefits. It is the case that those 
employee benefits would only have been available whilst Mr N remained in that particular 
employment. And even  if he did stay in that employment  with the benefit of hindsight I can 
see that he has  there  was no guarantee (at the time) that the benefits wouldnt be 
withdrawn or changed in future by his employer. 
Whilst I appreciate Mr Ns points, the policy, in contrast,  would continue to provide cover  as 
long as the premiums  were paid. Despite what Mr N says, employee benefits arent 
generally considered  to be an adequate  replacement for life cover  for a mortgage. This is 
common industry practice, and not something thats  limited to the business. 
A business, in reasonable exercise  of its legitimate commercial judgement, is entitled to set 
the conditions  of its lending. In this instance it seems more  likely than not buildings 
insurance was a condition  as is still common industry practice  which I cant say is 
unreasonable. 
Ref: DRN86599845I also note that Mr and Mrs N were obliged to take out this insurance with the business. If 
they were unhappy  with this, they were  entitled to find another lender who perhaps didnt 
have this condition.  I appreciate it wouldve  been  inconvenient to do so as they were re-
mortgaging at the time, but it seems they had that option to try and find a different lender. 
I note that the business offered to pay Mr and Mrs N £50 compensation for the delays in 
responding to their complaint. In the circumstances I think  this is fair and reasonable. Im 
mindful that the complaint  started off life as a PPI complaint and there  was some confusion  
following a change in their complaint. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs N will be disappointed Ive reached the same conclusion as the 
investigator. Furthermore, I realise my decision isn't what they want  to hear. But on the face 
of the available evidence, Im unable to uphold this complaint  and give them  what they want.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 January 2021.
Dara Islam
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8659984