K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) have rejected a claim he made  under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974 (section75) relating to a package holiday.
background
Mr S booked a package holiday in January 2018 using his Santander credit card. He was 
disappointed with the holiday and complained to the travel company. Our investigator set out 
his complaint in detail  in the view he provided earlier  this year and I wont  repeat all of that 
detail here.  But, in brief, Mr S complained that:
the cruise ship was changed to an inferior one for which he would have paid less;
the hotel was of a poor quality. In particular he experienced poor service; long 
queues and substandard food;
the excursions  were  sub standard.
The travel company rejected his complaint so he contacted Santander. He said that section 
75 allowed him to make  a like complaint against  the credit provider as he would against the 
supplier. He therefore asked Santander  to provide  some redress. He said the holiday hed 
been provided was more  like a two star holiday than the five star holiday hed booked.
Santander rejected  his claim as they said the necessary debtor, creditor, supplier (DCS) link 
had not been shown.  So Mr S referred his complaint  to this service.
Our investigator liaised  with Santander  and they eventually  accepted  that the substance  of 
the complaint  could  be considered and their DCS  link argument  wasnt valid in these 
circumstances. 
So the investigator considered the merits of Mr Ss complaint. He noted  that the terms of the 
contract allowed  for suitable alternative  arrangements to be made. So he studied the 
specifications of the original cruise  ship Mr S had booked on and the alternative  that had 
been provided. He didnt  think  there was much  difference so he thought a suitable alternative 
had been supplied. He said it was reasonable to suggest some  changes would sometimes 
be necessary.
He didnt think the evidence Mr S had provided was sufficient to confirm  the extent  of the 
problems he said hed experienced. He accepted  thered been some issues and that some 
issues had also been rectified for Mr S during his trip but others may have been outstanding. 
But he wasnt persuaded these had spoiled the holiday and he noted that the feedback Mr S 
had provided during  his break  was positive or moderate.
He went on to consider  the excursions and in particular he considered the 22 hour day trip 
Mr S had complained  about. But, again,  he didnt think  hed been provided  with sufficient 
evidence to persuade him the information  given to Mr S before he took the excursion had 
been inadequate or that the excursion  had been  sub standard.
Overall, he didnt think there was evidence  that there had been a breach of contract or that 
the holiday had been misrepresented to Mr S and he didnt think Santander  needed to take 
any further action.
But Mr S disagreed and he asked  for a final decision by an ombudsman.
Ref: DRN80940742my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr S but I agree with the investigators view of this complaint. Please 
let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When considering  a complaint about a financial  services provider,  Im not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section  75. I take section 75 into account 
when I think about  whats a fair way to resolve the complaint but I dont have  to reach the 
same view as, for example, a court might reach if Mr S made a claim through them for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
When something goes  wrong  and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a credit 
card, as is the case here,  it might  be possible  to recover the money paid through a section 
75 claim. This section  of the Consumer Credit  Act (1974) says that in certain  circumstances, 
the borrower under a credit  agreement has a like right to claim against  the credit  provider as 
against the supplier  if there's  either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier.
the change to the cruise ship
Santander have  explained that the terms of the contract allowed suitable alternative 
arrangements to be made. Having reviewed the two cruise ships in question  I think  their 
specifications could  be considered to be similar  and the alternative ship therefore  reasonably  
considered to be suitable. Ive not seen  evidence that a trip on this replacement  vessel 
would be cheaper.
Mr S has explained that the ship was older than the original and that its fixtures were tired 
and in need of upgrading but theres  been  little evidence to demonstrate  this. Ive reviewed 
the photographs he sent which show some  problems  i.e. a broken bin and damaged  door, 
but Im not persuaded this is sufficient to suggest the ship wasnt a suitable  alternative or the 
cruise was unsatisfactory. I think its clear from Mr Ss feedback  forms that he only rated the 
food a two out of five. But there  were  other  things  he gave five stars to such  as the cabin, the 
tours, the guide and a party. I dont  think that overall this reflects a high level of 
dissatisfaction which would infer the cruise  had been of an unsatisfactory quality or had been 
misrepresented. 
the hotel accommodation
Whilst I understand Mr Ss testimony  that things were wrong at the hotel hes not provided  
much further  evidence to support his complaint and the hotels testimony disputes his claims. 
Ref: DRN80940743Theres insufficient evidence provided  to persuade me that the hotel was sub standard or 
misrepresented.
the excursions
Mr S has explained that he took several excursions but is disappointed he wasnt  told thered  
be blanket trips to places  like papyrus factories and is particularly upset about a day trip to 
the capital. He says he wasnt told the trip would  take 22 hours and that he would not be 
provided with refreshments. Hes also disappointed  that he had to pay extra  to get in to see 
key areas  of the exhibits at the attraction.
I understand that Mr S says much  of the information  provided on the 22 hour trip had been  
provided in a presentation and Ive not been provided with that. From  the very limited  
advertisement Ive seen  its not possible to say the trip was misrepresented  as it appears  
Mr S did receive the flights, lunch and trips to the sites that were suggested.
Ive not seen any evidence of the other trips being sub standard  or of Mr S being  promised 
things that didnt happen. I note that he rated the excursions as 5/5 on his feedback form so 
Im not persuaded that overall, there is evidence the excursions were mis-sold or were of 
unsatisfactory quality.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 February  2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8094074