K820x#14Complaint
This complaint is about a regular premium  mortgage  payment protection insurance (MPPI) 
policy. Mr H says he was mis-sold such a policy in 1997 when he was taking out a mortgage.
It looks like the policy was sold through an intermediary acting for Norwich & Peterborough  
Building Society. But Yorkshire Building  Society is now responsible  for the sale.
For consistency, Im going to refer mainly to YBS when talking about those involved in 
selling Mr H the MPPI.
Background
One of our adjudicators looked  into this complaint  and said it shouldnt be upheld. Mr H 
disagreed so the complaint has been  passed to me for an ombudsmans decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint. Im sorry to disappoint Mr H.
Ive looked very carefully into what Mr H has told us about the sale and Ive spoken  with him 
personally on the phone. He says the sale of the MPPI wasnt  made  clear  enough and he 
was quite young at the time.  He says he felt pressured into taking it out. He he also says 
the MPPI  wasnt something  he needed because he already had a good job which came 
with good benefits.
Because these  events  took place back in 1997, we only have some documents left to refer 
to and its likely that much of the other  sale documentation no longer exists. So given the 
difficult and disputed nature of this case,  my decision is based on the balance of 
probabilities  i.e. whats  more  likely  to have  happened. I also need to recognise  that Mr Hs 
recollection of events - however genuine - are 22 years old and may have understandably 
been affected by the passage of time.
 
The first thing I considered was whether  Mr H ever gave his consent to the MPPI policy 
being added to his mortgage.  YBS cant send me anything to say that he definitely did 
agree, but we do still have access to the Mortgage  Offer Mr H was given. As this is an 
important part of the house buying process, I feel this is a document  Mr H would have 
wanted to read quite  carefully.
The Offer does say that certain products are compulsory. But it says MPPI is strongly  
recommended - theres nothing to say that he has to buy it. So I think  its more likely hed 
have been able to see that the mortgage  came with some conditions, but having MPPI 
wasnt one of them. On this basis I think its more likely he provided his consent.
YBS says this wasnt an advised sale but I think its more likely it was because  of the 
involvement of an intermediary. This means YBS was under an additional  and higher duty 
to ensure the MPPI  was suitable for Mr Hs individual  situation.
Ref: DRN83271892Overall, I think it probably was.
I think this because he was eligible for the cover and I dont think that hed have been  
caught by any of the major exclusions we tend to see in these policies. 
Looking at the type of work  Mr H did, I think its right that he would have probably enjoyed 
relatively good protection against  sickness and unemployment. I also think  he would have 
had some pension  provision at the time (which  he specifically  asked  me to consider). 
Theres no doubt in my mind that he had a good  job.
So whilst I fully understand why hes said all this Im afraid  these things dont necessarily 
mean the policy was of no use. I think his mortgage would have been a significant financial 
commitment and the consequences  of not being  able to keep up the payments could have 
been serious. In the event of a successful claim,  the MPPI could have  paid a monthly  
benefit of around  £860 which would have been  in addition to  and probably longer for  
any work-related benefits, or other arrangements, he already had in place. The MPPI,  for 
example, would have paid out for up to 24 months in the event of accident / sickness or 12 
months for unemployment.
Taking account of all these things,  I cant agree  the policy was unsuitable for Mr H. 
Clearly, after such a long period of time,  I cant say what  was said during Mr Hs meeting(s) 
with YBS or whether he was given all the information he should have been. But theres  no 
doubt he was sold MPPI,  so I think its likely  he would have been given a written summary 
description of the cover.  YBS sent me a copy of a leaflet that was in use at the time and Ive 
got no reason  to think  as a new policyholder - he wouldnt have been given this. The 
leaflet set out the rules and general cost of the MPPI. On balance  I therefore feel Mr H 
would have had access to the information  he needed in order to make an informed choice.
I dont doubt Mr H has given us his very best recollections of what  happened back in 1997 
and I understand  he believes  now that he didnt need the MPPI. But the little information I do 
still have access to after all this time leads me to think that it was more likely  that he was 
suitably advised  and would have discussed how the policy should be set up. And I think he 
would have known  he had choice.
For these reasons I cant safely conclude the policy was mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint. And I dont direct 
Yorkshire Building Society to do anything to put matters right. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 September  2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8327189