K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs R say Yorkshire Building  Society (trading at the time as Chelsea Building 
Society) mis-sold  them a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 2007. 
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should be upheld. In brief, she didnt  think  
there was enough  evidence  to show that Mr and Mrs R were given the opportunity to confirm 
actively that they wanted to take the PPI (for example by signing specifically for it). And she 
said YBS hadnt  shown  that it set out the cost of the policy separately.
YBS disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the complaints been  passed to me.
my provisional findings
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr and 
Mrs R and to YBS on 28 June 2019.  I summarise my findings:
I explained that where the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive  I need to decide what  
I thinks most likely  to have happened, based on the information I have.
I looked as if YBS sold Mr and Mrs R the PPI policy  during  a phone call. Its internal 
record shows that it phoned and spoke to Mrs R. And it says that during the call, it sold 
cover against ASHU (accident, sickness, hospitalisation and unemployment).  It also 
notes that a quote for buildings and contents insurance wasnt  needed. 
YBS has given us a sample of the form in use at the time,  which  it says its adviser  would 
have completed during the phone call. The form includes Y and N boxes to mark to 
indicate whether  the customer wished to take PPI. I thought it was unlikely that PPI 
would have been added to Mr and Mrs Rs account if the box hadnt  been ticked  to 
indicate that they consented to go ahead with the PPI. 
Taking everything into account,  I thought  it was more likely than not that the adviser 
made Mr and Mrs R aware that the PPI was optional and that they chose  to take it. But 
I could understand  how they may no longer remember  this, so many years  later.
Mr and Mrs R say YBS recommended  the PPI to them. But YBS says it didnt. I couldnt 
be sure whether  or not YBS recommended that Mr and Mrs R take out the policy. But 
this didnt make a difference  to my decision. If YBS did recommend the policy  to them,  it 
had a responsibility to check that it was suitable for them.  But it didnt look as if it was 
unsuitable, based on what Id seen of Mr and Mrs Rs circumstances at the time.
Mr and Mrs R have told us that theyd both have been entitled to sick pay from their 
employers at the time. But if theyd made  a successful  claim on the PPI, it would have 
covered their mortgage payments for up to 12 months. Thats longer than Mr and Mrs R 
have told us either of them would have  been  entitled to full sick pay for. And it would 
have paid out in addition  to any payments  they received from their employers, allowing 
them to use those  to meet  other  expenses. 
Ref: DRN84344742Mr and Mrs R also say their families  could have helped if need be. But circumstances 
can change, and I couldnt  be sure that Mr and Mrs Rs families would have been in a 
position to help if the need had arisen.
Id also borne in mind  that the mortgage  was a long-term financial commitment,  secured  
on Mr and Mrs Rs property. So I thought theyd have valued  the peace  of mind that the 
PPI gave them that their mortgage would continue to be paid if either of them was off 
sick, or lost their job. And taking everything into account, I thought the PPI could have  
provided Mr and Mrs R with a useful benefit.
It was possible that YBS could have explained  the cost of the policy better than it did. But 
I thought Mr and Mrs R chose  to take the policy, knowing that they didnt have to  even 
if theyve understandably forgotten that now. And the policy was competitively priced. So 
even if YBS had given  Mr and Mrs R better information about  the cost of the policy,  
I thought theyd still have bought it.
I acknowledged that it was possible that YBS didnt  point out the main things the policy  
didnt cover (for example,  unusual employment arrangements, or existing medical  
conditions). But based on what theyd told us about their circumstances at the time,  
I thought it was unlikely Mr and Mrs R would have been affected by any of these.
So based on what Id seen so far, I wasnt intending to uphold  Mr and Mrs Rs complaint.
further submissions
Mr and Mrs R and YBS have confirmed that theyve received my provisional decision, and 
that they have  nothing  further to add.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Rs case. Having done so, I cant see any reason to depart from the findings 
I set out in my provisional decision.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 August 2019.
Juliet Collins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8434474