K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B complained that they were  mis-sold  a mortgage payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy by Newcastle  Building Society  (NBS).
background
Ive attached my provisional decision from March 2019, which  forms part of this final 
decision. In my provisional  decision I explained  why I didnt propose to uphold  
Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. I invited NBS and Mr and Mrs B to send in any further comments 
or evidence  they wanted me to consider by 29 April 2019, before I reached a final decision. 
Neither NBS nor Mr and Mrs B had anything they wanted to add. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As neither NBS nor Mr and Mrs B 
provided further evidence or arguments for consideration, Ive no reason to change  the 
conclusions set out in my provisional decision. So I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 June 2019.
Jan Ferrari
ombudsman
Ref: DRN80433392COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr and Mrs B complained that they were mis-sold  a mortgage payment protection  insurance  (PPI)  
policy by Newcastle Building Society (NBS).
background
Mr and Mrs B bought the PPI policy  when  they applied  for a mortgage in August 1995. NBS said the 
sale took place in a branch of the society, but that it didnt  recommend the policy  for Mr and Mrs B. 
However Mr and Mrs B thought that the PPI had been recommended for them - and indeed  they said 
they hadnt  been given  a choice about taking it. 
The policy provided  accident,  sickness  and unemployment cover for Mr and Mrs B at a monthly  cost 
of £15.71. The monthly benefit was £275.54. This was split equally between  them, so if one of them 
had made  a successful  claim, the policy  couldve paid out half of the monthly benefit for up to 12 
months per claim. (Mr B did in fact make a successful claim in 2000).
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should  be upheld because Mrs B said she had health problems  
at the time of the sale, which wouldve meant her ability to claim on the policy wouldve been limited. 
NBS disagreed, and asked that it be referred to an ombudsman for review.  
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Bs case.
I disagree with our adjudicator, and Im not proposing  to uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. Ill explain 
why.
NBS sent in copies of Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage  application form and mortgage offer,  along with 
copies of the policy and leaflets covering  the mortgage product and the PPI. 
I can see from the application form that Mr and Mrs B ticked a box to say they wanted PPI, and that 
both of them  should be covered. They couldve ticked a different box to say they didnt want PPI at all.
NBS said that it was a condition of the mortgage product  a fixed rate  that they took out one of 
three insurance products for the fixed rate period. The copy of the leaflet about the fixed  rate that NBS 
sent in is of quite poor quality. But from what I can make  out, this seems right.  This wasnt uncommon  
at that time  and I have no evidence to suggest that Mr and Mrs B couldnt have chosen a different 
mortgage product if they didnt want to have  any insurance through  NBS.  I can see from the mortgage 
application that Mr and Mrs B took out buildings  insurance, and as this was one of the three options,  
they werent required to take PPI as well. 
Ive thought about what Mr and Mrs B said about not being given a choice about the PPI. But I think  
what theyre probably remembering is the requirement  to have an insurance product to get the fixed  
rate, rather than a requirement to take PPI. Thats  not surprising given that it was all so long ago. 
Taking all this into account, I think its most likely that Mr and Mrs B were given  a choice about  taking 
the PPI, and decided to do so. 
NBS and Mr and Mrs B disagree about whether  advice was given about the PPI. But even if I treat 
this as an advised  sale - which holds NBS to a higher standard - this doesnt affect my decision, as I 
think the PPI was suitable  for Mr and Mrs B.
Ref: DRN80433393As the sale took place in a meeting, I cant know how the NBS representative might  have explained  
the main limitations and exclusions in the policy  to Mr and Mrs B. Mrs B said she had health problems 
at the time of the sale  and our adjudicator  thought the complaint  should be upheld as Mrs Bs ability  
to claim on the policy wouldve been affected.  However, when we asked Mrs B for more information, 
she said that this condition had occurred  in 1978   so some 17 years earlier and she hadnt required 
ongoing checks or had any subsequent issues. So Ive no reason  to think that Mrs Bs problems in 
1978 wouldve  affected her ability to claim on the policy  sold in 1995.  
Mrs B said she wouldve been entitled to sick pay from her employer, and a reference letter sent in 
with the mortgage application stated this to be five months full pay followed by five months half pay. 
Mr Bs reference letter  from the time of the sale stated that he would only have been  entitled to 
statutory sick pay. Mr and Mrs B also mentioned having savings to cover the mortgage for four to six 
months. They said they had life and critical illness  cover  but that wouldnt have paid out in the same 
circumstances. 
From all this I think  Mr and Mrs B couldve found it difficult to meet  the mortgage payments for any 
length of time if one of them was off sick or had lost their job. Ive kept in mind  that the policy couldve 
paid out for up to 12 months in the event of a successful claim, allowing them to use their savings  for 
other everyday living  expenses. 
Its not clear how the monthly cost of the PPI was set out to Mr and Mrs B at the point of sale,  
although the mortgage application shows the cost per £100 of benefit in the PPI section of the form.  
But the cost was clearly  shown on the mortgage offer, and Ive no evidence  to suggest that cost was 
an issue. So overall, I think the PPI couldve  provided  a useful benefit to protect what  was a major 
commitment. 
I note that Mr and Mrs B made a successful claim  on the policy in 2000.  When  bringing the complaint 
about the mis-sale, they mentioned that the policy had only paid out half of the monthly benefit 
amount each month. However, this seems to be in line with the cover being split equally  between  
them.
On balance, although I cant say for certain that NBS clearly explained all of the policy  details, I think 
Mr and Mrs B would still have bought the policy. It couldve  provided valuable protection if theyd been  
unable to work. This means I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. So NBS doesnt need to refund 
everything Mr and Mrs B paid for it. 
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im not proposing  to uphold  Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
Jan Ferrari
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8043339