K821x#15complaint
Miss B says it was irresponsible for Madison CF UK Limited (trading as 118 118 Money)  to 
lend her money in 2017.
background
In July 2017, 118 118 Money lent Miss B £2,000. Miss B said she was borrowing the money 
to consolidate  existing debt, and agreed to repay the amount she borrowed,  with interest, 
over 24 months. The monthly loan repayment was £156.08, and if Miss B made all her 
payments as and when  they were due shed pay £3,745.92 in total.
Miss B thinks it was irresponsible  to lend her this money. She says she was in financial 
difficulties at the time she applied for the loan  and that since the took out this loan shes  
ended up in even  greater difficulties and has had to move out of her home into shared 
accommodation.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 18 May 2020. I said that based on what 
Id seen so far, I thought the complaint should  be upheld.
Miss B says she agrees with my provisional  findings. 118 118 Money confirm  they have 
nothing further  to add.
Ive therefore  looked  at the complaint again.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable I have taken into account relevant law and 
regulations; regulators  rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and what I 
consider to have  been good industry  practice  at the time.
As 118 118 Money was entering  a regulated credit agreement, it needed to assess Miss Bs 
creditworthiness, including the potential for the commitments under the agreement to 
adversely impact Miss Bs financial situation,  and the ability for Miss B to make  repayments 
as they fell due over the term of the loan.
In particular, the regulators rules that applied to 118 118 Money  at the time said it needed to 
take reasonable steps to assess  Miss Bs ability to meet the repayments under the 
agreement in a sustainable manner without  Miss B incurring  financial difficulties or 
experiencing significant adverse consequences. This included Miss B being  able to make 
the payments  on time while meeting her other reasonable commitments and without having  
to borrow to meet the repayments.
What checks are proportionate will depend on the individual circumstances of the sale.  This 
includes what 118 118 Money knew about Miss Bs circumstances at the time, how long the 
loan was to run for, and the amount of the repayments. With this in mind, Id expect  checks  
to be more thorough:
The longer  the term of the loan,
Ref: DRN86503732The less the customers income,
The higher  the amount to be repaid,
The greater the number and frequency of loans  or the longer the lending  relationship.
In my provisional decision,  I explained  that I thought  the complaint should be upheld.  I said:
Ive looked at what 118 118 Money did. I see that as part of the application  
118 118 Money asked Miss B for details of her income and regular outgoings.  It 
appears Miss B told the business  she was earning £1,500,  and had outgoings of 
£695 a month.  The outgoings included £350  on rent, £35 on council tax, £60 on food, 
£100 on card payments,  and £150  on other loans.
118 118 Money  also used a report from a credit reference agency. Looking over the 
information 118 118 Money had, I can see some indications that Miss B was in 
financial difficulties. First, I note three of the accounts shown on the report  had active 
defaults. The most recent of these, in January 2017,  defaulted  with a balance  of £107 
 the others had balances of £159  and £313. I think this itself raised questions about 
the affordability of Miss Bs new commitment   Miss B was already having difficulties 
meeting her existing debts, which was in one case less than her new monthly 
commitment. 
Shed exceeded  the limit of her credit card for the previous two months, and there  
was evidence of cash advances on her credit  card.  From January 2017 onwards, 
shed taken 5 short term and longer-term unsecured loans. I also see the credit file 
showed shed  recently opened a short-term loan with an outstanding balance  of 
£684.
Given what Ive said above, I think it was important  to consider whether Miss B could 
afford to take on new financial commitments. And so based  on what it knew about  
Miss Bs circumstances, I think  further checks would have  been  proportionate.
Ive therefore gone on to consider what further checks would likely have shown.
Miss B has sent me copies of her bank  statements.  In the absence of better  
information, I think the information shown  on this is likely to be indicative of what 
further checks might have revealed.
Ive first thought about the purpose of the loan. Miss B told 118 118 Money she was 
borrowing to consolidate  debt. Looking at the statements, I see that, in addition  to 
clearing her overdraft, she uses around  £550  of the money to repay  her defaulted 
accounts. She pays around  £200 to repay a short-term loan, and £250 to repay her 
credit card.  She also uses the loan to pay council tax arrears   shes sent us a 
notice showing that at the time she applied for this loan, she been told she needed to 
pay her council £143.22 within 7 days, and she paid a further £300 to a water and 
energy company.
But I see this wasnt enough to repay all her outstanding debts and bills  she 
attempted to pay the rest of her short-term debts,  but this direct  debit  was returned, 
as this payment  would have taken her significantly back  into her overdraft. 
I note that the statements  show that Miss Bs income was lower than that stated on 
the application. The salary paid into her account  that month was £1,353.17. I also 
Ref: DRN86503733see rent payments were around  £435 a month, which is more than she stated in her 
application.
I also see that in the two months  leading up to this loan application, Miss B spent a 
significant part of her income on existing credit commitments. Within two days of 
being paid in June 2017, Miss B had paid around  £1,200 to other  lenders. As this 
meant she was overdrawn, she also relied  on further borrowing from short  term 
lenders to meet her expenses. 
In June  2017  in particular, she took out a series of short term loans  the first on 
14 June, then further loans on 21 June, 22 June,  24 June  and 28 June.  This added 
to £795 in total. Yet despite this, I see Miss B still had difficulty  paying bills when they 
were due. She incurred  unplanned overdraft fees and direct debits were returned. I 
see returned direct debits from two telephone companies, in June and July. And on 
the day Miss B applied  for this loan from 118 118 Money,  her bank account was 
£600 overdrawn. 
Based on what Ive seen,  then, Miss B was in financial difficulties at the time she 
applied for this loan.  She was relying  on short term credit and using her credit card 
and overdraft limits to manage her existing credit  commitments and utility bills.
Given the way Miss B was managing her finances, I think there was a real prospect 
that shed need to use further borrowing to fund the payments towards  this new loan. 
And so I think that if 118 118 Money had carried out further checks  it would more 
likely have not have  realised that the payments towards this new loan were not 
sustainable, and refused  to lend. 
Ive considered the further  points  118 118 Money  has raised. It says that Miss B 
used this loan to settle her defaults, and that one of these  had in fact been settled 
some years previously. Im satisfied, as Ive already  explained, that the presence of 
these defaults  at the time she applied for the money suggested Miss B was already 
having difficulty meeting  her payments.  118 118 Money also say that although Miss B 
exceeded the limits on her credit limit in four out of the last eight months, this was 
only by small amounts. But credit cards  often do not allow consumers to continue 
spending once  theyve reached their limit. And finally, I note Miss B may have made 
most of the payments.  However I also see that the payments towards  this account 
fell due shortly after Miss B was paid  and when the business  later changed the 
repayment date so it fell later in the month, Miss B missed the payment. So Im not 
persuaded that this shows Miss B could sustainably meet  these repayments.  Ive 
considered the other points 118 118 Money  has raised, but these dont change  my 
conclusions.
Miss B has told us she agrees with my provisional  findings. 118 118 Money says it has 
received my provisional  decision, but it has nothing further to add. Ive reconsidered the 
case. Having done so, I reach the same conclusions for the same  reasons.
putting things right
Madison CF UK Limited shouldnt have given Miss B the loan. 
(a)Madison CF UK should  add together the total of the repayments  made  by Miss B 
towards interest, fees and charges
Ref: DRN86503734(b)It should calculate 8% simple  interest* on the individual payments made by Miss B 
that were considered  as part of (a) , calculated from the date on which the payments 
were made to the date the complaint is settled.
Madison CF UK should then refund  the amount it worked out in (a) and (b).
(c)Madison CF UK should  then remove  any adverse  information  recorded on Miss Bs 
credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs  requires Madison CF UK Limited to deduct tax from this interest. It should give Miss B 
a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if Miss B asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  above I uphold the complaint.  I direct Madison CF UK Limited  to put things 
right by doing what Ive said above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 July 2020.
Edward Hardman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8650373