K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that HSBC UK Bank plc mis-sold him a packaged bank  account.  He paid a 
monthly fee for the account which provided  several benefits in return.
His complaint is brought on his behalf  by a claims management company.
background
Mr S upgraded from a fee free account  to HSBCs Advance account in August 2010.  HSBC 
cant tell us how the account was upgraded, but Mr S recalls this was during a phone  call.
When Mr S upgraded, the account  cost £12.95  each  month and provided worldwide family 
travel insurance, car breakdown cover, life cover  and accidental  death benefit, preferential  
overdraft and savings  rates  and fee free around  the world cash  withdrawals  alongside a 
range of other benefits.
Mr S told us he still has the account  because he doesnt want  the hassle of downgrading.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  Mr S disagreed. His 
representative said, on his behalf  and in summary, that:
He was told he had to have the account  and that it was the best account for him.
He was told the account would save him money, but its proved expensive because  of 
the monthly fees.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve explained  how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website.  
Ive used this approach  to help decide what to do about Mr Ss complaint. And where 
evidence is incomplete  and matters are in dispute, as they are here, I make my decision 
based on what I think is most likely to have happened, given the evidence that is available 
and the wider circumstances at the time.
Having carefully thought  about everything  Ive seen, Im not upholding  this complaint. Id like 
to explain why.
Ive firstly  thought about whether Mr S was given  a clear choice in taking this account.  Mr S 
recalls he was told he had to have the account.  But I havent seen anything to suggest that 
he couldnt have  kept his fee-free account if hed wanted to. Also, fee-free accounts have 
always been, and continue to be, available in the UK. 
Mr S told us hed been pressured into agreeing to the account  upgrade.  But he hasnt said 
how or why. Overall, the evidence does not persuade me that HSBC pressured Mr S into 
agreeing to the account or made  him think he didnt have a choice. On balance,  I think  its 
more likely that he chose  to upgrade to the Advance account, knowing that he didnt have  to 
agree to it if he didnt  want  to.
Ref: DRN83242122HSBC says it didnt  recommend  the account  to Mr S, but Mr S recalls  he was advised to take 
it. I dont  need  to make a finding on this point,  because  it makes no difference to the 
outcome of this complaint. Thats because the evidence suggests the account was right for 
Mr S based  on his personal circumstances at the time in any event.
It seems  likely that Mr S wouldve been  interested in a number  of the benefits.  He travelled 
abroad, so was likely  to have found the travel insurance and fee free cash  withdrawals 
attractive. The banks  provided evidence that he did benefit from the fee free cash  
withdrawals and that he made a claim under the car breakdown insurance. He also had an 
overdraft facility in place when he upgraded and, since the upgrade, the facility  has been  
used. Mr S wouldve received a discount  of at least 2% off the banks standard  debit interest 
rate.
Given that Mr S was interested in, and was able to use, these benefits,  I dont  think  the PBA 
was unsuitable  for him.
HSBC also had to give Mr S important information  about the account benefits. I accept its 
possible that HSBC  might not have given him all of the information  it shouldve about all of 
the account benefits. But Ive not seen anything  specific about his circumstances that make 
me think he wouldve  been put off from upgrading to the Advance account, had he been 
given more information about it.
Because of this, I dont think, on balance,  the Advance account was mis-sold to Mr S.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2019.
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8324212