K821x#15complaint
Mr F complained that Ageas Insurance Limited wouldnt pay his claim under his tools  in 
transit insurance policy.
background
Mr F said that his work tools were  stolen from his van while  it was locked and parked near 
his workplace. But Ageas declined his claim. They said the theft wasnt covered because  
there was no evidence of forced entry to his van. But Mr F thought that the thief must have 
gained access to his van in some other way, such as by using a skeleton  key. 
The investigator recommended  that the complaint should be upheld. He thought  that Ageas 
hadnt acted reasonably in refusing the claim. So he recommended  that Ageas deal with 
Mr Fs claim in line with the policy terms.
Ageas didnt agree and so the case has been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr F said that he left his van locked and secured  while he was working  nearby.  When he 
went back to his van he noticed that his tools were gone. He couldnt see any signs  of forced 
entry. He reported  the theft to the police. He said that the police told him thered been a 
spate of that type of theft in the area, that didnt  involve forced entry.  He felt that the theft 
could have happened using a skeleton  key for his type of van which he showed was easily  
available to buy online. 
Mr Fs policy didnt  cover  him for the theft of his tools unless hed left his van locked and 
secured, and it had been entered by forcible and violent means.  The policy wording doesnt 
define forcible and violent means. But I think that what  the policy meant  was gaining entry 
to a vehicle without the owners permission, and that could potentially  occur without causing 
damage. Generally we take the view that force can be any force including  turning a key in a 
lock, or lifting a handle.  So this could  include the use of a skeleton key or electronic device.  
Were aware  now that its possible, and has become more common,  for thieves to access 
cars with skeleton keys or specialist devices without  forcibly breaking in to them. 
Ageas didnt dispute that Mr F had left his vehicle locked. But without any evidence of 
forcible entry, they wouldnt settle his claim.  But they had found some press articles  about 
keyless theft. So they said theyd consider his claim if he could show them some evidence that 
there had been keyless thefts in the area around that time. 
Its clear that Mr F did try hard to get something supporting this from the police, but without 
success, through no fault of his own.
Ageas also tried to get information from the police to quantify keyless car thefts in the area. But 
the police couldnt reasonably provide the information that Ageas asked for, though they said that 
they might  be able to supply it if Ageas  narrowed down the location  and the time frame of 
their request. But Ageas dont seem  to have followed  that up. 
Ref: DRN82877432Insurers are entitled to have exclusions to protect  them if a policyholder hasnt left their 
vehicle secure, but Ageas  arent suggesting that here. Theyre  not disputing that Mr Fs van 
was locked, or that his tools were stolen. Mr F reported it to the police and the police  havent  
indicated any suspicions about it either.  Mr Fs given a reasonable explanation about what  
might have happened and about  what the police told him. Hes also tried to get supportive 
information from the police, and hes shown  Ageas  why he cant. 
Ultimately for an insurer to rely on a policy exclusion they must apply it fairly.  So its not up to 
Mr F to prove how the theft happened. Its up to Ageas to show that it was more likely than 
not that the theft happened because thieves accessed the van without using forcible or 
violent means, as we interpret it above.  And I dont think  that Ageas have got enough 
evidence to say that. So they havent  shown that there wasnt  forcible and violent entry  to 
the van. 
Overall I think  that Mr F gave Ageas enough  information to show  that his claim was covered 
by the policy,  but Ageas  havent  proven  that the exclusion applies against  him. So I dont 
think that theyve  been fair or reasonable and I think that they should deal with Mr Fs claim 
in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive discussed above,  its my final decision that I uphold this complaint. I 
require Ageas Insurance Limited to: 
Consider Mr Fs claim in line with his policys remaining terms and conditions.
Add interest to any cash settlement at the simple yearly  rate of 8%, from the date of 
claim to the date of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 March  2019.
Rosslyn Scott
ombudsman
If Ageas consider  that they are required by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off income  tax 
from that interest, they should tell Mr F how much theyve taken off and should also him a 
certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  & 
Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN8287743