K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains about the settlement Black Horse Limited (Black Horse) has offered since  
they agreed to allow him to reject  a vehicle he was financing through  them,  that proved to be 
of unsatisfactory  quality.
background
In September  2018 Mr W took receipt of a used car. He financed the deal through a hire 
purchase agreement  with Black Horse  but within a short space of time he had problems with 
the cars  suspension.  
Black Horse  agreed that the vehicle hadnt  been of satisfactory quality at the point of supply 
and they allowed Mr W to reject the car and end his finance agreement. They  also said 
theyd refund the two monthly instalments hed paid towards his agreement and the deposit 
hed paid of £100, and theyd add 8% simple interest  to those refunds.  And  they offered to 
compensate Mr W for the trouble and upset hed experienced by paying a further £200.
But Mr W wasnt happy with this settlement. He explained  that he needed the car for work 
and couldnt wait for his credit file to clear so he could get finance for another. He wanted  
Black Horse  to replace his vehicle or get it fixed. 
But Black Horse didnt agree. They said the suspension issue with the car was a known 
manufacturing fault and there wasnt a fix available. In those circumstances they thought 
Mr W had a reasonable claim to reject  the car and they thought  the settlement theyd offered 
was fair in the circumstances.  They said that, as a finance company, they were  unable  to 
offer a replacement car but once Mr Ws settlement had been  processed they would  be 
happy to consider financing a new arrangement. But they said they couldnt guarantee that 
would be possible as Mr Ws financial circumstances may have changed since  his last 
application.
Mr W was still dissatisfied  so he referred  his complaint to this service. But our investigator 
didnt think Black Horse had done anything wrong.  She thought it was clear Black  Horse 
needed to uphold Mr Ws complaint and allow him to reject the car. She understood that the 
dealership had confirmed there was no fix for the suspension fault,  so she couldnt  ask Black 
Horse to repair it, and she didnt think she could ask them  to replace the vehicle  as a like for 
like replacement would be very difficult to source.  She considered the offer that Black Horse  
had made  to Mr W was reasonable in the circumstances and she explained that if a new 
vehicle was financed  Black Horse would be obligated to run credit  checks.
But Mr W was disappointed and he asked for a final decision by an ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators view and for similar reasons.  Please  let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ref: DRN89179312Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr W acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. The relevant law says that the car 
should have been of satisfactory quality when supplied and, as it wasnt, Black  Horse is 
responsible for putting this right.
I understand that Mr W is concerned that, should  he accept the rejection offer Black  Horse 
has made, he will currently struggle to obtain  preferential finance rates until his credit file 
clears. So, Ive considered whether Black Horse  has been reasonable here.
The other options available to Black  Horse were a replacement vehicle; a repair or a price  
reduction. Ill consider each in turn.
a replacement vehicle
Black Horse  isnt a car dealership and has limited scope to arrange a replacement. The 
dealership hasnt been willing to support  their request and in the absence  of their support I 
dont think it would be possible to arrange  a suitable alternative that wouldnt require a new 
finance agreement.
a repair
The suspension problem  Mr W complains of is apparently a known manufacturing  fault for 
which there is currently no resolution.  A repair is therefore not an option that Black Horse 
can consider
a price reduction
I can understand Black Horses reluctance  to approve a reduction.  Theres no guarantee that 
the current problem  would  not impact  other  areas of performance and render the vehicle un-
drivable. The car remains Black Horses property under a hire purchase agreement and 
theyd be understandably reluctant to sanction  this.
So I think the most reasonable option available to Black Horse  was to approve  a rejection of 
the vehicle and a termination of the finance  arrangement. 
Ive taken a look at whats been  included  in that settlement and think  its been  
comprehensively structured and Mr W is being compensated for all of the issues  this service  
would usually consider, to put him back in the situation he wouldve been in if the issue  
hadnt arisen in the first place.
Loan providers  have an obligation  to ensure  that the credit  they provide is affordable for 
consumers. So any future application  for finance would need to be credit checked.  
In these circumstances I think Black Horse has done all I would have expected of them and I 
dont think they need to take any further action.
Ref: DRN89179313my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 May 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8917931