K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that U K Insurance  Limited  (UKI)  declined  his travel insurance  claim for 
medical and related expenses.
My references to UKI include its emergency assistance services  and other agents.
background
Mr M had travel insurance through his bank account which  also covered his late wife, who Ill 
refer to as Mrs M.
In 2018 Mr and Mrs M and their daughter were  abroad on holiday  when Mrs M became ill 
and began vomiting blood.  She was admitted to hospital. After tests  she was diagnosed with 
peptic esophagitis,  liver encephalopathy  and liver cirrhosis.
Mr M had contacted UKI when his wife was first admitted to hospital.  UKI planned to 
repatriate Mrs M by air ambulance but that had to be cancelled  because her condition  was 
too unstable. 
While Mrs M was still in hospital UKI obtained  her GP records as part of its process to check 
if it would  cover the claim. On review of the medical  evidence UKI declined  the claim for two 
reasons. First, UKI said there was a link between at least one of the medical conditions 
Mrs M was being treated  for and her undeclared pre-existing  alcoholic liver disease, so there 
was no cover. Second, it said there was a link between the medical conditions Mrs M was 
being treated  for and alcohol abuse,  which is excluded  under the policy.  The policy  
excluded:
Any claim caused by drinking too much alcohol or alcohol abuse. We do not expect you to 
avoid drinking alcohol on your journeys or holidays, but we will not cover any medical  claims 
arising because  you have drunk so much alcohol that your judgement is seriously  affected.
When Mrs M became more stable Mr M paid for an air ambulance. Very sadly, Mrs M 
passed away shortly after the air ambulance arrived at the hospital.
Mr M complained to UKI about the decline of his claim. On review UKI accepted it couldnt 
fairly decline the claim on the basis that Mrs M hadnt disclosed alcoholic liver disease. But it 
continued to decline  the claim on the basis of the above alcohol abuse exclusion.
Mr M complained to us. In summary  he said:
UKI couldnt fairly say Mrs Ms medical history showed alcohol abuse. Mrs M sought 
treatment to reduce  her alcohol  intake. Her liver disease was only diagnosed shortly 
before the trip so her alcohol  consumption  couldnt have  been  too concerning. 
Although there was a referral there was no treatment or advice given to Mrs M which  
suggested low level concern at the time
Mrs M was admitted to hospital  abroad  due to grade II peptic esophagitis, which  
wasnt a pre-existing condition and wasnt  related to alcohol abuse.  The reports  from 
the treating doctors regarding the liver were observations that arose from tests so 
UKI couldnt fairly rely on the liver-related conditions  to decline the claim
Ref: DRN89422702UKI hadnt fairly applied the alcohol abuse exclusion. The policy  wording meant the 
exclusion only applied to claims  caused  by drinking excessive alcohol while  on 
holiday.
Mr M wants UKI to pay the claim.  He incurred  considerable expenses. He also wants 
compensation as he believes UKI breached the insurance contract  by not paying  the claim.
Our investigator explained why he thought UKI had fairly declined the claim.
Mr M disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision. He emphasised  that any consumer 
would read the exclusion  as applying  to a holiday situation where someone either had a 
drink and lost control so their judgement had been affected or where the quantity of alcohol 
consumed over the holiday  would  be alcohol abuse. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This is a terribly  sad case. Im very sorry for Mr M and his familys loss. 
Im also sorry  if my consideration of the circumstances of the case  causes Mr M additional 
distress, but I need to look at all the issues in deciding a fair and reasonable outcome.
I have to decide whether UKI fairly relied  on the alcohol abuse exclusion to decline Mr Ms 
claim, and I think it did. Ill explain why. 
Ive reviewed the medical evidence. Our investigator  detailed  Mrs Ms medical history and 
hospital treatment  abroad in his opinion letter. Im not going to repeat all Mrs Ms personal 
details in this decision but I do need to refer to some  matters. 
In summary,  Mrs Ms medical  history shows that from late 2017 to mid 2018 she was twice 
referred to the community alcohol team, she was diagnosed with a drinking problem  and with 
alcoholic liver disease and she attended  a hospital accident & emergency department  which 
was alcohol-related.
Although Mr M says there  was only low level concern, I think UKI could reasonably 
understand that Mrs Ms medical history  did show a history of alcohol abuse.
When Mrs M was admitted to hospital the doctors  first thought her bleeding was caused  by 
liver cirrhosis  (shown  on her ultrasound). Shortly after, further tests showed  peptic 
esophagitis was the most  likely cause. But Mrs M also had signs of hepatic  encephalopathy 
(a decline in brain  function as a result  of severe  liver disease which  can lead to brain 
damage) and she needed to be sedated.
After a few days Mrs M showed  some  improvement but her condition deteriorated again. Her 
liver wasnt functioning properly; it wasnt producing  the necessary proteins for her blood to 
clot properly.
The treating  doctors  medical certificate,  dated after Mrs M passed away,  details the 
conditions she was treated for. It says Mrs M was diagnosed with peptic esophagitis, she 
had liver cirrhosis, she developed liver encephalopathy, her liver deficiency was severe,  she 
Ref: DRN89422703was jaundiced  and her prothrombin  time (a blood  test that measures how long it takes  blood  
to clot) was very low at the end.
UKIs medical teams  evidence is that Mrs Ms alcoholic liver disease was linked to her 
hepatic encephalopathy and it strongly suspects Mrs Ms other conditions were  linked to her 
alcohol abuse. UKI spoke to Mrs Ms treating doctor  abroad and asked whether Mrs Ms 
problems were caused by alcohol. The doctor  said probably yes. 
From the medical evidence and the conversation with the treating doctor I think UKI could 
reasonably understand that Mrs Ms liver-related problems  were caused by alcohol  abuse.
I dont think there is evidence that the peptic esophagitis was related to alcohol  abuse. But 
importantly the medical  evidence  is that much of the doctors concerns and most of Mrs Ms 
treatment were for her liver-related problems. 
Ive considered whether I can fairly  say UKI should  pay for the treatment Mrs M had purely 
for the peptic esophagitis. But from the medical  evidence I have, that treatment  would be 
very difficult to isolate from the treatment Mrs M had for her liver-related medical conditions. 
I also think its probable  that any costs  which  could  be identified  purely  for the peptic 
esophagitis would be nominal given the overall  expenses. However, if Mr M wants to and is 
able to get evidence of those separate costs he could send them  to UKI and it should 
consider that new evidence.
On the evidence I have, UKI can fairly  say the costs  were incurred due to Mrs Ms alcohol 
abuse.
As I think  the claim was caused by alcohol abuse,  the final issue  for me to decide is whether  
UKI can fairly rely on the alcohol  abuse  exclusion.
Ive seen all the points Mr M makes about the clarity of the wording of the exclusion. The 
wording could be clearer. But I think the wording is clear enough that there are two separate 
issues that UKI wont cover; a claim caused by drinking too much alcohol or (my emphasis) 
a claim caused by alcohol abuse.  
The second  sentence of the exclusion doesnt have to relate to both of those risks. I think 
most consumers would think that drinking alcohol on holiday so that judgement  is seriously 
affected would be drinking too much  rather than alcohol abuse.
Even if I did think the exclusion wasnt clear enough I have to look at whether Mr M has been  
disadvantaged by the lack of clarity. 
I dont think Mr M would have bought a different policy that covered claims relating to alcohol 
abuse because  from what hes said about  Mrs M not having a history  of alcohol abuse he 
didnt think she did suffer from alcohol abuse.  Also, Mr M would have found it very difficult  to 
get a travel insurance  policy  that did cover claims  caused by alcohol abuse.  I dont think 
Mr M would have been disadvantaged.
Overall, UKI has fairly and reasonably declined the claim. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN89422704Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 August 2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8942270