complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  about an off-shore bond recommended  by Barclays  Bank  UK PLC 
(Barclays).
background
Mr and Mrs S took advice from Barclays in 2013 to invest £500,000 into an offshore
investment bond  within a loan trust structure, with the intention  of taking 5% capital
repayments to live on. Mr and Mrs S, the trustees, recall being told that they could expect to
receive a 7% return over the term of the investment, although this could vary year to year.
Mr and Mrs S say that in 2018, Barclays told them that level of return was unrealistic
because of the prudent approach taken to risk at the time they invested. Mr and Mrs S
concede that no guarantee  or assurance was given that this return  would be met, but say
they relied upon the target given by Barclays and were therefore misled  into making the
investment. Mr and Mrs S say that as the investment couldnt have reached the target, it
didnt meet their needs. The actual return was 3.5%. Mr and Mrs S have subsequently
invested in higher risk products in order to achieve higher returns.
Mr and Mrs S also complain about a disparity in the information shown on a third-party
platform. They feel that Barclays may have been  negligent in not maintaining accurate
records on one platform and for failing to do a detailed investigation into their concerns. The
Barclay One report was later introduced and Mr S complains that in September  2018, the
report showed, in error,  that there  were  no assets  in the portfolio.
Further Mr and Mrs S complain that they were without a private  banker  for many months
during 2018; a replacement wasnt appointed  until November 2018. Theyve asked for a
refund of management  fees during this period.
In addition, Mr and Mrs S complain that Barclays did not respond  to their concerns about  the
extent of the UK stock exposure  during  the Brexit process. Whilst they were  not looking to
run the investment on a day-to-day  basis, they question whether Barclays  should have
advised them to invest in a managed fund rather than a discretionary one.
Further whilst Barclays claimed to be independent, a substantial amount was invested into
Barclays products.
Our investigator considered the complaint  and decided not to uphold  it. She thought there
was insufficient  evidence to show that 7% growth  after costs  had been  promised. Our
investigator thought  that overall  the recommendation was suitable  for Mr and Mrs S
considering their respective attitudes  to risk and the objective of passing on their wealth. It
therefore, wouldnt have  been reasonable, based  on that assessment, to expose
Mr and Mrs S to more risk at the time. Our investigator acknowledged the distress
Mr and Mrs S likely felt when they saw a discrepancy between  two platforms  but explained
that the difference was due to one provider updating values at different points, which wasnt
down to Barclays. Mr and Mrs S hadnt  suffered any financial loss.
As to being  without  a management service  for months, our investigator  explained  that
Mr and Mrs S had received initial advice  but didnt have an ongoing advisory  service.  The
ongoing management fee of 1.25%  covered  the fees of the portfolio manager  only.  Barclays
had acknowledged  there were  some customer service failings, for which they offered £250
compensation.
Ref: DRN88549962Our investigator considered that Mr and Mrs S had a discretionary management service; that
recommendation wasnt unsuitable  given  the responses theyd given in the original Financial
Personality questionnaire. Further, Mr and Mrs S had been advised  that they wouldnt be
involved in the investment  decisions.  Ultimately the investments decisions were for Barclays
to make,  so they did nothing wrong  in deciding not to follow  the strategies preferred by
Mr and Mrs S.
Having reviewed the assets within  the bond, our investigator considered that it was
appropriately diversified. She explained  that as an offshore bond, it was protected by a
different statutory protection scheme.
Mr and Mrs S disagree with the view. They raised  a new issue about delay in transfer after
the portfolio sale,  which is being considered separately, so I wont be addressing  it within this
decision.
In response to Mr and Mrs Ss further concerns our investigator explained  that:
1. The illustration figures presented before charges were  indicative and not unreasonable,  
there was no evidence of a guarantee having been given for a 7% return;
2. Barclays platform showed  accurate  information, there was no evidence that they
made an error with the reporting discrepancy, that was down to the third party. There
was a reporting glitch when a zero-valuation  showed for a short while;
3. Mr and Mrs S were paying  fees for the ongoing  discretionary management service,
not for access to a private  banker. It was clear  from the documents  signed at the time
that they would not be involved with a discretionary managed service;
4. As to lack of independence,  it wasnt uncommon  for discretionary fund managers to
select certain funds over others and it hadnt  been  said the investments made were
unsuitable.
I wrote  a provisional decision in December 2020,  in which  I said Id considered all the 
available evidence and arguments to decide  what was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
At the outset, I acknowledged Mr and Mrs Ss strength  of feeling about this matter. It was
clear that they were  very disappointed with the situation. Id also seen that on occasions
theyd asked us to fine Barclays or make regulatory  findings. I thought  it was helpful to 
explain our role. We provide an independent, informal dispute  resolution service; we have no
regulatory or disciplinary  role. So, we cant tell a business how to operate or impose  any
penalties. Each complaint  is assessed  on its own facts and if we find that things have gone
wrong, we look to compensate consumers on a fair and reasonable basis.
7% return
I considered the testimony that Barclays said a return of 7% after fees would be achieved.
I was mindful that these  events took place  several years ago and that memories fade with 
time, so I also considered  the contemporaneous documentary evidence,  including  meeting
notes, a personalised Wealth Planning  Report from October 2013 and a key features
illustration for the portfolio  bond.
Ref: DRN88549963Pre-meeting notes  from September  2013, showed that a discussion took place around risk 
and performance figures for portfolios on med-high, fpa score."  The notes stated that Mr S 
had technical  knowledge with firm ideas  around growth rates  used for modelling and 
inheritance tax planning", but he also appreciated there were  other ways  to achieve the 
same result.
Growth rates, indicating a of potential return,  were  set out in an illustration, ranging from low
4.01%, mid 6% and high 8.01%. 7% falls between the mid to high performance figures, so I
accepted it was likely that there was a discussion about a 7% return. However, there  was 
nothing within the documents from the time to show that a promise  or assurance was made 
that this would be the rate of return and no guaranteed target was set.
Mr and Mrs S understood that performance was not guaranteed. Id seen that warnings
were given about this at the time in the documents. This was emphasised again at review  in
May 2014; the meeting  note record it was re-stressed that indicative annualised returns
were not guaranteed" and some years  would be better than others.  That was also supported
from the figures set out in Mr Ss email of October 2014, which asked what  strategies will be
in place to achieve £35,000  targeted annual growth after costs (a return  of 7%). In response
the wealth manger talked about  getting equity loadings up to spec and hoping to move  away
from cash positioning subject to research and the house views taken on the approach.  The
response doesnt give any assurance that the return would be met.
Mr and Mrs S said that had they known the level of return the investment would give,
they wouldnt have  invested. Theyd  have sought a higher return. But I was mindful not to
assess this matter with the benefit  of hindsight. It may be that the underlying  investment
funds didnt perform as well as Mr and Mrs S had hoped, but the evidence  from the time
showed that the bond wasnt unsuitable  for their attitude and capacity for risk. The
contemporaneous evidence showed  that Mr S had a medium-high attitude  to risk and Mrs S
had a medium-low attitude to risk. The notes show they agreed to go for moderate  risk,
being between  their profiles  and as this was intended  to be a longer term holding. 
I couldnt now say that was unreasonable  given  the information presented  at the time.  It 
wasnt suggested that the recommendation was outside the agreed level of risk. If more risk 
had been taken, Mr and Mrs S would  have been  exposed to the risk of greater losses  and I 
hadnt seen anything to show thats what they wanted at the time. Their objective  was to 
pass on as much wealth to their children  as possible whilst retaining enough assets  and 
income to meet their lifestyle needs.
Disparity of information on platforms
In February 2017,  Mr and Mrs S noticed a discrepancy between  the valuations of the fund on
two platforms. Barclays  explained  that one platform updated periodically  once  quarterly
reports were received from Barclays, which meant there could be a difference  between their
platform and that of the third party. This explanation was provided in 2017  by phone to Mr S.
Whilst I didnt doubt this caused some  concern, the reporting of the valuations  on a third-
party platform was a matter outside  Barclays control. It hadnt been suggested that 
Mr and Mrs S lost out because of this.
Mr and Mrs S were  also concerned when  a zero-valuation showed on the Barclays  Wealth
One platform in 2018.  Barclays acknowledged  this was down to an error and I noted  it took
several weeks to put right.  It was clear that something went  wrong here.  Whilst it hadnt  been
Ref: DRN88549964suggested that Mr and Mrs S lost out financially because of this, I accepted that lack of 
online access would have  been  frustrating, resulting in calls having to be placed  to obtain
valuations. In my view it was fair and reasonable to compensate Mr and Mrs S for the
distress and inconvenience caused, during which time they had no online access  to the
valuations. I considered that £150 was reasonable.
Absence of wealth  manager
Mr and Mrs S were  without a private  banker for over seven months in 2018, between  April to
November; they said it was unreasonable of Barclays to charge fees of £7,500 per annum.
Barclays charged an initial, upfront fee of £7,500 for advice in setting up the trust. An
ongoing annual  charge  of 1.25%  then applied for ongoing management of the portfolio
(Schedule of Fees, Discretionary Portfolio Management),  part of which  included  fees for a
private banker.  Barclays acknowledged that a direct contact point was absent for several
months. But the fund continued to be managed by a portfolio management team  during this
period. The charge covered reviews,  portfolio alerts,  research, reporting, settling
transactions and the management and administration of assets.  It appeared that Mr S
contacted the management team in September 2018.
Barclays acknowledged there was a short falling  in service provision due to delay  in
appointing a replacement contact, for which they apologised.  Whilst the management
service was provided, it was clear  that Mr and Mrs S relied  upon  regular contact  with the 
private banker  and were unable to set up meetings. Barclays Schedule of Fees expressly  
stated that part of the annual management  charge included fees for a private banker. Mr and 
Mrs S had to chase for a contact, which undoubtedly caused inconvenience  and distress.
Whilst I agreed that £250 was fair and reasonable to compensate for that inconvenience  and
distress, it was my view that the proportion of fees covering the cost of access to a private
banker should  be refunded for this period along  with 8% interest to date of settlement.
Discretionary management  service
Mr and Mrs S said they should not have been  recommended a discretionary managed  fund.
They said that at a meeting in November 2018, Barclays  conceded  that a mistake had been
made. It appeared  the new relationship manager explained that if greater involvement in the
investment decision  process was sought,  Mr and Mrs S could opt for an advisory service
going forwards. But I hadnt seen anything to support a concession that the recommendation 
to go for a discretionary managed service in 2013 was wrong.
Mr and Mrs Ss requirements were discussed in 2013 and based on the information they
provided, a discretionary  management service was found to best meet their needs.  Id also
seen their concession  that they didnt want to have day-to-day running of the fund, which 
was consistent  with delegating day-to-day  management to a portfolio manager. It was 
explained to them that an investment manager  would manage and monitor the investments 
and accordingly,  they would  not be involved in the investment decisions made by the 
manager.
Mr and Mrs S didnt  have to proceed  on this basis but chose to do so. The financial
personality questionnaire  completed at the time also showed  that Mr S strongly agreed that 
he was better informed and more  experienced than the average  person when it came to
investing. So, I was satisfied that it was more likely than not that Mr and Mrs S understood 
the service that was recommended to them. Whilst I understand that Mr and Mrs S later 
Ref: DRN88549965wished Barclays to use a different  strategy, it was ultimately for Barclays  to make the 
investment decisions.  Barclays did nothing wrong  in continuing to manage the fund based on 
the exercise of their commercial judgment. And Id taken into account  that at Mr Ss 
insistence all holdings  were sold into cash in 2017  and were  later re-invested.
Barclays products
Mr and Mrs S raised concerns about  the number of Barclays products within  the bond, in
particular, after Barclays moved  to the Barclays One reporting mechanism. Mr and Mrs S
also raised concerns  about independence but as our investigator explained the Barclays
funds invested  in various assets and markets.  Even  if there was a conflict  of interest
there was nothing to show that the portfolio was managed differently, there remained
appropriate diversification for their risk appetite and it hadnt been suggested that the
products were unsuitable. Further, it was agreed  that the funds were protected  by a statutory
scheme.
The parties have  received  the provisional decision.  Mr and Mrs S disagree with my 
provisional decision. They say:
-Barclays misrepresented the return on the portfolio as being 7.1%, when the level of 
risk they were exposed  to was only likely to produce a return  of 3.5%;
-The information provided on the platform was wrong, it was not acceptable for 
Barclays to say that the platform  was updated  every few months and this was not a 
matter outside  their control.  An error  of £60,000  was significant and they could have 
moved earlier if Barclays had explained  the reason  for the discrepancy;
-A Barclays manager said Mr and Mrs S should have been recommended  a managed 
fund. Mr S recalled saying that if the returns were disappointing,  he would  want input 
into the fund;
-Barclays should have  complied with the FCA handbook as to independence. 
Barclays earned fees from investing in their own funds and had a vested interest in 
doing so, even if the fees were at the same level as other sub-funds.  Barclays failed 
to communicate  these investments in a timely basis and refused to deal with 
Mr and Mrs Ss objections. No single supplier should have had that high a proportion 
of the fund.
-I should answer the matters raised by Mr and Mrs S and not matters that Barclays 
wish to discuss.
Barclays have agreed to refund fees for the private  banker service  for the period Mr and Mrs 
S were without a private banker, which they estimate to be 50% of the amount paid. 
Ive now reconsidered  everything in order to reach  a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
7% return
Ref: DRN88549966Mr and Mrs S maintain that Barclays were guilty of mis-selling  by holding out a 7% return.  
Ive agreed there was discussion  about a 7% return,  but that was set against an estimated 
bracket of performance of 4.01%-8.01% return.  I dont underestimate Mr and Mrs Ss 
strength of feeling  about this matter,  but as Ive explained, no guaranteed  target  was set and 
no guarantee was given  about performance.
Disparity of information on platforms 
Mr and Mrs S say that none  of the reporting mechanisms were outside  Barclays control, that 
Barclays are lying and it was a requirement that the valuations should have been  reliable.  I 
appreciate that Mr and Mrs S are unhappy with the response given by Barclays  as to why 
there was a difference on the platforms. But Im not persuaded that any new information has 
been provided. Mr and Mrs S dont  dispute that they did have accurate figures on the 
Gerrard valuation, which they had access to. They had been advised  that this platform  gave 
reliable data, so Im satisfied they did have access to accurate information and Mr S has said 
he checked the figures regularly. In a telephone note from March 2017  it was recorded that 
Mr S was now aware that the platform would only update  when the quarterly reports  were  
received from Barclays and that he would rely on the Gerrard system  going forwards.
 
Barclays agree that there was a time-lag in reporting on the other platform. But as 
Mr and Mrs S also had access to the correct  information, it remains  my view that they didnt 
lose out.
In my view £150 remains reasonable compensation for the error showing on the Barclays 
One Wealth Platform in 2018.
Discretionary management  service
Mr S remains adamant that he was expressly told by Barclays  that hed been given incorrect  
advice about taking out a discretionary managed  product. Ive reviewed the meeting notes 
from the time and theres no record of this. Given the passage of time and lack of supporting 
contemporaneous evidence, I consider that it is more likely than not that Mr S is mistaken  in 
his recollection of events.
Barclays products
Mr and Mrs S remain concerned about  the level of investment  within Barclayss  funds and 
they point to FCA principles about handling conflict,  transparency and suitability. Mr S 
believes that Barclays have been  influenced by their own vested interest and refers to a 
breakdown in a Discretionary  Portfolio  document. Under a section on indicative portfolio 
holdings, examples of asset class allocations are set out. A further section headed  open  
architecture, gives a breakdown of 94% being within third party funds and direct  stock, 5% 
outsourced to third party managers and 1% in Barclays market  leading structured products. 
Mr S says this document prevented Barclays investing in more than 1% of its products. I 
dont agree; this document provided information  about the discretionary management 
service but was not a personal recommendation, which  is clear  from the disclaimer on the 
last page. It is accepted  that the key documents did not say Barclays were restricted  in their 
choice of investments.
As Ive explained in my provisional decision, the underlying  assets within the Barclays funds 
were wide ranging and invested  in various  markets.  These funds were  aligned with 
Ref: DRN88549967Mr and Mrs Ss attitude to risk, so theres nothing  to show that they were unsuitable for their 
needs. The quarterly  reports show that the breakdown of asset allocation within the portfolio, 
so Mr and Mrs S were given information about  where their funds were  being invested. I also 
think Barclays were transparent about  where the funds  were being invested. Mr and Mrs S 
acknowledge that fees of a similar amount would have been paid on each fund regardless of 
whether they were  with Barclays or not. So, on balance, there isnt anything  to show that 
Mr and Mrs S have  been disadvantaged. As a result, I cant  fairly say that they have lost out.
Fees
In light of my provisional findings, Barclays have agreed to refund the fees in respect of 
access to a private banker for the period Mr and Mrs S were  without this service, which they 
estimate to be 50% of the fee. I consider that is fair and reasonable, along with the original 
offer of £250 for the trouble and upset caused.
Ive thought carefully about this complaint, but Im not persuaded that there is any new 
information which changes my provisional  decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  Im upholding this complaint in part. I direct Barclays Bank  UK Plc to:
1. Refund the element of the management  fee relating to provision  of a private banker,
for the full period for which the service  was unavailable  to Mr and Mrs S in 2018, plus
8% interest per annum from November 2018  to date of settlement;
2. Pay a total of £400 for trouble and upset  (credit to be given for any payment  already
made).
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 March  2021.
Sarah Tozzi
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8854996