K821x#15complaint
Mr M is unhappy  with what Acasta European  Insurance Company Limited (Acasta) did after 
he made a claim on his furniture insurance  policy. 
background
In 2017 Mr M bought  new sofas, a chair  and footstool. He took out an insurance policy which  
provided protection in the event of accidental staining and accidental damage. In April last 
year he made a claim on the policy and a technician attended in June. The technician was 
able to remove a stain from the sofa but said the covers to the footstool and two scatter  
cushions were marked  and would need replacing.  
As those  hadnt arrived by September Mr M made  a complaint. Acasta accepted there  had 
been some  delay for which  it was responsible but also said there had been delay by the 
manufacturer. It said the replacement covers should  be delivered soon and Mr M should 
then contact it to arrange  fitting. 
In fact Mr M didnt receive any materials until December. And it appears items were  then 
missing from what he did receive.  These  were  reordered and the cover  to the footstool was 
fitted in March. But there were difficulties in sourcing the scatter cushion covers because  
these had been discontinued. Acasta offered to cover the cost of Mr M ordering new 
cushions but he couldnt find any replacements  he liked. 
Our investigator reached his view on the complaint in May. He said the matter had taken too 
long to resolve and Acasta should pay Mr M £125 to recognise  the inconvenience  hed been 
caused by the significant  delay. 
Acasta didnt respond at that stage. Mr M didnt agree. He thought  Acasta should pay him 
around £1,120  He said that was calculated on the basis the insurance cover lasted for five 
years, the total cost of the furniture was £2,800  and an assumption it would take Acasta  two 
years to resolve the problem (£2,800 divided by five and times two).  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before considering matters in detail I checked  with Acasta  that it was happy for us to 
consider not only the issues covered in its final response in September  but events leading  up 
to when the investigator reached his view on the complaint. It confirmed it was. 
The relevant  rules and industry guidance  say Acasta  has a responsibility  to handle claims 
promptly and fairly.  I dont think its in dispute  that hasnt happened  here.  Mr M had a valid 
claim under his insurance policy  and theres been significant delay in this being resolved. I 
appreciate, in part, thats because of things the manufacturer got wrong but I think thats 
between Acasta and that company. From  Mr Ms perspective he has a valid insurance claim 
which should have  been dealt with promptly and that hasnt happened. 
Ref: DRN80439412So Ive gone  on to think about what the impact of that delay on him has been and what 
Acasta needs to do to put things right. I can see the issues with the cushions have been 
present for the whole of this period and the problem  with the footstool  was only resolved  in 
March this year. I also note Mr M has been pursuing matters with Acasta during this time 
and I do accept hell have  been inconvenienced  by that. 
But Ive also taken into account the photographs  Ive seen  of the damage to the cushions 
and footstool.  I note the mark  to the footstool can only be seen on a close  up picture. And 
while there is some marking to one side of the cushions the damage appears relatively minor 
and only affects  two (out of twelve) scatter  cushions.  Although  this clearly needs putting right 
I dont think it would  have  significantly impacted  Mr Ms enjoyment of his furniture. 
So while Mr M has now suggested  Acasta should  provide  complete replacement  of the 
furniture I dont think thats a reasonable remedy. And while  Ive considered the points hes 
made about compensation I dont think the figure  hes proposed is appropriate either.  I note 
in particular that it hasnt (to date)  taken  Acasta  two years to resolve the problem and in any 
case hes had the use of his furniture during this period. 
Taking into account the impact on Mr M of what Acasta got wrong  I think  an amount  closer to 
that recommended by the investigator  is appropriate. However, given the length of time the 
matter has been  going on and the repeated failure to provide replacement  covers I 
suggested to Acasta  that £150 would  be more reasonable.  Its agreed to this. 
Acasta says there have  now been  further problems with the delivery of replacement  covers 
to Mr M which its currently looking into. Its confirmed  it will be considering  a further payment 
in the light of the more recent  errors. I appreciate this new problem will have caused Mr M 
further frustration but it isnt something Im considering  as part of this complaint. If hes 
unhappy with the action  Acasta now takes  to resolve the matter thats something which  
could form part of a fresh complaint. 
my final decision
Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Acasta  European Insurance Company Limited will 
need to pay Mr M £150. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 July 2019.
James Park
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8043941