K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Volkswagen Financial  Services (UK) Limited, trading as Skoda Finance, 
wont reimburse him for the cost of repairing damage that was caused  to his car.
background
A new car was supplied  to Mr H under  a hire purchase agreement with Skoda  Finance that 
he signed in April 2017. He complained about some  issues  with the car but wasnt satisfied 
with the way that his complaint was being  dealt  with so he says that, as a peaceful  protest, 
he left the car at Skoda Finances head  office  in August 2018. 
Skoda Finance arranged for a third party to collect the car and keep it in storage. An 
inspection of the car was arranged in December 2018 when it was still in storage and 
damage to it was identified. After  hed collected the car in early  2019, Mr H took photos of 
the damage and paid £480 for it to be repaired.  Skoda  Finance waived the charge for 
collecting the car in August 2018  and Mr H wasnt charged for storing the car.
He claimed reimbursement of the £480  from Skoda Finance. He wasnt  satisfied  with its 
response so complained to this service. Hes also complained about issues with the car but 
that complaint  has been dealt with separately.
The adjudicator didnt recommend that this complaint should  be upheld.  She concluded that, 
although the damage may have been incurred while the car was not in Mr Hs possession, it 
was his choice  to leave it and he was responsible  for it. She said that by abandoning  the car 
he was in breach  of the terms and conditions  and she didnt think that Skoda Finance acted 
unreasonably by having the car moved  to secure  premises.
Mr H has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He has asked to be 
contacted by the ombudsman and I have discussed his complaint with him.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im only considering Mr Hs complaint 
about the damage that was caused  to his car after he left it at Skoda Finances head  office.
Mr H says that there were  some  issues with the car but he wasnt  satisfied with the way that 
his complaint about them was being dealt with by Skoda Finance so he says that, as a 
peaceful protest, he left the car at its head  office  in August 2018. Skoda Finance tried to 
contact Mr H the next day and arranged for the car to be removed to storage by a third party. 
It has provided photos from the third party showing the car parked on a verge  outside its 
head office. Those photos dont focus  on the areas that were  damaged  but it looks  to me as 
though there  was no damage on the car at that time. 
When the car was inspected by a third party in December 2018, when it was still in storage, 
some bodywork damage was identified. After Mr H collected the car in early 2019  he took 
photos of the damage and paid £480  for it to be repaired. Skoda Finance waived the charge 
for collecting the car in August 2018 and Mr H wasnt charged for storing the car but it didnt 
agree to reimburse him for the cost of repairing the damage.
Ref: DRN84944832I consider it to be more  likely than not, on the basis of the evidence that Ive seen, that the 
bodywork damage  was caused after the car was left outside Skoda Finances  head office. 
Ive seen no evidence  to show that the car was deliberately damaged  and I consider it to be 
more likely than not that the damage was caused  when the car was being moved. 
Mr H says that he left the car there as a peaceful protest to force Skoda Finance into dealing 
with his complaint  about his car in a different way. Skoda Finances account notes refer to 
the car being  abandoned by Mr H and it tried to contact him. He had agreed in the hire 
purchase agreement  that he would keep  the car in his possession  and control  and I consider 
that hed breached the agreement by leaving  the car on the verge outside Skoda Finances 
head office. I also consider that it was reasonable for Skoda Finance to consider that Mr H 
had abandoned the car. 
Skoda Finance has waived the charge for collecting the car after Mr H had left it outside its 
head office in August 2018  and it hasnt charged  him for storing the car. I consider that it 
would have been fair and reasonable for it to charge him for the cost of collecting the car and 
for storing  it. 
It was Mr Hs choice, in breach of his agreement, to leave the car there and Im not 
persuaded that it would  be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for Skoda Finance to 
reimburse him for the £480 that he paid to have the bodywork damage  repaired. So I find 
that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable  for me to require Skoda Finance to pay £480  to Mr H to 
reimburse him for that - or to take any other action in response  to his complaint.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 July 2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8494483