K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  about overdraft fees on their joint account  with National Westminster 
Bank Plc.
background 
Mrs B had a sole current account  with NatWest. This later became a joint account when 
Mr B was added to the account. They have since split up, but as this complaint  relates  to a 
period when they were both account holders,  they are both involved in bringing this 
complaint.
The account  became a packaged bank account in 2011. In an earlier  complaint in June 
2018, Mrs B complained  that the packaged bank account had been mis-sold. The bank 
reviewed its records, and as a result it recognised that she had been in financial difficulties in 
2011. So it upheld  that complaint and refunded the packaged bank account fees that had 
been charged between 2011 and 2018  (with interest on the refunds).
After that complaint was closed, Mrs B asked the bank to re-open it so that she could 
complain about  more fees, including overdraft fees.  That is the complaint I am dealing with 
here. NatWest upheld part of this complaint, apologised, and refunded  another £250 in fees 
and interest which  had been  charged  as a result of the packaged  bank account  fees already 
refunded. But the bank  did not agree to refund overdraft fees that had not been  so charged.  
It said these had been properly charged, in line with the accounts terms and conditions. It 
also said that, as a result of a ruling  by the Supreme Court  in 2009, the charges could not be 
challenged for unfairness under relevant regulations or the common  law.
Mrs B brought this complaint to our Service. She said she couldnt afford the fees, and that 
she had been  experiencing  serious  hardship  since 2011. NatWest  told us that neither Mrs B 
nor Mr B had told the bank about  their financial  difficulties until June 2018. It maintained that 
the fees had been  correctly charged, and that they could not be challenged on the basis that 
they were unfair. Our investigator agreed, and so she did not uphold this complaint.  Mrs B 
asked for an ombudsman to review  this case.
I wrote  a provisional decision which read as follows.
my provisional findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  that the overdraft fees were charged  in accordance with the account terms and 
conditions, and that the effect of the Supreme Court ruling NatWest referred to is that 
overdraft charges cannot be challenged for unfairness, either in court or in a complaint with 
the Financial Ombudsman Service.
However, when Mrs B complained about  the charges, she said that she had been  
experiencing serious hardship for years, and that as a result she could not afford the 
charges.
I have read Mrs Bs original letter to NatWest, dated 8 June 2018, in which  she first 
complained about the account. It goes  into considerable detail about her financial difficulties. 
Ref: DRN82698132It is too long for me to quote it here,  but in summary  she said the account  was constantly 
overdrawn and over the overdraft limit, direct debits and cheques were  frequently returned 
unpaid, she depended  on benefits, and life was a constant struggle to pay essential bills and 
to afford basic necessities. She complained that the bank  had never contacted her about 
these issues or to discuss the overdraft. She said she had suffered from mental  health  
issues (although  she did not specify what these were), which had made  it harder to deal with 
the stress  caused  by her financial situation. She said she had often asked NatWest for a 
loan, but had been declined each time.
Since Mrs Bs follow-up complaint was treated as a re-opening or continuation of her initial 
complaint (both final response letters have the same complaint reference), I wouldnt expect 
her to have  to repeat all of that information  when she pursued her complaint  again in 
September 2018. She referred to financial hardship again in her complaint form when she 
brought her complaint  to our Service. So I find that the scope  of this complaint is not just her 
allegation that the overdraft fees were  unfair,  but that she was complaining about the 
overdraft fees in the broader context of the bank not doing enough to help her with her 
financial difficulties, to which the overdraft fees were contributing.
As Ive said,  I cant assess the fairness  of the overdraft fees themselves (or any other kind of 
fees charged on the account, such as returned  item fees).  But I can consider whether  
NatWest did enough  in connection with Mr and Mrs Bs financial difficulties.  Since that issue 
has not really been addressed so far, I have written  a provisional decision.
The relevant  guidelines about  customers in financial difficulty  were the Lending Code until 
July 2016, and since then the Standards  of Lending  Practice. Both of these say that when a 
lender (which includes a bank which  provides an overdraft facility) becomes aware that its 
customers are in financial difficulties, it should  proactively contact  them to discuss  the 
situation. It should treat them sympathetically and positively,  and suggest a way forward to 
help them get out of debt.  This might  involve waiving or freezing fees and interest, although 
not necessarily:  lenders have discretion to try different ways to help.
When a customer is in financial difficulties,  there  is an onus on the customer to tell the 
lender. There is no record  of Mr and Mrs B doing  that until June 2018. But the Lending Code 
said that lenders  should also identify such customers, and then pro-actively contact them  to 
discuss the matter, and provide customers with clear information setting out the support  
available to them. And the Standards of Lending  Practice, which replaced the Code , says:
Firms should have triggers and processes  in place to identify customers  who may 
be in financial difficulty and should act promptly and efficiently to address the 
situation with the customer.
The Lending  Code  included (at paragraph  180 of both the 2011  and 2014 editions) a list of 
events which  might suggest to a lender  that its customer is in financial difficulties. The first 
item on the list is Items repeatedly being  returned  unpaid due to lack of available  funds. 
Another one is repeatedly  exceeding  an overdraft limit. This list is not exhaustive.
There is another list in paragraph 183 (both versions), of more signs that a customer  may be 
in financial difficulties. The first of these is regular  unarranged overdrafts.  Another  one is 
hardcore borrowing or increasing dependence  on unauthorised overdrafts developing.
With this in mind, I reviewed Mr and Mrs Bs account  statements  for the period  from 
November 2012  to February 2019.  The account  was almost permanently overdrawn,  and 
Ref: DRN82698133usually by a four-figure sum. In the whole of that period  more  than six years  the account 
was only in credit for 26 clear days.  She exceeded her overdraft limit 60 times.
Its not clear to me when Mrs B first told NatWest that she was struggling. But given the 
history of her account, I think that NatWest ought to have picked up on this anyway, and 
then acted accordingly. I am reinforced  in that opinion by the fact that NatWest  would  have 
done affordability checks when it rejected her loan applications. (Also, NatWest  told our 
investigator that Mrs B had stated that she was in full time employment, but there was no 
sign of a salary or wages  being paid into her account, and I would expect that to have been 
noticed when  it assessed her loan applications.)
NatWest provides a service called overdraft control,  which stops most (but not all) payments 
which would take an account into an unarranged overdraft. This also avoids fees being  
charged for returned  payments.  However,  I dont think that was enough. From the time that 
NatWest ought to have  realised that Mrs B was in financial difficulty, I think  it should  have  
done more.
I accept NatWests argument that Mrs B probably  needed more assistance  than it could  give 
her on its own,  and that a bank certainly cant be expected to fulfil the role of a debt advice 
charity, or an accountant. The Code  and the Standards recognise this, and that is why they 
mention referring  a customer  to a third party  for further support as one of the things a lender 
should do. But I dont think that gets NatWest off the hook completely. There are some 
actions it is reasonable  to expect a bank to do. These include reducing the overdraft limit 
each month, to try to help the customer get their spending under control, for example. Or 
freezing interest  and charges temporarily,  to give the customer  some breathing space.  Or 
even defaulting  the account,  which would have the effect of stopping further charges 
permanently (although Mrs B might  not have wanted that to happen). None of these options 
(or further alternatives) appear to have been considered.
Its too late to go back and do that now,  but to resolve this complaint  it might be fair to order  
NatWest to refund the charges back to the account.  I will consider what  NatWest has to say 
about that before I issue my final decision  and what both parties  have to say about where 
I should draw the line from where  the refunds should  begin. It might not necessarily be as 
early as 2012. (And it cannot  be earlier  than June 2012, or six years before Mrs B 
complained, because the time limit for bringing a complaint is six years from the event being 
complained about.)
I would normally award interest on refunds. But since (as Ive said already)  the onus is on 
the customer to tell the lender when  she is struggling, and there is no record of this 
happening before  June  2018, I am currently minded  not to award interest on refunds of 
charges incurred before then. I will consider  what the parties say about that.
So my provisional decision is that, for now, I currently  intend to uphold  this complaint. 
Subject to any further representations I receive  from the parties by the date given below, 
I intend to order  National Westminster Bank Plc to refund all of the overdraft fees, overdraft 
interest, and returned  item fees back to the account,  and to pay simple  interest  on those 
refunds at eight per cent a year from 9 June 2018  to the date of my final decision.
Ref: DRN82698134responses to my provisional  decision
Mrs B accepted my provisional decision in principle, but she said that Mr B had told her that 
he had frequently  contacted the bank about  his financial  difficulties in 2011, when they had 
been on benefits. I asked NatWest about  this, but they have no record of it.
NatWest emphasised that Mr and Mrs B had failed to report  their difficulties earlier,  despite  
having had ample opportunity to do so. NatWest said its systems do continually  review 
accounts to identify customers who exceed their credit limits or breach  their terms and 
conditions, but this had not flagged Mrs Bs account  for attention.  Mrs B had paid deposits 
into her account every  month (and if she had failed to do that, then NatWests systems 
would have picked  this up). It had sent Mrs B letters to make her aware  of the cost of her 
overdraft, and inviting  her to get in touch to discuss her options. It had begun reducing 
Mrs Bs overdraft  limit in 2019.
Nevertheless, NatWest still agreed to refund  the overdraft fees and interest since June 2012, 
on the basis that the account had probably  not been  suitable for her needs.
my findings
There is no evidence that Mr B did contact the bank about financial difficulties in 2011, so 
I will presume  that he did not.
Since (apart from that issue) both parties have accepted my provisional decision,  there  is no 
reason for me to depart  from it.
my final decision
So my decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order National  Westminster Bank Plc to 
refund all of the overdraft  fees, overdraft interest,  and returned  item fees incurred  since 9 
June 2012 back  to the account, and to pay simple  interest on those refunds at eight per cent 
a year from 9 June 2018 to the date of my final decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 October  2020. Mrs B may reply on Mr Bs behalf.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8269813