K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that The Royal Bank  of Scotland  Plc irresponsibly lent them money 
to buy two buy to let properties in 2007.  Mr and Mrs L would like RBS to cover any shortfall  
between their debt and the value of the properties.
background
Mr and Mrs L bought  two buy to let properties in 2007 with the assistance of an interest-only 
mortgage from RBS. Mr and Mrs L say that this was an investment  option with the object of 
being able to sell the properties  in 10 years time with a profit  to help them  when they retired.  
But the financial crash  came shortly afterwards  and Mr and Mrs L say that the properties  are 
worth less than when they bought  them.
Mr and Mrs L say that none of the pitfalls were explained to them such as how they could 
repay the loan over 25 years and that the interest  went up substantially for a couple of 
quarters.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld.  She said that RBS 
sold the mortgage on a non-advised basis and she felt that the mortgage was affordable.  Mr 
and Mrs L disagreed and asked for a review.
my findings 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs L wanted to buy, refurb and let out two properties and wanted to borrow  more 
than the value of the properties to refurb  them. RBS told Mr and Mrs L that they couldnt 
have a buy to let mortgage but a development loan for 25 years  although Mr and Mrs L say 
that they intended to repay  the loan in 10 years. Mr and Mrs L also set up a firm in their own 
name. 
The terms of the loan required Mr and Mrs L to put the sale proceeds  from another property 
they owned towards paying off part of the development loan. This reduced the amount owed 
to RBS to £122,950. Mr and Mrs L also say that the mortgage was unaffordable and RBS 
made a gross error  in saying that the rental income was £14,400 per annum which was 
never the case.
Mr and Mrs L wanted to pursue  an investment  option which RBS facilitated. This investment 
hasnt succeeded  as Mr and Mrs L hoped. There is no suggestion that RBS advised Mr and 
Mrs L to invest  in property  rather than any other investment. So, this wasnt  a case of RBS 
giving investment advice.  Mr and Mrs L came  with an investment proposal that RBS 
considered and made them an offer of a loan on terms that Mr and Mrs L found acceptable. I 
dont consider that this was a case where RBS was providing mortgage advice. There is no 
suitability letter saying  why this mortgage  was most  suitable for Mr and Mrs L. The fact that 
RBS said that it would lend money one way rather than another isnt advice,  just RBS saying 
that this was what it was willing to do. It was a matter for Mr and Mrs L to consider whether 
the investment  was suitable for them and whether they wanted to accept  the terms of RBSs   
offer of loan or not.
Ref: DRN81963402Mr and Mrs L say that the loan offer was over 25 years rather than 10 years  which  was the 
term they wanted. As this is an interest-only  mortgage I cant see that the length of the term 
disadvantages them as they could repay the mortgage in 10 years  in any case.  The difficulty  
Mr and Mrs L face in doing so is that the value of the properties went down during the 
recession and didnt pick up as much as they had hoped. But there  is no evidence that RBS 
gave Mr and Mrs L any advice on the state of the housing market  which  has caused the 
problem. 
I also cannot agree with Mr and Mrs L that the loan was unaffordable.  The payments have 
been met as they fell due which would  indicate  that the loan has been  affordable  and there 
appears to be a credit in the properties bank account. Certainly it seems that the rental 
payments havent  been what RBS assumed. But again this wasnt  a case where RBS was 
giving investment advice to Mr and Mrs L. I assume  that RBS got a valuation of the likely 
rental income, but that was for its own purposes on deciding whether to lend to Mr and Mrs 
L. It was a separate matter for Mr and Mrs L to do their own figures on what  the likely rental 
payments would be to decide whether to borrow this money.
For the reasons  stated  I cant say that RBS has done anything  wrong and so I cant  fairly 
uphold this complaint.  
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 February  2019.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8196340