K821x#15complaint
Through a claims management  company, Mrs T complains that in 2007 she was given 
unsuitable mortgage advice by a representative  of Legal & General Partnership  Services 
Limited (L&G). 
I note that the CMC  has made a separate complaint  about alleged secret commission  to our 
PPI division. That is a separate  issue from the complaint about the mortgage advice, dealt 
with by a different area of the ombudsman service,  and so I wont  be dealing with that here.
For ease of reference I will refer to Mrs T throughout.
background
In October  2007 Mrs T took mortgage  advice from L&G. At the time she had a repayment 
mortgage on her property with a total balance outstanding (including an early repayment 
charge (ERC) of approximately  £1,772) of just under £46,400. That mortgage  had been  
taken out in September 2006  when Mrs T had remortgaged the property. It was on a tracker  
rate, meaning the interest rate would  increase  or decrease in line with movement in the base 
rate.
Mrs T had a credit card on which she owed about £2,200. The list of income  and outgoings 
compiled at the time showed that her income was about £1,284  per month.  Excluding  any 
payment towards  her mortgage,  her outgoings  were £839, leaving Mrs T with only £445  per 
month disposable income. 
The monthly repayment on her existing tracker  mortgage was £345  per month. Mrs T was 
also paying £50 per month off her credit  card debt. Taking into account the mortgage and 
credit card payments of £395,  Mrs T was left with only £50 per month  disposable income.
On the advice of L&G,  Mrs T took out a new mortgage, borrowing a total of £53,700 plus 
fees of £489 (a total of £54,189).  This was over a term of 17 years  on an initial  two-year 
fixed rate. £34,189 was on a capital repayment  basis and £20,000  was on an interest-only 
basis. The estimated value of the property was £90,000, so the loan-to-value ratio (LTV) was 
under 60%. The monthly repayment  on the fixed rate of 6.34% was £377.97.
The fact-find records that Mrs T was made aware  of the implications of having part of her 
mortgage on interest-only. Mrs T told L&G that her intention was to sell the property and 
move abroad at some point in the future. In the mortgage  offer the lender says that Mrs T 
had an ISA to pay off the interest-only part of the mortgage. There  is no record  in the fact-
find of an ISA.
Mrs T consolidated her credit card debt into the mortgage and raised approximately £1,835 
as a lump sum which was paid to her on completion.
The mortgage completed on 17 October 2011. I understand that after the fixed  rate expired, 
Mrs T moved onto another product with the same lender. She sold the property in 
September 2019.
In 2018 Mrs T complained  that the mortgage  advice was unsuitable.  In particular she said 
that putting part of the mortgage onto interest-only was not in her best interests.  Mrs T was 
also unhappy about the consolidation of the credit  card debt.
Ref: DRN89704882L&G didnt uphold  the complaint, so it was brought to us. An investigator looked  at the 
complaint and thought it should be upheld. He thought the advice  to incur an ERC (which he 
incorrectly stated as £2,200) was unsuitable.  He also thought the advice to consolidate debt 
and to switch  from a repayment  to a part-repayment,  part-interest-only mortgage was 
unsuitable. He asked L&G to put Mrs T back in the position shed have been in had the 
remortgage not been done and shed continued to have a repayment mortgage. He also 
asked L&G to refund all fees associated  with the remortgage.
L&G didnt agree and so the investigator  looked at the complaint again. He didnt change his 
opinion. He thought that, even though interest  rates had risen and Mrs T had limited  
disposable income, she was worse  off by taking out the mortgage.
L&G still didnt agree and so the complaint was referred to me for a decision.
provisional decision
On 31 January 2020 I issued a provisional  decision. Both parties  were  invited to respond.  I 
made the following findings.
At the time she was given mortgage advice in October 2007, Mrs Ts disposable 
income was very limited, about £50 per month. She was paying £345 for her 
mortgage and £50 on her credit  card.  She had very little leeway to absorb any further 
interest rate increases  on her tracker mortgage. Since shed  taken out that mortgage 
in November 2006, there had been  three interest rate increases in January 2007, 
May 2007 and July 2007. In the circumstances, I can see why Mrs T was concerned 
about affordability of her previous mortgage  given her limited income.
Mrs Ts main priority was that she didnt want to increase  her outgoings but wanted  
financial stability for the next two years. The mortgage that was arranged achieved  
that aim. 
I dont think the advice to consolidate the credit  card debt was unsuitable. Mrs T was 
paying £50 per month on a debt of (I am told) £2,000, which is around the minimum 
payment.  Whilst generally  consolidation  of a credit card debt is not often the best 
option, Im satisfied that in this case, given Mrs Ts limited income, it was reasonable 
advice to consolidate it. 
Mrs T had to pay an ERC of £1,772  on redemption of her previous  mortgage, which  
she borrowed on her new mortgage. Because of the three  interest rate increases 
which had happened  so rapidly since shed  take out that mortgage,  I can understand 
why Mrs T was concerned  about further interest  rate increases. I think the advice to 
fix her monthly repayments  for two years  was reasonable, taking  into account Mrs Ts 
specific situation.
Im also not persuaded that the advice to put £20,000 of the mortgage  onto interest-
only was unreasonable. Mrs T told L&G that she would eventually be selling the 
house and moving  abroad.  In 2007 sale of the property was considered  to be a 
suitable repayment vehicle and, given  the LTV of 60%, Im satisfied that this was not 
a risky strategy for the selling standards in place at the time.
Ref: DRN89704883I will add that I note the mortgage  offer says that Mrs T has an ISA to repay the 
interest-only part of the mortgage. As there is no mention of an ISA in L&Gs 
paperwork, I think this is more likely than not an error by the lender.
Overall, looking at Mrs Ts specific circumstances and taking into account her limited  
income, Im satisfied the advice given was suitable.  The mortgage advice was given 
at a time when Mrs Ts existing tracker mortgage, taken out less than a year earlier,  
was rapidly becoming  unaffordable due to interest  rate increases. Mrs T had only £50 
per month disposable income and Im satisfied she could  not have absorbed any 
further increase  in her mortgage repayments without falling into financial hardship,  as 
she had no savings or safety  net. 
I appreciate Mrs T incurred the ERC  and also added fees to the mortgage.  I find 
Mrs T could  not have reduced her outgoings  in the way she wanted  without  adding  
fees to the loan. The implications of doing this were fully explained. In the 
circumstances  the advice to take out this mortgage allowed Mrs T to achieve her 
stated aim of having a fixed monthly  repayment,  which reduced from £395  (including 
the credit  card) to £377, and which protected her from further interest rate increases. 
It also provided her with a lump  sum of just over £1,800.
In all the circumstances, taking into account Mrs Ts particular situation, Im satisfied 
the advice to remortgage was suitable.
responses to the provisional  decision
L&G accepted my provisional decision.  Although Mrs Ts representatives  suggested theyd 
be sending a response to the provisional decision, nothing  further  was received by the 
specified date.  Mrs T had been  asked to provide information about  subsequent mortgage 
products shed taken  out, but hasnt  done  so. Nothing turns on this though.  I note Mrs T took 
out a new product in 2016 and sold the property in 2019. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive reviewed the file from the outset and 
revisited my provisional decision. Having done so, I see no reason to depart from the 
conclusions reached  in my provisional decision.
For the reasons  given  above, Im satisfied  that, in Mrs Ts specific circumstances, the 
mortgage advice  given by L&G in October 2007  was suitable.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2020.
 
Jan OLeary
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN89704884
Ref: DRN8970488