K821x#15complaint
Miss L complains that Cash  Converter  (UK) Limited  lent her money  that she couldnt afford  
to repay.
Miss L wants  Cash Converters to refund the loans  including the interest and charges that 
she paid.
background 
Miss L took out 26 loans with Cash Converters between October 2012 and January 2016. 
The amounts varied from £50 to £100.
The adjudicator didnt think that it was unreasonable of Cash  Converters to agree loans one 
to three. The adjudicator  thought that Cash Converters should have turned down all the loan 
applications that Miss L made from loan four onwards. 
The adjudicator asked Cash Converters to refund the interest  and charges that Miss L had 
paid on loans four to 26 with interest on the refund. He asked Cash Converters to remove all 
entries about loan four onwards from Miss Ls credit file. 
Cash Converters disagrees  with what the adjudicator recommended.  Cash  Converters says 
that the amounts Miss L borrowed sometimes decreased. Cash  Converters says that 
customers often increasing  the amount of their borrowing around Christmas  time. Cash 
Converters doesnt  think there were  signs of a person stuck in a cycle  of debt.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Cash Converters needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure that  
Miss L could  repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account  a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early  stages  of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might  be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Cash Converters  should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  
factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
Ref: DRN88415512the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Cash  Converters  was required to 
establish whether  Miss L could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict  pounds and pence calculation.  
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Office  of Fair Tradings guide  on Irresponsible  Lending  and 
then the Financial Conduct Authoritys Consumer Credit Sourcebook define sustainable as 
being without  undue  difficulties. 
In particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while  meeting other 
reasonable commitments; as well as without having  to borrow  to meet  the repayments. And 
it follows that a lender  should realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower is unlikely  to be able to make  their make their repayments in a sustainable manner 
if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Ls complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicator that it was reasonable of Cash  Converters to agree loans one to 
three based on what it knew about Miss L and the information that she gave about her 
finances. It follows that I dont uphold Miss Ls complaint about loans one to three.
loan four onward
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Cash Converters lending history  with Miss L to see 
if there was a point  at which  Cash Converter shouldve reasonably seen Miss L was 
persistently reliant  on short term loans.  So that further lending was unsustainable or 
otherwise harmful. 
Given the particular  circumstances of Miss Ls case,  I think this point was reached  by loan 
four. I say this because:
loan four was the fourth  loan that Miss L had taken out in about nine months and it 
was for more than her previous three  loans.
Although the amount that Miss L borrowed sometimes varied and her declared 
monthly income increased,  from loan four onwards  Miss L was borrowing money 
from Cash Converters on an almost monthly  basis  sometimes  taking out a new 
loan the same day as settling the previous loan. In my view, Miss Ls pattern of 
borrowing was in itself a demonstration  of her inability to settle her loans over the life 
of her credit agreement.  
Ref: DRN88415513Miss L incurred late payment fees for loans seven, 11 and 13 which indicated that 
she was struggling  financially and shouldnt be taking on even more  debt
I think that Miss L lost out because Cash Converters provided  loans  four to 26 because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Miss Ls indebtedness  by allowing 
her to take expensive  credit intended for short-term  use over an extended period of 
time.
the extended period of time she owed Cash Converters money was likely to have  
had negative implications on Miss Ls ability to access  mainstream credit and so kept 
her in the market  for these high-cost loans.
So Im upholding  Miss Ls complaint about loans  four to 26. 
putting things right  what Cash  Converters  needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Miss L paid on loans four to 26;
 
add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum  to each  of these amounts from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*;
the number  of loans taken by the time of loan six means that any information  about loans 
four to 26 is negative. So all entries  about  loans four to 26 should be removed from   
Miss Ls credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Cash Converters to take off tax from this interest. Cash 
Converters must give Miss L a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if she asks for 
one. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold part of Miss Ls complaint and direct Cash  Converters (UK) 
Limited to put things  right as detailed above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 September 2019.
Gemma Bowen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8841551