K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains that the vehicle he acquired  through a hire purchase agreement financed  by 
Specialist Motor Finance Limited  (SMF) wasnt of satisfactory quality. He further  complains 
the vehicle was misrepresented. He wants to reject  the vehicle and end the agreement.
background
Mr H tells us he acquired  the vehicle in April 2018  from a dealer Ill refer to as C. He says 
the vehicle experienced  a serious  fault after three months leading  to a loss of power and was 
running in limp mode. He says that in total he had to have the sensor cleaned on three 
separate occasions in order to get the vehicle out of limp mode. But that when the vehicle 
continued to exhibit the same issue he took it to another garage, a company  Ill refer to as 
T. After having the vehicle inspected by T, Mr H says it was discovered that the dashboard 
had been tampered with using blu tac to disguise the engine management light (EML) being  
illuminated. And that T identified faults  with the Diesel Particulate  Filter (DPF)  and heat 
sensor.
SMF explained that the vehicle had been inspected by independent vehicle  examiners, a 
company Ill refer to as S. It said S had concluded  there were faults with the vehicle but that 
these hadnt been present at the point of supply.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 20 April 2020. I said I intended to uphold 
the complaint  as I was satisfied thered been a misrepresentation of the goods. And that the 
vehicle hadnt  been of satisfactory quality at the time of supply. I said I intended to allow  Mr 
H to end the agreement and reject  the vehicle.
Since my provisional decision Mr H has replied accepting my provisional view but asking me 
to consider a further aspect of the complaint. He said that hed moved home and incurred 
storage charges whilst  awaiting  the outcome of the complaint.  SMF replied and said it didnt 
agree with my provisional view. It said it thought Mr H wouldve noticed the blu tac earlier  
than he did if it had been present at the point of supply. As theres  been  no new information 
supplied about  the original complaint I shant be changing my provisional  decision. But Ill 
deal with the additional matter raised by Mr H in my final decision which  is set out below.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  that Mr H has experienced  problems with this vehicle. Its clear  that this led to him 
experiencing a considerable  amount of worry as well as inconvenience.
Mr Hs hire purchase agreement is a regulated consumer credit  agreement and our service  
is able to consider  complaints relating to it. SMF  supplied the vehicle and its therefore 
responsible for a complaint about  the quality of the vehicle. Its also responsible  for any 
misrepresentation that took place during the antecedent negotiations and which led to the 
finance agreement  being implemented. A misrepresentation  is a false  statement of fact 
which induces a customer to enter an agreement and suffer  loss as a result  of the 
misrepresentation.
Ref: DRN88656052Whilst I dont apply  the law - directly - I do take it into account.  And relevant law here 
includes the Consumer  Rights Act 2015  (CRA) and the Consumer Credit Act 1974  (CCA).
Mr H entered the finance agreement with SMF  on 12 April 2018. Hes stated the vehicle 
experienced issues with loss of power  after three months. After  having the DPF cleared on 
several occasions he took the vehicle to T. On 8 October  2018  it identified faults with the 
DPF and the heat sensor. It also said that there was evidence the dashboard had been 
tampered with.
On learning of this, Mr H complained to SMF  who arranged  for the vehicle  to be inspected  by 
S. The vehicle  was examined by S on 24 October  2018. S concluded that the vehicle had 
two specific engine faults. But it concluded  this would  be resolved by the cleaning  of the DPF 
and EGR  valve. It said it didnt think that the faults  were present at the point of supply. S also 
identified the likelihood  that a deliberate  act to camouflage the illumination  of the EML had 
been undertaken. Although it said this couldve  occurred  after supply.
A final examination  of the vehicle was conducted  by T on 7 October  2019. This concluded  
that the dashboard had been tampered with and blu tac applied so as to cover up the EML. 
Where information is unclear or contradictory - as some of it is here - I reach my conclusions 
on the balance  of probabilities. That is, what I think is most likely  to have happened in light of 
the available  evidence and the wider surrounding  circumstances.
In addition to the various reports relating to the vehicles condition,  I note that the vehicles 
MOT history shows that in September 2017  the vehicle passed the test but with advisories. 
These are issues which dont result in a failure but which are likely  to need attention. One of 
the advisories referred to the EML being illuminated.  When  the vehicle  passed  another  MOT 
in February 2018  no advisories were noted.  This information is ambiguous.  Its consistent  
with either  the issue with the EML being rectified or successfully concealed.
When S examined the vehicle its engineer was unable to road test the vehicle as he didnt 
wish to risk exacerbating  any faults.  And he also identified the issue of the EML being  
camouflaged so as to make it difficult to see it was illuminated. This is consistent with what  T 
had reported previously.  And when the dashboard was later dismantled by T during its final 
inspection it became apparent that blu tac had been used to disguise the issue with the 
EML.
Ive concluded  on a balance of probabilities that the likelihood is that the blu tac was applied 
at some point between September 2017  (when  the illuminated EML was noted as an MOT 
advisory) and April 2018 (the date of supply to Mr H). And that it was present at the point of 
supply. In my view its highly improbable that the issue arose  after supply. It wouldnt be in 
Mr Hs interests  to conceal the EML. If hed noticed the issue  earlier hed have been able to 
complain that much  more  quickly.
Ive also reached the view that this act of concealment  is capable  of being a 
misrepresentation in relation to the description of the vehicle when it was supplied to Mr H. 
Ill explain  why Ive reached my opinion on this point.
Ref: DRN88656053Ive already indicated I dont  apply the law - directly  - but case  law indicates that an action 
(as opposed to words) taken to conceal the true state of affairs can amount  to a 
misrepresentation. Theres no requirement that the dealer was aware of the issue. An 
innocent misrepresentation  is sufficient.  Its enough that the factual state of affairs as 
presented to Mr H (that the EML was not illuminated  to show  the presence of fault warnings)  
was false. And the advisory  note in the September 2017 MOT is, I believe, more than 
coincidental.
Ive not seen any information to show the vehicle underwent repairs after this date and 
before it was supplied  to Mr H. And it passed a further MOT in February 2018 without 
advisories. On a balance  of probabilities Im satisfied this is partly  due to the successful  
concealment of the EML.
If Mr H had been aware of the EML being illuminated its almost  certain  hed have raised the 
issue and possibly required  the vehicle to be repaired before supply. Or, more likely still, 
hed have chosen not to proceed.  So the concealment  was a significant  factor in inducing  
him to proceed with the finance agreement.  I believe the description of the vehicle was 
misrepresented.
This finding would  be sufficient  in itself for me to recommend that Mr H should be allowed  to 
reject the vehicle. But for completeness  Ive also considered the issue  of whether it was of 
satisfactory quality. I wouldnt expect a vehicle which  had covered only 66,000  miles to be 
breaking down  as often as this one seems to have done within  such  a short time of supply.
Relevant provisions  of the CRA  include (NB. underlining is mine):-
s. 9 Goods to be of satisfactory quality:
1) Every contract to supply goods is to be treated as including a term that the quality of the 
goods is satisfactory.
(2) The quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard  that a reasonable person
would consider satisfactory, taking account of
(a)any description of the goods,
(b)the price or other consideration for the goods (if relevant), and 
(c) all the other relevant  circumstances.
I dont think a reasonable person would  consider  a vehicle to be of satisfactory quality where 
the EML had been tampered with so as to prevent it from performing its intended function (to 
alert the driver to potential faults). This is irrespective  of whether the faults - which were later 
identified - wouldve  meant the vehicle didnt conform to contract. The engineer  appointed  by 
S to examine the vehicle  wasnt able to conduct  a full health check. And he was unable to 
road test the vehicle  for fear of exacerbating any existing faults. So its possible  that theres 
greater damage to the vehicle than is currently known.
It clearly wouldnt be fair and reasonable to impose a potential  liability upon  Mr H - if there 
are additional  faults  - where he was prevented from becoming aware of those issues due to 
the tampering with the EML. Im of the opinion that the concealment of the EML meant the 
vehicle wasnt of satisfactory quality when supplied  to Mr H.
Ref: DRN88656054In terms of redress Im unable to make  an award  in respect of the hire charges which  Mr H 
has claimed. The invoices  with which Ive been supplied  are made out to a business - not Mr 
H. I cant make an award to individuals or businesses which are not parties to the complaint.
The issues  with the vehicle meant  that Mr H was unable to use it whilst it was being  repaired 
or inspected.  In those circumstances I think its fair and reasonable that he should be 
refunded his monthly payments for these periods.
I think the fairest resolution is to refund any payments made for periods after 30 September  
2018. And where payments  have been due after this date but not paid they should be 
waived.
In his response to my provisional decision Mr H informed me that as a result of moving 
house hes been required to incur storage charges for the vehicle whilst awaiting the 
outcome of this complaint. And he asked me to make an award to cover  the costs  of this. 
Whilst I understand his concern I dont think Im able to do so. Ill explain why.
The storage  costs arose after the original complaint had been made and therefore SMF 
hasnt had the chance to formally respond.  Another consideration is that I could only make 
such an award if I thought  these  costs were consequential losses  arising  from the issues  
with the vehicle and the misrepresentation.  Its arguable they arise mostly as a consequence  
of Mr Hs move of address. Im anxious not to delay the issuing  of my decision any further as 
its already well over a year since Mr H raised his original complaint. And presumably 
charges would continue to rise if I did so. So I think its best I make no finding  on this aspect
and confine my decision to the original subject matter of the complaint.
This means  its open to Mr H to pursue the matter  of storage charges separately if he wishes 
to do so. And my decision should have no effect on this. I make it clear  I havent taken this 
additional issue relating to storage charges into account in reaching my final decision.
In summary,  Im satisfied  the vehicle was misrepresented and also that it wasnt of 
satisfactory quality when supplied to Mr H. I find that he should be allowed to reject it and 
end the agreement. Accordingly  Im upholding this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im upholding this complaint.
In full and final settlement  of this complaint I now require Specialist  Motor Finance Limited to 
take the following action:
1.End the agreement with nothing further  for Mr H to pay after 30 September  2018; 
Payments due for any period up to this date remain payable  by Mr H.
2.Arrange for the vehicle to be collected at no cost to Mr H;
3.Refund any payments  made for any period  after 30 September 2018 to Mr H;
4.Refund Mr H the cost of two diagnostic reports (£324)  if not already refunded;
5.Pay Mr H £250 compensation for distress and inconvenience;
Ref: DRN886560556.Arrange to remove the record of the finance  agreement from Mr Hs credit file.
Simple interest at the rate of 8% per year should  be added to any sums arising from 3 and 4 
above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 June  2020.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8865605