K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains he was mis-sold Waiver of Contribution benefit  for a personal pension  he 
took out with Sun Life Assurance  Company of Canada (UK) Limited.
background
The product  was sold by a predecessor  business of Sun Life but for ease of reading Ill just 
refer to Sun Life in the decision.  
In April 1997 Mr G met with an advisor from Sun Life to arrange a personal  pension. A fact 
find was completed which  shows he was aged  22, earning £14,000, but not a member of his 
employers pension scheme. He started a personal  pension plan making monthly  net 
contributions of £60 with an intended  retirement age of 55 (which would be in 2029). He also 
selected to pay for Waiver  of Contribution (WOC)  benefit costing £3 per month, which 
would cover the contributions if Mr G was too ill to work. 
In December 2018 Mr G complained to Sun Life as he said he didnt need WOC. If hed 
become unemployed hed simply have stopped his contributions  to the policy  and resumed 
when his financial circumstances improved. So he asked for a refund of all premiums  paid 
plus interest. 
Sun Life arranged  to cancel the WOC going  forward but didnt uphold the complaint or agree 
to refund the contributions  already paid. They  said Mr G had signed  the application form to 
accept WOC and it thought it was a suitable recommendation to protect his contributions and 
therefore his retirement  benefits.
So Mr G complained to this service as he said the WOC hadnt been explained to him. He 
said the application process had been rushed and the salesman had just ticked the box on 
the form. One of our investigators reviewed  the complaint and didnt uphold it. Hed reviewed 
the application form and could see the fact find had been completed with information which 
had required  some input  from Mr G, so he didnt think it was just a tick box exercise as 
Mr G claimed.  He thought  WOC would have  protected Mr Gs contributions  had he been 
unable to work so he thought it had been  suitable for someone in Mr Gs circumstances. 
Mr G maintains the Sun Life pension was never going to be his main retirement income  
which is why he never increased  his contributions.  So he didnt need  the WOC and thought  
the premiums should be refunded.
As agreement couldnt be reached its been passed to me to make a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
it. Let me explain why.
Ive reviewed the scanned copy of the application form which  was completed by the adviser 
during the meeting in 1997. The form has six pages and requires information to be 
completed which the advisor wouldnt  be able to do without input from Mr G. For example his 
nomination of who should benefit in the event of his death and his tax and national insurance 
information. The form also records that although  Mr G was employed  at the time, he wasnt a 
Ref: DRN83331262member of his employers pension scheme and had no income protection  or any other such 
policies which would  have  stepped  in if he became  unable to work through  sickness  or 
injury.
One section is titled  Optional Protection Benefits (my emphasis).  The advisor has crossed 
through the sections relating to Life Cover and Disability Income which suggests Mr G was 
able to decide he didnt want those. But the final section is Waiver of Contribution and 
Yes is ticked  to this. The form goes on If YES please answer the following questions . The 
advisor would  have had to ask Mr G five questions in relation to his health and whether hed 
previously been  unable to work for any reason relating to his health. The final question asks 
for his height  and weight which have been  completed. I dont believe the advisor would have 
been able to respond to these questions as a tick box exercise without input from Mr G. So 
if Mr G hadnt  wished  to proceed with WOC  or didnt understand what  it was, he could have 
refused to provide those details. Sun Life has said as Mr G didnt  declare any health 
problems there was no need for a referral  to the underwriters. This suggests to me that 
WOC was not automatic  as certain conditions may have affected  whether cover was 
provided and perhaps the cost.
Finally Mr G had to sign the form having  first read the Declaration on the final page. Above 
where Mr G has signed is a section headed WARNING  which  required Mr G to check the 
form to ensure it had been completed correctly  to the best of his knowledge. This was an 
opportunity for Mr G to review what he had signed  up for and raise any queries he had.
Sun Life has also provided a scanned copy  of the pension plan paperwork which was sent to 
Mr G following the meeting. It says this should  be read in association with the accompanying 
Key Features literature and separate brochure  for the plan. I havent  seen copies  of those. 
But the illustration  includes a hand-written note which  reads Client  has original which  
suggests one was sent or handed to Mr G. 
It is only three pages and on the front page  under Initial Selected Contributions  the gross  
(£77.92) and net contributions (£60) are shown.  And below that there  is a section headed  
Initial  Selected  Protection Benefits which lists Waiver of Contribution contributions waived 
until age 55 after 6 months disability and the cost of this is noted as £3.00. Sun Life has 
said the monthly contribution is actually £2.89  and was deducted from the plan as a charge. 
The second  and third pages  illustrate the potential growth of the plan over time and Mr Gs 
potential retirement benefits.  But as the WOC was prominently displayed on the first page I 
think Mr G had another opportunity to query this if he didnt think hed signed  up for it or 
decided he didnt want it. 
Mr G says he has been receiving annual statements for his plan and Sun Life has provided 
an example of these  (from  2014).  Under  the Product Aim section it says You  may have 
chosen any of these optional benefits: additional  death benefit, an income  payable  if you 
become disabled and are unable to work or waiver  of premiums which  keeps our policy  in 
force if you become  ill or disabled  and are unable to work. It goes on If there  are additional 
benefits attached to the policy .please check the policy schedule or contact us for 
details (again  my emphasis). I think this shows Mr G wasnt  obliged to have WOC  (or the 
other optional benefits)  if he didnt want it. 
So while the statement doesnt show Mr G was paying for WOC benefit it explained that he 
might be, and this would have prompted  him to check his policy  schedule  or contact Sun 
Ref: DRN83331263Life. These benefits  are clearly described  as optional so at any time Mr G could have 
asked Sun Life to cancel  the WOC if he decided he didnt need it. 
And like our investigator,  if Mr G had no income  protection policy  at the time he took out his 
pension plan I cant say for the relatively low cost it wasnt a sensible choice. Mr G says this 
was never  going  to be his main source  of retirement  income, but he doesnt appear to have  
had any other pension provision in 1997 when he started the plan. So I think overall WOC  is 
likely to have been suitable for Mr Gs circumstances  at the time. But it was always an 
optional benefit,  and I think he was given enough  information to decide  if he wanted to go 
ahead with it. 
So for the reasons above I dont  uphold the complaint and dont require Sun Life to refund 
the premiums hes already paid back to Mr G.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 September  2020.
Sarah Milne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8333126