K821x#15complaint
Mr K has complained about short-term loans granted to him by CashEuroNet UK LLC 
(CEN) trading as QuickQuid and Pounds  to Pocket. Mr K says he couldnt  afford  these 
loans and that CEN didnt take appropriate steps to check  whether he could afford them  
when he took them out. 
background
CEN agreed  10 short-term loans  for Mr K between March 2011 and November 2016. The 
majority of the loans  were repayable over between one and three  months, with the exception  
of loans 5 and 6. Loan  5 was taken out with Pounds to Pocket. This was an instalment loan 
for £750, and was repayable over 12 equal  monthly instalments of around £109. Loan 6 was 
a flexible credit agreement (flex-credit). This was a credit facility that allowed Mr K to draw 
down money up to a pre-agreed credit limit, with a view to repaying it  potentially  over a 
period of up to 10 months.
Ive set out a summary of the lending below. And Ive referred  to the loans taken out with 
QuickQuid under the business entity  section as QQ, and those taken through  
Pounds to Pocket as P2P.
 
loan 
no.business 
entity applicationprincipal 
amount  (£)no. of 
instalments  duehighest monthly  
repayment due 
(£)
1 QQ 25/03/2011 250 1 313
2 QQ 21/05/2011 200 2 250
3 QQ 08/07/2011 500 2 625
4 QQ 01/09/2011 700 2 875
5 P2P 09/11/2011 750 12 109
flex 
creditbusiness 
entityapplication credit limithighest estimated monthly 
repayment due (£)
6 QQ 13/05/2013 700 221
loan 
no.business 
entity application principal 
amount  (£)no. of 
instalments  duehighest monthly  
repayment due 
(£)
7 QQ 10/02/2016 950 3 1,170
8 QQ 17/06/2016 250 2 308
9 QQ 07/09/2016 150 2 187
10 QQ 04/11/2016 350 3 459
CEN objected to us looking  at loans 1 and 2, as it said that because of how long ago they 
were taken out, they fell outside  of the rules that cover off what complaints our service can 
and cant consider. Mr K subsequently dropped his complaint about loans 1 and 2, and 
asked that we instead consider just loans 3  10.
One of our adjudicators has looked into Mr Ks complaint already and recommended  the 
complaint be upheld in part. He felt the checks CEN carried out on loans 3 - 10 werent 
proportionate. And he thought that had CEN  carried out proportionate checks  on the above 
loans, it wouldve concluded  that all of these loans wouldve been unaffordable for Mr K, and 
would not have agreed to them.
Ref: DRN83960932CEN disagreed with the adjudicators findings, but agreed to refund the interest and charges 
Mr K paid towards loans  3  5. And Mr K raised  no new arguments in response  to the 
adjudicators assessment.  So as no agreements been reached at this stage, the case has 
come to me, as an ombudsman, for a final decision.
As it seems loans 3 - 5 are no longer in dispute,  my decision will focus on CENs decision to 
approve the remaining loans, loans 6  10. However, I may make reference  to some of the 
earlier loans  in my decision, as they do form part of the overall pattern of lending.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
CEN initially said we completed  a variety of unique customer specific  variables, including  
obtaining a gauge credit  score. We also analysed Mr K's current  financial commitments, 
insolvency records, delinquency records. County Court judgments,  credit enquiries and other 
credit accounts currently. In addition, CEN verified information obtained from the applicant, 
we also consider an applicant's credit-scoring information from Credit  Reference Agencies, 
plus various other 3rd party reports. So Ive considered this when deciding  this case.
The adjudicator, in his view, set out why he thought CENs checks  werent proportionate. 
And he explained that he thought proportionate checks wouldve shown CEN  that the loans 
wouldve been unaffordable for Mr K.
 
In response to the adjudicators assessment, CEN said that it did conduct  appropriate  and 
proportionate affordability assessments, including validation of Mr Ks income and expenses 
before funding the above loans. It said that starting  1 March 2015, before Mr K borrowed his 
seventh loan,  it had implemented an affordability assessment that was consistent  with the 
FCA Handbook and that was in place at the time it received  authorisation by the FCA. It says 
this confirms its assessment was conducted properly and individually for this application. 
This service has addressed this specific point by CEN in several previous decisions, so Im 
not going to expand on it any further  here. But my role however, is to look not only into the 
rules and regulations  set by the regulator  at the time of borrowing but also the law, good 
industry practice and all the available evidence and arguments to help decide  whether I think  
what the business has done  is right or not. And in this case I dont think  CEN was right to 
provide Mr K with the above  loans.  Ill explain why.
CEN needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr K could 
repay his loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account  a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and Mr Ks income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in 
the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough  checks might be reasonable 
and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that a lender should fairly and reasonably have  
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These would 
include where:
Ref: DRN83960933a consumers income is low or the amount to be repaid takes up a substantial portion 
of their income 
the amount,  or amounts, due to be repaid are higher 
there is a larger number and/or frequency of loans 
the period  of time during which a customer has been provided with borrowing is long.
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Bearing all of this in mind, I think that there  are three  key questions  for me to consider in 
order to fairly and reasonably determine Mr Ks complaint. These  questions  are:
1.Did CEN,  each  time it lent, complete reasonable and proportionate checks  to satisfy 
itself that Mr K would  be able to repay  in a sustainable way? If not, would those 
checks have shown  that Mr K would  have been able to do so?
2.Taking into account the short-term purpose of the loans provided, did the overall 
pattern of lending  increase Mr Ks indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable  or 
otherwise harmful?
3.Did CEN  act unfairly or unreasonably  in some other way?
1. Did CEN, each time it lent, complete reasonable and proportionate  checks to satisfy  itself 
that Mr K would be able to repay  in a sustainable  way? If not, would those  checks have 
shown that Mr K would  have been  able to do so? 
Ive reviewed the adjudicators findings regarding the proportionality of the checks, and I also 
think that proportionate checks wouldve shown CEN that loans 6  10 wouldve been 
unaffordable for Mr K. But I havent set out detailed, individual, proportionate affordability 
checks for these loans, as I dont  think that it is necessary to do so. Ill explain why.
2. Taking into account the short-term purpose of the loans provided, did the overall  pattern of 
lending increase Mr Ks indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful?
Ive looked at the overall pattern of lending. Ive looked to see if there was a point at which 
CEN should reasonably have seen that further  lending was unsustainable, or otherwise 
harmful. And so CEN should have realised that it shouldnt have provided any further  
lending. Given the particular circumstances of Mr Ks case,  I think that this point was 
reached around the time Mr K applied for loan 6. I say this because:
Mr K wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed CEN at this point. And 
was in effect paying large amounts of interest  to service this debt over an extended 
period
the amount  Mr K was borrowing had steadily been increasing, and CEN ought  to 
have realised it was likely his indebtedness was increasing unsustainably 
I think that Mr K lost out because CEN continued  to provide borrowing from loan 6 
onwards because:
Ref: DRN83960934these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ks indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit over an extended  period of time
the sheer number  of loans was likely to have had negative  implications on Mr Ks 
ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market for these high-cost 
loans
Ive considered the fact that there was a gap of just over six months between Mr K settling 
loan 5 and taking out loan 6; and between settling  loan 6 and taking loan 7. And whether or 
not this gap effectively broke the chain  of lending - which  may have  led me to conclude  that 
it wasnt wrong of CEN to continue lending to Mr K at this time.  
But at the point Mr K took out loan 6, hed been borrowing from CEN for over two years, and 
within this time, hed not seemed to have been  able to have  freed himself of the need to take 
out short-term credit.  So while there  was a gap, Im not persuaded this was enough of a gap 
to constitute a break in the chain  of lending, so subsequently, I still think that CEN was 
wrong to continue lending to Mr K at this point.  
There was a similar gap between loans  6 and 7. But loan 6, the flex-credit account had run 
for a period  of over two years.  So by the time Mr K applied for loan 7, hed now had a 
lending relationship with CEN for almost  five years. So again, while  there was a gap, for the 
same reasons as above, I dont this gap constituted  a break in the chain of lending,  so I still 
think that CEN was wrong to continue lending  to Mr K at this point.  
So Im upholding  Mr Ks complaint about  loans 6 - 10 because the overall pattern of lending  
increased his indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful  and he lost 
out as a result.
Did CEN  act unfairly or unreasonably  in some other way?
Ive carefully thought  about everything provided.  Having done  so, Ive not seen anything here 
that leads me to conclude CEN  acted  unfairly  or unreasonably towards  Mr K in some other 
way.  
In summary,  I dont think CEN should  have continued to lend to Mr K from loan 6 onwards. 
So Im upholding  Mr Ks complaint about  loans 6  10. 
what CEN  should do to put things  right
CEN has already  agreed to refund the interest and charges Mr K paid on loans 3  5, so it 
should still do this. 
In addition to this I think CEN was wrong  to have approved loans 6 - 10. So it needs  to 
refund all of the interest and charges Mr K paid towards these loans.
Specifically, it should:
-refund  all interest and charges Mr K paid on loans 3 to 10;
-pay interest on these refunds at 8% simple  from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement*;
-remove any negative information  about loans 3 to 10 from Mr Ks credit file;
Ref: DRN83960935-the number  of loans taken from loan 6 onwards means any information  recorded 
about them  is adverse. So all entries  about  loans 6 to 10 should be removed from 
Mr Ks credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires CEN to take off tax from this interest. CEN must give 
Mr K a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I uphold Mr Ks complaint  in part. 
And I require  CashEuroNet UK LLC to put things  right as described  above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 July 2019.
Brad Mcilquham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8396093