K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Virgin Money  plc (Virgin Money)  blocked  transactions on his credit 
card and wont stop sending him promotional communications.
background
In September  2018 Mr S tried to use his credit card but couldnt as it was blocked. He had to 
call Virgin Money on three  occasions that day before the block  was cleared and, having 
been assured  it wouldnt  get blocked  again,  it did in early October. So he complained  to 
Virgin Money and he also said he was disappointed that theyd  failed to stop sending  him 
promotional emails and texts.
Virgin Money said that they had robust  security  measures in place to ensure the safety of 
Mr Ss account. They explained  that the terms of his account allowed them  to prevent or limit 
the use of his card if they needed to check whether  transactions  were  genuine  and, as that 
was the case  here, they didnt think theyd done  anything wrong.
But Mr S wasnt  happy  with their response and he referred his complaint to this service.  Our 
adjudicator agreed  with Virgin  Money.  He listened to the calls Mr S had with them in 
September and noted that, as it was before 8am, the advisor had asked him to call back  
after 8am when the team that handled  these issues was available.  And when Mr S did get 
through to the right team  the transaction was approved and the block  removed straight  
away. He explained  that a bank  may occasionally seek to limit the use of a card when they 
were unsure  of a transaction  and he didnt think theyd done  anything wrong, when 
subsequently blocking the card, if they were concerned about a transaction.
He went on to consider  whether Virgin Money had failed to comply  with Mr Ss request to 
stop sending promotional emails. He spoke  to Virgin Money who assured him they had 
processed Mr Ss request but that it would take up to eight weeks  to take affect.  He thought  
this was reasonable and therefore didnt suggest Virgin Money  needed to do anything more.
But Mr S disagreed. He said that despite Virgin Money saying theyd removed the block  in 
September, the very next time he used  it he found  it still blocked.  And he said that Virgin 
Money didnt allow  him to unsubscribe from commercial emails. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view and for similar reasons. Please let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Ref: DRN84346742From time to time its usual for credit card providers  to limit the use of a card when they 
suspect the validity  of a transaction.  In this case Virgin Money were able to do that because 
the terms of the account said they could.  I wouldnt  expect Virgin Money  to explain in detail 
why they chose to block  Mr Ss card because that may mean theyd have to divulge 
information about their processes that may make  it easier for fraudsters to succeed  in the 
future. 
I can see that it took a few calls for Mr Ss card to be reinstated  so a transaction could be 
made but Virgin Money did explain on the calls that the security team werent available  until 
after 8am. I think thats also reasonable and I can see that when Mr S did get through  to the 
right person  the transaction  was processed. I dont agree  that the block  wasnt  removed as 
the transaction was possible. Its unfortunate and must have been frustrating that the card 
was blocked again later but Virgin Money will point to the fact that they have a right under 
the terms of the account to do so and Id agree.
Mr S also commented that when  he got his new card he wasnt  told why theyd  sent it. Ive 
seen a copy of the letter  that would have accompanied the card.  It doesnt explain  why the 
card was issued but I think the way in which Virgin Money communicate these changes  is for 
them to decide.  I can see that the letter did explain  how to activate the card and I dont feel 
Mr S was disadvantaged  by the issue.
Virgin Money have  explained that theyve actioned Mr Ss request to stop future promotional 
communications. Theyve explained that the emails  he had been receiving may have been  
service communications related to the account he already  had and that if that were the 
case he would be able to stop them by calling. I believe this has now been completed but 
Mr S had to call a couple of times.  Whilst I can see Virgin Money have apologised  for the 
inconvenience I dont  think  this merits compensation and overall, I dont think  Virgin Money  
need to take any further action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8434674