K820x#14complaint
S, a company,  complains through Mr T that Tide Platform Ltd wont  refund payments made 
to its mobile phone provider. Mr T says it should  do so under the direct debit guarantee 
scheme.    
background
Mr T has explained  that his companys mobile  phone provider blocked a sim card because,  it 
said, it had exceeded  fair usage. And, he says,  he wasnt told that Ss plan no longer 
included texts or calls to the Channel Islands, where it does a lot of business. 
Because of this, Mr T contacted Tide and asked it to request a refund under the direct debit 
guarantee scheme. And he said as well that the mobile phone  company hadnt given proper 
notice that it was going to take payment.   
Tide didnt accept that there was any reason to seek a refund under the direct debit 
guarantee scheme. A dispute with a provider over the services provided was not covered  by 
the scheme. Mr T didnt  accept what Tide said and referred the matter  to us  on behalf  of S. 
One of our investigators  looked at it but agreed with Tide that this wasnt  a reason for a 
refund of money  paid by direct  debit. Again, Mr T didnt agree and so Ss complaint has been 
passed to me  as the final stage  in our consideration  of it.    
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, however, Ive reached 
the same  overall  conclusions as the investigator  did.
A direct debit is a payment thats  initiated by the payee, not the payer.  In this case, Ss 
mobile phone company  sought payment of its bills from Tide. S didnt give any specific 
instruction to Tide for each payment, but relied  on the provider to request the right amount 
and Tide to pay it. That is, of course,  completely  normal where payments are made by direct  
debit. But, because banks  which operate direct debits are, in effect, acting  on instructions of 
suppliers who arent  their customers, some protection is given to those customers by the 
direct debit guarantee scheme. The scheme allows customers to challenge  payments made 
by direct debit in certain circumstances   for example, where an incorrect payment is made 
or a payment is made after the direct debit has been  cancelled. 
Mr Ts primary concern here is that Ss mobile phone provider has reduced the service its 
prepared to provide.  But thats not a reason  for which Tide could seek  a refund under the 
direct debit guarantee scheme. Its not designed  to deal with disputes of this kind between 
suppliers and their customers. 
Mr T did however raise a further issue. He said that Ss mobile phone provider hadnt given 
notice of what payments  it was intending to take or when they would be taken. That is a 
requirement under the direct debit scheme  and failure to give notice can give rise to a 
claim under the direct debit guarantee. Mr T has however provided copies of Ss mobile  
phone bills for the relevant period. They say how much is due each month and include a 
statement saying that payment will be taken on or just after a specified date  a couple  of 
weeks after the statement  date.  Thats  sufficient  notice to satisfy  the rules of the direct debit 
scheme. I believe  that S was, therefore,  given proper notice before payments were taken. 
Ref: DRN81731552my final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I dont require Tide Platform Ltd to do anything  
further to resolve  Ss complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask S (through Mr T) to accept  or reject  my decision before 28 July 2019.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8173155