K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage Mr and Mrs W hold with Barclays Bank  UK PLC.  At its 
highest level, the complaint is about legal action  Barclays has taken in the past to recover 
arrears, and about the proposals Mr and Mrs W have put forward  recently, to bring the 
mortgage up to date.
background
By way of a provisional decision dated 28 January 2020, which  is attached below and forms 
part of this final decision, I set out, with reasons, the basis on which I was minded to 
determine this complaint,  subject to the further  submissions of the parties. 
Both parties  asked for, and were  given, more time to reply,  and when they did, said they 
agreed broadly  with my proposal  for settling the dispute, although Mr and Mrs W were  
unhappy at the prospect of a suspended  possession order  being sought to underpin  
acceptance of their payment proposals. 
Barclays confirmed that it had made the following refunds of legal costs to the mortgage  account:
15/05/16      £535.00
26/05/16      £243.00
16/08/17      £246.00
02/05/19      £252.00
30/07/19   £3,300.00
22/08/19      £126.00
29/10/19 £10,200.00
09/11/19   £1,200.00.
The reason  Mr and Mrs W asked for more time was to check  that the refunds had arrived  on 
their account. They  also asked us to clarify exactly what  a suspended possession order to 
underpin the proposed payment arrangement would mean in terms of further court  action.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments, which  includes the email  of 
26 February 2020 containing  Mr and Mrs Ws closing comments, to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no need for determination  of the complaint to be delayed  until after Mr and Mrs W 
are satisfied the refunds of charges have been  made. I can address that simply by ordering 
Barclays to send them a revised mortgage  statement.  
I said in the provisional  decision that its not our role to replicate the court process.  Its also 
not for us to give consumers legal advice. Ive explained why theres no proper basis for me 
to say Barclays shouldnt  seek a suspended possession order to secure an agreement  
based on the current proposals  for repaying  the arrears. If Mr and Mrs W are unsure what 
the next steps in that process would be, and what the implications for possible future court  
action might be, then they have their own solicitors  to help them.
Ref: DRN84177192my final decision
For the reasons  set out below, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. 
In full and final settlement,  I order Barclays Bank  UK PLC to:
send Mr and Mrs W an up-to-date interim  mortgage statement showing refunds 
(backdated for interest purposes) of all of the legal costs  listed  in the background 
section of this final decision; and
pay Mr and Mrs W £750.
I make  no other order or award. My final decision concludes this services consideration of 
this complaint, which means  Ill not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of 
the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 March  2020.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN84177193CONTENT OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
This complaint is about  a mortgage Mr and Mrs W hold with Barclays Bank UK PLC.  At its highest 
level, the complaint is about legal action Barclays has taken in the past to recover arrears, and about 
the proposals  Mr and Mrs W have put forward recently, to bring the mortgage up to date.
background
In what  follows, I have  summarised events in rather less detail than theyve been presented, using my 
own words  to do so, and also rounding some of the amounts involved.  No discourtesys intended  by 
that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide,  and if I dont mention something,  it wont be 
because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt  think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
This approach  is consistent  with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on 
the issues  on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked  by matters which, 
although presented as material, are, in my opinion  peripheral. Another  reason  I have left out a lot of 
the detail is to avoid the risk of identifying  the consumers  when my decision is published.
Mr and Mrs W have been in financial  difficulties  for several years now.  Their  problems have largely  
been down to the impact  on their finances of two catastrophic events, in 2008 and 2012 respectively, 
both of which  caused substantial damage to their home. Both events took many years to put right, 
leaving Mr and Mrs W tens of thousands of pounds out of pocket, and with the value  (and saleability) 
of their home substantially and permanently  diminished.  Additionally, in recent years,  both Mr and Mrs 
W have experienced  major changes in their employment  and income,  but their wider financial 
situation now appears to have stabilised.
In 2016, Barclays initiated legal action over the mortgage arrears;  the proceedings were  variously 
adjourned with liberty to restore. Then, in late 2018, Barclays sought to reinstate the proceedings. Mr 
and Mrs W thought this unfair as they considered the liberty to restore  had expired in 2017.  They  
stopped making payments  in protest (but kept the money aside to make up later) and began a 
complaint, which came to us in April 2019. 
But alongside that, Mr and Mrs W engaged with the court directly, with the assistance of their own 
solicitors, seeking to have the historic action not just adjourned again, but completely vacated.  On the 
advice of the court, they brought up to date the payments theyd missed  since the end of 2018.
The court process  was concluded before we began our consideration of the complaint, with an order 
from the court  in September 2019. The main thrust of the order was to adjourn  the hearing again (still 
with liberty to restore) on the proviso  that proceedings  be struck out altogether if the application to 
restore wasnt  made within three  months of a final decision on the complaint from this service.
Mr and Mrs Ws solicitors  wrote  to us with details  of their financial claim; this was, in summary, that 
Barclays should:
refund legal costs in excess of £3,500 that it had debited to the mortgage account in 2019 in 
pursuit of the court  action that had how been discredited by the court;
reimburse Mr and Mrs W a little over £3,000 (including  VAT) in respect of the costs it had 
charged to assist  them in getting the September 2019 court order; and
pay Mr and Mrs W reasonable compensation for the distress caused by the events of the past 
three years, and to reimburse their incidental  costs, such  as travel to and from the court.
Ref: DRN84177194Meanwhile, Mr and Mrs W sent our investigator details  of their proposals  for bringing the historic  
arrears up to date, and asked that it be put to Barclays for consideration.  Barclays responded  saying it 
would accept the payment  plan if it were backed by a suspended possession order from the court. 
Our investigator didnt think that was a reasonable condition,  so the case was referred  for review by 
an ombudsman.
my provisional  findings
Ill start with some general observations. Were  not the regulator of financial businesses,  and we dont 
police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. We deal with individual disputes  between businesses  and their customers. In doing  that, we 
dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions  on how we investigate  a complaint. We 
conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions  without interference  from anyone  else.  But in 
doing so, we have to work  within the rules of the ombudsman service, and the remit  those  rules give us
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. As I said earlier, if I dont comment  on any specific point its not 
because Ive failed to consider it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome in the wider context. My remit  is to take an overview and decide 
whats fair in the round.
I said a moment ago that we dont  replicate  the work of the courts.  The relevance  of that here is that if 
the court  had not already  issued the new order in September 2019,  I would  not have been able to 
make any findings on the fairness  or otherwise  of the court action Barclays had taken since 2016. Nor 
would I have  been able to consider the accuracy or otherwise of the witness statements either party  
made to the court. All of these matters are the preserve  of the court, and its not for me to interfere 
with or second-guess  the legal process.
However, what I can do, in the wake of the September 2019 court  order,  is assess  the claim Mr and 
Mrs Ws solicitors have made for the impact on them of the legal action Barclays took. I listed  the 
details earlier, and deal with them now, in the same order.
Barclays legal costs
The starting  position  is that the mortgage contract allows Barclays to debit the mortgage account  with 
the costs of legal action taken to recover arrears  in reliance on its security.  But set against that is the 
duty to act fairly. 
I wouldnt say it was unfair of the bank to initiate the original proceedings in 2016.  One of the 
fundamental principles underpinning the mortgage contract is that a lender has the right to enforce its 
security to recover money owed to it. It would be entirely inequitable and inappropriate for me to 
remove (or even fetter)  that right from Barclays in a decision  on Mr and Mrs Ws complaint, regardless  
of their situation.
So Id be slow to find that the costs  of that initial  action were unfairly  debited. But in the wake of the 
finding of the court in September  2019,  Im minded to conclude that costs debited subsequent to the 
initial action in 2016 werent fairly debited, and should be refunded if they havent already been. I 
make that latter point  because presently, the position on costs is far from clear.
Mr and Mrs Ws solicitors  referred to the bank having debited  £252 and £3,300 in May and July 2019 
respectively; more recently Mr and Mrs W say theyve observed  these sums as having been refunded. 
As part of its response to this provisional decision, I require Barclays to provide a list of all legal costs 
debited and/or refunded to the mortgage account since the initial  action began  in 2016.
Ref: DRN84177195Mr and Mrs Ws legal costs
These have  been quoted as £2,535 plus VAT, and are described by Mr and Mrs Ws solicitors as 
having been  incurred  in resisting  Barclays  legal claim.  For me to order Barclays to pay these sums, I 
have to be persuaded on the balance of probabilities that, but for the work their solicitor did to incur 
these fees,  the court would not have reached the decision it did in September 2019. Im not satisfied 
thats a conclusion  I can safely  make.  
I say that at least in part because Mr and Mrs W had described in some detail  the access  they were 
afforded to the judge in their case, and the guidance  the judge  gave them on what steps  to take. I also 
have to consider that the court had the opportunity to make an award  of costs.  Whether it did or didnt 
do so, it wouldnt be appropriate for me to substitute my view over that of the judge.
compensation for distress, inconvenience and incidental  costs
The events Im looking at here have  gone on for more  than three years. Thats a long time to be 
worrying about  the threat of losing ones home as a consequence of legal action, the fairness  of which 
has been called into question  by the court. Ive no doubt the impact on Mr and Mrs Ws peace of mind 
and general well-being  has been immense. Theyve had other problems to deal with as well, but these 
werent caused  by anything Barclays  did or didnt  do. Taking a broad brush overview, Im minded to 
award compensation of £750  for their time,  trouble,  upset  and incidental costs.
That leaves the issue of a repayment plan going forward to deal with the residual arrears. Generally, 
its not the role of the Financial Ombudsman  Service to impose a repayment plan on either party; it 
has to be something that is agreed mutually. Based  on whats  been said up to now, the impression I 
get is that Barclays is willing  to agree to the plan Mr and Mrs W have put forward, but it wants that 
agreement underpinned  by a suspended possession order.
As a starting point, such a condition is neither uncommon nor unreasonable, and I wouldnt typically  
say a lender shouldnt insist  on that proviso. The question for me to decide  is whether I should do so 
here, given  the problems with the historic court action. Ive given that a great deal of thought, and 
whilst I appreciate this will not still well with Mr and Mrs W, I dont think I should. Ill explain why.
It goes back  to what I said earlier about not interfering with a lenders right to enforce its security to 
recover money its owed. Id be in danger of doing just that if I were  to say Barclays could  not seek  a 
suspended possession order to support  the proposed payment plan. Its also worth reiterating  that the 
September 2019 order does give Barclays the right to restore action,  albeit it must  do so within three 
months of a final decision from me on the complaint.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision, further to the final comments from both parties by 11 February 2020, is that I 
intend to uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement, it is my intention  to order 
The Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc to:
refund any litigation costs  shown to have been debited  but not already refunded  to the 
mortgage account  since court action  began in 2016, other  than the costs associated with the 
initial action, and
pay Mr and Mrs W £750 compensation.
Ill review the case and issue  my next decision after 11 February  2020 or sooner if both parties  
confirm theyve said and provided everything they want in response to this provisional  decision. 
Neither party  need repeat anything theyve said already.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8417719