K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Nationwide  Building Society  wont reimburse a £50 cash machine 
withdrawal which he believes was a duplicate of a withdrawal he made earlier  the same  day 
at the same  cash machine.    
background
Mr H has explained that he was out with family  and friends. On their way back  to his friends  
home he withdrew £50 from a cash machine;  this was at 5:08pm. He and his family left the 
friends home at about 9:30pm. 
Nationwides records show that a further  £50 withdrawal was made from the same cash 
machine  not far from the friends home  about two hours  after the first, at 7:12pm. Mr H 
says he couldnt  have made  that withdrawal. He hadnt left the friends home  until later. He 
contacted Nationwide at about  10pm  the same evening to say that he hadnt made the 
second withdrawal  and seeking  a refund. It appears hed checked his mobile banking  and 
seen the second amount debited from his account. 
Nationwide wasnt able to deal with Mr Hs issues immediately,  but when he called the 
following day its staff indicated that there  had been a problem with the cash  machine. They  
would look to see if Mr Hs account had been  affected by it. 
Subsequently, Nationwide told Mr H that it didnt believe  the second  transaction  was the 
result of a fault with the cash machine  which wasnt operated by Nationwide. The cash  
machine records showed  that Mr Hs card and PIN had been used twice, two hours apart. 
There had been  other  transactions in that time. And the cash  machines balancing report  
indicated that the machine contained only £10 more than expected on the day in question; 
that wasnt consistent with a duplicated payment of £50. Nationwide declined to refund the 
£50 that Mr H was claiming.    
Mr H didnt accept Nationwides response to his complaint and referred  it to this service,  
where one of our investigators considered it. He thought it more likely  than not that Mr H 
authorised both withdrawals and that it wouldnt therefore be fair to require Nationwide to 
reimburse the second, disputed, transaction. He also thought  that Nationwides handling of 
Mr Hs complaint had been satisfactory. Mr H didnt agree  and asked that an ombudsman  
review the case.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, however, Ive reached 
broadly the same conclusions as the investigator did, and for similar reasons. 
Im satisfied first of all that both withdrawals were made using  Mr Hs genuine card and the 
correct PIN. The cash machine records show that the chip embedded in Mr Hs card was 
read on both occasions  and that the PIN was entered. Im sure Mr H genuinely believes that 
his card remained in his wallet at all times, but in my view theres clear  evidence  in the 
form of the cash machine  records  that it didnt.  
The cash  machine operator has confirmed that there  were  no problems with the cash 
machine on the day in question. There had been  issues a few days  earlier, but they had 
been fixed almost immediately. And the fact that there was a £10 difference in the cash  
balance isnt, in my view,  evidence  of a wider fault.  For example, it could mean  simply that 
Ref: DRN85780942another customer made a £10 withdrawal but didnt take the cash  which  would then have 
been taken back  into the machine. But it certainly isnt evidence that Mr Hs second  
withdrawal was a duplicate or resulted  from a fault in the machine. 
Mr H has expressed  concern that theres no CCTV footage of the second withdrawal. I 
understand his frustration,  but it wouldnt necessarily be conclusive.  For the reasons Ive 
explained, I believe his genuine card was used to make the second withdrawal. Mr H has 
said he had his card a few hours later. So, even if he didnt  make  the withdrawal  himself,  the 
person who did make  it had his card,  knew his PIN and was able to return the card to him 
quickly. 
It may be that Mr Hs recollection  of what happened  is inaccurate. But in my view, either he 
returned to the cash  machine and made the second  withdrawal himself  or he allowed  
someone else to use his card and told them  what the PIN was. Either way, it wouldnt be fair 
to require Nationwide to reimburse him. 
Ive considered too the service that Nationwide provided. I realise of course that Mr H feels 
Nationwide should  have done things differently,  but it needed  to deal with the cash machine 
operator as well as with Mr H himself. Nationwide explained what it was doing, and why, and 
apologised for delays. I think that was appropriate,  and I dont believe it need do any more.              
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Nationwide Building Society  to do any more to resolve 
Mr Hs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask 
Mr H to accept  or reject  my decision before  23 February 2020.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8578094