K822xcomplaint
Mr Bs complaint is about four loans he took with Gain Credit LLC,  trading as Lending
Stream. Mr B says these loans were unaffordable  and given to him irresponsibly. 
background
Lending Stream provided Mr B with four instalment loans between  May 2018 and July 2018.  
Mr Bs borrowing  history  is detailed below:
An adjudicator reviewed the case and wrote to Mr B and explained  why he didnt think  
Lending Stream was wrong to give him the first three loans. The adjudicator explained that 
for all three loans Lending Stream  had gathered  an appropriate amount of information  and 
the loans were affordable based on what Mr B told them. 
The adjudicator thought  that Lending  Stream needed to do more when it provided Mr B with 
loan 4 and he recommended  Lending Stream make an offer on this loan. Lending Stream  
agreed with the adjudicators recommendations and made an offer to Mr B that was in line 
with his adjudication. 
Mr B did not agree  with the adjudicators  view and chose not to accept the offer. Mr B 
explained that had proper  checks been carried out Lending Stream  wouldve seen he had 
multiple loans with other lenders and was in a spiral  of debt. 
As no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to me  an ombudsman   for a 
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also considered  the law, any relevant
regulatory rules and good industry practice at the time the loans were offered.Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments AmountHighest 
Combined  
Monthly 
Repayment
1 06/05/2018 17/05/2018 6 £200.00 £89.60
2 25/05/2018 14/06/2018 6 £300.00 £98.35 
3 22/06/2018 Outstanding 6 £560.00 £185.76
4 18/07/2018 Outstanding 6 £150.00 £237.28
Ref: DRN80863202Having carefully thought  about all of this, I think the recommendation  the adjudicator made 
to Lending Stream  about loan 4 is the appropriate way to resolve this complaint. And I dont 
think Lending Stream has treated Mr B unfairly or that it should pay him compensation for 
loans 1-3. I know this will come as a disappointment  to Mr B and Id like to explain why I 
think this is the case.
Mr B was provided with four high-interest loans,  intended for short-term use. So Lending
Stream needed to make sure that it didnt provide them irresponsibly. In practice, what this
means is that Lending Stream needed  to carry out proportionate checks to be able to
understand whether any lending was sustainable for Mr B before providing it.
Our website  sets out what we typically think about  when deciding  whether a lenders checks
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what  it does to verify that
information  in the early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low, or the
amount lent was high.  And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater  the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So, wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt  continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
In his complaint  Mr B says that his expenditure exceeded his income when he was provided 
with the loans. He also says that had Lending  Stream carried out proper checks it wouldve 
seen he had other short-term loans and that he was facing financial difficulties. Mr B says 
had Lending  Stream  carried out checks it wouldve seen his financial situation  was 
deteriorating. Lending Stream says that it carried  out adequate  checks   by gathering  details 
of Mr Bs income and expenditure.  It also carried  out credit  checks. And based  on this 
Lending Stream says it didnt see anything to alert it to any sustainability  or affordability 
issues for the loans  it gave Mr B.
Its important to note that when Mr B took out his first loan with Lending Stream it doesnt 
seem that he had an existing relationship with them. The first loan was to be repaid over 6 
instalments of £89.60. Mr B had told Lending Stream that his monthly  income was around 
£1,385 and after expenses of £811 he had a disposable income  of £574 a month. Based on 
this information  it seems that loan 1 was affordable for Mr B. The credit  check Lending 
Stream carried didnt show any recent defaults on Mr Bs record.  So I cant  see anything  to 
suggest Lending Stream shouldve been  aware of Mr Bs financial issues at this stage. 
Loan 2 was taken out just a few weeks  after Mr Bs first and was for £300 and loan 1 had 
been repaid the previous  week.  Loan 2 was also due to be repaid over 6 months  and Mr Bs 
declared income had increased slightly to £1,400 a month whilst his expenditure had 
decreased slightly  to £748. The credit  check carried out also didnt reveal anything of 
concern. So based on this it seems  reasonable for Lending Stream to have approved  Mr Bs 
application. 
Loan 3 was taken out around a month  after loan 2. Mr B had also repaid loan 2 the previous 
week and the amount  Mr B had requested had increased significantly. Mr Bs income  and 
expenditure remained roughly the same  as it was for loan 2. The repayment of £185.76  was 
still affordable for Mr B based on the information  available to Lending Stream. 
Mr B has provided a breakdown of his expenses  to show they exceeded his income. 
However, the information he gave to Lending  Stream at the time doesnt correspond  with 
Ref: DRN80863203these figures. As loans  1-3 were early  on in the lending relationship  between  Mr B and 
Lending Stream we wouldnt expect  Lending  Stream to ask for bank statements or carry out 
in depth checks  of his income  and expenditure. Instead Lending  Stream wouldve relied on 
Mr B providing accurate details of his circumstances.  So, looking at the monthly repayments 
in light of Mr Bs declared disposable income its difficult  for me to conclude that Lending 
Stream was wrong  to decide  that the repayments for all three loans would be affordable 
sustainably for Mr B.
I note what Mr B says about having multiple other pay day loans  and the financial issues  he 
was facing. But Lending Stream carried out credit  checks on Mr B when  he took out the 
loans. And looking  at the results of these there isnt anything on them that wouldve alerted 
Lending Stream to the extent of these issues. Credit reports can take some time to be 
amended and the information a lender decides to add onto a report can vary from business 
to business. Whilst  I understand Mr B had financial issues at the time the extent of these 
may not have been apparent from these reports So, I dont  think there were adequate signs  
which shouldve led Lending  Stream to do more checks and Ive not seen  enough evidence  
to persuade me that it acted  irresponsibly  in Mr Bs case  for loans 1-3. 
By the time Mr B applied  for loan 4 I think  Lending Stream  shouldve been looking to build up 
a clearer picture of his finances. Mr B had taken  out three loans  in quick  succession  and the 
amounts he was requesting had increased  each time.  As the adjudicator  explained, there 
was enough information at this stage to alert Lending  Stream to the possibility that Mr B was 
having issues managing his finances. 
Lending Stream made an offer in line with the adjudicators recommendations which  Mr B did 
not accept. I think this offer is a fair way to resolve Mr Bs case  and so Lending  Stream  
should put things right as set out below. 
putting things right  what Lending Stream need to do
Lending Stream shouldnt  have given Mr B loan 4.
If Lending Stream has sold the outstanding debts it should buy these back  if it is able to 
do so and then take the following steps. If it is not able to buy the debts back  then it 
should liaise  with the new debt owner to achieve  the results  outlined below.
A.)Lending Stream should add together the total of the repayments made  by Mr B 
towards interest, fees and charges on the upheld loan without an outstanding 
balance, not including anything it has already refunded.
B.)Lending Stream should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments 
made by Mr B which  were considered  as part of A, calculated  from the date Mr B 
originally made  the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C.)Lending Stream should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on 
the upheld outstanding loan,  and treat any repayments made by Mr B as though 
they had been repayments of the principal  on all outstanding loans. If this results 
in Mr B having made overpayments  then Lending Stream  should refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the 
date the overpayments  would have  arisen,  to the date the complaint is settled. 
Lending Stream should then refund  the amounts  calculated  in A and B and 
move to step E.
Ref: DRN80863204D.)If there  is still an outstanding balance then the amounts  calculated  in A and B 
should be used  to repay  any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this 
results in a surplus then the surplus should  be paid to Mr B. However if there  is 
still an outstanding  balance then Lending Stream should try to agree an affordable 
repayment plan with Mr B.
E.)Lending Stream should remove any adverse information it has recorded on Mr Bs 
credit file in relation  to loan 4. If Lending  stream has sold the loan it should ask the 
debt purchaser  to do the same. Lending Stream do not have to remove any 
outstanding loans from Mr Bs credit  file until these have been repaid, but it should 
still remove any adverse information  recorded  about these loans.
*HMRC requires  you to take off tax from this interest. If Mr B asks Lending Stream  for a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off, it should provide  this. If Lending Stream 
use the refund to reduce  an amount Mr B owes, it must do this after tax.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I uphold this complaint against Gain Credit  LLC and it 
should put things right for Mr B as detailed above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 August 2020.
Chandni Green 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8086320