K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that TSB Bank plc asked them  to pay an early repayment charge 
(ERC) when they moved their mortgage elsewhere, despite previously saying it wouldnt. 
background 
Mr and Mrs H had a mortgage  with TSB. In 2018 they asked  about  further  borrowing but 
TSB said it wasnt  able to accept an application  due to issues  with its IT systems. TSB 
subsequently told Mr and Mrs H that it would allow them to move their mortgage to another 
provider and it would waive  any early repayment  charges  (ERCs) due to the circumstances. 
In early 2019 Mr and Mrs H tried to move  their mortgage but TSB asked them to pay an 
ERC. Mr and Mrs H disputed this and it was ultimately not charged. Mr and Mrs H raised a 
complaint with TSB because they werent  happy with how TSB had handled things. 
TSB said that it had only waived ERCs  whilst it was unable to offer further  borrowing   up to 
November 2018.  But it agreed to extend  this offer for Mr and Mrs H until May 2019  following 
their contact about it. It apologised for any distress and inconvenience  caused and paid 
Mr and Mrs H £150, made  up of £100 compensation and as £50 for expenses.  
Mr and Mrs H raised  a complaint with our service. Mr H brought the complaint on behalf of 
himself and Mrs H. He said TSB had not honoured its agreement  not to charge an ERC and 
tried to force them to take extra borrowing with it. He said that he and Mrs H had a very 
anxious wait to see if TSB would honour its commitment or not.
Mr H also said that hed been caused a financial loss of around £600, and later £1,000.  He 
told our investigator this was because  he had already taken borrowing of £40,000 in 
anticipation of borrowing  more funds from TSB to complete home improvements. He said his 
loss was made up of the interest hed paid on that borrowing whilst TSB fixed  its systems 
and decided whether to charge an ERC or not. 
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. She accepted that there  had been  some confusion 
about whether  TSB would charge Mr and Mrs H an ERC. But she thought that the total of 
£150 TSB had offered was fair for the trouble and upset caused, and costs incurred. She 
said that TSB shouldnt  be held responsible  for any interest Mr and Mrs H paid on borrowing 
they took before they knew whether TSB could lend to them. 
Mr H disagreed and said our investigator had missed his main reason for complaint; that 
TSB tried to take back its offer to waive the ERC and persuade them to remain  a TSB 
customer. He said he felt lied to and said TSB had not taken  responsibility  or apologised and 
had acted illegally. 
The case  was passed to me do decide what should happen, and I issued a provisional 
decision. In summary,  I said;
I accept that it must have  been very frustrating for Mr and Mrs H to find that TSB wasnt able 
to offer any further  borrowing  on their mortgage  when they needed it due to an issue  with its 
IT systems.  TSB accepted the inconvenience this caused and offered to waive  any ERCs 
which applied to customers who wanted  to move their mortgage elsewhere during the time it 
wasnt able to offer the facility, which I think was fair. 
Ref: DRN83911522TSBs records  show that Mr H contacted it in late September  2018. He told it that he wanted 
to buy a commercial properly adjoining his, which hed intended to convert to residential  use. 
TSB said although it could  lend for that purpose, it couldnt consider an application because  
of the problems with its systems. It recommended that Mr H called back  in a few weeks  but 
also said that it would contact Mr and Mrs H when it was lending again.  
TSB told us that it couldnt find record of any further  contact  until February 2019, but Mr H 
has given us an email   dated  26 October  2018  - from a TSB branch which says it will waive  
an ERC if Mr and Mrs H moved their mortgage elsewhere. It didnt give a deadline to which 
that offer was valid, and I expect at that point TSB couldnt have known when itd be able to 
offer further borrowing  again. In reality, within a month or so of that date TSBs  IT issues  had 
begun to be resolved so it could offer its customers further borrowing again.  
I havent seen  any evidence that TSB subsequently contacted Mr and Mrs H when it was 
able to lend again. Similarly, I havent  seen that Mr and Mrs H contacted it subsequent to its 
offer to waive the ERC,  but I think thats  understandable  because  it had been  a number of 
months since Mr and Mrs Hs original  enquiry  about  the further borrowing, and significantly, 
there was no deadline  on TSBs offer to waive an ERC. As a result,  its also understandable 
that Mr and Mrs H were  particularly surprised and concerned when,  on 8 February 2019, 
TSB said it was going to apply an ERC  when  it received notification  of their intent to change 
lenders. 
TSB ultimately did what it said it would and waived the ERC. Its records show  that this was 
queried on 19 February 2019, and on the same  day it agreed to extend the deadline to 
waive the ERC. Nonetheless, I accept that it would  have  been very worrying and frustrating 
for Mr and Mrs H to go to the trouble of arranging an alternative mortgage  something that 
they may not have had to do if TSB had contacted them when  it was able to lend again as it 
said it would   only for it to ask them  to pay an ERC.  
Taking into account that Mr and Mrs H were  caused the inconvenience of having  to move 
their mortgage, perhaps unnecessarily,  and were  caused worry and upset by TSB asking 
them to repay an ERC  despite giving the impression they wouldnt, I dont think the £100  
compensation TSB has offered  is enough.  In my view a reasonable amount of compensation 
for TSB to pay would be £300, as well as the £50 it offered  for costs, making a total of £350. 
So thats what I intend to require it to pay Mr and Mrs H.
Ive also considered the points Mr and Mrs H have  made about the costs theyve incurred in 
relation to interest they paid on a loan they took out in anticipation of TSB providing  further  
borrowing. Like our investigator found  however, Im not satisfied that TSB caused 
Mr and Mrs H costs to the extent theyve described,  particularly if they took borrowing theyd 
intended to repay with funds from TSB without  knowing whether it could or would lend to 
them. I accept that they may have incurred costs  having to correspond with TSB to resolve 
the issue, but I think thats covered  by the £50 its offered.   
Lastly, Mr H has said that TSB has not apologised, taken  responsibility and has acted 
illegally. Its not for this service to give Mr and Mrs H a legal perspective on what  TSB has 
done. Its for us to decide how complaints should  be resolved based on whats  fair and 
reasonable. Ive seen  that TSB wrote to Mr and Mrs H apologising for what happened, and 
accepting responsibility  for its mistake, so in my view all that TSB now needs to do to resolve 
this complaint is pay Mr and Mrs H the compensation set out above.
All parties  responded to say the agreed  with my provisional decision. 
Ref: DRN83911523my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
All parties  agreed  with my provisional  decision. As such, I see no reason to depart from 
those so I now make that decision final. 
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above my final decision  is that I require TSB Bank plc to pay 
Mr and Mrs H a total of £350 made up of £300  compensation  as well as £50 for costs.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 August  2020.
Stephen Trapp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8391152