K820x#14Complaint
Mr W says Bank of Scotland Plc (BoS)  mis-sold  him a credit  card payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy in 1999.
Background
Mr W took out a PPI policy  branded Credit Care   to protect his credit card payments in 
the event of disability or unemployment. I gather it also included  life cover. 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld.  Mr W didnt agree with the 
adjudicator, so the case was passed to me to review  afresh.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding  
Mr Ws case. 
Having done so, I dont uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr W says he didnt want or need PPI and didnt know  it was optional. I cant  say for sure 
what happened but Ive taken into account  what hes said,  together  with the paperwork thats  
still available. The paperwork includes a copy of Mr Ws signed postal credit card application 
form. I note that, under  the section headed Credit  Care , hes signed in the relevant place to 
indicate he wanted PPI. 
From what  Ive seen overall,  I think BoS made it clear  to Mr W that it was offering optional  
PPI and that he chose to take it out. 
The parties agree that BoS didnt  recommend  the PPI to Mr W. I think thats probably right 
given it seems the sale took place by post and without, as far as I can tell, any direct  contact  
with a BoS adviser. 
That said,  BoS still ought to have provided  Mr W with clear, fair and not misleading  
information about the PPI so that he could decide  for himself if it was suitable.  I cant say for 
sure whether  BoS did that. And I dont have a copy of the specific  policy terms from the time. 
But, from what I know of Mr Ws circumstances and experience of what  the main features  of 
the policy are likely to have been,  I dont think better  information  about the PPI would have 
put him off taking  it. I say that because:
It seems  Mr W would have been  eligible for the cover. And I dont believe hed have 
decided against  taking the PPI because of its exclusions  and restrictions. 
Mr W says hed have got enhanced  sick pay and redundancy pay from his public  
sector employer and suggests he might have had savings he could have  relied on to 
keep up with his repayments if he wasnt working. But the PPI would have paid out 
on top of his employers pay and savings,  leaving him free to use alternative means 
to cover his other living  costs if he was off work. The PPI benefits would have paid 
out until the outstanding card balance was paid off in certain circumstances.  I think 
Mr W would  have considered the PPI provided him with useful  extra security.  
Ref: DRN80558882Theres nothing to suggest Mr W couldnt afford  the PPI. And it was flexible enough 
that Mr W could  have  cancelled it at any time at no extra cost if he decided it was no 
longer suitable  for him.
Which means BoS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr W. But I gather 
BoS paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr W because:  
BoS got a high level of commission  and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium)  so it should have  told Mr W about  that. Because  BoS didnt tell Mr W, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, I gather BoS paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium   and I think  thats fair in this case.
I understand Mr Ws been subject to an Individual Voluntary Arrangement (IVA). We havent  
been able to establish whether his Insolvency  Practitioner (IP) has an interest in any 
compensation hes due. Mr W and BoS should  bear in mind any obligations Mr W might  
have to the IP in respect of any compensation. 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc doesnt have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr W.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Mr W any commission and profit share  it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  its already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 November 2019.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8055888