K822xcomplaint
Mr M has complained about the way Clydesdale Financial Services  Limited  (Clydesdale) 
has dealt with a claim  he made  under s.75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (s.75).
background 
In late 2015 Mr M entered into an agreement with a company called Superseal  Ltd for the 
supply and installation  of an air source heating system.  The  system cost £11,950  and 
Superseal arranged a loan with Clydesdale (trading as Barclays Partner  Finance) to pay for 
the system.
Under s.75, Clydesdale as the finance provider, is responsible to the same extent as the 
supplier of the system  for any misrepresentations of breaches of contract.
In 2017 Mr M contacted  Clydesdale explaining that he thought the system had been mis-
sold, and it provided  him with its final response.   But Mr M didnt refer that complaint to our 
Service within the required timescale,  and so that doesnt form any part of this decision.
But in early 2018 Mr M contacted Clydesdale again,  to make a claim under s.75 as the boiler 
was leaking and intermittently turning  on and off. It didnt uphold the claim as Mr M didnt 
provide details of the system  warrantee  or guarantee, and it noted that Mr M hadnt had the 
system serviced.
Unhappy with Clydesdales response  Mr M referred  his complaint to this Service.  Upon 
being provided with the guarantee certificate,  Clydesdale agreed that it would honour the 
system guarantee  as the supplier (Superseal) had gone into administration.
Mr M provided a copy of an invoice for work hed arranged to have the system repaired, and 
Clydesdale agreed  to pay for that work and honour  the guarantee to resolve the complaint.
Mr M didnt  accept the offer.  He said that he felt the system had been mis-sold and the 
signature on the satisfaction  note from the time of installation was forged.  So,  he remained 
unhappy and didnt want to pay for the loan at all.
The investigator felt Clydesdales  offer was fair, and as no agreement  could be reached, the 
complaint has been passed for a fresh review by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Having done so, Ive reached much the 
same conclusion as the investigator and for broadly the same reasons.
Its important I repeat  that I am not, and cannot,  look at the issues  Mr M raised with 
Clydesdale in 2017 about mis-sale of the system.   That complaint was considered  separately  
to the issues raised in this complaint, and so Mr M would have needed  to refer that issue to 
us separately.   But Clydesdale has advised  if Mr M contacts it directly about those concerns 
it may be willing to review its position.
In this complaint  Im looking at the way Clydesdale has dealt with the s.75 claim Mr M made 
in 2018 about faults with the heating system.   
Ref: DRN88522402Mr M has confirmed  that the air source heating system had been repaired without cost to 
him, except  for having the system  flue extended.   He has provided an invoice to show  the 
cost as having been £75.60.
Clydesdale has agreed to reimburse  Mr M for the cost of the work to the flue, and honour the 
obligations provided by the warranty for the system.
Having taken everything into account, Im satisfied what Clydesdale has now offered  to 
resolve matters is fair and reasonable.  Whilst I appreciate it didnt resolve  things at the 
earliest opportunity,  I do note that Clydesdale didnt  have  access  to all the documentation  it 
required and had requested.
I realise that Mr M is likely to be disappointed  that Im not asking Clydesdale  to cancel his 
loan as he wishes.  But as Ive explained,  that is not something which is proportionate to this 
complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ms complaint against Clydesdale  Financial Services  
Limited.
To put things right Im satisfied Clydesdales offer to reimburse Mr M for the invoice hes 
paid, and to honour  the system  guarantee  is fair and reasonable.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 October  2020.
Ross Hammond
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8852240