K820x#14complaint
Miss H complains that Shop Direct Finance  Company Limited havent refunded  her credit 
account with the price  of an item she returned  to them.
background
Miss H bought a jacket in February 2018  on a buy now pay later deal with Shop Direct.
She says she decided she didnt in fact want the jacket and returned it in March  or April 
2018.
It was only when she was looking  through her Shop direct account in December  2018  that 
Miss H realised the price  of the jacket had not been  removed from her account.
Miss H complained to Shop Direct. They said they hadnt received the returned item and 
they wouldnt refund the account without  proof  that Miss H had returned it.
Miss H wasnt  happy with this and complained  to us. Our investigator looked into it and didnt 
think Shop  Direct had done anything wrong.
Miss H disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss H says she returned the item.  Shop Direct say they didnt receive it. I dont have any 
reason to doubt either of them. The item may have been posted  but gone  astray  in the mail.
Shop Direct have  a returns policy on their website. This says:
You are responsible for returning the goods to us  
The onus is clearly  on the customer to ensure the goods are returned  successfully.  
The policy also suggests customers  can return goods by one of three methods  by using a 
named parcel  delivery service, by using their Collect+ facility  provided in shops, or by taking 
the item to a post office.  
Using these methods, its possible to return goods  at no cost. And in each case, the 
customer is provided with a receipt to say the goods were received. Miss Hs home address 
is within a short distance from a shop which allows Collect+ returns  and a post office.
Miss H doesnt have any receipt to show she returned the jacket.  She says she sent it back  
through the Royal Mail from a post office.
Its not entirely clear  to me whether Miss H means that she used the Shop Direct returns  
process available at post offices or whether she simply  mailed  the package  from there.  
Ref: DRN85169242If the former,  she would  have had a receipt. If the latter,  she was taking a risk by failing to 
use one of the easily available methods of return organised by Shop Direct  which  would 
have given her a receipt for the goods.
Either way, I cant see that Shop Direct  have acted  in any way unfairly or unreasonably 
towards Miss H. Im satisfied they didnt receive  the returned jacket.  Their  policy  on returns is 
clear. They provide easily accessible facilities to make safe,  receipted  returns.  
I can understand Miss Hs frustration.  I dont doubt  she posted the jacket, but shes either  
mislaid the receipt  or she sent the package without a receipt.  And in either case, I cant 
reasonably ask Shop Direct to refund her payment. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Miss Hs complaint
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 June 2019.
Neil Marshall
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8516924