K820x#14complaint
Ms P is unhappy with Royal  & Sun Alliance Insurance Plcs (RSA) handling of her 
subsidence claim, under her buildings insurance policy.
When I refer to RSA Im also referring  to any of their appointed representatives.
Ms P has been represented in this complaint but for ease Ill refer to all actions as those of 
Ms P.
background
Ms P noticed some cracks  to the rear of her house in June  2017.  She informed RSA of 
these, who sent their experts to assess the damage.  
The damage was found to be caused  by an escape  of water from a shared leaking drain. 
RSA agreed to repair the part of the drain  that was Ms Ps responsibility. The other damaged 
parts of the drain  were  to be repaired by the water authority. 
RSA completed their repairs in January 2018. But they couldnt  begin to monitor any 
subsequent movement in Ms Ps house  until the water authority had repaired the damage it 
was liable for. This was completed in April 2018 and monitoring began immediately. 
The stability  of Ms Ps house  was confirmed in June  2018 so RSA said they could begin  the 
house repairs. As well as these repairs RSA confirmed the internal Schedule of Works with 
Ms P and asked for the subsidence excess of £1,000 to be paid prior to repairs  
commencing. RSA also gave Ms P the option to accept a cash settlement for the internal 
decorations, which they would  deduct the £1,000 excess amount from. Ms P chose to do 
this.
In order to get the house ready for Ms P to arrange  for the internal decoration to start,  RSA 
had to strip one of the internal walls. Whilst the contractors were  taking care of this, RSA 
said some  of Ms Ps family were  entering the room where the work was taking place. They  
were using the contractors tools to remove  pieces of plaster  off of the wall, despite being 
asked to stop. Eventually RSAs contractors felt they had no option other than to leave      
Ms Ps house unfinished. Half of the internal wall was left with wallpaper still to be stripped 
off.
Ms P complained to RSA.  She said that she felt the claim had taken too long to resolve.  She 
was also unhappy  that the wall had been  left unfinished and her house was in a worst state 
than it had been previously. Ms P also told RSA that shed been living in alternative  
accommodation while the claim was ongoing. She asked RSA to reimburse  her for additional 
travel costs and for staying overnight in hotels. She also asked RSA to pay for increased 
council tax costs. RSA didnt agree with Ms P. They said the claim hadnt taken too long to 
resolve. They did acknowledge  that the wall had been  left unfinished and they offered Ms P 
£50 as compensation and to help finish the wallpaper removal.  They didnt accept that Ms P 
needed to stay in hotels  overnight or pay increased council tax costs  as her house  wasnt 
uninhabitable while the house repairs  were  being  carried out. 
Ms P didnt accept what RSA said and brought the complaint to our service. Our investigator 
didnt uphold  the complaint. She said that she didnt think there had been any unnecessary 
delays in the claim. She also told Ms P that she felt the offer of £50 was fair to help Ms P 
Ref: DRN87681252finish the wallpaper removal. With regard to the alternative accommodation and additional 
costs, again our investigator didnt agree with Ms P. She said that Ms Ps house  was 
habitable throughout the repairs unless Ms P could show something  contrary  to this. 
As Ms P didnt agree  its been passed  to me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I wont be asking RSA to 
do anything more. Ill explain  why.
Because of the need to repair  the cause of the subsidence and then undertake a period of 
monitoring, its expected that subsidence  claims will take a while to reach a conclusion.  That 
said I need to be satisfied that RSA didnt cause any unnecessary delays  during  the process. 
And in this case Im satisfied they havent.  
The initial report compiled by RSAs  expert  in July 2017 gave an indication  that the initial 
repairs, monitoring of the house to confirm  its stability and then the house repairs would be 
completed by the end of April 2018. But everything wasnt  completed  until June 2018  so 
there was a delay.  
However, RSA had completed the repairs it was responsible  for on Ms Ps drain in     
January 2018.  They  were  unable to begin  monitoring  Ms Ps house  until the water authority 
had repaired  the shared  part of the drain that was damaged. This wasnt completed until        
April 2018, after which the house  was monitored for three months to confirm it was stable. 
So, although  the house repairs couldnt begin  until June 2018 the delay wasnt  caused by 
RSA. So I wont be asking  them to do anything else in regard  to this. 
Ms P accepted the cash settlement offer from RSA so she could arrange the internal 
decorations herself.  But as part of the house repairs that RSA were responsible for, they had 
to strip the wallpaper from one internal wall. It was during this process that RSA have said 
they were regularly disturbed and their tools were being used  by Ms Ps family. Ms P has 
denied this. Shes told our service  that her family  only entered  the room once to see how the 
work was coming  along. 
When there is conflicting information or not enough  evidence to be conclusive, I have to 
make my decision  on what I think is most  likely to have happened. And Im not persuaded 
that RSAs contractors would have walked  out of Ms Ps house had they only been disturbed  
once and had none of their tools been  used. Its natural  for the owner of the house to want  to 
know how any work is coming along  and I dont think the contractors would have  found  that 
unusual. Certainly  not to the extent they felt the need to leave the work unfinished. So Im 
more persuaded  by RSAs account  here. I think its likely that Ms Ps family  did disturb the 
contractors on more  than one occasion by entering  the room  and doing  some of the 
decorating work using  the contractors tools. As there was only half a wall left to strip it would 
have been more helpful had the contractors finished  the work,  rather than walking away, but 
Im satisfied that RSAs  offer of £50 to help Ms P find someone  to finish  the wallpaper 
removal is a fair one in the circumstances.
I havent seen  anything to suggest Ms P needed to leave the house for alternative  
accommodation while the claim was ongoing. The damage was to internal and external walls 
to the rear of the house. Ms P still had full access to her kitchen and bathroom, which 
Ref: DRN87681253suggests to me the house was habitable at all times. Ms P has told our service that she was 
advised to move out by her local council, who said the house was uninhabitable. But she 
hasnt provided  anything to confirm this.
Should Ms P be able to provide confirmation  from her council that her house couldnt be 
lived in, then she would need to provide this to RSA to consider. But I wont be asking them  
to do anything more  now.
my final decision
For the reasons  above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 September  2019.
Kevin Parmenter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8768125