K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that he wasnt offered  an overdraft  when  he opened an account  with 
Nationwide Building  Society.
background
In 2018 Mr G opened a FlexDirect account with Nationwide.  At the time he applied  for a 
£500 overdraft  facility which Nationwide declined. On 5 June Mr G raised a complaint with 
Nationwide. He didnt  think the decision was fair given his previous financial history. Mr G 
also complained  about returned  direct debits.
Mr G also said Nationwide did not log a complaint  when it should have and didnt provide a 
reasonable explanation  about why he hadnt  received the overdraft. 
In its final response Nationwide said it had acted correctly and had carried out appropriate 
checks when Mr G applied for the overdraft.  It said the direct  debits had been returned 
unpaid due to insufficient funds. In addition it said it had followed the correct complaints 
process. Nationwide did accept it shouldve provided Mr G with a more detailed explanation 
on how overdraft applications  are assessed.  So it paid Mr G £50 compensation.  
Mr G remained  unhappy with Nationwides response  and brought his complaint to this 
service. He felt that Nationwide hadnt  looked at his complaint properly  and hadnt  followed 
Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA) regulations concerning complaints so he didnt accept 
Nationwides response.
The adjudicator noted that Nationwide had accepted it should have given Mr G a more  
detailed explanation regarding the overdraft and that it had apologised. He felt £50 
compensation was fair and reasonable under the circumstances. He also said this service 
can only consider  complaints about  financial products and services.  
Mr G asked for a final decision from an ombudsman. He was concerned Nationwide  wasnt  
following FCA regulations  concerning complaint handling. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Mr G is very concerned about  the way Nationwide has dealt with his original 
complaint. Because of Mr Gs strength of feeling on this matter and as complaint handling is 
not a regulated activity I have dealt with it under  separate cover.  In this decision I will only 
deal with the matters related in the original complaint concerning  the overdraft and direct 
debits. 
Mr G believes  his application for an overdraft shouldve been successful based on his prior 
financial history. He said he had no unsecured debt outside of a small credit card debit  and a 
£16,000 loan for which  he has not missed a scheduled payment in 10 years.  He also said he 
hasnt used an overdraft  often and hasnt gone past an agreed  limit. Mr G said he found it 
insulting not to be trusted  with a very small  overdraft that would probably not even be used. 
Ref: DRN83473182Nationwide has accepted it didnt explain how overdraft applications are assessed in enough  
detail. It went on to explain  it has a credit scoring system which takes into account a number 
of things. This system is automatic with no human involvement. Its not my role to look at a 
banks processes so I would not be able to instruct  the bank to give Mr G an overdraft. But 
Im satisfied it explained its process to Mr G and I consider £50 reasonable compensation.
Such an assessment  is based on an analysis of affordability and is ultimately a commercial 
decision by the business based  on a risk assessment.  Different financial businesses  will 
have different ways  of calculating affordability  and will have different risk thresholds.  
Ive looked at Mr Gs statements and the returned  direct debit payments. I can see Mr G did 
not have sufficient funds in the account and with no agreed overdraft facility its reasonable 
the direct  debits would  be returned unpaid. So Im satisfied Nationwide hasnt done anything 
wrong and I wont be asking it to do anything further.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2019.
Maxine Sutton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8347318