K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited  told them  their policy  
would pay out more than it did, causing them stress,  disappointment and difficulties with 
financial planning.
background
Mr and Mrs B had a critical illness and life policy with Aviva, which  was taken out following a 
recommendation from an independent adviser. This January, Mrs B was unfortunately 
diagnosed with cancer. She called Aviva  to make a claim on her policy and was told she 
could expect to receive  £57,000. Mrs B began making plans  for the money  she was 
considering moving  house, her familys future security and a family holiday.  
Mrs Bs claim was paid out some  months later  but she received a lot less than she had 
expected  just £3,800. Aviva apologised to Mrs B and explained that shed been wrongly 
advised when  shed called in January. They said their member of staff had looked at what  
the policy had been worth the month prior, which was £5,700  but that theyd misread  that 
to be £57,000.
Understandably unhappy with this, Mrs B complained. Aviva agreed  theyd made a mistake 
and paid her £5,000  to apologise, along with a £100 gift card.  Mrs B didnt think this was 
enough so asked for our help. She explained that shed  made  plans for the money during 
those three  months  and the news only added to what was already a very stressful time.  
One of our investigators  looked into what had happened but she felt Avivas offer was fair. 
She recognised that the whole situation had been really traumatic for Mrs B, but thought  
£5,000 was a sufficient  recognition of her loss of expectation. 
Mrs B doesnt think the compensation  is enough. She wants  Aviva  to compensate her with 
£53,200 to reflect the difference between the amount she was expecting and the amount 
received. As no agreement was reached, Mrs B has requested a decision from an 
Ombudsman, so the complaint has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im afraid I wont be 
upholding this complaint and Ill explain why. 
I understand why Mrs B feels  extremely frustrated and disappointed and I agree she was 
placed in a difficult situation through  no fault of her own. A difference of over £50,000 
between the correct value of her benefit  and the value she was told is a significant amount of 
money. Mrs B believed she could rely on these additional funds, and she was shocked  and 
upset when she learned that she was entitled  to much less than she expected.  The role of 
this service is to put things right when theyve gone wrong  to do this, we look to put people  
back into the position they wouldve been in, but for the business mistake. 
In this case, Avivas  mistake was giving Mrs B the wrong figure  in the first place. If the 
business hadnt made this mistake, Mrs B wouldve only expected  something in the region 
between the £5,700 her policy was worth in December  and the £3,800 she received in May. 
Ref: DRN84008932Ive also considered some of the original paperwork issued around the time Mr and Mrs B 
were taking their policy out. It clearly  explained that while the benefit was initially £92,000, 
this decreased each  year  it went down by £15,000 to £20,000 every  year.  So I think  Mrs B 
ought to have known to have expected  much  less than she was told in January anyway. I 
understand that Aviva have addressed this point with Mrs B and have suggested she contact 
her adviser about this if she has concerns  with how the policy was sold to her. 
The right remedy here isnt to give Mrs B the difference in the two amounts she was quoted  
 thats because she wasnt ever entitled to that larger sum. Instead, Mrs B should be 
compensated for any financial  loss, and given appropriate compensation for the stress and 
inconvenience that she experienced as a result  of the mistake.
Had it not been for the confusion, Mrs B perhaps might not have made the same  decisions 
around moving house. And she might  not have committed to a holiday with friends. But as 
Ive said already, I think she ought to have known not to expect as much money as she was 
told  so I dont  think  itd be fair to hold Aviva responsible for implications of her decisions. 
Nevertheless, Aviva have offered compensation to recognise the confusion,  as well as the 
stress and worry associated with the mistake. I think the £5,000 offer for the trouble  and 
upset is enough.  I know Mrs B feels it should  be more,  but as our investigator said, we think 
the sum is sufficiently serious to recognise what happened. 
I appreciate that my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs B, and I am sorry 
to hear what theyve been going through. But given the reasons above, Im not going  to ask 
Aviva to honour the wrong  sum they quoted.  
my final decision
So for the reasons explained  above,  it is my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint 
as I think Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited have already done enough to put things right.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 November 2019.
Aimee Stanton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8400893