K822xcomplaint
Mr R complains The Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc (RBS) treated his account  with them as 
dormant when hed asked them not to.
background 
Mr R came to us as he was unhappy  with the response he received from RBS when he 
complained about them  having  treated  his account  as dormant when hed previously 
returned a form electing  to keep  the account open.
RBS initially told Mr R that after an investigation  they were  unable to agree  a bank error had 
occurred. But during the course of our investigation  RBS located the pre-dormancy form Mr 
R had returned  in 2017. They accepted their mistake meant  Mr Rs account should never 
have entered  dormancy.  They said the error had occurred as a result of an automated 
scanning system attaching the document to the wrong account. RBS offered Mr R £150 
compensation to recognize the trouble and inconvenience this caused. Mr R didnt think this 
was fair and felt RBS should make a four figure  offer of compensation.
Our investigator recommended RBS pay £200 compensation. RBS agreed  to this and to pay 
a further £50 in respect of the cost of the notarial services Mr R had incurred.  She thought, 
as RBS had paid Mr R the interest  which wouldve accrued, had the funds remained in the 
account, there was no financial loss to compensate for. So she felt the overall  offer of £250 
compensation was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr R didnt agree. He told us RBSs  original investigation was flawed, unsubstantiated and 
most importantly dismissive and wasnt in line with their published code of conduct.  Mr R 
thought RBSs failure to do as hed asked  had caused prejudice and he highlighted  six 
consequences of this. And he said the bank should  disclose  the return they made  with his 
savings for the whole period theyd  confiscated  them and the current offer made  by the bank 
should be compared with that return theyd made.  He finally  asked for RBS to come up with 
a serious settlement that takes into account  all prejudices caused.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the view 
that the settlement now suggested by RBS is a reasonable response to this complaint. Ill 
explain why.
Its now accepted  by everyone  RBS made  a mistake here when they moved Mr Rs account 
to dormancy despite having received a form with his instructions to the contrary. And thats  
caused Mr R upset  and inconvenience. RBS have  apologised and explained how and why 
the problems have occurred. I understand they have now paid the account funds - together 
with the interest  Mr R wouldve accrued had the funds remained in the active  account  to 
Mr R. So, I think, the initial confusion has been  cleared  up and Im satisfied thats  a 
reasonable response in the circumstances.  What isnt agreed is what  compensation should 
be paid.
 
I can see why Mr R wouldve been  shocked  when the significant  balance  in his account was 
no longer showing. And I understand his frustration in being told no letter had been received 
despite knowing hed sent it. But as I understand he now has his funds and the interest that 
Ref: DRN83566812wouldve accrued  so I cant see theres been  any loss to Mr R. Its clear  RBSs mistake put 
Mr R to some trouble in having to complete forms and produce  notarised and certified  
documents to release his money. But RBS have offered to pay the £50 costs  for this along  
with the £200 compensation. I consider that to be a reasonable  response  and the sort of 
award Id have made had it not already been  suggested.
I know Mr R feels  the settlement the bank has now agreed to overlooks the gravity of their
actions and the consequences. But as our investigator has explained we are an informal 
dispute resolution service  and our awards may differ to those made  in any litigation.  Taking  
everything into account and in light of our general  level of awards  Im satisfied the 
compensation offered by HSBC is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this 
complaint.
Given how strongly Mr R feels about what happened he may want to pursue the matter  
further through other routes.  But my decision brings  to an end what  we  in trying to resolve  
his dispute with RBS informally  can do for him. Im sorry if this disappoints Mr R.
my final decision
My final decision is that The Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc have made  a reasonable offer to 
resolve this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 November  2019.
Annabel OSullivan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8356681