K820x#14complaint
Mr H is unhappy that during  a sales call Domestic  & General Insurance  Plc (D&G) offered 
additional appliance cover  at a discounted  rate, but when  he checked the website he could  
get the same policy 20% cheaper.
background
In January 2019 Mr H received a call from D&G about the appliance policies he held with it. 
During the call D&G offered to cover any other  appliances  Mr H had at secondary  rates.  
Based on the information D&G  gave  him, Mr H agreed to take out a policy  to cover his 
vacuum cleaner  at £3 per month.  Mr H says he was under the impression that the policy  was 
at a reduced price  due to the other items he had insured with D&G at that time.
Mr H said when he didnt receive the policy documents by email  a few days later,  he logged 
onto his online account and ran a quote  to get the policy terms. The quote  he received back  
was priced at £2.40 per month,  as it included a 20% discount for being an existing customer.  
Mr H therefore feels that the policy he took out over the phone  was mis-sold to him because 
the online amount  was cheaper than what Mr H was quoted  on the phone.  He also feels he 
received poor customer service when he raised a complaint and so he cancelled the policy.  
D&G has said its sales agents will always offer the lowest rates available  over the phone, but 
they wouldnt be able to see any further  discounts  available via their website. So it disagrees 
that the policy was mis-sold.
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mr Hs complaint. She said theres  no way to know  or see 
what the agent on the phone could see when they put through  the quote. The quote 
wouldve been system generated and there isnt anything to show  that the 20% discount 
Mr H got from the online  quote was something that was available to the agent to apply on 
the phone. So she didnt  think the policy was mis-sold to Mr H.
Mr H didnt agree. He thinks D&G didnt offer him the lowest rate on the phone  as the online 
quote shows he could  get it cheaper. He feels  D&G  had implied he was getting a discounted  
rate which wasnt the case because as he has shown  he was able to get it cheaper  online. 
He feels this was misleading and that its customer service has been poor to a long standing  
customer. So the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, and while I appreciate  
this will disappoint Mr H, Im not upholding his complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr H was cold called about  his existing policies with D&G. During that call he was advised 
that as he was an existing customer his account  had been  enabled  for better  rates, 
secondary rates if he wanted  any other appliances  covered.  Mr H was offered cover  for his 
vacuum cleaner  at £3 per month.  As D&G had said that Mr H would be eligible for a better 
rate, Mr H had the impression that the rate of £3 per month was therefore a discounted  
price. But when Mr H did a quote  online a few days later,  a 20% discount  for being an 
existing customer was applied to the initial £3 rate that was quoted online, and this resulted 
in him getting  a cheaper quote  for £2.40.
Ref: DRN81547512D&G have  said at the time of the call it applied the lowest rate available for this type of 
appliance. But I do understand Mr Hs point that he says he didnt receive a discount  as 
implied in the call if that was the usual  policy  cost anyway.   
I think the rates D&G offer can vary but in this case the actual £3 rate for the policy  was the 
same both on the phone  and online. It was the 20% existing customer  discount applied  
online that made a difference  to the overall price. So based on the information Ive seen in 
this case, I think its more likely than not that no discount was in fact applied  on the phone  
so I can understand  why Mr H might  feel misled.  
However, I have to consider that although  Mr H had agreed to the policy on the phone, he 
was still in the cooling off period, and no premiums  had been taken, so he couldve cancelled 
it and taken the cheaper policy. I wouldve  expected D&G to have honoured the cheaper 
price at that time in the circumstances.  But when Mr H raised  his concerns with D&G he felt 
he received poor service  and he chose not to go ahead with the policy at all and cancelled it.    
Because Mr H cancelled the policy  before any premiums were taken, he hasnt suffered any 
financial loss on the policy. Mr H has raised concerns relating to the way his complaint was 
handled and he doesnt think D&G handled his complaint  correctly.  Complaint handling  isnt 
a regulated activity  and isnt something we can make awards for in isolation.  Whilst I can 
understand Mr H may have been disappointed  he was quoted two different rates, I dont 
think he was disadvantaged by this, because  from what Ive seen, he couldve  still had the 
policy at the lower quoted price if hed wanted it. Instead, he made the decision to not go 
ahead with either policy. While I understand his reasons for this, that was his choice  and so I 
cant hold D&G responsible for that. It follows, I wont be asking D&G to do anything further 
on the complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 September 2019.
Angela Casey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8154751