K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a Halifax-branded mortgage Mr and Mrs B held, until recently, with 
Bank of Scotland plc. They believe Halifax recommended the wrong interest rate deal when 
they moved house in 2017.
background
The events leading up to this complaint began in late 2016,  when Mr and Mrs B began 
making plans to move house. At that point, they had a Halifax mortgage of around  £150,000 
on a fixed rate of 3.79%. That fixed rate was due to expire at the end of January 2019, and 
was subject to an early repayment  charge  (ERC)  if paid off sooner than that.
For their planned house  move, Mr and Mrs B needed a bigger mortgage,  and the illustration 
Halifax gave them in November  2016  was for £264,000 plus fees.  The recommendation at 
that stage was port (i.e. carry  over to the new mortgage)  the fixed  rate from the existing 
mortgage, and take a fixed rate from Halifaxs current  range for the extra borrowing. 
The recommended  product  for the extra borrowing  was a rate of 2.14%, fixed  until the end of 
February 2019, again subject to an ERC if paid off sooner. Mr and Mrs B say they would 
have preferred a five-year deal that gave one rate (and one ERC  end date) for the whole 
mortgage, but accepted  Halifaxs recommendation as being in their best interests. Halifax 
issued a mortgage offer, valid until 31 May 2017. 
Mr and Mrs B werent able to tie up their sale and purchase simultaneously;  their sale went 
through in March 2017, and they redeemed the existing mortgage paying  an ERC. This gave  
then three  months  to complete  the new mortgage and recoup the ERC on the ported 
element. 
The completion date for the new purchase  was set at 12 June 2017, which was within the 
three-month window for an ERC  refund. But it went beyond the expiry date of the current  
mortgage offer so Mr and Mrs B had a fresh  meeting with the mortgage  advisor  to reset  the 
mortgage application and produce a fresh offer. 
Mr and Mrs B asked  this time for a five-year deal for the whole mortgage, but Halifax  still 
recommended they port the existing product  in order to get back the ERC theyd paid in 
March. For the new borrowing, a 2.89% fixed rate was recommended with an end date of 
31 August 2022.  The mortgage  completed on 12 June 2017, and Mr and Mrs B received 
back the ERC theyd  paid in March 2017.
Matters rested there until the end of January 2019,  when the fixed rate deal ported from the 
original mortgage  expired.  At that point, Halifax offered them  a new five-year deal at 3.09% 
for the ported element, with the 2.89% continuing on the new borrowing element. 
Mr and Mrs B were  unhappy because another lender  was offering a five-year  rate of 2.29% 
(as indeed  was Halifax for new customers).  They think Halifax should  have treated them  as 
new customers in 2017 because theyd have had access to better  rates.
The complaint was looked at by one of our investigators, but he didnt recommend it be 
upheld. He explained that the 2.89% five-year rate provided in 2017 was a movers rate, 
and the best available  for Mr and Mrs Bs needs  and circumstances. He also demonstrated 
why porting the existing deal was more  cost effective than paying the ERC and taking the 
whole of the new mortgage on the five-year rate.
Ref: DRN83317022Mr and Mrs B accepted the calculations but say Halifax should have given them  the same 
figures at the time so that they could  make an informed decision.  Had they been given clear 
advice, they would either have obtained quotes from other lenders or taken a two-year  deal 
instead. Theyve asked  for the complaint to be reviewed  by an ombudsman,  saying Halifax 
hasnt acted in their best interests.
my findings
Ill start with some  general  observations. Were  not the regulator  of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal  processes  or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct  Authority. We deal with individual  disputes between businesses  and their 
customers. In doing  that, we dont replicate the work  of the courts. 
Mr and Mrs B say we should  be supporting customers, but thats not what we were  set up to 
do. Were  impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations  and reach our conclusions  without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have  to work  within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules  give us
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive some disappointing 
news for Mr and Mrs B, as Ive come to broadly the same  conclusions as the investigator 
and for much the same overall reasons.  
Its been shown,  and Mr and Mrs B appear  now to accept, that taking the new mortgage on a 
split basis  that is, the ported rate for the original  borrowing and the new five-year fixed for 
the new borrowing   was financially more beneficial than taking the new five-year rate for the 
whole mortgage  and incurring the ERC  on the existing mortgage. 
Mr and Mrs B say they should  have had that calculation  explained  to them  at the time so that 
they could have made an informed decision. But its not all clear  to me why that would have 
changed things.  It seems to me that if Halifaxs  advisor  had given them a detailed  calculation 
showing why the recommendation was financially more beneficial than the alternative, the 
most likely outcome is that theyd still have taken the same deal. 
I certainly dont see why setting out that calculation  would have prompted them to look at 
what other lenders  were  offering;  that was something they were free to do at any time.  Nor 
do I see why setting  out the detailed financial benefits of the five-year deal alongside the 
porting deal would have  prompted Mr and Mrs B to consider a two-year  deal instead. After 
all, the reason Halifax had recommended a five-year deal at all for the extra borrowing in 
2017 was because Mr and Mrs B expressed  a preference for it.
Ref: DRN83317023my final decision
For the reasons  set out, my final decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint. My final 
decision concludes this services consideration of the complaint, which means well not be 
engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs B to accept or reject  my 
decision before  12 December 2019.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8331702