K820x#14complaint and background
Mr K complains he was mis-sold a payment protection  insurance (PPI)  policy when he took 
out a loan with HFC Bank Limited,  in 1994. He says the PPI was mis-sold.
HFC says that it did not sell the PPI and that it was sold by a broker  (the Broker). 
I issued a provisional decision in this case on 12 February 2019, which  is attached and 
forms part of my final decision.
Since issuing my provisional  decision, Mr Ks and HFC Bank Limited have confirmed that 
they have received my provisional decision. 
my findings
I have reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  We have set out our general approach to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and I have taken this into account in 
deciding Mr Ks case.
I note Mr K does not accept my decision and maintains that even though  he used a broker  to 
initiate the loan, all monies were  paid to the bank so it is responsible for answering any 
complaint. But neither  the Business nor Mr K has presented anything new for me to 
consider, and I dont  see any reason to go behind  my findings in my provisional  decision. So, 
Im not going  to uphold Mr Ks complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  stated  above and in my provisional  decision, Im not satisfied that Mr Ks policy  
was sold by HFC Bank Limited. And I do not uphold Mr Ks complaint against it. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019.
Marie Lewiecki
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN87882032Copy of Provisional Decision
complaint and background
Mr K complains he was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  when he took out a 
loan with HFC Bank Limited, in 1994. He says the PPI was mis-sold.
HFC says that it did not sell the PPI and that it was sold by a broker (the Broker). 
Our adjudicator considered  the question of who was responsible for this complaint and concluded that 
the Broker sold the PPI, so was responsible  for answering the complaint. 
Mr K wasnt happy with our adjudicators view, and said that even though he used a broker to initiate 
the loan as all monies were paid to the bank  it is responsible for answering any complaint. He says 
the Broker was acting as HFCs agent and has asked for an ombudsmans  decision on his complaint.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
The first thing I need to decide is whether HFC Bank  is responsible for the sale of the PPI. If I decide  
it is, then I next need to decide whether the sale happened as it shouldve.  If I dont think HFC Bank 
was responsible for the sale of the PPI to Mr K, then I cant  consider this complaint  against it.
Ive looked at the evidence provided, including  the completed PPI application form showing the 
branding of the Broker.  As the application was completed on the Brokers  branded application  form,  
and at that stage, PPI was selected, Im satisfied that Mr K chose to purchase the PPI after speaking 
with the Broker. I have also been provided  with screen shots which show that the Broker was involved  
in the transaction. And HFC Bank has explained that it didnt sell the PPI and the Broker wasnt acting 
on its behalf  when it sold the PPI. 
So, having considered the available  evidence, Im satisfied its more likely than not that the Broker 
sold the PPI to Mr K. And I have seen no evidence  to make  me think that the Broker was acting on 
HFCs behalf.
As Im not satisfied that HFC Bank  sold the PPI, it wasnt responsible for making sure the sale 
happened as it shouldve. So Im intending not to uphold  this complaint against HFC Bank.  
Im sorry to disappoint Mr K.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that HFC Bank Limited is not responsible  for this PPI sale so I do not intend 
to uphold the PPI mis-sale  against  HFC Bank Limited.
I now invite  Mr K and HFC Bank Limited to send to me any other evidence they think I should see - 
but have not already seen - before I make  my final decision.
Marie Lewiecki
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8788203