K820x#14complaint
The complaint concerns  the advice by Kings  to transfer the late Mr Ss occupation  pension  
scheme (OPS) benefits to a Section  32 Bond and personal pension  in 2003.  It is submitted  
that this was unsuitable advice and Mr S should not have been advised to transfer  from his 
OPS. And remaining in the OPS would have yielded greater benefits.
background
Kings did not uphold the complaint. It said that Mr S had been correctly  advised to transfer, 
bearing in mind his objective of taking tax free cash from his pension immediately. Bearing in 
mind his lack of savings  or other assets at the time, it was appropriate,  bearing  in mind his 
objective to transfer and take the tax free cash.  
Mr Ss representative did not agree and referred  the complaint  to this service.  
An adjudicator at this service  considered  the complaint. He did not believe it should  be 
upheld. He thought that Mr Ss requirements of a cash  lump  sum without taking income  for 
the remaining  pension,  meant that the transfer was appropriate for Mr S. He also thought 
that the cash lumps  sums paid from the pension were much greater than that which  would 
have been supplied from the OPS.
Mr Ss representative did not agree and said that a loss assessment should be carried  out to 
see if any disadvantage had been  caused.  The adjudicator explained that a loss assessment 
would not be carried out unless the complaint was upheld. It was then requested that the 
complaint be passed to an ombudsman for review.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ss OPS was a final salary or defined benefit  pension scheme. This meant that the 
benefits it provided were  based on Mr Ss salary  whilst in employment.  So it provided a 
guaranteed income in the future. A spouses  benefit of 50% of Mr Ss pension income would 
be supplied. It also meant that the benefits would be increased over time automatically by 
RPI and would not be based on unknown investment  returns.  
 
The material  issue is whether it was suitable  to advise  Mr S to transfer  those benefits  
bearing in mind his specific circumstances  at the time. 
There was a Financial  Questionnaire which Mr S signed in July 2001.  This records he 
wanted to retired  at age 53 and his very important objective was to receive the maximum 
lump sum from his pension now. 
There is also a Kings  Suitability Report dated 26 September 2002. This sets out Kings 
advice in respect of the OPS, taking into account Mr Ss needs. It sets out that Mr S has an 
over-riding objective of obtaining tax free cash at the present time. It is noted that Mr S 
would like to take benefits immediately and take the maximum  cash  lump  sum.   
Kings recommendation was to transfer his benefits to a Section 32 Buy Out Bond and a 
personal pension  so that he could  generate  the flexibility to take tax free cash. 
Ref: DRN86248412A pension  transfer  analysis was also completed  for Mr S. This set out the critical yield of 
4.7% was required  for the personal  pension  and Section 32 plan to match the benefits being 
given up. 
It was noted at the time that Mr S was unemployed with no savings and no disposable 
income. He was receiving  state benefits.  It was also noted that Mr S was concerned about 
receiving income because it could affect  his entitlement  to state benefits. 
Mr Ss noted  requirements  were  to take tax free cash immediately without taking income. 
And the evidence is that such tax free cash was likely needed because of his financial 
situation. What Kings recommended was an appropriate way of achieving  that. By doing so 
he could access the tax free cash whilst deferring  the income so that his state benefits were  
not affected - something he could not do with his OPS if he took early retirement. It is also 
worth noting  the critical yield that needed  to be achieved  to provide similar benefits to the 
OPS was not high.
 
It is possible that Mr S could have taken  (unreduced) benefits from his OPS  on an ill health 
basis, as discussed  in the Suitability Report. But it is unclear whether Mr S could  have done  
so  it would  be for the OPS pension trustees  to allow  that or not. It is possible he could  
have also taken early  retirement  on a reduced  benefit basis. But that would have meant an 
income would  be paid  which is something Mr S did not want.  
So there are clear reasons why the transfer took place and that this was something that Mr S 
wished to do. So I don't believe Kings  gave unsuitable advice to Mr S. Given that there is no 
reason to carry out a loss assessment as requested by Mr Ss representative. 
It is also worth noting, as the adjudicator  did, that on Mr Ss death  a further lump sum was 
paid of about £20,000, something that would not have occurred had Mr S remained within 
his OPS. An annuity was also set up for Mr Ss spouse. Alternatively had Mr S stayed  with 
the OPS then a spouses annuity of 50% of the income that would have been  paid to Mr S, 
would have been paid to her. Although the very different  nature  of the benefits provided by 
the OPS and the Section  32 Bond/personal  pension makes it difficult to make  direct 
comparisons, it is not clear that Mr Ss estate is any worse off by taking the transfer route.  
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint or make  any award. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the representative 
of the late Mr Ss estate  to accept or reject my decision before 1 April 2019.
David Bird
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8624841