K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  that Bank of Scotland Plc (trading at the time of sale as Halifax) mis-
sold them  a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
Mr and Mrs M bought a regular premium  PPI policy alongside a loan in 1997. They  
purchased the policy during a meeting with an advisor from Halifax. The loan and policy  
ended in or before April 2008. The policy covered Mr M only against accidents, sickness  and 
unemployment.
Mr and Mrs M say they were led to believe they had to take out the PPI cover.  They think 
Halifax mis-sold  the insurance  to them.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. As they dont agree with the 
adjudicators opinion, the complaint has been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ms case.
Ive looked at all of the information provided by both parties and decided not to uphold         
Mr and Mrs Ms complaint because of the following reasons:
Halifax has been unable to provide much of the sales documentation that was used  
at the time of sale. There is little information  available and so I cant be sure how the 
policy was presented by an advisor from Halifax to Mr and Mrs M during the meeting 
and Ive not been able to see most of the original  sales documentation (such as the 
loan agreement or application  form).  So its been difficult  for me to consider whether 
Mr and Mrs M were  given a choice or not as to whether they should have the PPI 
policy (or whether they were led to believe they had to have  it).
But Im not aware of any known issues with the way Halifax sold these policies  
around this time. Ive also not been  able to obtain a detailed  recollection of how the 
meeting at the time of sale. This is understandable considering the amount of time 
that has passed. So, I cannot  fairly conclude on this occasion that the policy  was sold 
in the way Mr and Mrs M say it was. I just havent seen enough  to make that 
conclusion. 
Moving on, Halifax has said it recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs M during the 
meeting and so, as this puts additional  responsibilities on the business,  I will proceed 
that this was the case. So as it did recommend the policy to Mr and Mrs M, it had to 
ensure during the sale that the policy was suitable for Mr Ms needs (as the sole 
policy holder). 
After reviewing the very limited information, it doesnt look as if the PPI policy was 
unsuitable for Mr M based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. The 
Ref: DRN89842632benefit would have been of use to Mr M during a difficult time. Mr M initially  told our 
service through  his complaint form that he would have received at least 3 months  
sick pay from his employer at the time. More recently he has said that he would have 
received substantially more. So because the amount Mr M had said he received had 
changed, our service asked for further supporting  information on this. Mr M has again 
said that he would have received a much higher benefit from his employer but has 
not provided any supporting information  about  this. So because I am not sure what 
Mr Ms sickness benefits were at the time of sale, on balance,  I am persuaded he 
had a need for this cover  for any extended period of unemployment or sickness.  I 
also couldnt find any other reason such as a significant or limiting  term that would 
make the policy  unsuitable  for him.
Halifax has provided some information about the costs relating to the PPI policy  that 
Mr and Mrs M took out but even though it has provided information  detailing the 
cover and how much it cost, I cannot  be sure that these costs were  disclosed to                
Mr and Mrs M in a clear and fair way at the time of sale. That said,  even if they were  
disclosed clearly I dont  think  Mr and Mrs M would  have  done anything different and 
decided against  having the policy for the reasons that I have already given for the 
policy being suitable.
Its possible Halifax didnt point out the main  things the policy  didnt cover. But its 
unlikely Mr and Mrs M wouldve been affected  by any of these.
I understand this will come as a disappointment  but in conclusion  I do not uphold                
Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 November  2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8984263