K820x#14complaint
Mr K and Ms W complain ZAD Bulstrad Vienna Insurance Group  (ZAD) hasnt paid a claim 
under their travel insurance policy. 
background
Mr K and Ms W held a premier,  single-trip travel insurance policy provided by ZAD. 
Unfortunately, Mr K and Ms Ws flight was cancelled due to disruption  caused  by drone 
activity so they were  unable to travel on a planned  holiday. 
Mr K and Ms Ws flight  costs were refunded by their airline and they made a claim under 
their travel insurance policy for their unused car parking and hotel costs.  
ZAD said Mr K and Ms Ws claim wasnt covered under the terms and conditions of their 
policy. Unhappy, Mr K and Ms W brought their complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr K and Ms W didnt agree so the complaint 
has been passed to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have sympathy for the situation Mr K and Ms W found themselves in and I understand they 
suffered a financial loss through  no fault of their own. But the Financial Ombudsman Service  
reviews complaints independently and impartially and this means I must  have regard  to what 
is fair to the insurer as well as to what is fair to the policyholder.   
Travel insurance policies dont cover  every eventuality and an insurer  is entitled  to decide 
what risks it wishes  to insure in return for the premium paid. If a policyholder pays  a higher 
premium for a premier  policy, like the policy Mr K and Ms W had, this generally means  the 
policy will provide cover under additional  sections and/or higher benefit payments with a 
lower excess in the event  of a claim  but it doesnt mean the policy will cover every 
unforeseen circumstance  that may arise.  There are very few, if any, travel  insurance policies 
on the market to my knowledge which would have provided cover for this situation. 
Insurers set out what  risks they do and dont wish to cover by listing specific situations as 
insured events, and also by setting out exclusions which apply. But it wouldnt be realistic to 
expect an insurer to list each and every circumstance which they dont  provide  cover for, 
especially in a situation like this where  what happened was relatively unprecedented and 
couldnt reasonably have  been anticipated by either  policyholders or insurers. 
If a policy  is silent on a particular scenario  then that usually means  the situation isnt 
covered. An exception to this would  be if the policy wording could be considered  ambiguous 
or open to interpretation. If that was the case, Id expect an insurer to interpret the policy 
wording in favour of the policyholder and give them the benefit  of cover. 
However, I think the wording of the contract  between Mr K and Ms W and ZAD is clear, and I 
dont think it can be considered ambiguous or open to interpretation. 
Ref: DRN86135642Mr K and Ms Ws policy  provides  cover for cancellation and curtailment of a trip if one of 
seven listed, insured events happens. These  events  include things like death, illness,  being 
called for jury service or being made  redundant.  The policy doesnt specifically state the 
insurer will accept a claim only if one of these  things happen, but I dont  think the policy  
needs to say this  the seven listed insured events set out the parameters of what is covered 
under the cancellation and curtailment section.
Drone disruption, or anything similar to drone  disruption, isnt a listed event. So even if I 
were satisfied that Mr K and Ms W could be considered as having  cancelled or curtailed their 
trip, the incident  which they are claiming  for isnt covered under the terms and conditions of 
this section of the policy.   
The terms and conditions  of Mr K and Ms Ws policy cover travel  delay  or abandonment  of a 
trip in the event  of;
a) strike or industrial action.;
b) adverse weather conditions;
c) mechanical breakdown or technical fault of the aircraft, coach, train or sea vessel
Were it not for the presence of the drone, Mr K and Ms Ws flight wouldnt have been 
cancelled. And I dont think drone disruption falls into any of above listed  insured events. 
I dont agree that the circumstances of Mr K and Ms Ws claim can be said to fall under the 
definition of industrial  action. Ive taken into account what  Mr K and Ms W have said about 
this definition. But I think the phrase industrial action, both in the ordinary, everyday 
meaning of the word  and in the context in which it is used within the policy  alongside the 
word strike, implies an act of protest which is intended to frustrate the contract of 
employment between  an employee and an employer. I dont think the phrase industrial 
action can be fairly  applied to a situation  such as this, where  a decision to pre-emptively 
cancel flights was taken  for safety  reasons. 
Overall, this means I dont  think Mr K and Ms Ws claim is covered under the terms and 
conditions of their policy,  and I dont think there are any reasonable grounds  upon which  I 
could fairly  ask ZAD to accept their claim. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K and Ms W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 November 2019.
Leah Nagle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8613564