K820x#14complaint
Mrs R has complained that Link Financial Outsourcing Limited (Link) have registered a 
default against her.
background
Mrs R fell into financial difficulties and was unable to afford to keep  up payments on her 
debts. Her credit card debt was sold to Link in 2012, and a payment arrangement was 
agreed. No payments were  made  to Link between  September and December  2014.  Because 
of this, Link issued  a default against Mrs R.
Mrs R has complained that Link have registered the default, even though she was making  
payments, which  meant shes now had to take a less favourable mortgage deal than she 
wanted. Shes also unhappy  with how Link dealt with her complaint.
Our investigator found Link hadnt  done  anything wrong. She felt that Link had correctly 
applied the default because of the missing payments,  and that it was reasonable for them to 
have done so. She also advised Mrs R that were  unable to look into the way the complaint 
was dealt with by Link, as complaint handling is not something which  is regulated by the 
Financial Conduct  Authority.
Mrs R disagreed with the investigator. She feels the default was unfounded  and unfair  
because Link never told her they were going to register  this. She says that Link never told 
her that payments  had been  missed  and, if they had done so, she would have paid these 
arrears and avoided  the default.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen that Mrs R used third party debt management companies (DMCs)  to manage the 
relationship between her and her creditors. DMC1 were authorised to act for Mrs R between 
July 2011 and April 2013, and DMC2 were  authorised to act for her between April 2013 and 
September 2014. In September 2014 Mrs R authorised DMC1 to act for her again. In 
January 2015  DMC1 told Link that Mrs R wasnt able to afford the agreed payments of 
£14.41 a month, and arranged for the payment to be reduced to £1.00  a month.
Mrs R says she continued to make payments to Link, but she wouldve been making these 
payments to her DMC, who would then have sent them on to her creditors, including Link.  
Ive seen that no payments were made to Link between September and December 2014  
about the time when Mrs R authorised  DMC1 to act for her a second time. If Mrs R was 
paying DMC1 during  this period, but the payments  werent being passed  on to Link,  this is 
something she will need to take up with DMC1 direct.
Because no payments had been received  for three months, Link sent Mrs R a default notice 
on 1 December 2014. This was correctly addressed to her home address, and Ive seen 
nothing to show that this wasnt received. The notice told Mrs R that she was in arrears by 
£43.23. It also told her that, if she didnt pay off the arrears in full by 18 December, a default 
would be registered  against her. 
Ref: DRN80259942The arrears  werent cleared and the default  was registered. I agree that Link acted  
reasonably by registering the default after three  months payments were missed,  and by 
giving Mrs R formal written  notice of her arrears  and of the action they intended to take. 
Because of this, I wont be asking them to do anything more.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above I dont uphold Mrs and Mr Rs complaint about  Link 
Financial Outsourcing  Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  29 August 2019.
Andrew Burford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8025994