K820x#14summary and background to complaint
Mr and Mrs S have  complained about the sale of a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy taken out in April 1992 in connection with a mortgage. 
Nationwide says that an intermediary was responsible for the sale of the mortgage  and 
associated PPI. So Nationwide  says that it was not responsible for selling the PPI.
An adjudicator has looked at the case and agreed  that Nationwide  wasnt responsible for the 
sale of the PPI. Mr and Mrs S have  asked for an ombudsman to look into this so the case 
has come  to me to make a decision.  
I set out in my provisional decision dated 3 April 2019 why I was minded to find that 
Nationwide wasnt responsible for the sale of the PPI. I invited both parties to let me have 
any further comments and evidence. 
No further submissions have been provided  by either Nationwide or Mr and Mrs S.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I set out the following:
The first thing I need to decide is whether Nationwide  is responsible  for the sale of 
the policy. If I decide it is, then I can decide whether the sale happened  as it 
shouldve done.  If I dont think Nationwide was responsible  for the sale of the policy 
to Mr and Mrs S, then Im not going  to be able to uphold a complaint about  the PPI 
sale against Nationwide.
Ive looked at all the evidence provided  and at what Nationwide and Mr and Mrs S 
have told us about the sale.  Mr and Mrs S have said that they dealt with an 
intermediary, their financial advisor. They say that the sale of the PPI took place at 
their home at the same time as they signed the paperwork relating to the mortgage 
application. They say that they were told by the financial advisor that they had to 
have the PPI in order  to get the mortgage.
Ive looked at the mortgage application form which has been completed with 
Mr and Mrs Ss details  and signed  by them  dated  14 January 1992. There is a 
section called Mortgage Payment  Cover and a tick has been marked  in this section. 
I can also see from the mortgage offer that the mortgage was conditional upon Mr 
and Mrs S taking the PPI with Nationwide. Im satisfied that the PPI was discussed  at 
the time of the mortgage application. I say this because the mortgage applied  for was 
one which  was conditional upon PPI being  taken and the section for the PPI was 
ticked. This also supports what Mr and Mrs S say about being told they had to have 
the PPI to get this particular mortgage.
At the top of the mortgage application form there is a stamp  with the details  of an 
intermediary. Mr and Mrs S have been  made  aware of the name of the intermediary 
whose name  appears on the form. They say that they have not heard of this person 
and that their financial advisor  had a different name. I am unable to explain why a 
Ref: DRN85025762different intermediarys stamp appears  at the top of the form. It could be that he 
worked for the same  firm as the advisor  Mr and Mrs S recall dealing with their 
mortgage application. In any event, I am satisfied that there  was an intermediary 
involved, which again supports what Mr and Mrs S say.
In light of the above, I am satisfied that the intermediary was responsible for the sale 
of the mortgage  and associated PPI. As Nationwide didnt  sell the PPI (and wasnt  
responsible for the intermediary who did sell it), Im minded to find that Nationwide 
wasnt responsible  for the sale. It follows that it wasnt  responsible for carrying out the 
sale properly. So, as I dont think it has done  anything wrong, Im intending not to 
uphold the complaint against Nationwide.
But Nationwide has paid back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs S because:  
Nationwide got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs S about that. Because 
Nationwide didnt  tell Mr and Mrs S, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Nationwide  has paid back the amount  of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that is fair in this 
case.
Just to be clear, the reason Nationwide has paid back  some of the commission is 
because it was the lender and this has no bearing on who actually sold the policy.
As neither party has provided any further evidence  or arguments  for consideration, I see no 
reason to depart from the conclusions set out in my provisional decision.
I know Mr and Mrs S will be disappointed that Im reaching this conclusion. Im sorry we cant  
help them on this occasion.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out in my provisional  decision and above,  my decision is that is that 
Nationwide Building  Society wasnt responsible for the sale of the PPI and therefore  I dont  
uphold this complaint against it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 June 2019.
Rachel Ellis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8502576