K821x#15Complaint
Miss R says Gain  Credit LLC (trading as Drafty) irresponsibly lent to her.
Background
The background to this complaint was set out in my provisional decision dated  20 May 2020.  
An extract  from this is attached and forms part of this final decision, so I will not repeat that 
information here.
In my provisional decision I set out why I was minded  to partly uphold the complaint. I invited 
both parties to let me have any further  comments and evidence. Miss R appears to have 
accepted the findings  in the provisional decision but she provided  some further comments 
about the continued debt collection  activity. Drafty didnt provide a response to the 
provisional decision. 
My findings
Ive once more  considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Miss R accepted  the provisional decision and SNC didnt respond with any further  
comments or evidence it wanted  me to consider, I see no reason to depart  from the findings  
that I outlined  in my provisional decision. 
Im sorry  to hear that Miss R has been chased  for repayment while  this service considered 
her complaint. Unfortunately, there is no requirement on the part of Drafty or the third party 
to suspend collection activity while we investigate the complaint. And if Miss R with unhappy 
with the conduct of the third party she is entitled to raise this with them.  But now the final 
decision has been finalised, it will enable Drafty to make the adjustments to the account.  
So, in summary,  I still think Drafty  was wrong to have allowed Miss R to continue  to 
drawdown on the facility  from 11 August 2017  and Ive explained below what Drafty needs  to 
do to put things right. 
putting things right  what Drafty  needs to do
If the debt has been  sold to a third party, Drafty should, if it wishes,  buy the debt back and 
then carry out the redress  below. If Drafty  isnt able to, or doesnt wish to, buy the debt back 
then it needs to work with the third party to achieve  the same results. 
Ref: DRN89037712remove all the unpaid  interest, fees and charges applied  to the outstanding balance 
from drawdowns made from 11 August 2017. Drafty should then re-work the facility 
as if the entire interest element of each payment went towards the updated 
outstanding balance from 11 August 2017.  But importantly, Drafty needs to make 
sure that Miss R doesnt repay  more  than the principal amount she borrowed from 
11 August 2017.  
If, after the account rework Miss R has already paid enough to fully repay the 
outstanding principal due then any overpayment  should be refunded to her with 8% 
simple interest from the date of the overpayment to the date of settlement
remove any adverse information  recorded  on Miss Rs credit file recorded from 
August 2017.
If after doing the above, an outstanding balance remains then Miss R and Drafty should try 
and come to a mutually agreeable  repayment plan in order  to repay any outstanding 
principal. But I would  remind Drafty of its obligation to treat Miss R fairly. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Drafty to take off tax from this interest. Drafty must give
Miss R a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons  given  above and in my provisional  decision, I partly uphold Miss Rs 
complaint. 
Gain Credit LLC should  put things right for Miss R as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 July 2020.
Robert Walker 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN89037713EXTRACT FROM PROVISIONAL DECISION
Complaint
Miss R says Gain Credit LLC (trading  as Drafty) irresponsibly lent to her.
Background
Miss R approached Drafty for a running credit facility in November 2015. Miss R was given a facility  
with a £700 credit limit. And it seems  Miss R has had some  problems repaying her final drawdowns 
on the facility because it an outstanding  balance remains  and Miss R is currently being  contacted by a 
third party for repayment of the balance.
This was a running credit  account where  a consumer could either  request  funds up to their agreed 
credit limit in one go or take multiple drawdowns  up to their limit. 
One of our adjudicators  looked  at Miss Rs complaint. He thought  the checks  Drafty carried out before 
granting this facility were  proportionate. So he didnt  think it was wrong to have initially approved the 
facility.  
However, the adjudicator thought Drafty shouldve stopped Miss R from drawing on the facility  by 
June 2017 because she wasnt using the facility  in the way that Drafty had expected her to. So, the 
adjudicator didnt think  that Drafty shouldve  allowed  any more drawdowns after 10 June 2017. 
Miss R appears to have  agreed with the adjudicators recommendation.
However, Drafty didnt agree with the adjudicator.  In response, it made  a number of points,  including:
it carried out monthly reviews to ensure there are no signs of financial difficulty or distress
the checks showed  that the facility had become unaffordable  in September  2018  but up to 
that point  the facility  was affordable. 
Drafty was satisfied that Miss R had sufficient disposable income  to be able to continue  to use 
the facility
further checks showed  that Miss R wasnt insolvent and
Miss R only made 16 drawdowns in 35 months and her drawdown behaviour is common for 
this type of product.
These points  didnt change the adjudicators mind  and because no agreement could be reached the 
case has been passed  to me for a final decision. 
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time the loans were offered.
To begin, I want to be clear that Miss R wasnt given a payday loan where she had to repay all of 
what she borrowed plus the interest due when she next got paid. She was given a facility  where there 
was an expectation that shed repay what she borrowed  plus the interest due within a period of at 
least 12 months. 
As Ive said,  Miss R was granted a running  credit  facility with a £700 limit. According to the credit 
agreement, had she drawn down the full amount on the first day of having  the facility,  and repaid that 
amount over 12 months, she wouldve paid a total of £949.20, meaning the monthly  repayment 
wouldve been  around £79. 
 
Ref: DRN89037714Drafty has provided us with the results of the credit checks. It knew that Miss R had two defaults on 
her credit file, but the most recent one had been recorded some 55 months previously. It was also 
aware that Miss R had 9 active accounts.  Overall,  I dont  think there was anything  contained  within 
the results which shouldve led Drafty to either carry out further checks  or to have declined Miss Rs 
request for credit.  
Before granting the facility,  Drafty  asked  Miss R about  her monthly  income, which  she confirmed was 
£1,396 per month and she also declared expenditure of £500 per month. But Drafty made some 
adjustments following  its checks and adjusted the monthly expenditure up  to £598 per month. This 
left Miss R with a disposable  income  of £798 per month. Based on the information  that Drafty  
gathered it seemed that Miss R would be able to afford the repayments she was committed to 
making. 
I also think, given this was the start of the lending relationship, it was not unreasonable for Drafty to 
have relied  on the information it was provided. So, I dont  think proportionate checks  wouldve 
extended to Drafty asking  Miss R to evidence  her declared income and expenditure. Therefore, I dont 
think Drafty was wrong to have initially approved the facility.  
However, that doesnt mean that Drafty  hasnt done anything wrong.  Ive also looked  at how Miss R 
used the facility with a view to seeing if there was a point at which Drafty should  reasonably have 
seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise  harmful.  
It may help if I explain  that although I dont think Drafty was wrong  to have provided the facility, that 
wasnt the end of its obligation to Miss R.  When the facility was approved, Drafty was regulated by 
the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) . The FCA had issued  guidance on this type of lending  and 
what it says should be expected from lenders when  granting these  types of loans. 
Within the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) section 6.7.2R  says:
A firm must monitor a customers repayment record and take appropriate action where there 
are signs of actual or possible repayment  difficulties  
And CONC 1.3 outlines  some examples of what financial difficulties may look like;
The following matters, among others, of which  a firm is aware or ought reasonably to be aware,  may 
indicate that a customer is in financial  difficulties;
(1)consecutively failing to meet minimum repayments in relation  to a credit card or store  card
(2)adverse accurate entries on a credit file, which are not in dispute;
(3) outstanding county court judgments for non-payment of debt;
(4) inability to meet  repayments  out of disposable income or at all, for example, where there is 
evidence of non-payment of essential bills (such as, utility bills), the customer having to 
borrow further  to repay existing debts, or the customer only being able to meet repayments of 
debts by the disposal  of assets or security;
(5) consecutively failing to meet repayments when due;
(6)agreement to a debt management plan or other debt solution;
(7)evidence of discussions with a firm (including a not-for-profit debt advice body) with a view to 
entering into a debt management plan or other debt solution or to seeking  debt counselling.
In practice this meant Drafty needed  to be mindful of how Miss R used the facility  in order to step in if 
and when she showed  signs of possible financial difficulties. 
Our adjudicator thought Drafty shouldve seen this by the time Miss R took a drawdown on 10 June 
2017. By this point, our adjudicator thought that Drafty  would have seen that Miss Rs borrowing 
history showed she was potentially reliant on the facility. 
Ref: DRN89037715By then, the adjudicator felt it wouldve been proportionate for Drafty to have carried  out some further 
checks on Miss Rs financial  position. This ought  to have included verifying the information  she was 
providing about here income and expenditure. I cant see that Drafty did this, so I think  something has 
gone wrong  here.  
But I dont agree  this was the point the Drafty ought to have concerns. Remember, this wasnt a 
payday loan so there  was an expectation that this facility would run for a reasonable period of time. 
Indeed, Miss R hadnt taken any new drawdowns  between  February and June 2017.  And although 
Miss R had been paying the minimum amount,  she was making headway  into the principal that she 
had drawdown from Drafty. So I dont think  up to this point  Drafty had made  an error. 
However, between June  and August there seems to have  been a change in the way Miss R was 
using the facility.  Miss  R had made what appears to have been the minimum repayment and then 
returned within a week or so for further funds  taking her up to the credit limit. So in this time, she 
wasnt making headway into what she owed   what Miss R was doing was just serving  the debt. So I 
think it was in August when Drafty  needed to verify  with Miss R whether she was in a position  to take 
on further drawdowns.
So, the checks needed to go beyond what Drafty was carrying out at this time which seems to be 
relying on information  provided to it from the credit reference agencies  and relying  on the information  
Miss R was providing it. 
Miss R has now provided this service with copies of her bank  statements from around August 2017. It 
looks like from the bank statements Ive seen that her total income was broadly in-line with what  she 
declared to Drafty when the facility was granted  around £1,300 per month  so its likely, had 
proportionate checks been carried out that Drafty wouldve confirmed  this. 
It seems that her direct  debts and standing orders to cover items  such as insurances, credit cards, 
mobiles, debt collection repayments and catalogue shopping accounts  came to around £800.  
However, this figure doesnt  include food (spending of between £80  100 per week), and car related 
costs such  as petrol, tax and car insurance. So in reality,  looking at the bank statements I dont think 
Miss R was in a position  to take on any further drawdowns. 
In August 2017 Miss R had 4 separate catalogue  shopping  accounts  and based on the repayments  
Miss R appears to only be making the minimum repayments to these  facilities. She also had at least  4 
credit cards where again, she appears to also making the minimum repayment.  And by now, her 
bank statements show repayments to three separate debt collection companies. And with her monthly  
expenditure, there wasnt enough disposable each month to cover the minimum repayment on her 
facility without  the need  to borrow further.   So I think this was the point  that Drafty  ought to have  
realised that further borrowing was likely to be harmful to Miss R. 
As Ive explained above, Drafty was required  to monitor Miss Rs account and step in where financial 
difficulty became  apparent. But I dont think Drafty  did this. I acknowledge  it did step in to help in 
September 2018, when Drafty says the facility  was unaffordable. But, in my opinion, this happened  
too late, and it shouldve done more in August 2017 to prevent 
Miss R from using the facility. 
So Im upholding Miss Rs complaint and I dont  think Drafty shouldve allowed  any further drawdowns 
after she made  her repayment in 11 August 2017.
Ref: DRN8903771