K820x#14This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1998. Mrs S says Lloyds  Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs S case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why. 
Lloyds has provided us with a copy of Mrs S credit agreement.  Unfortunately  it is of poor 
quality so difficult to read in places. With little paperwork  available  from the sale Ive 
thought about what we know generally  about how Lloyds sold policies like Mrs S around 
this time  to help me decide whats likely  to have  happened. I think  its likely that Mrs S 
wouldve had to actively opt for the PPI before it was added  to her account.  And I havent  
seen or heard enough to make me think that Lloyds didnt follow  their usual sales  
practice in Mrs S case. So on balance I think its likely that Lloyds made it clear that Mrs 
S didnt  have to take out the PPI and that she chose to take it out  although I can 
understand why she cant  remember  this.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mrs S so it had to check  that the PPI was right for her  
and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example she wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover  and 
she seems to have had a need  for the cover. Mrs S says she wouldve received some 
sick pay at the time the policy was sold. But the PPI wouldve  paid out in addition to any 
sick pay she wouldve received  and for up to 12 months if she was unable to work  
because of accident, sickness or unemployment.  So I think she wouldve found the policy 
useful.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mrs S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for her if something went  wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would 
have put her off taking  out the cover. 
Which means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs S.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs S because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr S about that. Because  Lloyds didnt tell Mrs S, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has basically paid back the amount of commission and profit  
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that is fair in this case.
my final decision
Ref: DRN82155232The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mrs S.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mrs S any commission and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  so, so I wont  
be awarding any further compensation in this case.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs S to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 March 2019.
Gemma Farrell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8215523