K820x#14complaint
Mr F and Miss G say Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold them a payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) policy.
background and summary to complaint
Mr F and Miss G bought  the policy in 2010  at the same time as taking a further advance on 
their existing mortgage. Theyve said they applied for the mortgage and PPI policy in a 
branch but Barclays  thinks they applied by phone.
The policy provided  cover  for Mr F for accident  and sickness  subject to its exclusions and 
limitations. It offered  to repay  £200 a month towards Mr F and Miss Gs mortgage balance  in 
the event of a successful  claim. At the time, it cost £7.20 a month. The policy  was cancelled 
around two months  after it started.
At the time,  Mr F was employed as a driver.  From what hes told us, he was entitled to no 
more than statutory  sickness  and redundancy pay. He has told us he was treated for back  
pain ten years before the sale.  He hasnt told us of any other, or more  recent,  health  issues. 
Miss G was employed and, according  to Barclays internal notes from the time, was entitled 
to work sick pay at full pay for 12 months  and then half pay for six months.
Barclays has sent us screenshots  showing the original mortgage  started  in 2008 and the 
further advance  started  in 2010.
Mr F and Miss Gs representative has made lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf. I will not restate them all here,  but I have read and considered them  all carefully. In 
summary, Mr F and Miss Gs representative says:
Barclays failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should be presumed Mr F and Miss G wouldnt 
have taken the policy and the complaint  should be upheld.  Mr F and Miss Gs 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a successful 
claim meant  the policy was of inherently poor value  as shown by the low claims ratio. 
The common law duty of utmost  good faith means  Barclays should have told Mr F and 
Miss G about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Barclays should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr F and Miss G and the 
impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is generally 
someones biggest ever long-  term transaction  cover would stop at the time it would  be 
most needed; and
Ref: DRN85733902The information Mr F and Miss G received was misleading. These  policies were  
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on 
the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr F and Miss G disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been  
passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr F and Miss Gs. I dont intend to set 
that out in much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr F and Miss Gs 
complaint.
The mortgage was arranged after mortgage  lending became regulated in October 2004  as 
such this was an FCA regulated mortgage.  That means the unfair  relationship provisions set 
out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme  Court  judgment in Plevin about 
s.140A of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable.
This sale took place  in 2010 after the sale of general  insurance  products like this became 
regulated by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) in January 2005 and after the FSA 
renewed its insurance conduct  rules in January 2008. So the FSAs and the FCAs 
overarching principles for businesses and insurance conduct rules  (ICOBS) are applicable to 
this complaint.
Its also relevant to note that there  have for some  time been codes governing the sale of 
insurance products  such as PPI. There is much in common between  the present statutory 
regulatory regime and the non-statutory provisions that preceded  it (and, indeed, the position 
at law).
Although the non-statutory provisions no longer apply as specific requirements on those 
selling insurance,  I consider they still represent a helpful guide to good  industry  practice. As 
a result its appropriate for me to take them into account along  with the relevant ICOBS rules 
and the other relevant considerations.
In the period immediately before statutory regulation in 2005, there was a period of industry 
self-regulation by the General Insurance  Standards  Council (GISC). It published  The 
General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance Code for private customers   the 
Ref: DRN85733903GISC Code. This set out minimum  standards of good practice for its members  to follow 
when selling  insurance, including PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Barclays, selling insurance  at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for all 
intermediaries (Including Employees of Insurance Companies)  other  than Registered 
Insurance Brokers   The ABI Code.  
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct Marketing/ 
Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
The sale took place  after the sale of mortgage products became regulated by the FSA. So 
the mortgage conduct of business rules  (MCOB)  are applicable to this complaint. Prior to 
regulation subscribing  lenders and mortgage intermediaries followed a voluntary mortgage 
code. While predominantly about mortgage  related matters, it also included  some insurance-
related commitments.  As with the sale of general insurance, there is much in common  
between the pre and post-regulatory position.
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. The sale took place after insurance mediation became  a regulated  activity  in January 
2005, so Barclays  was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP  App 3 when 
considering Mr F and Miss Gs complaint.
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Barclays gave advice, whether it advised  Mr F and Miss G with reasonable care and 
skill  in particular,  whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for them,  given their 
needs and circumstances. 
-Whether Barclays gave Mr F and Miss G sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take the policy,  including  
drawing to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  the 
main provisions  of the policy  and significant limitations and exclusions. 
Ref: DRN85733904-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of 
Mr F and Miss G, I must then go on to consider whether and to what extent they suffered 
loss or damage and what I consider  would  amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Barclays and 
Mr F and Miss G, Ive decided not to uphold Mr F and Miss Gs complaint. Ive set out my 
reasoning below. 
did Mr F and Miss  G know they had a choice?
Barclays had to make it clear that the PPI policy  was optional.  Mr F and Miss G have said 
they had no interest  in PPI and they wouldnt have had it if Barclays hadnt just included  it as 
part of the package with their mortgage. Ive thought about this carefully.  But Ive also taken 
into account Barclays notes from the time. These  suggest Barclays  asked  both Mr F and 
Miss G whether they wanted cover  in case of both unemployment and disability  and that 
Mr F and Miss G said no to unemployment  cover  for Mr F and no to any cover for Miss G.
In particular, regarding  Miss G and her sick pay the notes say Feel  this will be sufficient to 
cover the mortgage  payments - and in case of unemployment they say she would  get 
another job and doesnt  feel this is a concern. For Mr F, as regards losing his job, the notes 
say would get another as drivers  are always needed
Also Barclays sent a letter to Mr F about  the PPI after the application had been made but 
before the policy had started or the further  advance was made. This said it enclosed 
confirmation of Barclays recommendation and your decision whether to accept or decline 
our recommendation .
With all of the above in mind,  Ive considered the possibility that Barclays  just put the PPI on 
as part of the mortgage package  but without  including Miss G or unemployment cover for 
Mr F. But, taking  everything into account, I think its more likely Mr F and Miss G knew the 
policy was optional and they agreed to take the PPI, for accident and sickness  on Mr F only, 
without undue pressure.
did Barclays provide  advice?
Mr F and Miss G have said Barclays didnt give advice during this sale.  Barclays  says it did 
give advice  and if Barclays did give advice, it had to do more. With this in mind, I think  its 
fair to proceed on the basis that Barclays gave  advice.  This means  Barclays  had to advise 
Mr F and Miss G with reasonable care and skill, in particular whether the policy  was 
appropriate or suitable given their needs  and circumstances.
Ref: DRN85733905the advice
While I dont know exactly what was said during the conversation, the documentary evidence 
suggests that Barclays took some steps  to establish whether the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr F and Miss G. The adviser  had some  information about their 
financial circumstances as part of the mortgage application  for example their ages, salaries 
and how long each  had been  with their employer. 
Also it looks like Barclays asked what problems Mr F and Miss G would have paying the 
mortgage in case  of disability or unemployment  - and asked about Mr Fs sick pay and 
whether he had any existing insurance. It also looks like Barclays asked Mr F if hed had any 
medical treatment in the previous year. But I dont think  Barclays  did enough to ensure  the 
PPI was suitable. For example Ive nothing to show that Barclays asked Mr F whether he 
had an existing illness or an injury - or had suffered symptoms of a health issue  in the last 
year for which he hadnt received medical  attention.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Barclays  did all it should have 
done to determine whether the policy was suitable for Mr F and Miss G given their 
circumstances. So Im not persuaded Barclays advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Barclays did all it should have done to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr F and Miss G, I do think its more likely than not that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for them. In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr F met the eligibility criteria for the policy and the monthly cost appears  to have been 
affordable for Mr F and Miss G.
-Mr F and Miss G had a need  for the policy. Mr F was only entitled  to statutory sick pay. 
So Mr F and Miss G would suffer a significant loss of income if Mr F wasnt working for 
an extended period of time due to sickness. Also the further  advance  was used to 
consolidate existing  debts and Mr F didnt have  savings  to help make the mortgage 
payments. So it doesnt look like Mr F and Miss G had been generating much in the way 
of spare  income  in the past.  With this in mind,  Mr F and Miss Gs ability  to continue to 
meet the mortgage payments seems likely to have been put under strain  if Mr F lost his 
income, even allowing  for Miss Gs income.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr F and Miss G. For 
example, nothing about Mr Fs occupation or employment wouldve made it difficult  for 
Mr F and Miss G to claim if Mr F suffered disability. Mr F had been treated for back pain 
in the past and the policy excluded certain claims related to health issues that in the 12 
months before the policy start Mr F experienced, was treated for or saw a doctor about. 
But what  I have doesnt suggest  Mr Fs back pain had been an ongoing issue or that he 
suffered from it in the year before the policy start. The policy  also excluded claims arising 
from an incident resulting in injury (or from an illness) that Mr F had had before the policy 
start. But given the passage  of time since the incidence of back  pain Mr F has told us of, 
if in future he missed work due to his back,  it seems more likely this would follow  another 
incident of injury rather than arising, without such another incident, from the incident ten 
years earlier.  Also I havent seen anything  to suggest Mr F wouldve been caught by any 
of the other significant exclusions.  Furthermore, aside from those relating to pre-existing 
issues, there were no additional restrictions on cover for mental health or back problems.
Ref: DRN85733906-While  there were  limits to the cover provided  by the policy  (including  that the first 60 days 
of a disability werent  covered, the policy would only pay benefits for a maximum of 24 
months for each  claim and if Mr F didnt expect to return  to his normal job and wanted  to 
claim, he to be also prevented by his disability from doing  any paid work his experience,  
education or training qualified him to do), the policy still provided valuable  cover given:
Mr F and Miss Gs circumstances, including in particular Mr Fs entitlement  to only 
statutory sick pay and the loss of income  Mr F and Miss G would suffer  if Mr F 
couldnt work due to disability, which meant  the policy could play an important role in 
that situation; and
The fact the policy helped protect  the mortgage  repayments relating to Mr F and 
Miss Gs home and the potential consequences if they couldnt make the repayments 
on loans secured against their house.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Barclays  gave Mr F and Miss G 
sufficient information  about the cover provided  by the policy  to enable them to understand 
what Barclays was recommending to them and make an informed decision about whether to 
follow that advice  and take the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr F and Miss G were given a broad description  of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would make a payment to help 
protect their mortgage payments if Mr F was unable to work through accident or sickness) 
and of the approximate costs. I have reached this conclusion  because I think its unlikely  
Mr F and Miss G would have taken the policy without any sense of what  the policy  was for 
and of how much the premium might be.
The cost and benefit details were sent to Mr F and Miss G before the policy started, and I 
think its likely Mr F and Miss G were  also given these details before buying  the policy. I say 
this bearing in mind  that Barclays notes suggest  it quoted for cover for Mr F both with and 
without unemployment  cover  so it looks  like Mr F and Miss Gs decision to take cover for 
Mr F for accident  and sickness  only, was taken having considered the cost. 
Information about the exclusions  was sent before the policy started. But the evidence from 
the time of sale doesnt tell us whether Barclays gave sufficient information about  the 
exclusions or limitations before Mr F and Miss G agreed to take the policy.  Barclays  notes 
say exclusions and limitations were discussed,  but they dont say what was said.
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr F and Miss G Im not persuaded 
Barclays did enough to present information  about the policy  it was recommending  in a way 
that was fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded  Barclays gave Mr F and Miss G all 
of the information they needed about the policy to make an informed decision about whether 
to follow  the recommendation and take it.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
Ref: DRN85733907In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr F and Miss Gs representative has raised  
a number of general  points  in regards to the requirements on a business  when providing  
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like 
Mr F and Miss Gs. Ive considered these carefully  and summarised  them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have explained 
the low claims  ratio  what Mr F and Miss Gs representative considers to be poor value 
 and the fact that much of the premium went to the business  rather than the insurer.  
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just told 
Mr F and Miss G about  the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to them.  
Im not persuaded by Mr F and Miss Gs representatives views on this. The duty of utmost  
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mr F and Miss G have suggested. And taking into account  the 
law, industry codes and standards  of good industry  practice applicable to this complaint, I 
dont think its fair and reasonable to conclude  that Barclays  ought  to have done either. 
what effect did Barclays shortcomings have  on Mr F and Miss G? To what extent did 
Mr F and Miss G suffer  loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Barclays  didnt  do all it should  have done when it sold this policy  to Mr F and 
Miss G. So I have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude  
Mr F and Miss G suffered  loss and damage  as a result. To answer this, I must decide  
whether or not Mr F and Miss G would have still taken the policy,  had Barclays done  things 
properly. 
While Im not persuaded Barclays took the steps  it should have done to establish whether  
the policy it recommended was suitable  for Mr F and Miss G, I have found that the policy 
was ultimately suitable for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr F and Miss G have suffered 
loss or damage in this case primarily depends on whether,  if Barclays  had explained things  
properly, Mr F and Miss G would have acted  differently, or whether they would have taken  
the policy in any event.
Mr F and Miss G say they wouldnt  have  taken it and believe I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take insurance  requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
Ref: DRN85733908The evidence in this case suggests that Mr F and Miss G had some  interest  in taking PPI. By 
this I mean  when Barclays offered the PPI or advised them there  was a suitable product they 
could buy that would  protect  their mortgage  payments  in the event  Mr F was unable  to work 
because of accident or sickness,  they concluded  they wanted that product. But they made 
that decision based on incomplete information, meaning what  they thought  they were getting 
is not exactly what they got.
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr F and Miss Gs 
circumstances at the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or 
unsuitable for them.
As Ive also already explained, the information Mr F and Miss G were given about  the cost 
and benefit was clear. But the information  about  other aspects of the policy, such as the 
limitations and exclusions  wasnt as clear as it should  have  been.  Possibly  the most 
significant differences between what Mr F and Miss G thought  they had bought and what  
they actually bought  were the following:
As well as claims relating to health  issues for which Mr F had consulted or been treated 
by a medical practitioner in the 12 months before the policy  start,  the policy excluded 
claims relating to health issues  Mr F had symptoms of in the 12 months before the policy 
start  although these  exclusions  wouldnt  apply  if in the two years before the claim Mr F 
hadnt consulted  or been treated by a medical  practitioner or had symptoms. The policy  
also excluded claims relating to any illness or incident resulting in injury  Mr F had had 
before the policy start;
The requirement that, to make  a claim if he didnt expect to return  to his normal job, Mr F 
be prevented by disability from doing  any paid work his experience,  education or training 
qualified him to do; and
The policy didnt cover the first 60 days of disability and after that protected payments for 
up to 24 months rather than the remaining  term of the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Mr F and Miss G pause  for thought  and may well have caused them  to conclude the policy 
wasnt as good  as they thought and they might have  decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr F and Miss G from taking the 
policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr F and Miss Gs circumstances at the time of sale shows that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them.  Mr F was eligible for its benefits  
and it provided cover  that, despite  its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to 
Mr F and Miss G should  the insured risks have become a reality.  Mr F had been treated for 
back pain in the past and he couldnt have claimed  if that incidence  of injury caused  him to 
miss work in future. But, bearing in mind all Ive already  said above, what I have doesnt 
suggest that Mr F had either recently  suffered  from that issue or wouldve thought it likely he 
would miss work in future as a result of that past issue, taking into account for example the 
time that had passed since the incidence of injury. And I havent seen any evidence to 
suggest Mr F wouldve  been caught  by any of the other significant exclusions. So, I think 
Mr F and Miss G still had some good  reasons to take the policy.
Ref: DRN85733909The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions, or place  any additional 
restrictions or more onerous  evidential  requirements in the event of a claim on those 
grounds than would have applied to any other  disability claim. And I think its unlikely Mr F 
and Miss G would  have expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first 
providing some evidence to support that claim.
If Mr F and Miss G had known that if Mr F suffered disability and didnt expect to return to his 
normal job, he would, in order  to claim,  have to also be prevented by disability from doing 
any paid work his experience, education  or training qualified him to do, it might have played  
into their thinking about  what to do. And I accept it may have given them pause for thought  
although given  Mr F and Miss Gs circumstances,  on balance,  I think they would have still 
been interested in taking the cover.  
Barclays may not have  told Mr F and Miss G that the first 60 days  of disability wasnt  
covered and any claim they made  would be limited  to a 24 month period. This may have 
differed from what they expected and might  have hoped for. But given Mr Fs limited  sick 
pay, and taking into account  what Ive already  said above about Mr F and Miss Gs 
circumstances, I consider it likely Mr F and Miss G would still have thought a policy that paid 
up to 24 benefit  payments  towards  the mortgage  would have been of benefit to them and 
would help them manage the consequences  should Mr F be unable to work in the 
circumstances covered by the policy. 
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr F and Miss G would still have taken the policy.  The policy was suitable for them,  
was sufficiently close to what  its likely  they thought they were getting  and provided  benefits 
that would  help them manage  the consequences  if Mr F was unable  to work through  
accident or sickness. In the circumstances I consider it more likely  than not Mr F and Miss G 
would have taken  the policy in any event  notwithstanding the limitations  on cover.
Mr F and Miss Gs representatives say the rules  about how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption. 
They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr F and Miss G would not have bought the PPI they bought unless, in the 
particular circumstances  of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account 
Mr F and Miss Gs circumstances as detailed above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the 
position they found themselves in as a result of the sale was the same position they would 
have been in had the breach or significant  failings  not occurred. 
Ref: DRN857339010Mr F and Miss G believe  the presumption may only be rebutted  when the flaws in the sales 
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken the policy. I am not persuaded by these  arguments.
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr F and Miss G in the position they would have been in 
if they had not bought the policy.
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  the policy,  I am 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that Mr F and Miss G would still 
have taken the PPI had they been given clear, fair and not misleading information about  the 
policy they were  buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude Barclays should  pay Mr F and Miss G compensation, as that 
would put them in a better position than they would have been  in if everything had happened 
as it should have done.
Im also aware that Mr F and Miss G think Barclays misrepresented  the terms of the policy in 
how it described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court might conclude some  
of Barclays statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion  the reason why Barclays  
failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in the 
information it provided  but because the overall  information Barclays  gave Mr F and Miss G, 
in the way it did, was insufficient to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to 
expect it to have  met in 2010 when providing information about  an insurance policy.
Ive also thought about the approach Mr F and Miss Gs representative says a court  might  
take if it were to find Barclays negligently  misrepresented  the contract  to Mr F and Miss G 
and about the remedy a court might  award  if it were  to find that Barclays had been in breach 
of its duty of utmost good faith. But this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions  about 
what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the complaint  including  what  I think 
is fair compensation in the circumstances  of this case. For the reasons Ive already set out I 
dont think it would be fair and reasonable to put Mr F and Miss G in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done.
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F and Miss G 
to accept or reject my decision before 4 December 2019. 
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8573390