K820x#14complaint
Mrs A is unhappy that Santander UK Plc hasnt accepted her claim that she paid more  
money into her branch  than has been  credited to her account.
background
Mrs A went  in person  to her branch in March 2018.  Shes told us that she paid in £2,000  in 
cash. But the bank has only recorded a payment of £1,000 in her passbook. She didnt 
notice this until December  2018 when she went back into the branch to pay in some more  
money. At that time, she found her passbook balance was £1,000 short.  Mrs A believes that 
the bank has stolen her money.
Santander investigated Mrs As complaint but didnt uphold  it. Its told us that there was no 
discrepancy on the banks till receipts that day and has provided us with a copy  of the 
payment instruction which indicated fifty £20 notes were paid in. 
Mrs A has provided us with copies  of her account statements for another  account which 
show she withdrew £600 and £454.60  in the days leading up to, and on, the day she paid 
the money in to Santander. The additional  £1,000 was given to Mrs A by her son and shes 
told us shes certain  that she paid it all in together.
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think that there was sufficient evidence 
to prove  that Mrs A paid in more  than had been  credited  to her account. Mrs A didnt agree 
and the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs A will be disappointed to hear that I agree  with our investigator that this isnt a complaint 
that I can uphold.  Ill explain  why.
I completely appreciate that Mrs A is convinced that she paid £2,000  into her account that 
day in branch. And I have no reason to doubt  her word about  that. But this is a case of 
Mrs As word against that of the Bank.  And Im required to decide, on the balance  of 
probabilities, what  I think  is more likely than not to have happened that day.
The evidence weve been given shows that Mrs A withdrew just over £1,000 from her 
account with another  organisation, in the days prior to her going to Santanders branch. 
Shes told us that her son gave her another £1,000 to deposit too. Mrs A speaks  little 
English. And so I understand will not have had a conversation  about  the amount being  paid 
in. But will have trusted the bank clerk to deposit  the correct  amount into her account after 
counting the cash.
The Banks records indicate that it was the branch manager that helped Mrs A that day. Hes 
recorded that £1,000  in £20 notes was paid in. And Santanders told us that the branch tills 
balanced at the end of the day too. So what Mrs A is saying is that the branch manager  must 
have taken the additional £1,000. Thats of course  a very serious allegation. And I 
understand that Mrs A has also reported this to the police through Action  Fraud. Ive not 
been told though that any further action has been taken by the police.
Ref: DRN87253302At this service we of course  take very seriously any allegation of theft by a financial 
institution. And we have  endeavoured  to thoroughly investigate the circumstances of Mrs As 
complaint. Unfortunately,  Mrs A has been unable to provide us with any written  evidence of 
the withdrawal by her son of the additional  £1,000  that he gave  to her. And the bank 
branchs CCTV wasnt available, given nine months  had passed  since  the transaction took 
place and when  Mrs A discovered  that the money wasnt  recorded  in her passbook.
The branch  manager has given us a statement about what  would have occurred on the day. 
Although given the time thats passed,  he understandably cant  remember  the particular 
transaction. But we have  been told by Santander that no similar allegations have been made 
against the manager or the branch  concerned.
Having weighed up everything,  its my finding  that there isnt sufficient evidence to show that 
Mrs A more  likely than not handed  over more money than was paid into her account that 
day. Im not saying  that she didnt, its just that there isnt sufficient proof for me to conclude 
that someone at the branch stole the money.
I wont speculate as to what may have  happened  to the money.  But I hope that Mrs A can 
appreciate that in order for me to reach a conclusion that the Bank has done something  
wrong, particularly when its an allegation of theft, there has to be very clear  evidence  to 
support that. And Im afraid that the evidence here doesnt prove that a theft took place or 
that Santander otherwise made  a mistake.
my final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold Mrs As complaint and I wont  be requiring that 
Santander UK Plc do anything further.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 October  2019.
James Kennard
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8725330