K821x#15complaint
Mr R has complained Marks & Spencer Financial Services plc, trading as M&S  Bank , wont  
refund him £3,999 for a transaction he didnt make.
background
After realising £100 had been  paid towards his credit card account,  Mr R noticed two 
transactions he hadnt made. He contacted M&S Bank to query these. The transactions  were 
made using  his card and PIN. Mr R confirmed he still had his card.  M&S Bank couldnt see 
how someone else could  have used his card so they wouldnt agree to refund the money. 
They noted  a large screen  TV had been  purchased  and the customer  had been  confident  
enough to negotiate a price match. M&S  Bank did refund £1 which was the payment made 
just before the larger transaction.
Mr R was unhappy with this. Mr R brought his complaint to the ombudsman  service.
Our investigator reviewed  the evidence. This included the timings of Mr Rs employment 
which our investigator felt showed  Mr R couldnt  have  bought the TV himself. He also 
thought there was evidence how Mr Rs card and PIN could have  been  used and replaced.  
He asked M&S Bank to stop pursuing  Mr R for a debt he didnt think  Mr R had caused and to 
repay £100 that had been credited to the account.
M&S Bank didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive already clarified with 
M&S Bank why I would be coming  to the same conclusion as our investigator.  Ill explain 
why.
The Payment Services Regulations primarily  require banks to refund customers if they didnt 
make or authorise payments themselves. Certain  other circumstances do apply but nothing  
else thats had a marked impact on the decision Im making here. So when we look at 
whether a bank  has acted  fairly  in rejecting someones fraud  complaint, one of the things we 
consider is whether the customer made the transactions  themselves or allowed them  to be 
made. If they did, then we generally  wouldnt ask the bank  to refund them.
So to help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the evidence of the transactions, as well 
as what both M&S Bank and Mr R have told us. 
Firstly I can see the timeline of events and how the transactions were made have been 
comprehensively covered in our investigators different views. There  has been  some debate 
around the timing  of the transactions but I believe this has now been clarified to the 
satisfaction of all parties. I dont intend  to repeat everything thats been said before. Except 
to say Im satisfied Ive reviewed the complaint thoroughly and taken into account  what  both 
M&S Bank and Mr R have  said.
I think the following  issues are relevant to how Ive considered this complaint:
The two transactions,  that Mr R disputes, took place  at 17:45 and 18:58.
Ref: DRN82142742Mr R has given us evidence to show he was working on that day as a security guard. 
He started work around 17:45.
Mr Rs employment was some  way away from the retailer  where  the TV was bought.  
We know that the TV wasnt delivered  but taken away from the retailer  by the 
purchaser. Mr Rs own transport was a moped. Even apart from the distance  and 
timing aspects, I think its very unlikely Mr R would have  bought and tried to transport 
a large-screen TV on his moped.
Im in no doubt Mr R didnt make these  transactions himself.
I have considered however whether he allowed someone else to use his card, even 
to the extent this backfired and someone  may have taken  advantage  of having the 
use of Mr Rs credit card. I cant immediately say why he would and neither has M&S  
Bank suggested this.
M&S  Bank  has said this transaction  could only have been done  by someone who 
knew Mr Rs credit  limit or who knew him. They  cited the person who used Mr Rs 
card as having negotiated a price match to ensure they kept the price of the TV 
within the credit limit. They may well have  negotiated a price match  an example  of 
a fraudster trying to get the most of the card theyre  using  but that doesnt  mean  
they knew the credit limit.
Alternatively, whoever  did have the card carried out a test transaction  before going  to 
buy an expensive TV. That doesnt seem to me to be the actions of someone who 
knew the credit limit, was confident of the PIN or who had been  allowed to use the 
card.
I however do agree  that its possible that whoever used the card  and was able to 
replace it after use  was someone known to Mr R. This wasnt  a card Mr R used that 
often. Hed only opened the account  about six months before and there  were  few 
transactions. Ive said to M&S Bank already that because of the limited use I wouldnt 
be too surprised  if Mr R had to write the PIN down  perhaps  in his phone.
I think there were a number of opportunities for someone to have taken Mr Rs card. 
Mr R worked so it could have been there  or elsewhere whilst he was at work. Mr R 
said hed never lost it but since it didnt use it often, I suspect hed only have noticed 
it was missing if hed been looking for it. We often have cards in our purse or wallet  
which we just assume are always there until we need them.
I appreciate M&S Bank more likely refunded the first disputed  transaction because it 
was only for £1. But the logic seems slightly flawed   if Mr R didnt authorise that 
transaction, I dont  see why hed have authorised  a transaction  for £3,999.
Its not my role to decide how someone else could  have  got hold of Mr Rs card and PIN, 
made these  transactions or to investigate who that potential  fraudster may be. But I do have 
to be satisfied that there are potential scenarios how this could have taken place.  In this 
case I believe there are a few scenarios around  how this could  have happened.
Taking all the evidence into consideration including how the card was used, I see no reason 
to doubt Mr Rs evidence  he didnt make or authorise these two transactions. M&S  Bank  will 
need to rework Mr Rs debt. They will need to remove the transaction  for £3,999 and any 
interest or fees associated with non-payment of that amount  from his account. Any adverse 
markers on Mr Rs credit  record will also need to be sorted. Theyll  also need to refund £100 
to Mr R that they took by direct debit for payment to his credit card account.
M&S Bank mentioned another complaint our service  had considered  where they thought  the 
circumstances were  similar.  This other complaint had not been upheld.  Id just confirm  the 
circumstances look different to me.
Ref: DRN82142743my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is to instruct  Marks & Spencer Financial 
Services plc, trading as M&S Bank, to:
Rework Mr Rs account by removing the transaction for £3,999 and any fees or 
charges associated with non-payment  of that amount;
Ensure there are no adverse markers  on Mr Rs credit record relating to this amount; 
Refund Mr R with £100 that was collected by direct debit;  and
Add 8% simple interest to that amount from when the money was collected until the 
date of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 March 2020.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8214274