K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H say Bank of Scotland Plc, trading  as Halifax, (Halifax) mis-sold them a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs H bought  the policy in 2000  at the same  time as taking a mortgage. They applied 
for the mortgage  and PPI policy at a meeting.  
Mr H had at the time been with his employer  for just over a year. From  what  he has told us, 
he was a supervisor  and, aside from statutory sick pay, didnt  have any means with which  to 
make mortgage payments  if he couldnt  work. The mortgage papers  say Mrs H was working 
too but with earnings of only a quarter  of Mr Hs. 
The PPI policy provided cover on Mr H for accident,  sickness, and unemployment  subject 
to its exclusions and limitations. For a successful claim, it offered  to pay Mr and Mrs Hs 
monthly mortgage payment plus 25%.  Mr and Mrs Hs policy application form anticipated this 
would mean,  roughly,  a benefit  of £273 for a premium of £16.50 per month. Halifax  has sent 
evidence showing the monthly mortgage payment started at £160,  the policy benefit at £200  
and the policy premium at £12 per month, approximately.
Mr H has told us he had, around  three  years  before the sale, an injury  that caused him to 
miss six weeks  of work. He hasnt  told us of having  had any other prior health issues.
Halifax has sent us evidence to show that Mr and Mrs H took a further advance  in 2007.
Mr and Mrs Hs representative has made lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf. I will not restate them all here,  but I have read and considered them  all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Hs representative says:
Halifax failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs H wouldnt have 
taken the policy  and the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs Hs representatives 
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of cover;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is generally 
someones biggest ever long-term  transaction  cover would stop at the time it would be 
most needed; 
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a successful 
claim meant  the policy was of inherently poor value  as shown by the low claims ratio. 
The common law duty of utmost  good faith means  Halifax  should have told Mr and Mrs H 
about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Halifax  should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr and Mrs H and the 
impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim; and
Ref: DRN85119292The information Mr and Mrs H received was misleading. These  policies were  promoted 
as providing peace  of mind, but the number of exclusions  and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had a chance to 
give their responses to the adjudicators  opinion.  Mr and Mrs H disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion for several reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally,  it 
has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Hs. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.
This sale took place  in 2000 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So the FSAs and the FCAs overarching principles 
for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) are not applicable to this 
complaint; nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
Mr and Mrs H arranged a further  advance on their mortgage in 2007 after mortgage  lending 
became regulated in October 2004  this led to the whole mortgage  becoming an FCA 
regulated mortgage.  That means the unfair relationship provisions set out in s.140A  of the 
Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme  Court judgment in Plevin about s.140A of that Act and 
the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling of complaints about the 
non-disclosure of commission in light of the Plevin judgment, arent  applicable.
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at the time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Halifax, selling insurance at this time:
Ref: DRN85119293The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for all 
intermediaries (Including Employees of Insurance Companies)  other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct Marketing/ 
Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Halifax at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take these codes into account 
when deciding what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable  in the circumstances  of 
Mr and Mrs Hs case.
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   the Office of the Banking Ombudsman  in this 
case  might have been expected to reach in relation to an equivalent complaint. I note that 
under the Banking Ombudsmans  terms of reference the Ombudsman was required to 
decide complaints  by reference to what was, in his opinion, fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances  and that the Ombudsman was required  to observe any applicable rule of 
law or relevant judicial  authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Halifax was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Halifax gave advice,  whether it advised  Mr and Mrs H with reasonable care and skill  
in particular, whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for them, given their needs 
and circumstances.  
Ref: DRN85119294-Whether Halifax gave Mr and Mrs H sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take the policy,  including  
drawing to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  the 
main provisions  of the policy  and significant limitations and exclusions.
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of 
Mr and Mrs H, I must then go on to consider whether and to what  extent Mr and Mrs H 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for that 
loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs H 
and Halifax, Ive decided  not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning 
below. 
did Mr and Mrs H know they had a choice?
Halifax had to make it clear the PPI was optional. Mr and Mrs H signed  a separate box on 
their mortgage application  to say they wanted the cover.  They also signed  a separate  PPI 
application form for the cover. So I think its likely Halifax made it clear the cover was 
something separate from the mortgage  loan. Ive nothing that makes me think  Mr and Mrs H 
were led to believe they had to sign the box or the PPI application if they didnt want  the 
cover. Taking everything into account, I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs H knew the PPI 
was optional and agreed to take it without undue pressure. 
did Halifax provide advice?
Halifax says it gave  advice during  this sale. Mr and Mrs H say it didnt. But if Halifax did give 
advice, Halifax had to do more. With this in mind,  I think its fair to proceed on the basis that 
Halifax gave advice. This means Halifax had to advise Mr and Mrs H with reasonable care 
and skill, in particular  whether the policy was appropriate or suitable given their needs and 
circumstances.
the advice
While I dont know what was discussed  in the meeting, the documentary evidence suggests  
Halifax took some steps to establish whether the policy  was a suitable recommendation for 
Mr and Mrs H. The adviser had some  information about their financial  circumstances  as part 
of the mortgage  application, which showed Mr H was the main earner. Also Mr and Mrs Hs 
PPI application  form suggests Halifax established  Mr H worked full time and wasnt aware of 
any impending  unemployment. But I dont think Halifax  did enough to ensure the PPI was 
suitable and establish Mr and Mrs H had a need for it. For example, Ive nothing to show that 
Halifax asked Mr H about his work  redundancy or sickness benefits.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Halifax did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr and Mrs H given their circumstances. So 
Im not persuaded Halifax advised  with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Halifax did all it should have done to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs H, I do think its more likely than not that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for them. In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr H met the eligibility criteria  for the policy.
Ref: DRN85119295-Mr and Mrs H had a need  for the policy  Mr H was the main  wage  earner and it seems  
likely Mr and Mrs Hs finances and ability to continue to meet their mortgage repayments  
would have been put under strain  if Mr H were  not working for an extended period of 
time  even allowing for his statutory sick pay.
-Although Mr and Mrs H have said they were  financially stretched at the time,  Ive seen 
nothing else to suggest the monthly cost of the PPI wasnt affordable.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr and Mrs H. There  
was nothing about Mr Hs employment or occupation which  would have made it difficult 
for them to claim. Regarding pre-existing medical  conditions, Ive nothing  that suggests 
to me that Mr Hs past injury  was a continuing  problem or likely to be an issue for him in 
future  but also the policy terms didnt exclude  disability  claims arising  from pre-existing 
health issues.
-The policy would only pay benefits  for a maximum of 24 months  for each  claim and for 
disability would only pay if Mr H were unable  to do his job, or any similar  job, and also 
unable to do any work his experience,  education or training reasonably qualified him to 
do. But it still provided valuable cover in Mr and Mrs Hs circumstances given Mr Hs 
position as main earner, his limited sick pay and lack of redundancy provision and the 
important role the policy could play as a result in helping with Mr and Mrs Hs mortgage  
payments if Mr H lost his income. Also the policy protected the mortgage payments on 
Mr and Mrs Hs home  and I bear in mind  the potential consequences  if Mr and Mrs Hs 
were to have become  unable to make repayments on loans  secured  against their house.
the information
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Halifax gave Mr and Mrs H sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable them to understand what 
Halifax was recommending to them and make  an informed decision about whether to follow  
that advice and take it.
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr and Mrs H were given a broad description of what 
the PPI was intended to cover (that is, it would protect their payments if Mr H couldnt work  
due to accident, sickness or unemployment)  and of the approximate costs.  
I say this because  I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs H wouldve taken the PPI without any 
sense of what it was for or what it would cost. Also,  directly above where they signed to take 
the cover, Mr and Mrs Hs mortgage  application  form said the PPI was insurance  against 
accident, sickness and involuntary unemployment. 
Also, the PPI application form Mr and Mrs H signed showed the PPI cost for an anticipated 
mortgage payment.  The actual cost and benefit  would vary from this in line with variations in 
the actual mortgage payment due - the cost for Mr and Mrs H and corresponding benefit was 
actually initially lower  than on the form - but I think Halifax gave Mr and Mrs H a good idea of 
what the PPI might  cost and of what they would  get in return for what  they might pay for it.
But Halifax  didnt tell Mr and Mrs H the exact cost or benefit  amount before they agreed to 
the PPI, and the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether Halifax gave  sufficient 
information to Mr and Mrs H about the PPI exclusions or limitations.
Ref: DRN85119296Having considered the parties representations about what  happened,  while Im satisfied the 
policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs H, overall Im not persuaded Halifax  
did enough to present  information about  the policy it was recommending in a way that was 
fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded Halifax gave Mr and Mrs H all the information 
they needed about the policy to make  an informed decision about whether  to follow  the 
recommendation and take it.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Hs representative has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like 
Mr and Mrs Hs. Ive considered these carefully  and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have explained 
the low claims  ratio  what Mr and Mrs Hs representative considers to be poor value  
and the fact that much of the premium went to the business rather than the insurer.  
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just told 
Mr and Mrs H about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to them.  
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Hs representatives views on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs H have suggested. And taking into account  the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that Halifax ought to have done either. 
what effect did Halifaxs  shortcomings  have  on Mr and Mrs H? To what extent did they 
suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that Halifax  didnt do all it should  have done when it sold this policy  to 
Mr and Mrs H. So I have gone on to consider  whether it would be fair and reasonable to 
conclude Mr and Mrs H suffered loss and damage as a result.  To answer  this, I must decide 
whether or not Mr and Mrs H would still have taken the policy, had Halifax done  things 
properly. 
While Im not persuaded Halifax took the steps  it should have done to establish whether  the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr and Mrs H, I have found the policy  was ultimately 
suitable for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr and Mrs H have suffered loss 
or damage  in this case primarily  depends  on whether, if Halifax  had explained things 
properly, Mr and Mrs H would have acted  differently,  or whether they would have taken  the 
policy in any event.
Ref: DRN85119297Mr and Mrs H say they wouldnt  have  taken it and believe I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take insurance  requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests Mr and Mrs H had some interest in taking PPI. By this I 
mean when  Halifax  offered  the PPI or advised  them  there was a suitable product they could 
buy that would protect  their mortgage  payments if Mr H couldnt work  because of accident,  
sickness or unemployment, they concluded they wanted that product. But they made that 
decision based on incomplete information,  meaning  what they thought  they were  getting  is 
not exactly what they got.
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr and Mrs Hs circumstances at 
the time of sale that the PPI was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable  for them.  Also, in the 
light of what they were told, although they werent  told the exact  premium  when they agreed  
to take the cover, Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs H would have found the cost unacceptable 
if they had been given  the exact  figure  during the meeting at which they agreed  to the policy.  
They werent told the exact  benefit  figure at the meeting  either, but the benefit would more 
than cover the monthly mortgage payment so, in light of this and the information their PPI 
application form had given, I dont think Mr and Mrs Hs expectations of what  the policy 
would pay are likely to have been  much different  to what  it wouldve paid.
But the information about other aspects of the policy, such as the limitations  and exclusions,  
wasnt as clear as it should have been. Possibly  the most significant differences between  
what Mr and Mrs H thought they had bought and what they actually bought  were  the 
following:
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health conditions 
placing more onerous evidential requirements  to support a claim on those  grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations  excluded, unemployment  cover  if Mr H wasnt  
a permanent employee;
The requirement that, to be eligible for a disability claim, Mr H be unable  to do his own 
job, or any similar job, and also unable to do any paid work his experience, education or 
training reasonably qualified him to do; and
The policy protected payments for up to 24 months, rather  than the remaining term of the 
mortgage.
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Mr and Mrs H pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude the policy 
wasnt as good  as they thought and they might have  decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs H from taking it.
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Hs circumstances at the time of sale shows  the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them. Mr H was eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable to 
Mr and Mrs H should the insured  risks have become a reality.  I havent seen anything to 
Ref: DRN85119298suggest Mr H wouldve been caught  by any of the significant exclusions - disability  claims 
related to pre-existing issues werent  excluded and he was in permanent  employment. So 
with all this in mind, I think Mr and Mrs H still had some good  reasons to take the policy.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these were more onerous than Mr and Mrs H might 
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely they would have expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without  having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  And while this 
limitation might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances to 
Mr and Mrs H from taking the policy, Mr and Mrs H, in their circumstances, still had some 
good reasons  to take it.
If Mr and Mrs H had known they could only claim for disability if Mr H were not only unable  to 
do his job or any similar  job but also unable to do any job the insurer  thought he might  
reasonably be qualified for, it might have played into their thinking about  what to do.  And I 
accept it may have given  them pause  for thought  although given their circumstances, 
including the limited other means they had to make  up for the loss of income theyd suffer if 
Mr H wasnt working  and the financial strain they could  suffer as a result,  on balance I think 
they would  still have been interested in taking the cover.
Halifax may not have  told Mr and Mrs H that any claim they made would be limited to a 
24 month period.  This may have differed from what they expected  and might  have hoped for. 
But Mr H was the main earner and wasnt entitled to redundancy  pay or to sick pay beyond  
statutory pay and, aside  from Mrs Hs pay, Mr and Mrs H had little else to fall back  on if Mr H 
lost his income. In those  circumstances,  I consider it likely Mr and Mrs H would have still 
thought a policy that paid up to 24 monthly mortgage  payments  would  be of benefit  to them 
and would help them manage the consequences  should Mr H be unable to work in the 
circumstances covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made and 
couldve helped reduce Mr and Mrs Hs outgoings  at a difficult  and uncertain time, helping to 
ensure their home was not placed  at risk.
Having considered all the evidence and arguments in this case,  I consider  it more likely than 
not Mr and Mrs H would still have  taken the policy. The policy was suitable  for them,  was 
sufficiently close to what its likely they thought  they were getting and provided benefits  that 
would help Mr and Mrs H manage the consequences if Mr H were made redundant, or 
unable to work through accident  or sickness. In the circumstances  I consider it more  likely 
than not that Mr and Mrs H would have taken  the policy  in any event notwithstanding the 
limitations on cover.
Mr and Mrs Hs representatives say the rules  about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption. 
They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
Ref: DRN85119299presumed Mr and Mrs H would not have bought the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Hs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  they 
found themselves  in as a result of the sale was the same position they would have been in 
had the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs H believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken the policy. I am not persuaded by these  arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs H in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible Mr and Mrs H would not have taken the policy,  
Im satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely  than not that they would  still have 
taken the PPI had they been given clear,  fair and not misleading information about  the policy 
they were buying.  So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude Halifax should  pay Mr and Mrs H compensation, as that would 
put them in a better position than they would have been in if everything had happened as it 
should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs H think Halifax misrepresented  the terms of the policy in how 
it described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Halifaxs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why Halifax  
failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in the 
information it provided  but because the overall  information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs H, in 
the way it did, was insufficient  to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to 
expect it to have  met in 2000 when providing information about  an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Hs representative says a court  might  take 
if it were to find Halifax negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr and Mrs H and about 
the remedy a court  might award if it were to find that Halifax  had been in breach of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. 
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out, I dont think  it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs H in a better position than if everything had happened as 
it should have  done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint.
Ref: DRN851192910Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 February  2020.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8511929