K821x#15complaint
Mrs M is unhappy  with her contents insurer, U K Insurance Limited (UKI), because it refused 
to pay for her to live elsewhere when her home (which was rented) was damaged and made  
uninhabitable by a fire.
background
On 25 July 2018 there was a fire in the block  of flats Mrs M lived in. She had to leave the 
property as the building was declared unsafe.  It was thought  it would be uninhabitable  for up 
to a year.
Mrs M stayed in a hotel, at a cost of £337,  from 26  30 July 2018.  Mrs M found a short-term 
let which  she agreed a lease on, but this couldnt be moved in to until the end of 
September 2018. In the meantime Mrs M, on the advice of the management company for the 
damaged building, took a serviced apartment to provide her accommodation during August 
and September  2018, at a total cost of £6,120. 
After the fire Mrs M had initially continued to pay rent to her landlord. She rang UKI on 
several occasions and it persistently told her that organising alternative accommodation was 
her landlords and/or  the building insurers responsibility. It wouldnt cover alternative 
accommodation on the contents  policy because  damaged contents hadnt made the home  
uninhabitable, it was uninhabitable because  of the buildings damage.
On the 3 August 2018, after UKI had once again  told Mrs M that whilst she was paying  rent 
her landlord  should  be organising her somewhere to stay, Mrs M asked what  would happen 
if she terminated her lease. UKI said it would have to consider that and get back  to her.
On 6 August  UKI said to Mrs M that it wouldnt recommend that she break her lease. UKI 
was still of the view that it had no responsibility for organising or providing alternative 
accommodation, that all it had to do was contribute  to the cost of this if, at the end of the 
claim, the buildings  insurer asked it to do so. On 8 August 2018 Mrs M did terminate her 
lease. She later explained that she couldnt afford  to pay for the damaged  property and 
alternative accommodation as neither UKI nor her landlord, or their insurer  were assisting 
her with costs.
Mrs M complained to UKI. She said she though it should pay for her alternative 
accommodation costs,  over and above  that she should have paid in rent. UKI said it wasnt  
responsible for the cost of the accommodation Mrs M had chosen to stay in, not least  
because it wasnt like her property, but also because the landlord should have organised 
that. Furthermore, Mrs M, UKI said, had never checked with it or sought authorisation for the 
type of accommodation. It noted it hadnt  paid an interim payment on the contents  settlement  
until 14 September 2018. It said this was because Mrs M hadnt made it aware  she was in 
financial hardship. It said it would  pay £100  compensation.
Mrs M complained to us. Our investigator felt UKI had acted  unreasonably.  She said it 
should pay Mrs M £100 compensation and the difference between her costs  for staying 
elsewhere in July, August and September 2018  and what she would  have paid in rent. 
Another investigator advised UKI that it should add interest* to the amount owed to Mrs M.
UKI didnt  agree. It referred to its terms and conditions. It said a serviced apartment wasnt 
like Mrs Ms home and wasnt  something it would ever have provided. It said even if Mrs M 
Ref: DRN84646782had stayed in a hotel for those two months  it wouldnt have  paid for things  like food and 
laundry which  the rent at the serviced  apartment covered.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
UKIs policy was one for contents but it also offered cover for alternative accommodation if 
the home is uninhabitable and there is a valid contents claim. The cover for alternative 
accommodation wasnt dependant on the contents  damage making  the home uninhabitable.  
That said,  it is true that when buildings and contents are covered by different insurers, and 
the buildings  policy offers cover for alternative accommodation (not always  the case with let 
property building  insurance), the buildings insurer usually takes the lead in organising and/or 
paying for alternative accommodation. So I have some sympathy with the stance UKI took 
initially during  this claim. But I dont see that it initially  sought  to determine what cover was 
actually available  to Mrs M under the buildings insurance and, in any event, a normal  
industry approach  should never  have  stopped  UKI treating its policyholder fairly and taking 
into account her needs and the situation  she was in. UKI failed Mrs M in this instance and 
I think it reasonably needs to reimburse  her outlay.
UKI has said Mrs M never  sought  authorisation from it for the accommodation she arranged. 
Strictly speaking that is true. It was the property  manager that had told Mrs M to arrange a 
serviced apartment. But UKIs point made  in this respect negates  the fact that it consistently 
ignored Mrs Ms requests  for assistance, and, persistently referred her back  to get help from 
her landlord  and/or the property management company and/or the building  insurer.  On one 
occasion its call notes  even reflect that Mrs M was told it would be more beneficial  for her 
to keep calling the property management  company rather than her insurer.  It isnt really  fair 
then for UKI to say it isnt liable to reimburse  Mrs M because it didnt authorise the 
accommodation.
The serviced apartment was more expensive  than Mrs Ms home and did provide facilities 
over and above that. But UKI knows that sometimes,  short  notice emergency 
accommodation has to be arranged which often isnt like the home that has been damaged. 
And Id remind UKI that had Mrs M stayed  in a hotel for an extended period then it would 
have had to cover her extra costs  incurred for food and laundry. So it isnt true to say UKI 
would never  cover these  types of costs.
I understand why Mrs M felt she had to terminate her lease. Had UKI provided her with some 
assistance this might have been avoided. As it is I dont  think that termination should prevent 
Mrs M from having  her reasonable costs for staying elsewhere covered because she did 
have a valid claim under the policy for alternative  accommodation. She clearly couldnt  go 
back to her home and, as I said, UKIs  failure  to reasonably assist her left her with no choice 
but to mitigate  her losses by terminating  the lease.
Mrs M had paid her rent for July and she incurred hotel costs of £337 on top of that. UKI 
needs to reimburse  this sum, plus interest* from the date Mrs M paid the hotel bill until 
settlement is made.
In August  and September Mrs M paid £6,120 (£3,060 x 2) for the service  apartment but 
would have paid £3,076.66 (£1,538.33 x 2) in rent if shed continued her lease. Deducting 
Ref: DRN84646783the rent Mrs M should have paid from the figure she actually  paid leaves  a sum of £3,043.34. 
UKI should pay this to her, plus interest*  on each half from the date Mrs M paid each 
monthly amount  for the serviced apartment  until settlement is made.
I can see this was quite  upsetting for Mrs M. But I bear in mind  that the fire itself was a 
traumatic experience. Whilst this wont have been helped  by the complete lack of support  
Mrs M received from UKI, Im not minded  to think its actions alone caused  the majority of the 
stress and disruption  Mrs M suffered.  That being  said Im quite surprised UKI didnt make an 
interim payment on the contents  claim earlier  in the circumstances it should have foreseen 
there might be a need for this. But, having  reviewed everything, Im satisfied that £200  
compensation is fair and reasonable. If UKI has already paid £100 it will now only have to 
pay a further £100.  
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require UKI to pay Mrs M:
£337 as reimbursement of hotel costs, plus interest* from the date Mrs M paid the bill 
until settlement is made.
£3,043.34  as reimbursement of the serviced  apartment cost after deduction  for rent, plus 
interest* on each  half of this sum from the date each of the two monthly  charges were  
incurred by Mrs M until settlement  is made.
£200 compensation, unless £100  has already been paid and then only a further £100 
needs to be paid.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 March 2020.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8464678