K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that National  Westminster  Home Loans Limited wrongly recorded an entry 
against his name on a fraud prevention database  following  an application he made for a 
mortgage.
background
I set out the background  to this complaint by way of a provisional decision,  a copy  of which  is 
attached and forms part of this final decision.  I also explained why I didnt propose to uphold 
the complaint  or to require  NatWest  to take the entry in question  off the fraud prevention  
database.
I invited Mr H and NatWest to let me have any more arguments or evidence they wanted me 
to consider before making my final decision. 
NatWest said it had nothing more to add. Mr H didnt accept my provisional decision.  He 
sent in some information from his employer, and said it was clear that NatWest had recorded 
the entry because  of a mistake about his employment status  in the mortgage  application. He 
also said he was given  no opportunity to explain or fix the problem, and he hadnt provided 
any false payslips. He had just wanted a mortgage  and had done nothing  wrong.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, while I realise Mr H will 
be very disappointed, Ive reached the same  conclusion I set out in my provisional  decision, 
for the same reasons.
NatWest made further enquiries of Mr H, his employer, and Her Majestys  Revenue & 
Customs before it put the entry on the database.  It didnt simply record  the entry  without 
asking relevant questions. It also gave consideration to the further information Mr H provided 
in this complaint.  I think all of that was reasonable and, given the inconsistencies in some of 
the information it received, it didnt have to do any more.  In the circumstances, I dont  require 
NatWest to remove the entry. 
my final decision
For these reasons  as well as those set out in more detail in my provisional decision  my 
final decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2020.
Janet Millington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN89937032copy provisional decision
complaint
Mr H complains that National Westminster  Home  Loans Limited wrongly recorded  an entry against his 
name on a fraud  prevention database following an application he made  for a mortgage.
background
In late 2015, Mr H and his partner applied  for a mortgage with NatWest.  They did so through a broker.  
NatWest declined their application. It also made an entry against Mr Hs name  on a fraud prevention  
database for application fraud, on the basis that he had provided false or forged  information to try to 
get a mortgage.
Mr H says applications he made for accounts with other financial services providers were  also turned 
down so, in 2017, he contacted the fraud prevention database directly. He found out about  the entry 
NatWest had recorded  and complained. He said he hadnt done anything wrong,  and he wanted the 
entry removed and proof of the alleged fraud. 
Our investigators recommended NatWest remove the entry. They  thought  inconsistencies in Mr Hs 
mortgage application had arisen because of some confusion  about whether Mr H was employed or 
self-employed, and that might have been down to the broker who was involved in the application. The 
investigators said this didnt  mean Mr H had committed fraud, and NatWest could  have asked  more 
questions. 
NatWest disagreed. It still thought there were inconsistencies in Mr Hs application  and it was right to 
make the entry on the database. So the case has come to me to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
NatWest says it made the entry in question here because Mr H had provided  false payslips, and thats 
what is reflected  on the database. Lenders should only make this sort of entry where  they have very 
good grounds  to do so, and I must  bear that in mind in making my decision. So Ive looked very 
carefully at the information  NatWest received and the enquiries it made  before recording  the entry.
The completed mortgage  application said Mr H was employed on a permanent basis  so I think it 
was reasonable for NatWest  to have expected that to be reflected in his payslips  (with National  
Insurance contributions, for example) and tax records. It wasnt, so I can see why NatWest made 
further enquiries. 
Those enquiries included requests for details of Mr Hs financial commitments, bank statements 
showing his salary, a reference from his employer,  his latest P60 (which he couldnt provide),  and his 
authority to approach  Her Majestys Revenue & Customs (HMRC) for confirmation  of his income. The 
information NatWest received included  conflicting information  about Mr Hs employment  status from 
his employer: it was told he was both self-employed and employed.
I think  some confusion about  Mr Hs job may have arisen  because Mr H has explained he was 
changing from self-employed  to employed  soon after the mortgage application  was made, and would 
be employed  by the same  company he had worked for on a self-employed  basis for several  years. 
Our investigators recognised this as well, so they asked Mr H to provide any relevant  tax records he 
might have from HMRC.
Mr H provided some more  information,  which we passed on to NatWest. It wasnt prepared to remove 
the entry  from the database. I think that decision was reasonable  in the circumstances, given the 
Ref: DRN89937033significant differences between the incomes  stated  on Mr Hs application, payslips  and HMRC tax 
calculations. Mr H hasnt been able to explain  these.
While I accept  mistakes  can happen, in all the circumstances I dont find NatWest did anything wrong 
in recording the entry against Mr Hs name on the database, or that I can fairly require it to remove the 
entry now. It made  further enquiries in 2015 as I would  expect, and it has also considered documents 
Mr H has recently  provided.  I dont require it to do any more.  
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision   subject to any further evidence or arguments I receive  from the parties by 
18 March  2020  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Janet Millington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8993703