K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs A say St Andrews  Insurance  Plc mis-sold them  a payment  protection  insurance 
(PPI) policy. The policy was sold by Halifax Insurance Ireland Limited but St Andrews  has 
accepted responsibility for the sale and complaint.
background
Mrs A took out PPI in 2004  on a phone call to protect her mortgage repayments.  It gave  her 
accident, sickness and unemployment cover. In 2009 Mr A was added onto the policy  at 
around the same time as he was added onto the mortgage account, and they took out a 
further advance.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs A disagreed so the complaint was 
passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  I have 
based my decision  on the balance  of probabilities   in other  words,  on what I consider is 
most likely given the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Our approach to complaints  about  the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs As complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs A say they have been  charged for a product  they never asked for. Mrs A 
originally took out the policy on a call. St Andrews cant provide  a call recording or sales 
script but thats not unreasonable given how long ago the sale was. But Mrs A bought 
the PPI shortly after her mortgage  had already started. This suggests to me she knew it 
wasnt mandatory and opted to buy it. Mr A was added to the policy in 2009,  Mrs A 
instructed the business to make this change in a letter that Mr A also signed. So overall,  I 
think its most likely  St Andrews made it clear the PPI was optional,  Mrs A chose to take 
out the policy and Mr A agreed to be added  to it.
St Andrews  recommended  the PPI to Mrs A in 2004, and I think it seems to have been 
right for her based  on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. She was entitled  
to at least six months  sick pay but the PPI would have paid out in addition to her work 
benefits and for up to 24 months for all accident,  sickness  and unemployment claims. 
Mrs A was borrowing quite  a large  sum over a long period, secured on her home. So the 
effects of not keeping up with the repayments  could  have been serious for her. Overall, I 
think the PPI would have been useful if Mrs A was sick, had an accident or lost her job. 
Ref: DRN86179132When Mr A was added to the policy in 2009 it was at Mr and Mrs As written request, I 
dont think St Andrews recommended the cover  to him. So it didnt need to check if it 
was suitable for him. I know Mr A has told us he was entitled to between  six and 12 
months sick pay and had savings of around £25,000 but the PPI would have allowed 
him to use the savings to cover other living expenses  whilst not working, or to keep 
them intact for their future needs. The policy would have  paid out in addition to his work 
benefits and for up to 24 months. So I can understand why someone in his position 
would still opt to be covered by the policy.
 
Its possible  St Andrews didnt give Mr A or Mrs A all the information they needed 
before they decided to buy PPI. I dont know when the cost was made clear but the PPI 
was competitively priced and apparently affordable. And they dont appear to have been 
affected by any of the main  exclusions or limitations (such  as those affecting people  with 
pre-existing medical  conditions  or on certain types of employment contract). Overall, I 
dont think the better  information  wouldve changed  their decision to take out PPI.
It follows I dont think Mr and Mrs A have lost out because  of any problems with this sale.  
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So St Andrews doesnt need to refund 
everything Mr and Mrs A paid for it. But St Andrews  has already offered to give Mr and 
Mrs A back  some  of the cost of the PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  I 
understand St Andrews has already paid this to Mr and Mrs A.
Ive also looked  at the letter sent to Mrs A on 2 November 2016.  And I have gone  back to the 
bank to ask again why she received this letter.  Whilst I know this will be frustrating for Mrs A 
it does seem it shouldnt have been issued  and was an administrative error.  It does not 
change my conclusion  that the PPI wasnt mis-sold for all the reasons set out above.  
my final decision
My decision  is I dont  uphold Mr and Mrs As complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 March 2019 .
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8617913