K820x#14complaint
Mr C is unhappy that Interactive  Investor Services Limited charge him an annual fee of £120  
for his Self Invested  Personal Pension (SIPP).
background
Mr C is unhappy that he has to pay an annual fee of £120 for his SIPP  with Interactive 
Investor. I understand  from what Mr C has told us that previously the fee was £80 but it has 
recently been increased.
Mr C doesnt think that the fee provides value for money  as his SIPP account is dormant, he 
says hes not making fresh investments as he isnt able to do so due to being over 75. He 
doesnt think Interactive  Investor is doing anything  for that fee. And suggests a fairer  way 
would be to treat his dormant SIPP like how a solicitor  would  treat a will and only charge 
when the work is required. He also pointed out that UK Building Societies dont charge for 
dormant accounts.
Interactive Investor  responded  to say the fee it charges is to manage  the assets that Mr C 
holds with it. There has always been a fee for it and it does not offer the facility  to hold a 
dormant account.
Interactive Investor  told us that Mr Cs account  wasnt dormant and he could make 
contributions but because  he was now over 75 due to HMRC rules he wouldnt receive tax 
relief on any further contributions. It said the SIPP charges apply  to all customers and it 
cannot make  any exceptions.
Our investigator looked into the case but he concluded that Interactive Investor hadnt done 
anything wrong  and recommended the case not be upheld.  The investigator also looked into 
whether Mr C could make  contributions. Mr C had said hed tried to do so but it was refused. 
Interactive Investor  said that he could and it hadnt  put any restrictions  on this but because 
Mr C was now over 75 he wouldnt receive  tax relief on contributions.
Mr C asked for the case to go to an ombudsman and said:
Nobody would put money  into a SIPP without tax relief  as withdrawals from a SIPP 
are restrictive
Managing his SIPP, re the valuation service  can be done by anyone with a calculator
Recently card providers had been  told to reduce charges and make  them  appropriate 
to the actual cost involved. Mr C wants  the same criteria to be applied to his SIPP.
Nil activity on his account should be free or substantially reduced. He will not benefit 
from the cash as he will be leaving it to charity
His current charge is morally  wrong  and doesnt  represent the cost of providing  it
Hes not happy  with being told to find a lower cost SIPP provider
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN87596502The SIPP that Mr C has with Interactive Investor has always had an annual management 
charge. Mr Cs says that now his account is dormant, or effectively dormant, as he doesnt 
wish to add anything to it, the fee should be heavily reduced or waived. 
I know Mr C will be disappointed with this but I dont agree, I think  what  Interactive Investor 
chooses to charge for its services is a legitimate exercise of its commercial judgement. 
Mr C has pointed out other services, that he thinks are comparable,  do not charge in similar  
situations. Whilst I dont  agree  Interactive  Investor needs to set its charging structure based 
on other products  and services, I would say perhaps a more  comparable service/product  
would be that of a personal pension. And commonly in paid up personal pensions, which I 
think fit Mr Cs definition of dormant, annual  charges  continue  whether or not a customer  is 
able to make  contributions.
Mr C has also pointed to other areas  of the financial industry where  the regulator has 
directed providers to reduce charges. However, we are not the regulator  and Im not aware 
of any legislation  that says SIPP providers are required to lower charges. It is not within  the 
remit of this service to make changes  or recommendations of this sort. Our role is only to 
deal with individual disputes.
To make an award Id need  to see that Interactive Investor has made an error  or done 
something wrong. I dont  think  it has. Mr C wants it to change its charging structure and or 
the industry as a whole  to be directed to change its charging structure. But as I explained  
this isnt within the remit of this service.
So Im afraid  much  of what  Mr C has complained about isnt something that this service 
could implement even  if I was in agreement with him. There has always  been a charge for 
having the SIPP. And I dont think because Mr C has chosen to keep the money in the SIPP 
beyond 75, means  that Interactive Investor  should  alter its charging structure.
I know Mr C doesnt want to be told to seek a lower cost provider but ultimately I think  in one 
way or another through tax or product fees hell incur charges to do what  he wishes to do. 
And he doesnt have  to remain  a customer of Interactive Investor  if he doesnt want  to do so. 
I dont think its realistic  to expect that Interactive  Investor  will administer his SIPP  for free.
So in conclusion, I dont  think  Interactive  has done  anything wrong and I make no award.   
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above I do not uphold Mr Cs complaint and make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 December  2019.
Simon Hollingshead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8759650