K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains about the service  he received from Barclays Investment Solutions Limited 
(Barclays).
background
Mr M complained about poor service from Barclays for his investments with them.  In general 
he said Barclays had committed insufficient resources to issues,  hadnt taken ownership of 
issues and lacked basic technical skills and competence. In summary the complaints and 
reply from Barclays  were  as follows. In particular the following:-
1.Failure to transfer his international trader account in a timely  fashion  Barclays  
apologised for the delay  and inconvenience.
2.Freezing his capacity  to deal in his international trader  account during his pension  
transfer. Barclays said this was standard when a transfer was underway  but had 
Mr M needed to trade he couldve made contact directly and they wouldve 
processed requests  for him.
3.Inability to deal with foreign dividend payments and not offering to help with this. It 
apologised that Mr M wasnt helped but as an execution only platform  they couldnt 
give advice
4.Failure to transfer his overseas investments to the destination requested. Barclays 
said it had answered this under point one.
5.Freezing his ability to deal with London quoted  stocks. Barclays said he couldve 
dealt over the phone  and couldnt  trace any calls to do so. It also said such dealing  
couldve delayed the transfer.
6.Merging his ISA accounts without consent. Barclays said this was part of their move 
to a new platform and all clients were  advised this would  happen and reminded of the 
option to transfer  out free of any fee.
7.Moving his wifes account to a separate log in to which  he no longer  had access  as a 
third party.  Barclays said the new platform didnt offer this option  and customers were 
advised this would happen  on the move to the new platform.
8.It was suggested  he gifted nil or low value stocks. This was noted but Barclays said it 
was non advisory and was just outlining options  not advising.
9.It tried to close  his account while he was still awaiting a payment. It said had this 
happened the payment wouldve been  sent on.
10.Errors in notifications of corporate  actions. It was accepted that his mustve been 
frustrating.
11.Receiving  multiple tax certificates. It was explained that these related to the parts of 
the year that each  platform held Mr Ms investments.
Ref: DRN8373099212.Error in the book costs shown on the investment platform. This wasnt  disputed and 
Barclays apologised and said it was working to resolve the problem.
13.Removing his quick trade history. Barclays  said this was now held elsewhere  on the 
platform.
14.Failure to update  regulatory information  on the web site. It apologised and said this 
could be done  on the phone.
15.Difficulty getting  through  by phone and the removal of the live chat facility.  It 
acknowledged this and said that it had waived account fees for customers  during this 
time.
16.Failure to transfer his SIPP in a timely manner. Barclays said this had been covered 
by another complaint. In that complaint Mr M said that the delay would impact  his 
lifetime allowance  as the new provider had different tax rules and was stopping  
accepting new business. Mr M was concerned that Brexit could change UK tax rules 
leaving him liable to more tax. It apologised but said the initial information sent by the 
new provider was incorrect  as the account  number  was wrong which  delayed  the 
process. It accepted  its communication couldve  been more proactive but the cause 
of the delay was the incorrect information supplied  by Mr M. It offered £100 for 
inconvenience but later increased  this offer to £350.00. Mr M felt that an award  
based on the value of assets affected would be more  appropriate  and suggested a 
figure of around  £50,000. Barclays didnt agree. The transfer didnt happen and the 
only cost was his quarterly administration fees associated with his SIPP.  It said the 
£50,000 wasnt a crystallised loss. Mr M still had the option to transfer his SIPP  
before the Brexit  deadline.
17.Freezing his ability to deal during the SIPP transfer process. This was covered 
above.
Mr M also referred to the overall service provided and said he had difficulty making contact 
and experienced excessive  waiting  times.  Hed needed to call repeatedly  about  the same  
issues such as his tax residency  and the book  cost issue  wasnt fixed  at all. When locked out 
of the system he needed to await a letter before being issued with fresh details  to get back 
into the system.
Barclays apologised and offered £150  for any inconvenience caused in the past (in addition 
to the £350 associated with the transfer  complaint).
Mr M said he thought the offer from Barclays was inadequate and they had no appreciation 
of the impact  their failings  may have  on their clients. He wished to decline it. With respect  to 
the platform no aspect  of service could  be relied  on. Due to his residence  status  he wasnt  
able to transfer to another platform much  as he would like to. As to his SIPP  only one 
provider would accept  it. It had taken more than 2 months to process the transfer  and 
Barclays now required another form and discharge  completed. It seemed theyd sent the 
wrong forms at the outset  despite him explaining the context. He was concerned as the 
value of his SIPP was approaching the lifetime allowance and there would be a tax charge 
on transfer in excess  of the allowance. 
Mr M said the book values were still incorrect. He felt the letter  re gifting  implied unlisted 
securities were of low value which wasnt the case. He complained that the change  to the 
Ref: DRN83730993rules meant he couldnt transfer his ISA and the SIPP  transfer was still outstanding. He 
wished the CEO of Barclays  to call him but appreciated this service  couldnt direct it.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision in this case. I said that Barclays  accepts there  have been  a 
number of failings.  I need to consider the impact of these and whether there has been  any 
financial loss and distress  and inconvenience. 
Mr M hasnt  specified any financial loss. He has referred to future projected figures but there 
doesnt seem to be any crystallised  financial  loss. I cannot make  an award for potential 
financial loss that may or may not be realised. Barclays also waived some of its platform  
fees. So it does  not seem that Mr M suffered any actual financial loss due to the issues.
I therefore need to consider whether the existing  offers for distress  and inconvenience are 
fair and reasonable. Mr M has suggested any award should reflect the amount of money 
affected by the problems.  But such an award  isnt made to punish Barclays but to reflect  the 
impact on Mr M personally. 
Firstly I have considered the offer of £350 for the lack of proactivity  in relation to the pension 
transfer. I note that Barclays didnt  cause the delay. This mustve  been distressing given the 
Brexit clock ticking and the limited  number of other providers able to accept Mr Ms pension. 
But the delay  wasnt Barclays fault. Given this I think the offer of £350 to reflect  the fact they 
couldve been more  proactive in their communication is very fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
With respect to the remaining issues some  were caused by changes in what  Barclays was 
prepared to provide  as a service. I can understand this was frustrating but this service 
cannot direct  a business how to exercise its discretion about the services it provides. I note 
also that Mr M was given the option to transfer out free of charge.
Some issues were caused by changes in the law (e.g. tax residency),  being  unable to 
transfer an ISA between providers where  the customer was not UK resident and the freezing 
of his account due to tax residency. While  frustrating  these issues  arent caused by Barclays  
but by the application  of the law so I cannot  take these into account in making any award. 
With respect to issues of non-compliance with requirements  such  as MIFID, as the 
investigator explained, that isnt within the remit of this service.
However it does seem  that the level of service  provided to deal with these and the repeated 
need for notification  of tax status  was poor and mustve wasted  Mr Ms time in making calls 
and resubmitting  information.
There are other issues that related to the performance of the platform  and service. In 
particular re book cost errors. The issue wouldve affected all customers  but that doesnt 
mean the impact  was the same. I say that not because  a large amount of money has a 
larger impact but because different amounts of money have different impacts on people 
depending on their other  financial circumstances. It seems likely that a major  part of Mr Ms 
pension provision was in the SIPP. I say that as its value  was approaching the lifetime 
allowance. Mr M was keen to transfer before  breaching the allowance  and triggering a tax 
charge. So uncertainty about  such an important  part of his future  financial provision wouldve 
been concerning.  Book cost is an essential  piece of information when assessing investment 
Ref: DRN83730994performance and making investment choices. This is essential on a non advised platform  
such as this. Given the importance of the money  held and the fact the problem persisted 
mustve been distressing  and concerning for Mr M.
Other issues  related  to poor service generally. He referred to being sent a SIPP  discharge 
form despite saying  this was an overseas transfer so further  forms were  sent to him two 
months after he started the process when it shouldve been clear  these were needed at the 
outset. The recurrent  problems caused  continuing frustration especially as he was working to 
arrange his affairs in anticipation  of the time limit imposed by Brexit. So I can see that any 
delay would have  been even more  concerning  for him. 
Having considered all of the issues, the time for which they persisted and the impact  due to 
Mr Ms personal circumstances  I think that an award of £300  for distress and inconvenience 
would be fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
I proposed to direct that Barclays Investment Solutions Limited should pay a total of £350 for 
the lack of proactivity on the transfer and £300  for distress and inconvenience in relation to 
the other issues. If any amounts have already been paid to Mr M these will reduce the 
amount paid such that the total paid is £650.
Barclays said it would accept the increased compensation award.  It confirmed that no 
compensation had yet been paid to Mr M.
Mr M said he thought the proposed award was wholly inadequate. In particular he said the 
following.
1.With respect to freezing his trader account  but that he couldve made direct requests 
do so. He pointed  out that Barclays admitted it was difficult to contact them  and had 
he made a request  to deal with would  have delayed  an already lengthy process.
2.Inability to deal with foreign dividend payments. He pointed  out that in the past 
Barclays had credited the GB pounds equivalent  of dividends received. 
3.Merging ISA account without consent.  He said he couldnt find any correspondence  
tell him this would  happen  with or without his consent.
4.Moving his wifes account to a separate log in  he couldnt  find any correspondence 
advising this would  happen.
5.Suggestion of gifting  nil or low value stock. He said this implied unlisted securities 
were of nil or low value.
6.Re tax certificates  the final tax certificate for 2018 arrived  in August  2018, more 
than 4 months after the tax year ended. In 2019 it again arrived in August.
7.Failure to update regulatory information on the website. He said he mustve called 
half a dozen times.
8.He wanted  to clarify that he asked to speak to the CEO of Barclays Smart Investor. 
Ref: DRN83730995my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I havent changed my mind.  I say that because Mr M has largely repeated  
points previously raised and considered by me. He repeated  frustrations around  various  
issues. He hasnt said anything that has caused me to change the conclusions I have 
already reached.
In relation to some  issues (e.g. merger of ISA accounts  and login requirement  for his wifes 
ISA) he adds  that he wasnt  advised  in advance. That may well be the case  but overall Mr 
Ms complaint was that he didnt wish either  to happen. But even if I am wrong in that 
conclusion this doesnt make a material difference  to the impact of the issues which  I have 
already considered in making my award  and the conclusions I have reached.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part and direct that Barclays Investment Solutions  Limited  should  
pay a total of £650 for distress and inconvenience.
The amount  directed to be payable by Barclays Investment Solutions Limited must be paid 
within 30 days of the later of us notifying Barclays Investment Solutions Limited  Mr M has 
accepted my final decision. 
If Barclays Investment Solutions Limited  pays later than this it must also pay further interest  
on the compensation from the date of the final decision until the date of payment at the rate 
of 8% simple per year.
If Barclays Investment Solutions Limited  considers it is legally  required  to deduct income tax 
from the interest, it must  send a tax deduction certificate with the payment so that Mr M can 
reclaim the tax if she is able to.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 July 2020.
Colette Bewley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8373099