K820x#14complaint
Ms C has complained about the expenses she has incurred, and the trouble and upset she 
has been caused, as a result of Santander UK Plc mistakenly withdrawing  her mortgage 
offer. She is represented in the complaint by a friend, Mr L.
background
Ms C was purchasing a property with the assistance  of a mortgage from Santander. A 
mortgage offer was issued but on 1 August  2018, two days before Ms C was due to 
exchange contracts,  the offer was withdrawn. 
Santander has acknowledged that this was down to human  error.  A complaint was raised 
with Santander  on 7 August 2018.  It reissued the mortgage offer on 17 August 2018 and 
completion of Ms Cs purchase  took place on 7 September 2018.
Before the offer was withdrawn Ms C had ordered  furniture for her new home. She had to 
return this, but when she went to re-order it after the mortgage offer was reinstated, the price 
had gone up.
Santander agreed to reimburse Ms C for the additional cost of the furniture - £567.01. It also 
offered compensation of £350.   Ms C wasnt happy with this. She wanted £5,000 
compensation to cover  loss of earnings  and stress. Santander didnt agree and so the 
complaint was brought to us.
An adjudicator looked at the complaint. He thought Santanders offer was fair. He didnt 
recommend Santander  should pay any further compensation. Mr L replied to say that he 
didnt think this was sufficient. He thinks £5,000 is fair. He acknowledges that compensation 
for emotional  stress  is subjective but thinks £5,000 is a value that a court would place  on this 
in other  cases.
Because the matter is unresolved, it now falls to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Whats happened  isnt in dispute.  Santander  has acknowledged that the mortgage offer was 
withdrawn as a result  of human error and it has accepted responsibility for this. So the only 
issue I need to determine is the extent to which Ms C should be compensated for 
Santanders mistake.
Im glad to see that Santander has reimbursed Ms C for her out-of-pocket  expenses  in 
relation to the furniture shed bought. This means  she has suffered no financial loss for this.
I also have to consider  what  compensation for trouble and upset caused  to Ms C by the error 
would be appropriate.  In this regard, I must explain that, although we have the power  to 
make legally-binding decisions, we arent  the same as a court,  and we dont award 
damages in the way that a court would. So although I have  no doubt that this was an 
upsetting experience for Ms C, I dont think compensation of £5,000 is fair, reasonable or 
proportionate.
Ref: DRN83071532Once Santander was made aware  of the error  about a week after it had happened  it 
acted quickly to put things right. A new mortgage offer was issued ten days  later. So Im 
satisfied that, although  Ms C was caused distress  and inconvenience, this was over a fairly 
short period  of time. Given  this, Im satisfied that the £350 already  paid by Santander is fair 
and reasonable.  I dont  intend to order Santander  to pay any additional compensation for 
trouble and upset.
If Ms C decides to accept  my final decision it will become legally  binding  on her and 
Santander. But if she doesnt accept the decision   or reply  within  a month  of the date of the 
decision to let us know if she accepts or rejects it  it will not be legally binding. Ms C will 
then be free to pursue her grievances against Santander in court. 
So if, as Mr L says,  Ms C believes compensation of £5,000 is justified, she is free to reject  
my decision  and pursue  the matter in court. I would  suggest she takes legal advice from a 
qualified solicitor before embarking on any legal action though.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint  because Im satisfied  that the compensation 
already paid by Santander UK Plc of £567.01  for financial loss and £350 for distress and 
inconvenience is fair and reasonable. I make  no other order or award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 31 August 2019.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8307153