K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy with the handling  of a claim under their home plan insurance 
policy with Ambant Underwriting Services Limited (Ambant).
References to Ambant include its agents.
background
On 15 November 2018, Mr S phoned  Ambant to explain the toilet flush  was broken and 
leaking. Mr S said hed managed to stop the leak and it told him an engineer  would get in 
contact in the next 24 hours.
Around 3 hours later,  Mr S phoned  Ambant to say he hadnt been phoned yet by the 
engineer and didn't know how long he could stop the leak. The call handler explained that an 
emergency visit scheduled for an uncontrollable leak is likely  to lead to the main water  stop 
cock being switched off to prevent  further leaking.  And, in Mr S situation, there wasnt an 
uncontrollable leak and so itd be better to have  someone come out and investigate the fault 
and repair  it. Even  so, Ambant agreed  the engineer would try to come out that evening to 
diagnose and see if any parts were needed.
That evening, the engineer came  and turned off the main water stop cock but didnt fix the 
toilet. Mr S says he was told by the engineer this was due to paint on the pipe blocking the 
valve and possible damage  to the tiles. 
The next day, the engineer called Ambant  to give his report. In this phone call, the engineer 
says:
-the cistern was broken. 
-the pipe feeding the toilet  was unable to be isolated because  of lime scale  blocking  
the isolation valve. 
-he turned off the main stop cock because there was no other way to do it and he 
wouldve needed to take out tiles to complete the repairs to the pipe correctly. 
Mr and Mrs S then had an isolation valve fitted by an independent  plumber later that 
evening. And they say there wasnt an isolation valve  in the pipe to start with, let alone one 
blocked by lime scale  or paint.
On 21 November, Mr S emailed Ambant to say theyd been without the toilet for 6 days  and 
asked it to send  out a plumber to reconnect it. He then placed an order for the spare parts 
needed which arrived on 26 November and were used to fix the cistern on 28 November.  
Unhappy with the way the claim was handled, Mr and Mrs S complained to Ambant. It said 
the fault was caused by the presence  of scale in the system and so any repair wouldnt be 
covered by the policy.
Mr and Mrs S brought their complaint to our service.  They say Ambant failed to do the 
following things it shouldve: 
-send a technician  immediately to stop water flowing in and out of the cistern; 
-check the extent  of seepage  of water; 
-repair the cistern; and
Ref: DRN89592402-pay special attention to their elderly  customers. 
To put things right, Mr and Mrs S would like Ambant to:
1.Give written assurance that this will not be repeated
2.Pay them adequate  financial  compensation to cover:
a.Costs incurred in emergency repair and final repair  of £150 plus costs of 
materials £94.80);
b.Refund the excess to them of £50; and
c.The extreme inconvenience  they suffered on the day of the incident; and
d.The continued inconvenience caused by the absence of a toilet facility.
And theyve  mentioned the compensation should be at least  £500. 
Our investigator looked into matters and explained:
-He didnt agree it was the engineers responsibility to fit an isolation valve  on 15 
November. 
-From  the photos, he could see that the new isolation  valve was going into the tile 
below it. So he felt it was reasonable  for the engineer to be concerned about 
damaging the tiles if he was going to work  on it. 
-Whether the isolation valve was blocked  with lime scale or didn't exist at all, the 
action of the engineer to switch off the main water stop cock was appropriate  on the 
night to prevent  any further leaks even though it wasnt a permanent  solution. This is 
particularly where Mr S had been  told that having the water turned off was the likely 
outcome of an emergency visit during  his earlier phone  call with Ambant.
-Ambant incorrectly declined to repair the toilet - relying on the presence of lime scale 
in the pipe - when  the actual repair of the toilet itself would be covered under the 
policy.
-In respect of the signed typed document Mr and Mrs S obtained to dispute what  
Ambants engineer had said, he thought Ambant was reasonable in asking for further  
evidence ascertain the credentials  of the plumber. 
So he upheld this complaint. To put things  right,  he asked Ambant to:
-reimburse Mr and Mrs S for the repairs to the toilet subject to giving Ambant an 
invoice for them;  and
-pay Mr and Mrs S compensation of £200  for the distress and inconvenience caused 
in this matter having  taken into account that Mr and Mrs S age, medical conditions, 
time of the year and the location  of the other  toilet available  to them  and the time it 
took for their main toilet to be repaired. 
Ambant has confirmed that it agrees with the recommendations made. But it did clarify that it 
wouldnt cover  the cost of installing an isolation valve or gaining  access to carry out the 
repair. So it asked for an itemised invoice so it can cover the cost of the toilet  repair only.
Mr and Mrs S disagreed with the recommendations made and referred  back  to their original  
complaint form and what theyd asked to put things  right. 
This matter has now been passed to me for a decision. 
Ref: DRN89592403my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where theres a dispute about  what 
happened, Ive based my decision on what I thinks more likely to have happened  in light of 
the evidence.
Although a number  of issues  have been raised,  this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
Having done so, I have to tell Mr and Mrs S that I think the investigator  has reached the right 
outcome here. And I think he set out the position  thoroughly and clearly. So theres not much  
I feel I can usefully add to what  has already  been  said. I would just add the following 
comments.
Ambant now accepts  it made a mistake  when it declined Mr and Mrs S claim to have their 
toilet repaired. And it agrees this impacted Mr and Mrs S.
I think its right that Ambant should  compensate  Mr and Mrs S for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by its mistake which led to them not having the use of their main  toilet 
for a total of 12 days. However,  our awards  are designed to compensate consumers, not 
punish organisations. And we arent the regulator so it isnt for our service  to tell a business 
to change how it conducts its business generally. 
Instead, we look at the impact this particular matter  has had on the consumer concerned.  
I can see from what Mr and Mrs S have  said to the investigator and Ambant how 
inconvenient and distressing this was for them. But I think  Ambant has now taken  this 
seriously and agreed to reimburse them for the cost of the repairs to the toilet  as well as pay 
£200 to Mr and Mrs S. I believe this is a fair and reasonable amount in the circumstances. 
I know that Mr and Mrs S will be disappointed  with this outcome but my decision brings  to an 
end what we  in trying to informally resolve  their dispute with Ambant  can do for them.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Mr and Mrs S complaint. To put things right,  Ambant 
Underwriting Services Limited  should  pay Mr and Mrs S:
-the cost of the repair to the toilet cistern  (subject  to providing a receipted  invoice  to 
Ambant); and
-£200 for the distress and inconvenience  caused to them by its handling of the claim.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 May 2019.
Rebecca Ellis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8959240