K820x#14complaint
Miss S complains  that MBNA  Limited  (MBNA) did not allocating the payments she made to 
her credit card account in the most appropriate  way. 
background
Miss S has a credit  card account with MBNA.  On the account  she had 6 promotional  offers,  
being 2 balance transfers and 4 money transfers,  all of which had different expiry  dates. She 
made 3 payments in July, August and September 2018, which  she anticipated  MBNA  would  
apply first to her 2 promotional interest free offers expiring in early  2019. 
She was unhappy  that MBNA  applied  the payments to her the other promotional  offers,  and 
asked that MBNA re-allocate those  payments.
MBNA didnt  feel they had done  anything wrong  and said they had simply acted  in 
accordance with the terms  and conditions (T and Cs) on the account. Those T and Cs, they 
said, provided that they should allocate her payments to any promotional offer balances with 
a higher rate of interest first, or when there was more than one promotional  rate, to the one 
with the earliest  start date.
Miss S was unhappy  with MBNAs  response and so an adjudicator  from this service looked 
into the complaint  but found  MBNA hadnt done anything wrong.
Miss S disagreed with the adjudicators  view and so the matter  has been  passed to me for a 
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I will not repeat our adjudicators background summary since it is accurate and full. My own 
background summary has been necessarily brief to avoid repetition.  So if I havent  
mentioned something  it is not that Ive ignored it, rather that I think  its not relevant. This 
approach allows me to concentrate upon  the determinative issues and avoiding  becoming 
distracted by those  which are peripheral.
I have sympathy for Miss S as she was clearly trying  to manage her account in a way in 
which she thought  was most efficient. I can see what she was trying  to achieve but 
unfortunately I agree with our adjudicator  that MBNA  have not done anything  wrong  here.
This is because the basis of the relationship between Miss S and MBNA rests on contractual 
principles. And it is the T and Cs which govern the relationship and operation  of her credit 
card account, and it is there I must  turn. 
I have checked  those T and Cs and in particular section 4.1 and 4.2 which deals with the 
allocation of payments.  Having  done so I must agree with our adjudicators view, that the 
way in which MBNA have  allocated  Miss Ss payments is in accordance with those T and 
Cs. 
Ref: DRN85903962So, I cant say that MBNA  have  acted unfairly. I know Miss S will be disappointed with my 
decision but as Im satisfied that MBNA  have  not treated  her unfairly,  Im not going to ask it 
to do anything further.
So Im not upholding Miss Ss complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I do not uphold the complaint against MBNA Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 March  2019.
Jonathan Willis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8590396