K821x#15complaint
Miss C complains about how Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Birmingham Midshires) (BM) 
has addressed her request for support  with her disability.
background
Miss C said she tried to contact BM by phone  to move some money from an ISA. She also 
wanted to improve  the interest  rate she was getting  on her savings. Miss C told us she 
suffers from a severe  neuro-immune disease.  I understand  that this affects her speech  and 
also has an impact on her cognitive processes. This means she may have trouble relaying  
back long numbers and giving extra information that she wasnt  expecting to be asked for. 
Miss C said that she had found  it very difficult to pass BMs security, and wasnt  able to 
complete her transactions  over the phone. She said that BM hadnt  helped her to do what 
she wanted, and the call she made  had caused her considerable distress.
After she complained, BMs complaints team contacted Miss C, and helped  her to complete 
the transactions she wanted to do. It also changed  her savings accounts to a different 
product with a better interest rate. It then said it would organise a security code for Miss C, 
which it hoped would  make it easier in future  for her to deal with BM on her accounts. The 
complaints hander  said he would confirm all of this in writing. He also gave her his direct line 
in case she had further problems. Miss C said she was very happy  with this. 
But Miss C told us she didnt get anything in writing after this. All she got was a letter  with a 
number to call to update her security details, and she had to set all her secret answers 
again. She didnt  understand why this had happened. She said that she had called to move 
money from one account to a second, and then from the second  to the third.  But she could 
only do the first transfer. She had to call back to make the second  one, and on that call she 
had to go through all the same security questions. She rang the complaints handler for help, 
but he said that he thought the problem had been  solved. 
Miss C said part of the problem is that the system BM uses  to deal with incoming calls is 
based on voice recognition. That sometimes doesnt recognise what  she has said,  so she 
then gets transferred to an advisor,  who will ask a lot of questions. She finds this difficult. 
She said that the new way of dealing with this that BM had now offered her turned out to be 
the same  thing as before.
BM said that her previous  security requirement was for three  random questions, with either 
her account  number or her name and postcode. It had changed that, so it was now two digits 
from her passcode, with either her account  number or her name and postcode.
BM wrote  to Miss C. It said that it wasnt able just to accept information that a customer 
offers it in order to clear  security.  But it said that the passcode  she now had would  mean that 
she was able to identify herself  and clear security without needing to provide her account 
details. And if she didnt want to use the interactive voice recognition  system (IVR) then she 
could ring a different number. BM confirmed that it had moved her money, changed her 
savings accounts,  and dealt with a declaration  form over the phone  for her. BM has also said 
that she can go through IVR using her telephone  keypad, rather than speech, if she prefers.
Ref: DRN88415342Miss C said that the passcode arrangement  is definitely what she had before. She wanted to 
know why she had needed to reset her security  questions. BM told us that this could happen 
if someone fails security,  which  in turn can be caused by a failure  in voice recognition. 
BM told us that in the past its complaints team has helped Miss C with many  of her 
transactions. It said it couldnt keep doing  that. Its internal notes say that its complaints team 
helped Miss C on this occasion  with a transaction she said was urgent, but it wouldnt be 
able to help her manage her account  on an ongoing basis.  
BM said that when  its old complaints  team  had previously dealt with Miss Cs banking,  that 
involved bypassing normal security procedures,  and was an option which  was not available  
to other  customers. It said that this old complaints centre is now closed. Because part of that 
previous arrangement involved  security being  bypassed, BM didnt want  to continue 
operating Miss Cs account  in this way. It said that it had tried to explain to Miss C that while  
adjustments can be made, it still has to make sure that her account is secure.
BM said Miss C would have to keep using the telephone banking  service. And it says that it 
has noted her condition, and the fact that she will need extra  time to communicate, on her 
file, so that anyone who answers her calls in future will be aware of the need to treat her with 
care and respect, and to allow  her enough time to talk.
Our investigator asked  Miss C what she requires. She said shed understood that there were 
two key points. Miss C requires consistency,  so she can be prepared  with security  questions 
shes usually asked.  And she requires a level of flexibility, for example if shes unable to give 
her account  number or answer a security question, then shed  like to be able to be asked a 
different question without  this counting as a question being  answered incorrectly (as this can 
cause her to fail security  clearance).
Miss C says that other  banks have given her a direct point of contact,  and she used to have 
the same  with BM, but she doesnt have that any more. Our investigator said that the 
complaint handler  who helped  her recently  was an ad hoc response to Miss Cs complaint. 
She said that by allowing the complaints team  to make transactions  for her, BM is potentially 
putting her accounts  at risk as its not complying with the necessary security  procedures.
Our investigator said that she appreciated that Miss C would much prefer a single person to 
contact, but she thought  that the options  that BM had put in place would provide Miss C with 
the flexibility and consistency that she needs. And that this was fair and reasonable.
Our investigator said that she hadnt  yet been able to get to the bottom of Miss Cs concern 
about her security details  being removed. She said that Miss C had security questions she 
was already using,  and had reset these as part of setting up a new security passcode. 
Our investigator said she thought that there had been a significant breakdown in 
communications between  BM and Miss C, and she hoped shed helped  to fix that. She said 
that she appreciated that she hadnt  been able to give Miss C what she asked  for in the 
single point of contact, but she did think that BM had put in place other appropriate  
measures for her. 
Miss C spoke to our investigator  after this. And our investigator said that she now 
understood that Miss C had discovered  when she went  to set up her passcode  that this was 
something she had in place before she complained previously, in 2016. Miss C said that the 
passcode and security  questions mustve been  removed  then without her knowledge.  And 
Ref: DRN88415343our investigator said that Miss C was unhappy that she now needed  new security details. 
She was used to the old ones, so she would  like the old ones reinstated. 
Our investigator said she still thought that the procedures that BM had put in place for 
Miss C now were reasonable.
Our investigator then spoke to Miss C again.  Miss C pointed  out that the alternative number 
that BM has given  her goes to a sales team with a long automated  message, so she doesnt  
feel this is an appropriate alternative contact. 
Because Miss C didnt  agree  with our investigator, the case came to me for a final decision.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I proposed  to uphold it in 
part. This is what I said then: 
-I started  by saying, for the avoidance  of any doubt, that I accepted, for the purposes of 
this complaint, that Miss C has a disability under the Equality Act. That means, as part of 
considering whether  the outcome in this case  is fair and reasonable, I needed to 
consider whether BM has complied  with the Act, and whether it has responded 
appropriately to Miss Cs request for a particular reasonable adjustment. 
-I understood that Miss C had previously had named points of contact within the customer  
complaints team,  which  meant  that she was able to access  her account. She says that 
she would prefer to use the automated system,  but there are times in the year when she 
has to talk to someone to review her accounts. 
-And I understood  that Miss C had previously been given the same arrangement with BM 
which it has arranged now; the facility to set up a passcode, which will allow  her to 
identify herself using two digits, and a very small amount of additional information. BM 
offers this to all its customers.
-It also seemed as if this passcode  is automatically cancelled if a customer  gives  or inputs 
the wrong security  information. I understood that Miss C was concerned that her 
passcode may have been cancelled by BM in response to a previous complaint she has 
made. I hadnt seen  anything to make me think that was the case. But it did look as if the 
passcode and shortcut access to her account  would be removed any time that Miss C 
fails security. It will then need to be set up again, before Miss C can continue  to use this 
route to access her account.
-When BM wrote to our service about this case, it said that Miss C had been using 
telephone banking successfully. But that didnt seem to me to be right. Miss Cs 
complaint came  to us when she wasnt able to pass the security process that BM has in 
place for people who dont have passcodes. The security passcode  she had previously 
set up had been removed, and she didnt  seem to know  why it wasn't working, or why 
she was now being asked many more questions  than she had before. 
-If a passcode is removed, then I thought it was reasonable  to expect that BM would 
usually explain somehow to its customers that this could be the source of a problem  they 
are having in getting through  security, whether  it does so in writing or over the phone.  
Ref: DRN88415344-In this case, I thought that Miss C relied  on this passcode  to avoid having to answer  
additional randomly  generated  security questions,  which  she struggles to provide. So I 
thought BM had a particular  responsibility in Miss Cs case to tell her what had 
happened, and to prompt her to reset her security passcode. 
-I hadnt seen  anything that suggested to me that BM did explain this to Miss C, or prompt  
her to reset her passcode. And I thought not explaining this to Miss C may have caused 
her a significant amount of difficulty in passing  through security and carrying out her 
banking. It also seemed to have  contributed  to her bringing  this complaint to our service. 
-Because of the particular distress that this had caused Miss C, and because of the 
length of time this issue seemed to have gone  on for before she was told what had gone 
wrong and why, I thought that BM should  pay Miss C £350 in compensation.
-Miss C says that she has previously had a single point of contact, and that she has this 
arrangement with other  banks.  She said that this works well. Shes been able to access 
her account with BM in the past, using  this. But BM will no longer provide this service.  
-BM says that a complaint handler did help Miss C to carry out the transactions  she was 
trying to make when she had complained. But that was never  intended to be a 
reasonable adjustment for Miss C to carry out her regular banking. It doesnt seem  to 
have involved the same level of security  that BM normally applies  for its customers.  BM 
says it cant do that, going  forward, because its not keeping her account secure. 
-I didnt think it was reasonable to require BM to provide  Miss C with one named contact  
that she can call to conduct all of her banking, and a safe word to access  her account.  
She has told us she doesnt often  require that extra support, and usually uses  the 
automated system.  I also noted  that Miss C told us that BM had previously  given her 
three named  contacts  in its old complaints handling centre,  and Miss C still had difficulty  
contacting one of those three named persons when  she rang, although others  at that old 
complaints handling  centre seemed happy to help her.
-Our investigator said that shed understood that Miss C wanted two things. One is 
consistency, as she can be prepared with security questions shes  usually asked. 
Another is a level of flexibility, for example  if shes unable to relay her account  number  or 
answer a security question then shed like to be able to be asked a different question.
-I thought that the passcode Miss C had now been given should offer her consistency in 
the information she is required to give BM. But if that passcode does fail, I didnt think it 
was reasonable  to require  BM to accept the information she offers to pass  her through  
security. BM says this would be risking the security of her account. BM said that the safe 
word arrangement for Miss C similarly  risks the security of her account.  And I didnt think  
I could reasonably require BM to do something  that it is concerned risks someone else 
being able to access Miss Cs accounts.
-Our investigator explained that she was hoping  to put something  permanent in place, so 
that the problems Miss C has faced with accessing her account recently wouldnt arise 
again. That was my aim too. But I did have concerns about whether Miss C would be 
able to continue  to operate her passcode, going  forward. Miss Cs health condition  
makes it difficult  for her to communicate. She has difficulties with her speech, and she 
also has problems with movement and motor control. Her condition  fluctuates, so at 
Ref: DRN88415345some points she will be able to operate  the system that BM has offered her, but 
sometimes she may not be able to use IVR with speech or key input  successfully. 
-I thought there may be concerns about  whether it is, in fact, a reasonable adjustment  to 
provide Miss C with a passcode that she can use, if every time she makes a mistake  that 
adjustment needs to be reset from the start. I also wasnt  sure that BM had fully 
understood its duties  under the Equality  Act, as it has occasionally  referred to not being 
able to give Miss C facilities or treatment  which arent available  to other customers. The 
core of a reasonable adjustment is about supporting customers  who face additional 
challenges due to a disability, by providing facilities which  other customers  wouldnt 
require, and which a business wouldnt be legally obliged to provide to everyone.
-So we asked BM for some more  information. It said that it understands that Miss C is 
using the IVR system successfully at the moment.  It considers  that this works for her.
-BM has also suggested that Miss C could  enrol in the Next Generation Text Service, 
which converts text to speech, and then back again. That focusses on people who have 
impaired speech  or are deaf.  Miss C is not deaf, and from the calls Ive listened to, she 
isnt in need of support to be understood. BM has also said that it thinks it is very easy  to 
understand what she is saying. So its not clear why BM would suggest this for Miss C.
-I had looked  at all the evidence from both sides, and listened to the available call 
recordings, both between Miss C and BM, and the calls that Miss C made  to our service 
about this complaint.  I did think, on the evidence Id seen so far, that BM may have let 
Miss C down by not informing her that her passcode  had been  removed, and she would 
need to set that up again. I suggested  some compensation  for that. 
-I was concerned, throughout my consideration of this case, that the core issues  which 
underlie this complaint  didnt  seem to have  been  resolved,  and that Miss C may simply 
end up complaining again in future. I understood she has recently  done  so.
-It would  be preferable  if Miss C and BM were able to agree a reasonable adjustment  to 
allow her to operate her banking in future.  But they havent been  able to agree a way 
forward. And our scope for helping with that, in this case, seemed to me to be limited. 
-Our service is an informal dispute resolution service. Id considered  the reasonable 
adjustment that Miss C would like, of a named contact at the bank who can deal with her 
calls, and a safe word  she can use to identify herself, and I didnt think  it would be 
reasonable for me to ask BM to provide that, for the reasons Id set out above. Id also 
considered what  BM has offered, but that doesnt seem to me to address the fluctuating 
nature of Miss Cs condition. 
-I would  hope,  in future, that Miss C will be able to use the shortened  security  procedure 
provided by a passcode to conduct most of her banking. I would also hope that, when 
that passcode  fails, BM would be able to promptly notify Miss C of this, and to support 
her in making any urgent transactions she needs to make,  without compromising the 
security of her account. But it is outwith  the scope of our service to require that. 
-All I could say is that if Miss C continues to have difficulties  in future, that she may 
complain again. I was sorry I hadnt  been able to do more to avoid  that happening.
Ref: DRN88415346I invited the parties  to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
BM wrote  to object to my decision. 
Miss C contacted us to discuss  this provisional  decision. Ive listened to that call.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I havent changed my mind.
BM said that Miss C had complained about having to complete  security.  But it said that 
Miss C had successfully accessed her account  through voice  recognition on 18 October 
2017. She was asked  some security questions to verify her identity, which Miss C refused to 
answer. Miss C believed that she should  be able to provide BM with her own security 
information - which should  be accepted. Had Miss C completed  security,  then a new security 
token could have  been ordered at that point.  Miss C raised a complaint the same day.
BM said that it worked with Miss C and set out in its final response what  it had done for her, 
which also involved sending a new security  token. It repeated that if Miss C had gone 
through security  on this October call then this would have  been sent at the time.
BM didnt think it was unreasonable  for it to have  worked with Miss C to ensure that it had 
reached a fair and reasonable  outcome for her. It said it couldnt say that there was a service 
issue at this time, and it couldnt agree that a compensation payment was warranted. It 
hasnt done anything different regarding the reasonable adjustments made, nor had it done 
anything different since issuing its final response  in November 2017. It said that it knew  that 
Miss C has been successfully accessing her accounts since this date, and it didnt agree that 
she wasnt able to access her accounts  at the time of bringing the complaint to our service.
BM commented particularly on the final two paragraphs of my provisional  decision. It said 
that it was disappointed by my comment that I hoped that it would be able to offer Miss C a 
different level of security  in the future and offer her support going forward.  It said that even 
though I had said it was outwith our services remit to require that, this did set a certain  
expectation to Miss C that this is something  it may be able to do. 
BM said it was also disappointing  to say that it hadnt helped  Miss C make transactions,  
which has also caused her distress. It said that it had several times undertaken transactions 
for Miss C that went outwith procedures in an effort to assist  her. So it couldnt agree that it 
hadnt tried to help Miss C.
And it said that it didnt  understand why I would ask it to pay £350  when  it had done  its 
utmost to ensure Miss C had been supported in her dealings  with it. It said that what has 
always been clear  is that Miss C doesnt accept BMs processes and procedures. However, 
this does not mean that it has resulted in poor service.
I realise that BMs view of this complaint remains very different to mine. That may be at least 
partly because we are working on the basis of a different understanding of the facts  in this 
case. As an example, BMs recent response  to our service starts  by setting out that Miss C 
had successfully accessed her account  through IVR (voice recognition) on 18 October 2017. 
BM says she was asked  some security questions  to verify her identity, which  she refused to 
answer. But its final response letter of 22 November 2017, which  deals with that call, told 
Miss C you didnt pass security using the IVR. 
Ref: DRN88415347BM has pointed to the fact that Miss C has been  able to access  her account. It says that this 
means that what it has put in place is working. But Miss C has told us, and I reflected in my 
provisional decision, that she can sometimes pass security, and she will use the automated 
system when shes able to. Her condition is fluctuating, and sometimes  she wont be able to 
pass security. So she needs extra, or different, help when that happens.
I set out in my provisional decision my understanding that any time Miss C failed security,  
then her security token would need  to be reset. And if that needed to be done, then I thought 
BM had a duty to specifically  inform  her of that. My provisional decision also said that I 
understood that this arrangement had actually failed quite some  time before Miss C 
complained to our service, possibly as much  as a year earlier,  and BM didnt do that. BMs 
response doesnt comment on this at all. So I still think thats  what  happened,  and I still think  
thats a service failure. I explained that this was the main reason  I was awarding 
compensation of £350.
I also said I was concerned that Miss Cs condition meant that this token would eventually 
fail. BM doesnt  seem  to have addressed  what Ive said about the fluctuating nature of 
Miss Cs condition.
BM said it was disappointed  that I had said that I hoped that it would be able to offer Miss C 
a different level of security  in the future and offer her support going  forward.  The sentence  in 
my provisional decision that I think BM is referring to here reads as follows   I would also 
hope that, when that passcode fails, BM would be able to promptly  notify  Miss C of this, and 
to support her in making  any urgent transactions she needs  to make, without  compromising 
the security of her account. 
I know that BM says that previous attempts to support Miss C have  involved  reducing or 
bypassing security. For the avoidance  of doubt, Im not asking BM to reduce the security on 
Miss Cs account. And, as BM will see, Miss C has also made clear  she doesnt want  to 
operate her account without security. My provisional  decision wasnt  saying that BM should 
provide a different level of security  on Miss Cs account. 
BM thinks what is in place  at the moment is working,  so it doesnt have to do any more. But I 
dont agree with that. I dont think BM has shown that whats  in place at the moment is able 
to respond when Miss Cs condition  deteriorates,  as it does sometimes,  and she needs 
additional support.  
As BM noted, I cant tell it what to do in future to deal with this. Miss C has only offered one 
possible solution, of a named contact at the bank with a safe word.  Ive been unable  to adopt 
that, because  of the security concerns that BM has raised. Ive also noted  that Miss C still 
experienced problems with this in practice.
In the absence of a solution that can be agreed  by both sides,  I wouldnt presume to decide 
for Miss C what support she needs,  or for BM what it can offer without risking the security  of 
her account.  But I dont think that means that I can, or should, agree that BM has done 
enough, and that there  are no service issues in this complaint. I dont  agree.  I still think BM 
should pay £350 in compensation in this case.
Miss C said that she thought that there might be an element of misunderstanding  and 
misrepresentation of what the issues were in the background  of my provisional decision, 
although she said that in the findings I recognised more accurately what the issues  were. 
Ref: DRN88415348When I set out the background  to a decision,  Im not just noting what evidence has been 
provided, but also what both sides have said about the case. Recording what each side has 
said is part of pulling a decision together, but that doesnt mean that I agree  with what  either 
side has said. I then go on, in my findings, to set out what I think  has happened. 
Miss C said that the issue wasnt that she was trying to avoid BMs security. She told us she 
doesnt want to operate  her account without security. And she does predominantly use the 
automated system. But about once a year she needs to talk to someone,  to find out BMs 
loyalty rates  for existing  customers. When she had a direct contact, she cleared security,  but 
was asked questions  that required a word  answer, not a numerical response.  
Miss C said that she asked institutions  to set up a safe word with her, so that when they 
contacted her, she would  know that it was her bank calling, and feel comfortable to give 
details that she wouldnt normally  reveal  to anyone  who called her. 
Miss C also said that the extent of the security  questions that she is asked by BM in itself 
constitutes a breach  of security. I dont agree with her on that point.  I appreciate that BM 
does ask, as many  banks  do, for quite a lot of secure information  if she has contacted  it. But 
I dont think it constitutes a breach of security for BM to do that. I dont  think  that BM would 
have to make changes for that reason. 
Miss C has told us that she thinks its not that BM cant offer her the help she needs, its that 
it wont. She said that when shes having difficulty passing security, she finds that shes  
using all the energy  she has just explaining  what she needs to someone.  She would still 
prefer to talk to a named contact, who would already know the difficulties she faces with 
communications. 
Ive explained  why I dont think I can impose a solution going forward  in this case. Ive 
considered the additional  evidence from both sides, and I dont think I am able to improve on 
my previous  proposal.  So I still think that BM should pay Miss C £350  in compensation.
my final decision
My provisional decision is that Bank of Scotland plc (trading  as Birmingham Midshires) must 
pay Miss C £350 in compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 February  2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8841534