K820x#14complaint
Miss G complains  about the valuation that Advantage Insurance  Company Limited offered 
for her car under her motor insurance  policy and about its level of service.  She wants a true 
valuation for her car and compensation for the stress and inconvenience caused.  Miss G is 
represented in this matter by her partner, Mr J. 
background
Miss Gs car was stolen  and she made  a claim to Advantage. It made an initial offer for the 
loss of £6,600,  but this was rejected. It reviewed the valuation and increased it to £7,000 
which it said was in line with the top of the motor  trade guides.  It said it had included all 
optional extras and checked that it had the correct specification for Miss Gs car. Advantage 
agreed there  had been poor communication  in the claim handling and an error  in its payment 
which had caused  inconvenience for Miss G. It offered compensation for these.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought  
Advantage had provided poor service.  But he thought its offer of £130 compensation and 
paying Miss Gs £160 claim  for lost personal possessions  without  evidence  made up for this. 
He thought Advantages settlement offer was fair and reasonable as it was made  according  
to our approach.
Mr J replied that he thought our approach  to valuation was flawed as he couldnt buy a 
similar replacement  car for the settlement offer. He said the car was specialist rather than 
generic. And he thought it unfair that Advantage didnt use the value stated on the policy 
schedule to settle the claim. He asked  for the complaint to be reviewed  by an ombudsman,  
so its come to me for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss G thought her car was worth  about £8,000. She said her car was rare and she hadnt  
been able to find an identical replacement. 
The investigator has explained this services approach  to car valuations in that we dont 
provide valuations for cars but seek to assess whether the insurers  offer is reasonable. 
In assessing whether  a reasonable offer has been  made, we obtain  valuations from motor-
trade guides. These are used for valuing second  hand vehicles. We find these guides to be 
particularly persuasive,  largely because their valuations are based  on nationwide research 
and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account regional variations. We also take 
all other available  evidence into account,  for example, engineers  reports.
The investigator thought Advantages offer was fair and reasonable. So Ive checked  how he 
came to this conclusion. 
I can see that he obtained valuations for Miss Gs car taking into account its make, model, 
age, condition and optional extras. The latter  were verified by using the cars vehicle 
identification number.  
Ref: DRN86392782Discounting outliers,  the valuations  he found were within the range of Advantages offer. So I 
think Advantages offer of £7,000 for the market value of Miss Gs car at the time of its loss 
was made  correctly according  to our approach. So I dont require Advantage to increase this.   
Mr J had found a higher  valuation for Miss Gs car in a trade  guide.  But I cant see that the 
consumer guide  he checked is the one used by the trade. So I dont think this should be 
considered as evidence that the car was under-valued. 
Mr J thought that it was unfair that Advantage  didnt use the cars value as stated on the 
policy schedule to make  its offer. But I think the policy  makes  it clear that in the case of total 
loss valuations are made on the market value at the time of loss. The policy  makes  it clear 
that this is calculated from the motor trade  guides  and isnt necessarily the value stated 
when the policy was taken out. I dont think this is unusual as cars can increase or decrease 
in value over time. Our approach to using the motor trade guides attempts to be fair to all 
parties.
Mr J also provided examples of cars similar to Miss Gs but advertised for sale at higher 
prices. But we dont  find advertisements particularly persuasive as these  are essentially 
asking prices and arent selling prices. Its for this reason that the trade guides are used as 
they provide evidence of likely  retail  selling prices. 
Advantage agreed that there had been a catalogue  of service errors in its handling of the 
claim. I can see that these  caused Miss G additional  stress and frustration on top of her 
distress following the burglary and loss of her car. Advantage offered her £130 
compensation and it waived  the need for receipts  for lost possessions  as required by her 
policy terms and conditions. I think this was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Its in 
keeping with what Id require in similar circumstances.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 September 2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8639278