K821x#15complaint
Mr H says CashEuroNet UK LLC, trading as QuickQuid, (QQ), irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about 12 payday  loans  and one top up loan QQ provided to Mr H between  
December 2012  and June 2016. Mr Hs lending history is as follows:
Loan number  Date of 
loanRepayment date Loan amount 
Highest monthly 
instalment amount 
1. 31/12/12 28/3/13 £100 £125
2. 28/3/13 28/6/13 £100 £125
      3. 8/7/13 30/9/13 £100 £125
      4. 14/10/13 31/12/13 £100 £125
      5. 21/3/14 30/5/14 £150 £187.50
      6.   20/6/14 31/10/14 £250 £562.50 (with Loan 6a)
      6a 20/8/14 31/10/14 £200 £562.50(with Loan 6)
      7. 10/12/14 27/2/15 £450 £569.93
      8. 27/2/15 30/4/15 £400 £496
      9. 15/5/15 30/6/15 £350 £439.60
     10. 12/7/15 29/8/15 £300 £300
     11. 9/11/15 1/2/16 £450 £565.20
     12. 15/6/16 1/9/16 £250 £312
Mr H said that the loans trapped him in a debt spiral  with the repayments taking so much of 
his wages that he had to borrow  again  to cover the next months  repayment.
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Hs complaint. She said all the loans shouldnt have been given. 
QQ disagreed and the complaint was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending - including  all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
When QQ first lent to Mr H the regulator was the Office of Fair Trading (OFT) and relevant 
guidance included  its guidance on irresponsible lending (ILG). From 1 April 2014 onwards 
the regulator was the Financial Conduct  Authority and relevant regulations and guidance  
included its Consumer Credit sourcebook  (CONC). The ILG and CONC contained  similar 
guidance for lenders about  responsible lending. 
QQ needed to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr H could  
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
Ref: DRN82265502But certain factors might  point to the fact that QQ should fairly  and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that QQ was required to establish whether 
Mr H could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether  the loan payments were  affordable  
on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the consumer should be able to make 
repayments on time, while meeting other  reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Hs complaint.
With regard to Loans 1 to 3, Mr H had declared  an income of £300. The maximum 
repayment on each  loan was £125. Mr H also had to make 2 smaller repayments  of £25 for 
each of these  loans. As our adjudicator explained, a proportionate  check for Loans 1 to 3 
would most  likely have  shown that the repayments wouldnt have been sustainable for Mr H 
as:
 
-the highest repayment amount of £125 represented a significant proportion  of Mr Hs 
declared income of £300;
-It was likely after making his repayment  to QQ that he wouldve needed to borrow  again 
to meet  his living expenses which  he did with Loans  2 and 3. 
QQ has suggested here that Mr H had the opportunity to save in the first two months  of each 
loan before the final repayments were due. But, I cant see why QQ may have thought  Mr H 
would be able to save during the period to put him in a position to afford  the final repayment 
of £125 for Loans 1 to 3. I think that given the fact that the final balloon  repayment 
represented such a large part of Mr Hs declared income of £300, its more  likely that he 
wouldve struggled to sustainably repay  Loans 1 to 3. Whilst Mr H could in theory have 
Ref: DRN82265503saved some disposable income  each month  to make the final payment, I think its unlikely he 
couldve done this without having to borrow elsewhere or having to come back again for 
further money. It appears he did so as on the day he repaid Loan 1 he borrowed another  
£100.00 from QQ, and he borrowed Loan  3 ten days after repaying Loan 2. So I dont think  it 
was reasonable  for QQ to have lent Mr H these loans.
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Mr Hs lending with QQ. Ive looked to see if there 
was a point at which QQ should reasonably have seen that further lending was 
unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so QQ should have realised that it shouldnt have 
provided any further lending. 
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Hs case, I think  that this point was reached by 
Loan 4. I say this because:
By Loan  4 Mr H had been borrowing almost continuously and in quick succession 
from QQ. Loan 2 was borrowed on the same  day that Loan 1 was repaid and 
Loans 3 and 4 followed their respective previous loans by just a few days. So it 
appears Mr H was struggling to settle  his debts sustainably.
By the time Mr H asked for Loan 4 hed been  borrowing from QQ for almost ten 
months and he wasnt making  any inroads to the amount he owed the lender. By that 
time Mr H had paid a considerable amount of interest to QQ to effectively service a 
debt over an extended period.
From  Loan 4 onwards Mr H was borrowing regularly  and repeatedly from QQ. So QQ 
ought to have realised it was more likely  than not Mr H was having to borrow  further 
to cover the hole repaying his previous loan was leaving  in his finances and that 
Mr Hs indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.  
Although there were  some gaps, at one point of over four months between Mr H 
repaying a loan and asking to borrow again,  I dont  think it would have been 
reasonable for QQ to conclude this was an indication  that Mr Hs finances had moved 
on from whatever situation had required  his previous loans. 
I think that Mr H lost out because QQ continued to provide borrowing from Loan 4 onwards 
because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Hs indebtedness by allowing  him 
to take expensive credit over an extended  period of time. As I said above, QQ lent to 
Mr H without a break  for three and a half years.
the sheer number  of loans was likely to have had negative  implications on Mr Hs 
ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market for these high-cost 
loans.
So Im also upholding  Mr Hs complaint about Loans 4 to 12 because  the overall pattern of 
lending increased  his indebtedness  in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful  
and he lost out as a result. The fact that the loans were repaid does not mean that they were  
repaid sustainably, or without causing Mr H undue difficulty. 
I should add Ive considered the points QQ made  in response to the adjudicator. This 
includes the document which is titled CEU Lending  Criteria  and Proportionate Checks, which  
Ref: DRN82265504isnt case-specific. This service has responded to QQs submission of this document on 
many previous occasions and so Ill say no more  about it here. But I have taken  its contents  
into account.
QQ said that Mr H had a good  repayment  history, that he paid on time and there was nothing 
to show that he was experiencing financial difficulties. But I think  QQ will (or ought to) know 
from previous decisions  that this service considers there will be times when the pattern  of 
lending alone  is enough to indicate that a consumer is likely to be in financial difficulty  or 
would otherwise be harmed should  relending  continue. So it follows that successful  
repayment of a loan doesnt automatically  mean it was repaid  sustainably  particularly 
where the consumer  borrows again with little break between the loans.
QQ also said that the mere number of loans is an insufficient basis  to conclude that the 
loans were unsustainable. But, QQ will know from previous  decisions that there are cases 
where this service considers the overall lending pattern  and not just the affordability of each 
loan. When a consumer  borrows numerous  loans over a long period of time,  its most likely 
that the loans  arent being used  for their intended  purpose of temporary cash flow problems. 
So Im upholding  the complaint about  Loans  1 to 12 and QQ should put things right.
putting things right
I dont think QQ should  have agreed to lend Loans  1 to 12 to Mr H. So for each of those 
loans QQ should:-
Refund any interest and charges applied to the loans. 
Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*.
Remove any negative  information recorded regarding  Loans 1 to 3 on Mr Hs credit file.
The number of loans  taken from Loan 4 onwards  means any information recorded about 
them is adverse.  So all entries about  Loans  4 onwards should be removed from Mr Hs 
credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires QQ to take off tax from this interest. QQ must give Mr H a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN82265505my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement of this complaint, I 
order CashEuroNet UK LLC, trading as QuickQuid, to:
1.Refund any interest and charges applied to the loans;
2.Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the 
date they were paid to the date of settlement*;
3.Remove any negative  information recorded regarding  Loans 1 to 3 on Mr Hs credit 
file; and
4.The number of loans  taken from Loan 4 onwards  means any information recorded 
about them  is adverse. So all entries  about  Loans 4 onwards should  be removed 
from Mr Hs credit  file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires QQ to take off tax from this interest. QQ must give Mr H a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman, Im required to ask Mr H to accept  or reject my 
decision before  15 June 2019.
Roslyn Rawson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8226550