K821x#15complaint
N, a limited company,  has complained First Data Europe Limited wont refund them  for a 
transaction made using a card terminal  which they didnt authorise.
Mrs R, a director of N, represents them in their complaint.
background
In January 2019 Ns card terminal was used without  Ns authority. The terminal  was used to 
process a refund of £4,000. Mrs R complained to First Data  at the end of February that this 
had been done without  Ns consent.  She was particularly  concerned  that this transaction 
bore no resemblance  to Ns normal payment traffic  and had not been  questioned.
First Data seemed to accept that N had been  a victim  of fraud but believed  their terms and 
conditions determined where responsibility lay. As they considered these meant  transactions 
were processed at Ns risk, they werent prepared to make any refund. They  expected N to 
repay the outstanding funds.
Mrs R brought Ns complaint to the ombudsman  service. An investigator reviewed what  had 
happened. Overall  she didnt agree with First Data. As N hadnt  authorised  the refund 
transaction, they should be reimbursed under the Payment  Services Regulations. She also 
believed there  was no evidence to show N had acted with intent or gross negligence leading 
to the refund  being processed.
First Data didnt agree with this outcome. They pointed out that N hadnt  let them know about 
the unauthorised  refund  for a month which limited their ability to get any money  back. They 
asked an ombudsman to consider Ns complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I explain below why Ive come to the conclusion I have.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance  of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence.
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance  and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. 
how did the fraud happen?
The detail of how the fraud  worked   with three  individuals  in the guise of making  a card 
payment, taking control of the card terminal and processing the refund  without  Ns staff 
being aware of what was going on  was covered in our investigators view of 4 November 
2020.
Ref: DRN89521242Im aware, as will be First Data, that this isnt an unknown method of committing  fraud. 
Fraudsters with sufficient knowledge of how card payments work have seen this as a 
method of processing  higher-value refunds to cards, which are then used for fraudulent 
spending.
First Data has told us that the information  about  how to process refunds is included  in the 
instruction guide  which  was sent to N along  with their card terminal.  This states:
the terminal  is shipped with an initial default password of [XXXXX] but is configured so that 
a change of this password is required before you process any transactions.
Terminals generally have a default code set up which  can be used to activate refunds to a 
debit or credit card (as well as authorise  other  specific actions). As far as Im aware First 
Data hadnt issued  any instruction to their merchants in 2019 or earlier  that it is incumbent 
on them  to ensure all codes, passwords and PINs are changed from their default setting.
I see no reason to doubt that a supervisor  password  was used to process the refund. 
Particularly as I believe  its not a simple process  for any refund to be processed without a 
code being used.
Based on this I think its most likely  that sufficiently-knowledgeable fraudsters were aware of 
any default code  which allowed  them  access to this mechanism of setting up fraudulent  
refunds. 
Payment Services Regulations
First Data has already  accepted in correspondence that the relevant law providing a 
framework for how to consider this complaint is The Payment Services  Regulations 2017.
There are two key aspects to clarify. Firstly that merchant acquiring activity  comes under 
these regulations and secondly  that payment transactions, as defined  by the Regulations, 
were executed by the fraudsters using Ns terminal. 
Im also going to confirm  that N, a limited company, are covered by the PSRs  by virtue of 
being a payment service user. Im aware First Data  queried whether  N  a business   didnt 
fit the definition  of a consumer  (which  means an individual ). The definition of payment 
service user under the regulations covers a person when  making  use of a payment service 
in the capacity of payer, payee  or both. Im satisfied N is a payment service  user within the 
meaning of the regulations.
Our investigator laid out the detail on these  aspects in correspondence with First Data. Ive 
not seen any dispute raised by First Data that firstly  they are defined  as a payment service  
provider under these  regulations. 
Payment services, as included in Schedule 1 of PSRs 2017, includes the execution  of 
payment transactions. Schedule 1, Part 1, clause 1. states:
(c) the execution of payment transactions, including transfers of funds on a payment 
account with the users  payment service  provider or with another payment service provider  
(i)execution of direct debits, including one-off direct debits
(ii)execution of payment  transactions  through  a payment card or a similar device
(iii)execution of credit transfers, including standing  orders
Ref: DRN89521243(d) the execution of payment transactions where  the funds are covered  by a credit  line for a 
payment service user  
(ii) execution of payment transactions through  a payment card or a similar device
I believe the transaction which is essentially  the subject of this complaint  the refund  was 
carried out on Ns behalf by First Data and credited to the fraudsters.  This is a payment 
transaction for the purposes of the PSRs.
Guidance from the Financial Conduct  Authority  also states two separate  things:
Acquiring of payment  transactions is defined in regulation 2 as a payment service provided  
by a payment  service  provider contracting with a payee  to accept and process  payment 
transactions which result in a transfer of funds to the payee. This includes traditional  
merchant acquiring  services enabling  suppliers  of goods, services, accommodation or 
facilities to be paid for purchases  arising  from card scheme transactions.
The firm providing the merchant acquiring service enabling the [merchant] to process the 
card transaction and receive payment is providing  a payment service in this instance.
Im aware First Data has not disputed any of this background. However  it is relevant that I 
make a finding that the disputed transaction  the refund   falls within the definitions  of the 
PSRs.
There are two elements  of authorisation of a payment  transaction  under the PSRs: 
authentication and consent.  These  must both exist for a transaction  to be authorised.
N has denied authorising the execution  of the payment transaction.  It is for First Data  to 
prove that this was authenticated.  Ive not, however, seen any evidence  to show how or 
when or in what order the code was entered to authenticate  these transactions.  However,  as 
stated above,  I accept the principle that there are limited circumstances in which a refund 
can be processed. Therefore I agree that the password was used  to authenticate this 
transaction.
First Data believes  that N consented  to the execution of the payment transaction.  I believe 
from what theyve stated  their belief rests on the payment transaction  being  properly carried 
out. Id draw their attention to regulation  75 of the PSRs. This states:
Where a payment  service user denies having authorised an executed payment transaction, 
the use of a payment instrument recorded by the payment  service  provider, including  a 
payment initiation  service provider where appropriate, is not in itself necessarily sufficient to 
prove either that  
(a)the payment  transaction  was authorised by the payer; or
(b)the payer acted  fraudulently or failed with intent or gross  negligence to comply with 
regulation 72
So I dont  agree with First Datas interpretation. I dont really believe based on the evidence 
provided by N and statements by First Data that theres  evidence  to show N consented to 
this transaction.  The refund was for an amount of money well in excess  of normal  payments 
that N accepted  and follows a known fraudulent pattern. Im satisfied N didnt consent  to this 
transaction.
Ref: DRN89521244Its also relevant to consider whether N may have  acted with intent or gross negligence. I 
know that First Data  will be aware  that gross negligence is a high bar to get over and cannot  
be seen as mere  carelessness. 
The FCA guidance to the PSRs state:
The burden of proof lies with the payment service provider and if a claim that a transaction  
is unauthorised  is rejected, the rejection must be supported by sufficient evidence to prove 
that the customer is guilty of fraud, gross negligence or intentional breach and the reason  for 
the rejection must be explained  to the customer.
First Data has told us that N failed to change their terminal password and only told them  a 
month after the fraudulent refund that this had happened. However I dont believe either of 
these two facts amount  to gross negligence. As stated  above, Im not aware that First Data 
issued any instruction to their merchants in 2019  or earlier  about  how important it is to 
ensure all codes  and PINs are changed  from their default setting.
Nor can Ns advice to First Data about  the fraud  be seen as late in terms of whats contained 
within the PSRs.  I appreciate First Data were  notified too late to track down the funds but 
that doesnt change the legal requirement  upon  them to refund  N for the unauthorised  
transaction.
Overall I dont believe the case for gross negligence has been  made.
terms and conditions
I have considered the terms and conditions that First Data  supplied  to N at the beginning of 
their agreement. 
I dont see theres anything within these which makes me believe these have any primacy 
over the PSRs.
Although First Data alleges N is in breach of these, I dont believe this is the case. For 
example there is no evidence to suggest  N made their code known to any other party.  In fact 
if the default code was in use as I believe then this is what seems  to be the determining  
factor in leading to the fraud. That and fraudsters targeting N.
Ive already demonstrated the transaction was unauthorised under the PSRs. I dont believe 
First Datas terms  and conditions trump these  regulations in requiring N to be refunded.
triggers
Mrs R, on Ns behalf, raised a concern that First Data didnt spot the unusual pattern of this 
transaction being refunded. First Data confirmed they have a fraud monitoring team but they 
didnt identify this transaction  as unusual.
When reviewing this complaint, Ive already  confirmed I take into account  the law, regulators 
rules and guidance, any relevant codes of practice  and what  I consider to have been  good 
industry practice at the time. This means  I believe, as does the regulator, that First Data  
should fairly and reasonably have had systems  in place to look out for unusual transactions  
or other signs that might indicate  that its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst  other 
things). This is particularly  so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent 
Ref: DRN89521245years, resulting  in payment service providers being  generally more familiar with than the 
average customer. And that includes their business customers. 
I appreciate First Data may believe the mechanisms at their disposal to undertake  detailed  
monitoring is more limited  than those that may rest with banks. But Im not sure I agree with 
this assessment. Unlike banks, First Data is reviewing sets of transactions  carried out by 
specific customers rather than the breadth of transaction  and customer types that banks 
have.
So I do believe that First Data could have  been alerted to this transaction   specifically the 
value of the refund should have  caused  alarm bells to ring. However as Ive already decided  
N didnt authorise  this transaction, then this conclusion  is the one that impacts my proposed 
resolution.
putting things  right
As I have concluded that N didnt authorise  the refund,  I am going to ask First Data to put 
things right. 
My understanding is that N is out of pocket for the £4,000 which  has had an impact on them.  
First Data will need to repay  £4,000  to N. 8% simple interest a year will need to be added  to 
this from the date N repaid First Data until the date of settlement.
Im very aware that Ns complaint has been  with our service for a considerable period. 
During that time weve been dealing with a rising number of cases of this type which weve  
taken time to ensure were considering on a fair and reasonable  basis  in line with our 
statutes. I appreciate the impact  this must  have  had on N. I am sorry about this.
Unfortunately I am not able to instruct First Data to pay compensation to N for the distress 
this has inevitably caused its director. In cases where complainants  are companies, like N 
here, we are not able to pay compensation to companies for the distress  and inconvenience 
suffered by their directors. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is to instruct  First Date  Europe  Limited  to:
Repay £4,000 to N; and
Add 8% simple interest a year to this from the date N repaid First Data until the date 
of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 August 2021.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8952124