K822xcomplaint
Mr R is unhappy with how Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax)  has handled the sale of 
his property after it took possession. 
background 
Mr R had a mortgage  with Halifax. No repayments  were made to the mortgage from June 
2017 onwards.  As a result Halifax  applied for possession of the property. This was granted  
and Halifax took possession on 22 January 2019. The mortgage  balance was around 
£180,000. Halifax  obtained two independent  valuations of the property and marketed it for 
sale at £340,000.
Mr R had been attempting to sell the property himself before Halifax  took possession. The 
estate agent he was using confirmed that it had marketed the property at £342,500 but, due 
to a lack of interest, had reduced  the asking priced  to £325,000. 
After Halifax had taken  possession Mr Rs estate agent received an offer of £300,000. The 
offer was relayed to the department handling  the sale for Halifax on 30 January 2019. The 
offer was not immediately accepted. Mr R and his estate agents confirmed Mr R was happy 
to accept the offer. After  considering the offer Halifax  then accepted and told the estate 
agent on 13 February 2019. Mr Rs estate agent confirmed on 15 February 2019 that the 
prospective buyer had withdrawn their offer. 
Halifax has continued to market the property.  It reduced the asking price from £340,000 to 
£300,000 on 15 February 2019 but has so far been unable  to find a buyer.
Mr R complained to Halifax about  the handling of the sale. He was unhappy about the delay 
in accepting the offer and that the potential sale had fallen through as a result.
Halifax said it didnt think it had done  anything wrong. It said it had a duty to try and achieve  
the best sale price  possible  after taking possession.  And as the offer received was 
significantly below the price it had marketed the property at Halifax  said that it was right to 
follow its standard procedures and refer this for approval before accepting  it. It didnt think 
the 12 days it took to accept the initial offer was an unreasonable amount of time.
There was an error  responding to the complaint  which  meant Halifaxs  findings werent 
received by Mr R for a number of weeks. Halifax apologised for the delay in providing him an 
answer and paid him £100 for this. Unhappy with Halifaxs response Mr R asked our service 
to look into the complaint.  
An adjudicator looked into this and didnt think it was unreasonable  that Halifax took time to 
consider the offer before  confirming it accepted. The offer was less than the price  the 
property was being marketed at and the expected sale price indicated in the independent 
valuations Halifax had commissioned. And Halifax had a duty to try and achieve the best 
price possible. The adjudicator also didnt  think he could reasonably say that this delay was 
the sole cause  of the sale falling through. 
Ref: DRN83088622The adjudicator did though think that Halifax had made a mistake initially marketing the 
property at £340,000. The valuations Halifax commissioned had recommended an asking 
price between £310,000 and £325,000. And although Halifax  had followed its internal 
procedure by initially looking  for a price marginally higher than this, he thought  that wasnt 
the right thing to do here. This was because Mr Rs estate agent had already listed  the 
property around the higher price, and had no interest. The adjudicator  thought it wouldve 
been appropriate for Halifax to take that into account  here. And by not taking this into 
account he felt this wouldve caused Mr R additional frustration and distress at an already 
challenging time. So he recommended that Halifax pay him £400 for the distress caused  by 
this error.
Halifax agreed to the adjudicators suggestion. Mr R however rejected the opinion. He said 
the potential buyer had only dropped out because of Halifaxs attitude towards the original  
offer and he thought it more likely the sale wouldve gone ahead.  So he didnt think  the 
suggested settlement  was fair. He said the consequences of the sale not going ahead are 
that interest  and charges are continuing  to accrue  on the outstanding balance. And an 
equivalent purchase price  to the offer that fell through might not be achieved   potentially 
causing him a further loss. So if Halifax had made an error he thought  it should  have to 
cover these costs. As an agreement could not be reached the complaint has been  passed to 
me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Halifax was granted  possession  of the property due to the required contractual payments not 
being made. From the point it took possession of the property, Halifax  was responsible for 
selling it. And as has been  explained,  it does have a responsibility to try and obtain the best 
price possible. To do this Id expect Halifax to get the property valued independently and use 
this to instruct whoever is marketing  of the property.
Halifax has sent us details of two valuations  it obtained  one from a surveyor  and one from 
an estate agent.  This is what  I would  expect it to do when establishing a reasonable price for 
the property.
The two valuations suggested that the property was worth £310,000 but that an asking price  
of £325,000 was not unreasonable. Halifax has explained that its policy  is to initially  market a 
property marginally above the recommended asking price and gauge  interest  at that level.  
This policy is a matter of Halifaxs  commercial  judgement. But I agree with the adjudicator it 
wouldve made sense  for Halifax  to consider  departing  from its usual policy here. 
Mr R had already made efforts to sell the property and his estate agent confirmed it had 
marketed the property at £342,500 but received no interest. As a result it had reduced the 
asking price. I think if Halifax had considered this information, it wouldve realised that 
interest had already been gauged  at the higher threshold.  So it could then have foregone  its 
usual process of marketing at a higher price and immediately marketed the property at the 
price suggested by the valuation. I also agree with the adjudicator that this was likely  to have 
caused Mr R some distress at an already difficult time. So I think  itd be reasonable for 
Halifax to compensate him for this distress.
Ref: DRN83088623Turning to the offer for the property that fell through, I dont think Halifax  made an error with 
how it handled this offer. Mr R has said he felt the offer was not considered with respect, 
seriousness or professionalism. But I havent  seen anything to suggest  this. As Ive said, 
Halifax was obliged to try and achieve  the best price possible  when  selling the property. So I 
dont think it was unreasonable  that it didnt immediately accept the offer. Its reasonable that 
this would have  to be considered. And I dont  think the time taken to consider the offer  
from 30 January to 13 February 2019   was unreasonable.  
I also think, even  if Halifax  had foregone listing the property at a higher price and had used 
the market price from the valuations it obtained,  it still wouldve needed to take time to 
consider the offer before  accepting. Again, it had an obligation to try and achieve  the best 
possible price.  And I dont think accepting an offer immediately without at least considering  it 
against the information it had, would be doing so. So I cant  say that the decision to list the 
property at a higher  price was the reason the sale fell through.
Mr R has said that the offer was withdrawn because the purchaser was not willing to wait 
while it was considered and found  an alternative  property. So Mr R thinks that Halifax is 
responsible for the sale not proceeding. And he says it is unfair that interest  and charges are 
continuing to accrue  on the outstanding  balance  and the amount of equity he has, and in 
turn the amount  he receives when the property is sold,  is likely to decrease.
As Ive said,  I dont think Halifax was wrong to not immediately accept the offer.  And I think 
even if it had marketed  the property at a lower price  it would always have needed to consider 
it. So it seems  likely that the purchaser would  always have been required to wait  and if 
they were unwilling to do so, they would always likely have withdrawn. 
Even if the offer had been  accepted  more  quickly, this does not guarantee that the sale 
wouldve gone through as it was simply an offer at that stage.  Mr R thinks that it likely  would  
have as his estate agent says the potential purchaser was in a position to proceed.  But there 
are a number of things  that couldve changed  between that point  and the sale completing. 
There couldve been changes to the purchasers  circumstances or delays to the process,  
which given they withdrew the offer because of the short delay in considering it could again 
have led to them not proceeding. Likewise the potential purchaser couldve still found  an 
alternative property or decided not to proceed at all. And because  of these potential  
variables, and taking  account that the purchaser did withdraw, I cant  safely  say that it is 
more likely than not that the sale wouldve gone  ahead even if the offer had been accepted 
straight away  which again  Halifax wasnt obliged to do anyway. 
So, as I dont think Halifax handled  the offer incorrectly and I cant  say that the purchase 
would have gone ahead even if the offer had been handled differently, I cant  reasonably 
hold Halifax responsible for any losses  Mr R may incur. I think Halifax is entitled  to continue 
to apply interest and charges to the outstanding balance  in line with the original  agreement. 
And Halifax is entitled to hold Mr R liable for this amount.
So what  is left for me to decide is what the reasonable  way for Halifax  to address the 
additional distress  it caused  to Mr R, through how it initially marketed the property, is. And I 
think the payment  of £400 that it agreed to following  discussion  with our adjudicator is a fair 
resolution here.
Ref: DRN83088624my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold this complaint  in part and require 
Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) to pay Mr R £400 in full and final settlement of his 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 August 2019.
Ben Stoker
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8308862