K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a shortfall  debt arising from the repossession  of a property 
previously owned  by Mrs C and Mr B, which was subject  to a mortgage  with NRAM Limited. 
The complaint has been brought by Mrs C, with the consent of Mr B.
To settle  the complaint Mrs C wants NRAM to demonstrate that she owes  the debt, to check  
its calculations are correct, and not to record this information on her credit file until it is 
proven otherwise.
background
The evidence in the case is detailed, running to several hundred pages of documents.  Ive 
read everything, and its apparent that some  parts of the evidence  are less relevant  to the 
underlying case  than others.  There are also a lot of duplicated documents and repetition  of 
arguments. In what  follows,  I have, by necessity, summarised  events in rather less detail 
than has been  presented.
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection  of the informal service  we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think  it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint.  This approach is consistent with what  our 
enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on the issues on which  I consider a 
fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by matters which, although presented as 
material, are, in my opinion peripheral or, in some instances, have little or no impact  on the 
broader outcome.
I also note that, in a letter  dated  7 August 2020,  the investigator set out a detailed timeline of 
events. Both parties have  had a copy of that letter, so I do not need to repeat all the details 
here. Our decisions are published and so its important that I dont include in my decision 
any information that might lead Mrs C or Mr B to be identified.
Briefly, in September 2004 Mrs C (then  known  as Mrs B) and Mr B took out a mortgage with 
NRAM so they could purchase a property. They borrowed £94.050, against a purchase  price 
of £99,000. They also took out an unsecured  loan of £14,850. In August 2007  they switched 
to a new product,  borrowing a total of £108,192.51,  repaying the unsecured  loan.
Unfortunately the mortgage fell into arrears and was repossessed by NRAM on 31 October 
2013. I understand that by this time Mrs C was no longer  living at the property, as she and 
Mr B had separated.
The property was sold by NRAM  in February 2014 for £77,000. This left a shortfall debt of 
£31,669.90. NRAM contacted Mrs C about repayment of the shortfall, and recorded the 
default on her credit  file.
Mrs C complained to NRAM about the way it had pursued her for the shortfall debt. NRAM 
didnt uphold  the complaint so Mrs C complained  to the Financial Ombudsman Service.  She 
queried the amount of the shortfall debt and asked us to confirm  the amount is correct.  
Mrs C also said there  were long periods of time when NRAM didnt contact her about 
payment of the debt and that NRAMs communication has been poor. Mrs C was also 
unhappy that the shortfall debt has been  recorded on her credit file.
Ref: DRN88895262An investigator looked at the complaint but didnt think it should  be upheld.  In his letter dated 
7 August 2020  he explained all the reasons why he thought  NRAM  had acted fairly. He 
noted that in 2014  thered  been some confusion  over Mrs Cs date of birth and address, but 
these issues had been resolved. In 2015  Mrs C had taken advice from StepChange and had 
offered to pay £10 towards the shortfall debt. But it appears that Mrs C wasnt able to afford  
any payment towards the debt.
After that NRAM lost touch with Mrs C until 2018, when she contacted  NRAM asking for 
information about the mortgage. NRAM provided Mrs C with documentation shed requested, 
but it was at this point  that Mrs C raised her complaint.
The investigator noted that NRAM had sent a letter to an incorrect address at one point, but 
it had offered Mrs C compensation of £100 for this. He thought this was fair and reasonable.
Finally, the investigator  was satisfied that NRAM had correctly  recorded the shortfall  debt on 
Mrs Cs credit file.
Mrs C didnt agree with the investigators findings and asked for an ombudsman to review  
the complaint.  Shes made some further  points  which I will summarise  as follows:
she shouldnt be liable  because NRAM recorded her name incorrectly, as well as her 
date of birth; this is a serious breach.
after they separated,  she wasnt told about  any dealings  between NRAM and Mr B; she 
doesnt believe NRAM ever contacted  Mr B
new issues are now arising  in relation to overly-high  interest rates, possible mis-selling of 
products, unfair treatment  by NRAM prior to repossession and the property having been 
sold at an undervalue; she cant go back to NRAM with these questions;
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I will begin by explaining  that, under the rules  laid down  by the regulator, the Financial  
Conduct Authority  (FCA),  the Financial Ombudsman  Service  isnt able to consider a 
complaint until the business complained of has had the opportunity  to review the complaint 
and issue its final response. So although  Ive noted  all the new issues  Mrs C would like me 
to consider, she will first need to raise these with NRAM.
The issues  I am considering in this complaint are those detailed on the complaint form, as 
follows:
NRAMs actions in pursuing Mrs C for the shortfall debt, including poor customer  service;
the accuracy of the amount claimed  by NRAM;
NRAM recording information  about  the shortfall debt on Mrs Cs credit file.
As I said above, the investigator has provided  a detailed timeline of events  in his letter dated 
7 August 2020.  Ive reviewed this against  the contact notes and Im satisfied that it is an 
accurate record of what happened.
the amount of the shortfall debt: After  the property was taken into possession,  NRAM 
received valuations from local estate agents, and marketed the property at £85,000 (the 
Ref: DRN88895263highest valuation). The property was sold for £77,000, which  is approximately £7,000  more  
than the lowest  valuation. 
Ive reviewed the investigators calculations of the amount of the shortfall debt,  which takes 
into account all expenses  which had to be deducted  from the net proceeds of sale before the 
balance was applied  to the mortgage  account. Ive compared this with the information on file 
about the fees and charges involved  in selling the property. Having done so, Im satisfied 
that the shortfall debt of £31,669.90 appears to be correct.
Liability for a shortfall debt is joint and several. This means that NRAM is able to look to 
recover the entire debt from either party.
contact with Mrs C: I agree that NRAMs communication with Mrs C could have been 
better. There was some  difficult  in Mrs C passing security due to her date of birth being  
incorrectly recorded on the file. Shed also changed her name and NRAM hadnt recorded a 
change of address  on file. But these  issues were ironed out and NRAM was able to discuss 
the shortfall debt with Mrs C.
I also note Mrs C had independent  advice from StepChange, which  liaised with NRAM on 
behalf of Mrs C. Im satisfied it was appropriate for Mrs C to take this advice, and I cant  see 
that NRAM placed any undue pressure on her in relation to payment  of the shortfall.  Indeed, 
the notes show  that NRAM noted Mrs Cs Income  & Expenditure forms demonstrated she 
wasnt able to afford anything and so didnt accept proposals it considered unaffordable.
Overall, Im satisfied NRAMs contact with Mrs C was appropriate and reasonable, once it 
was able to establish her correct address and had recorded her security information  
correctly. NRAM is required by the FCA to consider fairly any repayment proposals, and Im 
satisfied that it did. I appreciate there  were  some contact difficulties when Mrs C was 
attempting to come  to an arrangement with NRAM, but overall  I dont think this has resulted 
in any detriment to Mrs C, because  she wasnt able to afford any payment towards  the 
shortfall in any event.
credit file: NRAM is entitled to record the shortfall  debt against Mrs Cs credit file. It wasnt  
able to do so until it had her correct  address.  If Mrs C thinks  the information recorded  by 
NRAM is incorrect, shell need  to take this up with the credit  reference agencies.
conclusion: I note NRAM offered  Mrs C £100 compensation for errors  in relation to her 
security details and address. Im satisfied this is fair and reasonable. Im not ordering NRAM 
to pay any further  compensation.
As noted above,  in relation to Mrs Cs other  concerns about the mortgage (mis-sale, interest 
rates, repossession,  sale at an undervalue),  shell need to raise  these first with NRAM before 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is able to consider them.  Our consideration of any 
complaint is subject to our rules, including the time limits specified in the rules.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 March  2021.
Ref: DRN88895264Jan OLeary
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8889526