K821x#15complaint
Mr B has complained about the advice he was given by St Pauls Marketing Limited  (an 
Appointed Representative of Alexander  David  Securities Limited) to transfer his pension  to a 
self-invested personal pension (SIPP) and invest in an unsuitable investment.
background
Mr B, through his representative,  complained to Alexander David  in November 2018.  I 
understand Alexander David didnt provide a response  to the complaint. The representative 
subsequently referred  it to us.
One of our adjudicators looked  into Mr Bs complaint. He asked Alexander David for its files 
and to provide  any evidence  it wanted  us to take into account.  Despite reminders,  he 
received no response. The adjudicator therefore  assessed the complaint  on the evidence 
that had been presented.
The background to the complaint was set out by the adjudicator in his assessment. Mr B had 
said he received  a letter from St Pauls  Marketing Limited stating  theyd located
his current pension, although he didnt know how they had become involved with it. Mr
B said he received  phone calls and an adviser visited him and explained  by moving  his
pension he would get a further  1-2% per year.
Mr B said he wasnt made aware of the specific investment  and his understanding was that 
he would  invest at a medium level of risk. Approximately £55,000 was transferred/invested  
into a SIPP  in May 2016, of which approximately £50,000 was transferred to a discretionary  
fund manager  and invested  in a single companys debentures.
The adjudicator said it hadnt been disputed that St Pauls Marketing were involved in the 
transaction. And he said he thought  St Pauls Marketing had recommended  the investment to 
Mr B. 
The adjudicator said he thought the investments were high risk, having limited liquidity, listed 
on a smaller unregulated  market and having  a limited track  record. He thought investing 
most of a pension in such a scheme  would  increase  the investment risk by concentrating in a 
single plan, as opposed to diversifying  across several holdings  and asset  classes. He 
thought it wouldve been clear that the intended  investment was unsuitable for Mr Bs 
circumstances, particularly given  that he wanted access  to his pension  benefits.
The adjudicator also said if St Pauls Marketing hadnt made a recommendation it was still 
obliged to assess the appropriateness  of the investment in accordance  with COBS 10.2.1 
(Conduct of Business Rules). And it also had an overriding obligation  to act in Mr Bs best 
interests. 
The adjudicator thought  that if St Pauls  Marketing had carried out an appropriateness 
assessment it wouldve  identified that Mr B couldnt  afford to invest his entire pension plan in 
such a high risk, illiquid and niche investment. He said there was no evidence to suggest  
that Mr B wouldve insisted to proceed with the transaction against suitable advice to retain 
his current pension. The adjudicator said the pension switch  wasnt in Mr Bs best interests 
and it shouldnt have  proceeded.
Ref: DRN85589632The adjudicator sent his assessment of the complaint to Alexander David.  However it didnt  
provide a response. The adjudicator wrote to both parties on 28 February 2020 explaining 
that the complaint would be passed to an ombudsman  for review and to make  a final 
decision.  No further evidence or arguments were provided.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Alexander David didnt  respond to Mr Bs original complaint or to the adjudicators requests 
for information. It didnt  provide any further  evidence or arguments  in response to the 
adjudicators assessment.  So theres only very limited evidence available to establish what 
happened at the time of the transfer  and investment. 
Ive carefully considered  the evidence that is available including  Mr Bs recollections of 
events. Alexander David/St Pauls Marketing hasnt disputed what Mr B said in his complaint  
to it, or what the investigator said in his assessment. 
Im also mindful that this is one of a number  of complaints we have received and which I 
have seen against St Pauls Marketing Limited;  all of a similar nature, involving seemingly 
similar circumstances and the same  investments. 
Clearly I need to consider each complaint on its own facts. But Ive noted  that what Mr B has 
said about St Pauls role is consistent  with what other complainants have described.  So I 
think what he has said is plausible. And taking everything into account,  I have  found  it 
credible. 
Mr B completed a complaint form for us a copy of which was sent to Alexander  David.  In the 
complaint form Mr B said that St Pauls Marketing contacted him and following several  phone  
calls he had a meeting with them at his home.  He said he was advised to transfer his 
pension for improved returns. He said he was unemployed at the time, had no savings, and 
was a low to medium risk investor.  He said he shouldnt have been exposed  to such  a high-
risk investment which was unsuitable  for him and his objectives. 
The documentation  shows St Pauls  Marketing  were involved  from the outset. Mr B 
subsequently transferred  his pensions to the SIPP and invested in the debentures. In my 
experience its unusual for someone  of Mr Bs background  and experience to want  to 
transfer an existing  pension in order to invest in this type of investment without prompting. 
Im satisfied that St Pauls Marketing initiated  the investment in the debenture. It was aware  
of where the investment was going  to be made through  the DFM and facilitated it. Mr B has 
said St Pauls Marketing  advised him to use his pension to invest  in the debentures, the 
investigator said he thought it likely St Pauls  Marketing had recommended the investment 
and it wasnt suitable for him. And the firm hasnt disputed this. In all the circumstances and 
on the balance  of the evidence available, I think its more likely  than not that advice was 
given.
St Pauls Marketing was the promoter  for the debenture, but Im satisfied, on the limited 
evidence available, that it went beyond just promoting it and was involved in arranging the 
investment (as well as recommending  it). Mr B has described its involvement and the 
documentation that is available is consistent with what  he has said. 
Ref: DRN85589633These debentures were a non-readily realisable security.  The promotional  material I have 
seen referred to debentures as illiquid; said that there might be no market  for them  even 
after listing,  and said that investors might  need  to hold them  to redemption. COBS 10 
required St Pauls Marketing to assess Mr Bs knowledge and experience in the investment 
field relevant to the specific type of product or service offered or demanded so as to enable  
the firm to assess whether the service or product envisaged is appropriate.
Mr B had no significant investment knowledge  and no experience  of making  investments  of 
this nature. The debentures were high risk and speculative and clearly  not appropriate for   
Mr B given his background, knowledge and circumstances.
In my view switching a pension can be a fairly complex transaction with a number of different 
factors to weigh up and consider. Mr B was an ordinary retail investor. He doesnt  appear to 
have had any particular  experience or knowledge of this type of transaction or the complex 
and higher risk investments he was invested into. I think Mr B was entitled  to rely on the firm 
providing advice  that was suitable to his circumstances. It was acting in its professional  
capacity and was obliged to take reasonable care to ensure the suitability of its advice and to 
act in Mr B interests. 
Mr B has said he was a low to medium risk investor.  Mr B had very limited capacity for loss. I 
think it was clear that the debentures  werent  suitable or appropriate for Mr B and this should 
have been clear to St Pauls Marketing. 
Taking everything into account,  Im satisfied that if St Pauls Marketing hadnt advised Mr B to 
transfer and invest  in the debentures or if it had told him it wasnt appropriate or suitable  for 
him, he wouldnt have  transferred  and invested in them.  Accordingly, Im satisfied that St 
Pauls Marketings failures caused  Mr B to transfer  and invest in a product that he would 
otherwise not have  invested into. And Im satisfied its failures caused the losses that Mr B 
has claimed.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Bs complaint
I order Alexander David Securities Limited to calculate and pay compensation to Mr B on the 
following basis.
fair compensation
In assessing what would  be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr B as close as possible to
the position he would probably  now be in if he had been given suitable advice. I think  Mr B
would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely  what he would have done,
but I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr Bs
circumstances and objectives when he invested.
what should  Alexander David do?
To compensate Mr B fairly  Alexander  David should compare the performance of Mr Bs 
investment with that of the benchmark  shown below. If the fair value is greater than the 
actual value, there is a loss and compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than 
the fair value , no compensation  is payable.
Ref: DRN85589634Alexander David Securities Ltd should also pay any interest as set out below.  If there is a 
loss, Alexander David Securities Ltd should pay into Mr Bs pension plan to increase its 
value by the amount of the compensation and any interest. The payment should allow for the 
effect of charges and any available tax relief.  Alexander David Securities Ltd shouldnt  pay 
the compensation into the pension plan if it would  conflict with any existing  protection  or 
allowance.
If Alexander David Securities Ltd is unable to pay the compensation into Mr Bs pension 
plan, it should  pay that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it 
would have provided a taxable  income.  Therefore the compensation should be reduced to
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise  have been  paid.  The notional
allowance should  be calculated using Mr Bs actual  or expected marginal rate of tax at his
selected retirement age.
I think Mr B is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, so the
reduction should equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr B would have been able
to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction  should be applied  to 75% of the compensation.
investment  
namestatus Benchmarkfrom
(start date)to
(end 
date)additional 
interest
SIPP still exists Original 
personal 
pensionDate of 
transferDate of 
decision8% simple  a
year from date
of decision to
date of
settlement if
settlement  isnt
made within
28 days  of
Alexander
David  being
notified  of
Mr Bs 
acceptance of
this decision
In addition, Alexander  David  should:
Pay Mr B £300 for the distress and inconvenience Im satisfied the matter  has 
caused him.
Provide details of the calculation to Mr B in a clear,  simple format.
Ref: DRN85589635Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Alexander David Securities Ltd 
considers that it is required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct  income  tax from  
that interest, it should tell Mr B how much  it has taken off. It should  also give Mr B a 
tax deduction  certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Actual value
This means  the actual transfer  value of the SIPP  at the end date.
If, at the end date,  the debenture is illiquid (meaning  it cannot  be readily sold on the open 
market), it may be difficult  to find the actual value of the SIPP.  So, the value should be 
assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. Alexander  David  Securities Ltd should take 
ownership of the illiquid investment by paying a commercial value acceptable to the pension  
provider / administrator. This amount should  be deducted from the compensation  and the 
balance paid as above.
If Alexander David Securities Ltd is unable to purchase the debentures its value should be 
assumed to be nil for the purpose of calculation.
Alexander David Securities Ltd may wish to require  that Mr B provides an undertaking to pay 
it any amount he may receive from the debentures in the future. That undertaking must allow 
for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing or receipt  from the pension plan. 
Alexander David Securities Ltd will need  to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking.
Fair value
This is what  the sum transferred from the pension provider, plus any charges incurred within  
the plan to date had they grown in line with the benchmark.
Any additional sum paid into the SIPP should  be added to the fair value calculation from 
the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal,  income or other  distribution  out of the SIPP  should be deducted from the fair 
value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation  from 
that point on. 
SIPP Fees
The investigator recommended  that Alexander David pay five years worth  of SIPP fees if it 
couldnt buy the investment. I think this is reasonable  as Mr B hasnt  got the opportunity to 
close the SIPP or switch  to another pension if the illiquid debenture remains in it. So if 
Alexander David Securities Ltd cant buy the investment  and it remains illiquid, it should  pay 
Mr B an amount equal to five years  of SIPP fees based on the current  tariff.  This is in 
addition to the compensation calculated using a nil value for the investment. 
Why is this remedy suitable?
Mr B has said he was a low to medium risk investor.  His existing pension was invested  in 
assets that were  suitable to his risk profile.  In all the circumstances,  I dont think Mr B would 
have transferred with suitable advice. So I think the comparison should  be against his 
original pension arrangement.
Ref: DRN85589636Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 January 2021.
David Ashley
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8558963