K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains about the charges that have been  applied  to his bank account  with Lloyds 
Bank plc.
background
Mr M has a bank  account with Lloyds  which  has an authorised overdraft. He complained to 
Lloyds in March  2019 about the charges that had been applied to his account. It said that a 
complaint must be made within six years of the event complained (or later in some 
circumstances) so it had only been able to review charges  applied  to his account since 
March 2013. But having reviewed his account history and the charges that hed incurred, it 
was satisfied that the charges had been correctly applied to his account.  And it set out the 
actions that it had taken since 2016 when Mr M had contacted it about his financial 
difficulties which it said showed that it had responded to them positively and sympathetically.  
Mr M wasnt satisfied  with its response  so complained  to this service.
The investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld. He thought  that all 
the charges were applied in line with the terms and conditions of Mr Ms account  so he 
couldnt say that Lloyds  had done  anything wrong.  And he thought  that Lloyds had 
responded fairly once Mr M had told it about his difficulties - so he wouldnt be asking it to do 
any more.
Mr M has asked  for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Mr M complained to Lloyds in March 2019  about  the charges that have been applied  to his 
account since 2000. It said that it could only consider a complaint about charges  that had 
been applied  since March 2013. I consider that to be correct so in this decision Im only 
considering the charges that have been  applied  to Mr Ms account since March  2013.
The Supreme Court considered bank charges in November 2009 and said that they couldnt 
be challenged because  they were unfair or too high. Lloyds says that the charges have been 
applied in accordance with the terms and conditions of Mr Ms account. And Ive seen no 
evidence (other than what Mr M says) to show that the charges have been  applied 
incorrectly or that Lloyds  hasnt complied with the applicable codes, rules and regulations.
I sympathise with Mr M for the financial difficulties  that hes experienced. And I can 
understand his frustration  that the charges  seem  to have made his situation  worse. But Im 
not persuaded that the charges have  been  applied incorrectly.
A bank  is required to respond  to a customers financial difficulties positively and 
sympathetically. That doesnt mean that its obliged to refund charges, or to take any other 
particular action, as whats  appropriate  in each  case will depend on the customers  individual 
circumstances.
Lloyds says that Mr M first contacted  it about his financial  difficulties  in July 2016 and it 
discussed the long-term support options that were  available  to him and that it applied a fee-
Ref: DRN83257552free control service for six months  and waived all pre-notified and accrued fees at that time. 
Its account notes show  that Mr M asked  for the control to be removed in December 2016.  
So I consider that Lloyds  responded to Mr Ms financial difficulties positively and 
sympathetically  as it was required to do. If hes continuing to experience financial 
difficulties I suggest  that he contacts Lloyds to discuss the options that are now available  to 
him. And its required to respond to any such difficulties positively and sympathetically.
For these reasons, I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to require Lloyds to 
refund to Mr M any of the charges that its applied  to his account,  to pay him any 
compensation or to take any other action in response to his complaint.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 January 2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8325755