K820x#14complaint
Miss P complains  about the charges HSBC UK Bank Plc has applied on her account. This 
has led to her having financial difficulties.
 
background
Miss P complained to HSBC about  overdraft charges on her account.  In December 2018 it 
refunded £305  as a gesture of goodwill. But it said itd applied them  in line with its term and 
conditions so it hadnt done  anything  wrong.  Miss P was also concerned that itd returned a 
direct debit. But HSBC  said the payment wouldve taken her into an informal  overdraft 
situation. So it had to decide  whether it could honour  the payment or not. And each decision 
was made  individually.
The adjudicator didnt think HSBC had made any mistake in applying the overdraft charges. 
And he thought  itd dealt with Miss P positively and sympathetically  by referring her to its 
financial guidance team,  giving her information about debt advice charities and refunding  
£305 of charges as a gesture of goodwill. He looked  at the situation where Miss Ps direct 
debit hadnt been paid and thought  HSBC  had dealt properly with it.
Miss P wasnt happy with this. She said all she wanted was for HSBC  to put in place a 
formal overdraft limit. And she didnt  think it could apply charges  and fees when her only 
income was from state benefits.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
conclusion as the adjudicator for very similar reasons.
I can see that Miss P spoke to HSBC about  a formal overdraft in 2016 but it said it wasnt  
able to give her one. At that time it wrote to her to remind her she was responsible for 
keeping a credit balance in her account  and it explained that informal overdrafts are intended  
for exceptional rather than every  day use. 
HSBC has applied its charges in line with its terms and conditions. So I cant fairly say it was 
wrong to do so. It appears that Miss Ps income  is from state  benefits.  But that doesnt mean 
HSBC cant apply those  charges.   
When it knows someone is in financial difficulties it has a duty to act positively and 
sympathetically. I can see that since July 2016 HSBC  has advised Miss P several times to 
contact its Financial Guidance Team to help her with any financial difficulties. But it doesnt  
appear that Miss P took the opportunity to do that. Its also refunded charges as a gesture of 
goodwill. In those circumstances I cant fairly  ask it to do more.
The direct debit that HSBC returned was due to insufficient funds. If HSBC had honoured the 
payment it wouldve charged  her more overdraft fees. So I cant say it was wrong not to 
make the payment.
I know Miss P will be disappointed with my decision.  As the adjudicator suggested she may 
want to consider contacting HSBCs  Financial Guidance Team or one of the debt advice 
charities hes referred to in his opinion.
Ref: DRN86483782my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 July 2019.
Linda Freestone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8648378