K822xcomplaint
Mr K complains about poor service from American  Express Services  Europe Limited (Amex) 
when a late payment  marker was recorded  on his credit file.
background 
Mr K paid his Amex credit card bill but the payment  was recalled following an error by his 
bank. Amex recorded a late payment marker  on Mr Ks credit file and suspended the 
account until the amount owing was paid.
Mr K provided a letter from his bank  to explain the error, but Amex  didnt do anything to 
correct his credit file.
Following the involvement of this service, Amex accepted that its service hadnt been good  
enough. It corrected  the entry on Mr Ks credit file and offered £100 compensation. Our 
investigator thought  this was fair.
Mr K said the late payment marker was still showing  on his credit file. He also said that 
Amexs actions caused him considerable distress and had impacted his financial situation.  
So he didnt think the compensation offered  by Amex was enough.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Amex has accepted that it shouldve corrected Mr Ks credit  file when it received the letter  
from Mr Ks bank,  which explained why his credit  card payment had been  recalled. So I have 
to decide whether Amexs suggestions to put things right are reasonable.
Mr K says his credit  file still hasnt  been  corrected, but Amex has provided evidence  to show  
that it has. It seems the screenshots Mr K provided were taken before the more recent 
evidence provided  by Amex. On balance I think its likely that Mr Ks file has been  updated 
since he provided the screenshots, as it can take some time for credit agencies to make the 
necessary corrections.
Mr K has told us he was overseas when his account  was suspended by Amex, and he 
couldnt pay for his car to be fixed. Mr K is also concerned that hell have to pay more for 
credit as a result of the damage  to his credit rating. Ive noted everything Mr K has said.
As Ive already  said, Amex has provided  evidence  to show  that its corrected the entry  on Mr 
Ks credit file. That means any adverse impact on Mr Ks credit  score caused by Amex 
should now have  been corrected. 
I havent seen  any evidence to suggest  that Mr K applied  for credit while the incorrect entry  
was showing,  and after hed provided Amex with the letter  from his bank.  So Im not 
persuaded that hes had to pay increased credit costs due to the mistake by Amex. That 
means I cant award compensation on that basis. 
Ive also noted  what Mr K has said about what  happened when  his card was suspended 
while he was overseas. But it seems these  events took place before Amex was told about 
the mistake by Mr Ks bank. 
Ref: DRN83164932I dont consider it was unreasonable for Amex to suspend the account at that point. So it 
wouldnt be reasonable for me to ask the business  to compensate Mr K for the costs  he says 
he wouldve had to pay. 
Given Mr Ks particular  circumstances, I can see why he might consider Amexs  
compensation offer for the trouble and upset caused  isnt enough. But our awards  are not 
designed to punish a business. When I take account  of the circumstances overall,  and 
awards by this service  in complaints of a similar nature, Im satisfied that £100  is fair and 
reasonable compensation.
my final decision
My decision  is that American  Express Services Europe Limited  should  pay £100 to Mr K.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 February  2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8316493