K820x#14Complaint
Mr V complains about the service he received from Kindertons Ltd after he was involved in a 
road traffic accident.  
Background
Mr V has explained that in December 2018  he was involved  in a road traffic accident that 
wasnt his fault.  He contacted his insurance broker  and was referred to Kindertons to provide 
a hire vehicle and repairs to his van. After Kindertons had started managing  Mr Vs claim, 
the third party  disputed liability  and denied  that any accident  had taken place.  At this point, 
Kindertons explained  that it couldnt continue providing a service.  This is because it provides 
accident management services when the third party had accepted  liability.  As this wasnt  the 
case here, it couldnt continue.
Mr V explained to Kindertons that there  were  CCTV cameras  that wouldve recorded  the 
incident, and he asked Kindertons to obtain  this. Kindertons had asked Mr V to obtain  this 
himself. And admitted it shouldve told him immediately that there wasnt enough detail for it 
to obtain the CCTV.  So it offered Mr V £50 for the poor service  relating to this.
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mr Vs complaint as he felt Kindertons offer was fair and 
reasonable. He explained  that there was a delay  in Kindertons talking to the council to obtain  
CCTV, but he also explained that the council had said the CCTV didnt show conclusive  
proof that the accident had occurred,  so he didnt think it wouldve  made  a difference.  But he 
felt the delay was an error  and that £50 was fair and reasonable to compensate for this.
Mr V disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint so it has been passed 
to me to reach a decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint as I think Kindertons has done enough to put things right.
Kindertons provided  Mr V with an accident  management service  based on the fact that he 
was involved in a non-fault  accident. It aims to provide  its customers with a hire vehicle and 
repair of the damaged vehicle and claim the cost of this from the third party.  When  Mr V 
contacted Kindertons, it started to provide the service because  Mr V had explained  a car had 
reversed into him. But the third party  then contacted  Kindertons to explain that they didnt  
admit liability  and they denied the accident taking place. Kindertons told Mr V this as soon as 
it had been notified which was the right thing to do. At this point, it decided to withdraw  its 
service. I think this is fair and reasonable as it wouldnt have been able to claim the cost of 
providing this service if the third party wasnt held liable for the damage.
Mr V complained that Kindertons had delayed obtaining the CCTV from the council. I can 
see that Mr V was asking  for the footage,  and the council asked him to forward information  
to Kindertons. And Kindertons then didnt act on this for over two weeks. So I think it 
couldve acted more  promptly in communicating with Mr V and the council about  the CCTV. 
However I think the compensation that it has offered - £50 in total  is fair and reasonable, Ill 
explain why.
Ref: DRN86660842When Mr V and Kindertons were talking to the council about the CCTV, the council  
explained that the footage showed Mr Vs van parking, but didnt conclusively show any later 
collision between Mr Vs van and the third partys  car. So I dont think  obtaining this CCTV 
wouldve led to Kindertons continuing to provide the service  and it was entitled  not to as 
soon as it was confirmed that liability  was disputed.  So I think the £50 is fair to recognise the 
trouble and upset  caused by Kindertons delay in communication about the CCTV.
I understand Mr V is still having to drive  his van with the damage,  and I know  this will not be 
the answer he was looking  for. However  he may be able to claim under his insurance policy. 
It will then be for his insurer to determine who was at fault for the damage.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint as the offer Kindertons  Ltd 
made to Mr V was fair and reasonable.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr V accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 December 2019.
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8666084