K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out 
in 1994. Miss C says Bank of Scotland plc (under the Halifax  brand) mis-sold her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Cs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
The PPI was sold in branch at the same  time as the mortgage.  The mortgage application 
form Miss C signed indicated that she wanted  PPI  referred  to as Mortgage Payments 
Protector. Miss C also signed a separate PPI application  form, which included information  
about the PPI including its cost.  So I think Bank  of Scotland made  it clear  that Miss C 
didnt have  to take out the PPI and she chose to take it out  although I can understand 
why she cant  remember this.
Bank of Scotland recommended the PPI to Miss C so it had to check that the PPI was 
right for her  and based  on what Ive seen of her circumstances  at the time, I think  that it 
was. For example she wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover and she seems to have had a need  for the cover,  which wouldve paid her 
mortgage if shed  been off work sick or became unemployed. 
The PPI application form showed  the monthly premium. So I think  Bank of Scotland  
clearly showed her the cost of the policy before she agreed to it. The payment was taken 
by direct  debit alongside her mortgage  payment, so it didnt show up separately  on her 
bank statements.  But Im satisfied she shouldve been  aware of the PPI at the time of 
sale. 
Its possible the other  information Bank  of Scotland gave Miss C about  the PPI wasnt  as 
clear as it shouldve  been. But she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted  this 
type of cover.  And it seems like it would  have been useful for her if something went  
wrong. It also looks like it was affordable.  So I dont think  better  information  about the PPI 
would have  put her off taking out the cover. 
Miss C says she cant remember any discussion of PPI and wasnt aware that she had it. 
But as well as the evidence mentioned above which  shows  Bank  of Scotland made her 
aware of it, I can see that she wrote  to Bank of Scotland in 1996 asking for the PPI to be 
cancelled. So it seems  that she was aware of it and has since  forgotten   which  is 
understandable given  how long ago it was. 
For these reasons,  Bank of Scotland doesnt have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to 
Miss C.
But Bank of Scotland has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss C because: 
Ref: DRN85521812Bank of Scotland  got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium)  - so it should have told Miss C about that. Because  Bank  of Scotland didnt 
tell Miss C, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Bank of Scotland has paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Miss C has said. But these points dont change my decision. 
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Miss C.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Miss C any commission  and profit  share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 May 2019.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8552181