K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  about the settlement offered by Society of Lloyds for their buildings  
insurance accidental  damage claim. They also complain about the appointment and conduct 
of the surveyor Lloyds appointed to assess the damage at their home. 
 
background
In February 2018,  Mr and Mrs M became concerned about cracks in their home which  they 
believed were the result of building works  being undertaken by their next door neighbour. In 
particular they felt damage had been  caused  by the vibration from a large mechanical 
breaker which was breaking up solid rock as part of the groundworks. 
Mr and Mrs M made claim  under their buildings insurance. Lloyds appointed a surveyor  to 
assess the damage. He wrote to Mr and Mrs M to advise them of his appointment and said 
that based on the details  theyd provided  he didnt  think the works were close enough to their 
home to cause the cracks described. He asked Mr and Mrs M to send him some 
photographs and further information about  when and how the damage occurred. 
Following receipt of the photographs and video, the surveyor contacted Mr and Mrs M again. 
He said that the damage appeared slight rather than structural. He thought  some  aspects  of 
the damage appeared old and some  appeared to be normal  wear and tear. He said the work  
required appeared minor. He suggested  a date to visit. Mrs M replied  to say she was 
pleased he thought there wasnt any structural damage.  
The surveyor visited in mid- April and sent his report to Mr and Mrs M at the start of May. 
The report  said the majority of the cracks  were  either the result of wear  and tear or thermal  
in nature  neither was covered by Mr and Mrs Ms policy. The surveyor said there  were  two 
specific areas of damage that, whilst they likely pre-existed the building  works, could have 
been aggravated as a result. He said Lloyds would  consider this damage under the 
additional accidental  damage to buildings  cover they had under their policy  and proposed a 
cash settlement of £250.
Mr and Mrs M didnt  reply  to the surveyor so he wrote twice more  over the next six weeks to 
ask how they wished to proceed. 
At the end of April, Mr and Mrs M wrote to the broker  who had sold their policy  to complain  
about the surveyor Lloyds had appointed. They queried why the broker  hadnt arranged  for 
a local surveyor who understood the topography of the area to be appointed instead  of 
paying to fly their appointed surveyor in. They said they were unhappy with the surveyors  
conduct during  his visit. 
After receiving the surveyors report at the start of May, Mr and Mrs M emailed the broker  to 
complain about  the settlement theyd been offered. They said they wouldnt be replying to 
the surveyor. 
Mr and Mrs Ms complaint was passed  to Lloyds to respond to. It issued its final response at 
the end of June 2018.  It noted  that Mr and Mrs M hadnt responded to the settlement offered  
but had raised  concerns about  the surveyors behaviour and the amount offered in 
settlement. Lloyds was of the view that it couldnt  ignore the surveyors report and his view 
of the damage  reported. It said the majority of the damage had happened over a prolonged 
period rather than the result of a sudden  and specific event covered by the policy. Lloyds 
Ref: DRN88814412referred to the policy exclusion  clause for damage  caused gradually or by wear and tear. It 
said that if Mr and Mrs M wanted to get their own expert evidence  about the damage  then it 
would of course consider it. Lloyds said it noted  their comments  about the surveyors 
behaviour but, as it wasnt present  at the time of the visit, was unable to comment  itself on 
what may or may not have happened.  
Unhappy with the outcome of Lloyds investigation,  Mr and Mrs M complained  to this service. 
Our adjudicator looked into the complaint but didnt recommend that it was upheld.  Mr and 
Mrs M disagreed with our adjudicator. They said they thought it was wrong that Lloyds  
hadnt appointed a local surveyor who knew the topography  of the area,  that the surveyors  
settlement proposal  was based on making good  the cracks hed identified  rather than a 
complete redecoration and that the surveyor  himself was a loss adjuster not a surveyor. 
Our adjudicator looked at Mr and Mrs Ms complaint again but didnt change  his mind. He 
said it was up to Lloyds  who to appoint as surveyor.
The complaint was passed  to me for a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Although  I appreciate it will come as a 
disappointment to Mr and Mrs M, I dont think their complaint should be upheld. Ill explain 
why. 
Its firstly worth  mentioning that within the confines of this complaint I can only look at Lloyds 
actions. I cant look at any aspect  of Mr and Mrs Ms complaint here that relates to the 
actions of the broker (such as the blank letter template  email,  original loss of claim etc.).  
Those complaints  need to be first directed  to the businesses responsible. 
surveyors conduct
I appreciate Mr and Mrs Ms strength of feeling regarding  their account of the surveyors 
conduct when  he visited them  but its not something  Im able to make  a finding on. Thats 
because there is no independent  evidence  about what  was actually said. And it wouldnt be 
fair to accept  one partys  account over anothers. 
Lloyds appointment of the surveyor
I know that Mr and Mrs M think  that Lloyds should  have appointed  a local surveyor to 
inspect the damage  at their house because  they feel he or she wouldve appreciated the 
particular topography of the area. And Ive noted their account  of their conversations  with 
Lloyds about  the appointment and the surveyors qualifications. But the claim is Lloyds to 
administer and it can choose who it wants to appoint to survey the damage and oversee the 
claim. Thats not something  a policyholder typically has any influence  over nor is it 
something this service would interfere  with. How the claim is managed is up to the insurer. 
So I cant say that Lloyds did anything unreasonable  by appointing the company it did nor 
that it, in turn, unfairly  appointed one of its own surveyors and flew him to where  Mr and Mrs 
M live rather than appoint  someone local. 
Ref: DRN88814413Its unclear to me why Mr and Mrs M think the surveyor wasnt  professionally  qualified and 
was just a loss adjuster.  I have  no reason  to doubt  the surveyors qualifications  are as hes 
stated at all times. 
claim settlement
Ive reviewed the extensive photographs Mr and Mrs M have  sent showing the works next 
door and the damage they reported  to their home.  I can see that they were  worried about  
cracks that were apparent. 
Ive also read the report of the surveyor that attended to inspect the reported damage.  I note 
that, aside from two areas that he identified that couldve been made worse by the works, 
the other cracks were thermal in nature or a result of general wear  and tear. 
I know that Mr and Mrs Ms decorator  was present at the time the surveyor  visited  and 
commented that the cracks werent  present the last time he decorated (three  years 
previously) so mustve been the result of the vibration next door but the surveyor  was unable 
to agree. He explained that he looked for evidence  of fresh dust that might have fallen if the 
cracks had recently  opened up as a result  of the vibration, but that he found  none. 
Not all damage a home sustains is covered  but home insurance. Only damage caused by 
one of the insured events (fire, theft,  accidental damage etc.) listed  in the policy is covered. It 
is the policyholders responsibility to show that the damage claimed for is covered. If he or 
she can, then the insurer  must pay the claim unless  it is able to rely on one of the policy  
exclusions to defeat it. Here, Lloyds didnt think that (save for the two areas  identified)  the 
damage was caused by any of the events  listed in the policy.  It also pointed  out the general 
policy exclusion that damage caused gradually or by wear and tear wasnt covered. 
So I cant agree  that Lloyds  has unfairly declined to indemnify Mr and Mrs M for all the 
damage theyve claimed for. Whilst I appreciate that Mr and Mrs M disagree with the findings 
of Lloyds surveyor they have no expert evidence of their own that could challenge  the  
conclusions hes reached. 
It wouldnt be reasonable of me, in the absence of any expert evidence  to the contrary,  to 
ignore the expert evidence from the surveyor. Lloyds has said that if Mr and Mrs M want  to 
get their own report done in to the cause  of the cracks then it would, of course, consider 
what it said. That seems reasonable to me. 
Lloyds offered to cash settle this claim for £250.  That was in line with the claims settlement 
conditions in the policy. The two areas it identified as needing attention exhibited minor 
cosmetic cracking. Lloyds thought they were  capable of localised repair and that the amount 
it paid in settlement  was sufficient to achieve that. That doesnt  seem unreasonable to me. 
Mr and Mrs M have  said the hall, lounge and bedroom all need  to be completely  redecorated  
at a cost of £2,000. Im unable to fairly  recommend that such  extensive redecoration be 
carried out given  the relatively  minor  damage identified. That wouldnt be reasonable  in the 
circumstances. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Ref: DRN88814414Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 July 2019.
Claire Woollerson 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8881441