K820x#14Complaint
Mr D complains that Volkswagen Financial  Services (UK) Limited took action to repossess 
his car.
Background
In June 2016 Mr D acquired a car funded with a hire purchase agreement.  This was for 
£15,581.34 repayable  in 48 instalments of £282.68 followed by an optional  lump sum 
payment. 
Mr D maintained his account until April 2018 when  he missed  a payment and he then missed  
the May one. VFS wrote to him and he made  payments for June, July and August. He called 
VFS on 14 August  and told the he had suffered serious illness  which meant  he was unable  
to work and to make  his payments. He explained that the earlier two payments had been 
missed due to his ex-partner cancelling the direct debit. VFS explained  the potential  impact 
to his credit  file if the arrears were not cleared. It also gave him a settlement figure.
Mr D missed his September payment which meant he was three months  in arrears. On 6 
September 2018, he called VFS and said he was considering selling the car, but that would 
leave a slight shortfall. It said that he could voluntarily terminate the agreement and set out 
the amount needed in order to do this.
It says it didnt hear back from Mr D and so it issued  a default notice was issued on 30 
September 2018. It followed  this up with a notice  of sums in arrears  on 16 October  2018. 
With no contact received from Mr D VFS terminated  the agreement  and sent him a letter  to 
that effect on 22 October 2018.
The outstanding amount  to be repaid was £11,601.83  and Mr D called VFS on 5 November 
2018 to explain  he had been  in hospital and then on holiday, so didnt get the letter until he 
had returned.  He asked if he could pay the arrears, but was told that it was too late.
On 13 December 2018, he called and offered to make a payment  of £11,000 in full and final 
settlement, but he was told that the entire  outstanding amount had to be paid in one 
payment. He said he could pay the balance the following month and the debt collection 
agency acting  on behalf of VFS took advice which was that payment should be made  in full, 
but it might  be able to allow extra time to raise the total amount.
In January 2019, Mr D complained to the business,  but this was rejected by VFS which said 
it had given him enough notice that the agreement was in danger of being terminated.
The complaint was brought to this service where it was considered  by one of our 
adjudicators who didnt recommend it be upheld. He said that VFS had made  Mr D aware of 
the situation and had used the correct address for correspondence. 
He thought it important to note that VFS had no legal obligation to accept a part payment in 
December 2018,  but it had offered to let him have  time to pay. However, there  was no 
evidence that Mr D explored that offer.  He suggested Mr D may wish to return the car and 
repay any sum outstanding after the car was sold. He said he expected VFS to assess  Mr 
Ds income and expenditure and work with him to agree a reasonable and affordable 
repayment plan.  Mr D asked that his complaint be considered by an ombudsman.
Ref: DRN85382032My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have every sympathy with Mr D, but I dont believe I can uphold his complaint. I will explain 
why.
I have noted Mr D has health issues and parted company with his partner, both of which  
seem to have contributed  to his arrears.  However, I am satisfied that VFS took these matters 
into account in its handling of the account  and the arrears. It gave him clear  notice of the 
arrears and the potential impact on him. It also deferred acting until three  payments had 
been missed which  allowed  him a little leeway in getting his finances back  on track.
It seems  that once the matter had been passed  to debt collectors  that Mr D was able to find 
the funds to pay virtually  all the loan. VFS said it required  full payment, but it relented a little 
and said it would consider giving him more time. I am not sure why Mr D didnt explore this 
possible offer, but decided to make a complaint. He says he could have raised the additional 
funds the following month and I suspect this would have been  satisfactory  for VFS.
I gather  Mr D still has the car and is still in debt to VFS. I would suggest that he talks to VFS 
to see if a solution can be found. If he has sufficient  funds  it may be that he can pay his debt 
in full, but I presume  he will have incurred additional  interest. I would also remind VFS of its 
need to treat Mr D positively and sympathetically in dealing  with his arrears.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or reject  my decision before 
27 April 2020.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8538203