K820x#14Complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 1991 
alongside an M&S card.
Its been agreed in this case  that Allianz Insurance plc, as the insurer,  should accept 
responsibility for the complaint.  To keep things  simple,  Ill refer to Allianz as the seller in my 
decision.
Miss R says Allianz mis-sold her the PPI. Our adjudicator didnt think  this complaint should 
be upheld. Miss R disagreed so the complaint has been brought  to me to consider.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Rs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Miss R says at no point was it made clear to her that the PPI was optional.  Ive looked 
closely at Miss Rs application form and I can see in the section  for PPI there is a tick in the 
box to agree to the cover. But there  is nothing to suggest the cover had to be taken in order  
to get the policy.  Miss R signed this application  to agree to its contents   so I think this 
reflected what she wanted at the time. 
So overall, I think Allianz made it clear that Miss R didnt have to take out the PPI and she 
chose to take it out  although I can understand why she cant  remember  this.
Based on the evidence  Ive seen and from what weve seen of these types of sales 
previously, I dont think Allianz recommend  the PPI to Miss R so it didnt have to check if it 
was right for her. But it did have to make sure Miss R got the information she needed to 
decide if it was right for her.
Its possible the information Allianz gave  Miss R about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  
been. But the evidence suggests that she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like she 
wanted this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it 
doesnt look like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover - so
it would  have been useful for her if something  went wrong. 
Miss R says she was entitled  to sick pay from her employer and had some  savings  which 
she couldve  used to cover her repayments.  Ive considered this but Ive also looked at the 
PPI policy  which costed  £0.64 per £100.00  of Miss Rs outstanding monthly balance. This 
wouldve provided up to 12 months  cover  in addition to her sick pay and savings.  So these 
funds couldve been used for other expenses. And I think the PPI wouldve been especially 
useful for Miss R when  her sick pay reduced to half. So I dont think  better information about
the PPI would have put her off taking  out the cover.
My final decision
Ref: DRN82193252For the reasons  outlined  above, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss R to accept
or reject my decision before 26 August 2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8219325