K820x#14complaint
Mrs E complains her claim for water damage  has been declined  by U K Insurance Limited. 
Mrs E has been represented  in bringing this complaint,  but for ease Ill refer to both her, and 
her representative, collectively as Mrs E throughout.
background
In December 2017, Mrs E says she contacted  UK Insurance Limited (UKI) to make  a claim 
under her home insurance  policy following a leak that appeared in her bedroom  ceiling. She 
explained to UKI it had appeared around  a year before  shortly after a storm in her area - 
but had not acted on it, as it wasnt serious.
Mrs E says UKI sent a third-party contractor (M) to her home around the same time. She 
explains that M looked in her loft but couldnt find any damage  although  UKI has no record  
of this visit. Mrs E says the Ms visit was arranged  under her home  emergency  cover,  
although UKI say this was optional cover not taken with her policy.
Later, Mrs E explains, UKI told her shed  have to pay for a scaffold to be put up around her 
house so the leak could  be investigated further. Mrs E didnt want  to do this, so instead 
arranged for a roofer to come and look at the damage. Having done so, the roofer  found a 
roof tile dislodged  and put it back in place. 
In March 2018, Mrs E says a large hole appeared in her bedroom ceiling. UKI appointed a 
contractor, C, to go to Mrs Es property to assess the damage. Having done so, it said the 
damage had happened  gradually,  and relied  on its gradual damage policy exclusion to 
decline the claim. It also considered whether a storm  was the overall  cause of the damage  -
but says weather records show no storm took place. 
Mrs E didnt agree. She brought her complaint  to this service and it was reviewed by an 
investigator. The investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld, concluding 
that the damage being claimed  for had happened gradually. Mrs E has asked  for an 
ombudsman to review  her case.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold it 
 and broadly  for the same reasons as our investigator. Ill explain why.
From everything Ive seen, there are two aspects to this complaint. The damage to the roof 
of the house, and the internal ceiling damage.
Roof damage
Ref: DRN80868852Mrs E says that a storm damaged her roof. When considering whether I think  a claim for 
storm damage should be paid, I need to ask:
 Was there a storm?
 Is the damage the kind caused  by a storm?
 And is the storm the main cause of the damage?
Ive looked at weather reports in the weeks prior to when  Mrs E originally noticed  water 
leaking through her ceiling in December 2016,  and when she says there was a storm. During 
this time there werent any particularly high winds, or the kind of weather Id expect could 
cause a roof tile to become dislodged.  
On this basis I cant say there  was a storm, and so I dont need to consider the remaining 
questions. 
Internal damage
Mrs E also says that a water leak has damaged  her ceiling. She noticed the water leak 
originally in December  2016 but didnt do anything further until December 2017. There  
seems to be a dispute about a contractor, M, coming to assess  the damage   as UKI has no 
record of it. Mrs E believes  Ms visit was arranged under  home emergency cover, but UKI 
has shown me information that sets out that neither home emergency nor accidental 
damage policies  were purchased by Mrs E as optional additions.
On balance, I dont  think this is the key issue. When Mrs E contacted UKI in March 2018 
following further damage to the ceiling, it sent a contractor, C, to her house. Ive seen Cs 
report which says the damage had been  caused gradually by water  leaking through.  
As this had been  originally noticed in December 2016, and not acted on until a year later,  I 
think its likely that the ceiling was already considerably saturated  by water in December 
2017 and would have needed  to be replaced regardless. 
UKIs policy document explains:
just like most insurers, we dont cover. any damage caused gradually that you ought to 
have been aware  of and it was reasonable for you to have  prevented.
As Ive outlined, Mrs E was aware for some time there was an issue  and could  have acted to 
prevent any further  damage.
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  overall, I think its fair for UKI to rely on this exclusion in 
its policy to decline this part of the claim. And as Ive set out, she had neither home 
emergency nor accidental damage cover under which this claim could  have been  
considered.
Summary
Mrs E says a storm caused the damage to her roof, which led to the leak through  her ceiling. 
As Ive explained already, Ive been unable to find any evidence of storm conditions in her 
area, so I cant reasonably say it was this that caused the damage.
Ref: DRN80868853Mrs Es policy provides cover for standard perils. From what Ive seen none of the things 
covered under the policy were responsible for the damage to the roof, and by association  the 
internal ceiling. 
While its not clear  what caused the roof tile to become displaced,  its clear from Cs report  
that the internal damage was caused  gradually,  by the issue  not being dealt with sooner. 
While I dont doubt the events that have led to this claim have been distressing for Mrs E, 
and Im sorry thats shes had to live with the damage caused, overall, Im satisfied UKI has 
acted fairly  in declining this claim.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint,  and I wont  be asking UKI to do anything  
further.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 January 2020.
 
Andy Howell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8086885