K821x#15complaint
Ms R has complained about lending Harvey & Thompson Limited (H&T) provided to her in 
February 2010.
background
I set out a detailed  background to this complaint in my provisional decision which Ive 
attached as an appendix to this final decision. I invited both parties  to let me have further 
comments or evidence before I issued a final decision.
Ms R has responded  accepting my provisional decision. H&T has also responded and 
offered to refund the interest Ms R paid on the lending from August 2010  as a gesture of 
goodwill. H&T went on say that it seemed the lending was assessed based on the Office of 
Fair Tradings guidance which  came into force after it approved the lending  for Ms R.
my findings
Ive again reconsidered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And Ive thought  carefully about H&Ts 
response to my provisional  decision and having done so, my conclusions  remain unchanged  
and Ill explain why.
Although H&T approved  the loan facility  prior to the OFTs irresponsible Lending Guidance  
coming into effect in March 2010, H&T had a duty to lend responsibly prior to the ILG. I 
explained in my provisional decision  that:
When H&T approved this facility  for Ms R, it was during the period it held a standard  
licence from the Office of Fair Trading (OFT), which enabled it to carry out consumer 
credit activities. So while I think that businesses should always  look to treat customers 
fairly, H&T also had an overarching responsibility to carry out a reasonable assessment 
as to whether Ms R was able to affordably repay her borrowing.
The Office  of Fair Trading  (OFT)s Irresponsible Lending Guidance (ILG) came  into effect 
in March 2010 and so this guidance  was relevant to the lending relationship from March 
onwards. when it come into force, stated  that Assessing affordability  is a borrower-
focussed test which involves a creditor assessing a borrowers ability  to undertake  a 
specific credit commitment,  or specific additional credit commitment, in a sustainable  
manner, without the borrower incurring (further) financial difficulties.
H&T made lending  decisions each time Ms R requested funds and those lending  decisions 
had to be made responsibly.  The fact that it agreed  the facility  in February 2010 doesnt 
absolve it of its duty to lend responsibly, and as the relationship  continued in March 2010 
and beyond, the ILG had come into effect and it applied to H&Ts continued lending 
relationship with Ms R.
And as I dont think H&T made reasonable assessments prior to lending the loan and it didnt 
carry out any further checks before approving subsequent drawdowns,  I dont  think it did 
enough before lending.
Ref: DRN83531542Had H&Ts checks gone further, its likely to have found that Ms R couldnt  afford the facility. 
In the circumstances, I think its fair for H&T to put things right as Ms R has lost out as a 
result.
putting things right   what H&T needs to do
 refund all interest and charges Ms R paid on all the drawdowns from February 2010;
 pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the 
date they were  paid to the date of settlement*;
 remove  any adverse information about  the entire  lending from Ms Rs credit file.
* HM Revenue & Customs  requires H&T to take off tax from this interest.  H&T must give Ms R 
a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
I uphold Ms Rs complaint  and require Harvey & Thompson Limited to put things right as set 
out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 June  2019.
Oyetola Oduola
ombudsman
extract from provisional decision
background
In February  2010, H&T approved a cheque  guarantee  credit facility for Ms R. Ms R could 
drawdown up to £600 at a time, this amount included the interest and capital. So she could take 
out a maximum capital of up to £522  and repay this with £78 of interest bringing the total to £600.
H&T has provided two documents  to demonstrate Ms Rs borrowing  during the period. From what 
Ive seen, Ms R was used the facility continuously between February  2010 and April 2012.
Ref: DRN83531543In April 2018,  Ms R complained to H&T about the lending.  However, H&T didnt look into her 
complaint as it believed Ms R had complained  too late. Ms R referred  her complaint to this service 
and H&T objected  to us considering the complaint  on the ground  that it had been made  too late. An 
adjudicator considered H&Ts objection and thought we could look at Ms Rs complaint. H&T initially 
disagreed but later agreed that we could consider the complaint further.
Once the issue of H&Ts objection had been resolved, one of our adjudicators looked into Ms Rs 
complaint about H&T lending to her. Our adjudicator  thought Ms Rs complaint should  be upheld 
in part. H&T disagreed and so the complaint has come  to me  an ombudsman for decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint. Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory 
rules and good industry practice at the time.
When H&T approved  this facility for Ms R, it was during the period it held a standard  licence from 
the Office of Fair Trading (OFT), which enabled it to carry out consumer credit  activities. So while I 
think that businesses should  always look to treat customers  fairly, H&T also had an overarching 
responsibility to carry out a reasonable  assessment  as to whether Ms R was able to affordably  
repay her borrowing.
The Office of Fair Trading (OFT)s  Irresponsible Lending  Guidance (ILG)  came into effect in 
March 2010 and so this guidance was relevant  to the lending relationship from March onwards.  when 
it come into force, stated  that Assessing  affordability is a borrower-focussed test which involves a 
creditor assessing a borrowers ability to undertake a specific credit commitment, or specific 
additional credit commitment, in a sustainable manner, without  the borrower incurring  (further) 
financial difficulties.
H&T has said it has limited information about what happened at the time.  This isnt surprising as the 
lending occurred more than 10 years ago and its not unusual for limited paperwork to be available 
from such a long time ago. However  H&T is able to say, that at the time,  Ms R wouldve attended one 
of its branches in person in order to borrow  from it. And during that visit, Ms R wouldve  been required 
to complete an application  form and give details  about her employment, age and identity.
From the information Ive seen, at the time of the first drawdown in February 2010,  Ms R was 
receiving benefits of around £1,5001 per month. From the information H&T says it wouldve gathered 
at the time of the application, Ive had to conclude  that it was aware  Ms R was receiving benefits.  But 
the fact it likely knew Ms R was in receipt of benefits  doesnt mean  that H&T shouldnt  have lent to 
Ms R solely for that reason. But this was a factor  that it had to take account  of when approving  these 
loans.
H&T didnt carry  out any credit checks, this means it wouldnt have  been aware  that Ms R
had county court judgements (CCJs) recorded  against her. But H&T wasnt required to carry out a 
credit check, let alone one to a specific standard. So the fact that a credit  search wasnt carried out 
doesnt mean  that Id be in a position to conclude  that H&T did anything wrong  or that Ms Rs 
complaint should be automatically upheld.
H&T has said:  When  using  the Cheque Guarantee Card H&T were able to establish that Ms Rs 
bank had effectively provided a pre-existing line of credit  as CGCs were issued to customers that 
banks considered to be creditworthy and would guarantee each cheque in a cheque  book to the 
value of the guarantee on the card. As banks had near perfect information to make this judgement, 
given their knowledge  of the long-term history of a customers current account and their 
management of day to day finances, this was taken into consideration. H&Ts experience  was that a 
CGC was a strong determinant of creditworthiness.
Ref: DRN83531544I dont agree that the cheque guarantee card absolves H&T of its own responsibility to lend 
responsibly and relying so heavily on the cheque guarantee card in the way that it did wasnt 
reasonable. Cheque guarantee  cards are usually issued  as part of the process when a qualifying 
account is opened but that doesnt mean that it reflects the consumers creditworthiness throughout  
the time they have the card. As H&T would  be aware, financial circumstances change  from time to 
time. So while  Ms R may have  been  credit worthy at the time the card was issued  it doesnt 
necessarily follow that she had that same status  when it lent to her.
Given what H&T knew about  Ms Rs circumstances, I think it failed to carry out enough checks before 
agreeing to lend. It was agreeing a limit of £600, forty percent of Ms Rs income. I consider this to be 
a significant amount.  H&T was aware  Ms R was on benefits, it wouldve been prudent  in those  
circumstances to at least have an understanding of her living costs to assess  whether  she could 
afford to repay had she taken out the maximum  limit it was approving the facility for that limit.
As stated above, the information  from H&T is very limited so I dont know if it was aware that at the 
time it was lending  Ms R was a single mother with three children, one of whom was disabled. I say 
this because had H&T known this, it wouldve been clear from her circumstances that she was likely 
to struggle to repay.
Also, Ive considered  how Ms R used the credit  facility it seems Ms R was regularly using  the facility  
and what I understand from the information provided, it seems Ms R didnt fully repaid a drawdown 
before borrowing more.  And from December 2010, she was drawing  down up to the maximum  on a 
number of occasions. H&T said Ms R wouldve been expected to repay  each  drawdown within  a 
month like a payday loan. With that in mind, the account statement suggests  that Ms R was rolling  
over her borrowing regularly. This pattern of rolling over repayments continued  throughout the 
borrowing.
As part of its duty under the ILG, H&T had a duty to monitor the borrower's repayment record 
during the course  of the agreement, offering assistance where borrowers appear to be 
experiencing difficulty. Ms R rolling  over repayments regularly suggests that she was in financial 
difficulties and H&T shouldve acted  and I cant see that it did that.
I think this pattern  of rolling over bore out because Ms R was unable to afford  the loan from the 
start. Ive reviewed  Ms Rs bank statement to understand her financial circumstances  at the time. Of 
course I accept this isnt perfect as different checks show different things.  And just because  
something shows up in the information Ms R has provided it doesnt mean  it wouldve  shown up in 
any extra checks H&T mightve carried  out. But what Ms R has provided is the best indication I have 
of her financial circumstances  at the time. And without anything else I think its reasonable to rely on 
the bank statements.
1 rounded  down
Ms Rs bank statements show that from February 2010 to April 2012,  her account  was constantly  
overdrawn. Having reviewed the bank statement,  I cant see that there was a time during the lending 
that Ms R was in credit  with her bank. Taking into account the significant limit she was lent and the 
fact that she was responsible for paying household  bills as a single mother of three children at the 
time, all this together make it reasonable to conclude  that she couldnt  afford  to repay this borrowing 
from the outset.  It follows  that she was unable  to afford subsequent drawdowns.
I think that H&T lent to Ms R in the way that it did because  it had concerns  over her ability to make the 
repayments and wanted to protect its own position  by guaranteeing it would  receive what it lent.
Ref: DRN83531545After all purely from an administrative point, why else would it collect on a number  of separate  
cheques each  for the maximum amount  backed by the consumers bank instead  of a single cheque  
for a higher amount that wouldnt be backed? This method more or less guaranteed that H&T would 
receive its repayment  even if Ms Rs account contained insufficient funds.  In these circumstances,  
any shortfall would become  an unauthorised debt to her bank,  thereby increasing Ms Rs level of 
indebtedness  which is what happened here.
For the reasons  Ive stated above, H&T didnt lend responsibly to Ms R and shes lost out as a result. 
It needs to put things  right.
Ref: DRN8353154