K822xcomplaint
Mr L complains  about how he was treated in a branch  of Santander UK Plc.
background 
Mr L said that he went into a branch of Santander  to ask about a change to paying  in 
procedures. But while he was there, and taking to one member of staff, another  staff 
member began to make  a number  of rude and derogatory comments  about him, including 
about his appearance and his general  demeanour.
Mr L said that Santander had offered him an apology, and a payment of £100 for how he 
was spoken to. But he remained very unhappy about what had happened. 
Santander has accepted that things happened as Mr L described. It said that its very sorry 
that the customer service  he received was below  the standards it aims  for.
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Ls complaint.  Santander hadnt disputed  Mr Ls version  of events. 
It had now agreed to increase its payment of compensation to £200, and send a letter of 
apology. Our adjudicator  said that there was no evidence that Santander had discriminated 
against Mr L on the basis of a protected  characteristic, but it was clear  that the individual 
involved had been rude to Mr L. Our adjudicator thought that it was right that Santander 
should increase  its offer,  and that the revised offer was fair and reasonable.
Mr L didnt accept that. He said that the effect  on his mental health had been  very severe,  
and he hadnt  been able to go into his local branch for over two months because of this 
matter. He said that he wouldnt accept an apology letter and a total of £200  in 
compensation. He wanted his case to be considered by an ombudsman, so it was passed to 
me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive reached the same overall conclusion  
on this complaint as our adjudicator, and for broadly the same reasons.
Santander has accepted that its staff member was rude and unprofessional to Mr L, and it 
has apologised.  It has also agreed to pay Mr L a total of £200  in compensation. I need to 
think about whether  that provides a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint. 
I understand that Mr L felt that he was being stereotyped by the person concerned.  He said 
that he was being treated differently. I think that Santander has accepted  that its staff 
member treated Mr L rudely and unfairly.  Mr L also said that he thought that the advisor had 
discriminated against him. But as the adjudicator  explained, its not the role of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service  to make a decision  on whether theres been a breach of the 
Equality Act 2010. That is a matter for a court or tribunal to decide. It is for me to say 
whether I think Santander treated Mr L unfairly and I think  it did  indeed  Santander accepts  
this. Mr L should  expect Santander  to treat him with politeness and respect. 
Mr L has said to Santander that he doesnt  want to go back to the branch whilst the person 
who insulted him is there. And hes said to us that he hasnt felt able to go back  since.  Hes 
told us that this issue affected  his mental health. But I note that Santander has said from the 
Ref: DRN87955662point where Mr L lodged his complaint that it didnt want  him to feel that he had to avoid the 
branch when this person was present. And I think its taken appropriate steps,  including  
feedback to the staff member involved and their manager, to try to make  sure that this 
problem isnt repeated.  
Ive considered all the evidence  in this case, and I do think that Santander has now done 
enough, with a total payment of £200 and an apology to Mr L, to provide  a fair and 
reasonable outcome to this complaint. Thats what Ill award, just in case Mr L hasnt already 
received the letter and the total of £200  in compensation.
I hope that having his complaint upheld will provide some closure for Mr L, and that he will 
feel able to return to the branch in future.
my final decision
My final decision is that Santander UK Plc must  pay Mr L a total of £200  in compensation. It 
can count towards that amount any compensation it has already paid for this complaint.  And 
Santander UK Plc must  provide Mr L with a letter of apology, if it hasnt already done  so. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 July 2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8795566