K820x#14complaint
Ms L says she was mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI).
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint.
Ms L has been represented  throughout her complaint.
background
On 11 March 2002, Ms L took out a store card by completing an application  form. A couple  
of days later,  PPI was added to her account  following a phone call. Ms Ls store  card 
account closed  in 2014.
The policy cost no more  than £1.00  per £100 Ms L owed on her store card and it protected 
Ms Ls store card monthly repayments if she couldnt work because of an accident  or 
sickness or if she lost her job. 
FICL say Ms L paid £366.34  for the PPI over the lifetime she held the policy.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Ms L disagreed. 
As Ms L disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, the complaint has been  passed to me for a 
final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Ms Ls complaint. Ill explain  why.
Ms L completed a store card application  form in March 2002. FICL  has provided a copy of 
this and it shows PPI wasnt selected at this time.  FICL says it was added during a phone 
call. 
FICL hasnt  been  able to provide a call recording or a copy  of the call script used at the time. 
But that is understandable as it was such a long time ago. So I dont know  what  it may have 
said to Ms L when the policy  was sold. But based on what  this service  knows  about the sales 
process, and given that PPI wasnt selected  on the application form, I think  there was most 
likely a conversation  about PPI and Ms L would  have  been aware that the policy was 
optional and it was added  with her consent. 
It was up to FICL to provide Ms L with clear  information about the policy so she could decide  
if she wanted to take it out. Ms L was eligible for the policy and it doesnt look as if she was 
affected by any of the main things the policy didnt cover. 
Ref: DRN87254342Ms L says she received  nine months  full sick pay, followed by three months half sick pay 
from her employer if she was unable to work because of an accident  or sickness. Our 
adjudicator explained to Ms Ls representatives  they thought it was unlikely that Ms L would 
have received this level of sick pay given Ms Ls employment and the length of time Ms L 
had been employed. 
Having looked  at this I agree. From what I know of the industry that Ms L worked in and 
given the length of time that she had been employed I think it is unlikely  that she would have 
received the level of sick pay she says she did. 
The PPI policy would  have covered  15% of what Ms L owed on the card at the point of 
claiming  and would have carried on paying this amount each  month until Ms L returned to 
work or the outstanding balance had been cleared. This could have been a useful  benefit  at 
whats likely to have been a difficult time if Ms L needed to claim as she might  have had 
extra costs  if she was ill or disabled. So I think Ms L would  have  found  the PPI useful at that 
time. 
Ms L says she had an accident  policy  in place at that time. But that type of policy is 
considerably different  to a PPI policy. An accident policy typically pays  out a lump sum 
depending on how serious the accident is. The PPI policy  would have covered Ms L if she 
was unable to work  for more than 30 days whether an accident  or a sickness  that prevented 
Ms L from being able to work. It also included unemployment cover.  If Ms L had lost her job, 
as she had only been employed for two years   she wouldnt  have  received  much 
redundancy pay. The PPI would have covered her repayments at what  could have been a 
difficult time if Ms L lost her job. 
I dont know if FICL  explained  the cost of the policy clearly enough for Ms L to understand 
what the real cost of the policy was for her. But I think  if Ms L had properly understood the 
cost and benefit provided she still would  have thought the policy potentially useful. Ive seen  
nothing to suggest that paying for the PPI was a problem for Ms L  and Im satisfied its 
likely she took it out when she didnt have to. 
Looked at overall, I dont  think having clearer information would have put Ms L off taking out 
the policy, given  her situation at the time.
This means  that, even if FICL didnt give Ms L all the information it should  have done when it 
sold her the policy, I dont find that Ms L has lost out as a result of anything  FICL did wrong.  
So it doesnt  need to do anything to put things right. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 April 2019.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8725434