K821x#15Complaint
Mr J has complained that Harvey & Thompson  Limited (trading as H & T Pawnbrokers) gave 
him loans  without carrying out the correct checks. He thinks  they have been irresponsible 
and provided unfair interest on his loans.
Background
Mr J took two loans with Harvey & Thompson Limited:
Loan 1 for £300 taken on 1 June  2016, which was to be repaid in 23 monthly  
payments of £33.20 (a term of 695 days). This loan was settled on 19 April 2017.
Loan 2 for £500 taken on 19 April 2017,  which was to be repaid in 102 weekly 
payments of £12.49 (a term of 723 days), there is an outstanding balance  on this 
loan.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint on the basis that the interest charged (£463.60 and 
£773.98 for loans  1 and 2 respectively) had breached the price cap for high cost credit 
bought in by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  on 2 January 2015. He recommended 
redress of a full refund  of interest.
Harvey & Thompson explained that both of Mr Js loans were not high cost short term credit 
(HCSTC) and therefore not subject to the same rules. They further  explained the because of 
the repayment terms for both loans  they did not meet the definition of HCSTC as defined 
by the FCA. Consequently Harvey  & Thompson did not consider they have breached the 
price cap.
I issued my provisional decision on 30 January 2020  explaining why I was thinking of coming  
to the same  overall  outcome  as our adjudicator but for substantially  different reasons.
Mr J has confirmed he has nothing further to add. Harvey & Thompson did not respond  to 
my provisional decision.
My findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As neither party has provided any further 
evidence or arguments  for consideration, I see no reason to depart  from the conclusions  set 
out in my provisional  decision. For completeness, I have set this out below.
Harvey & Thompson Limited needed  to take reasonable  steps to ensure  that it didnt lend 
irresponsibly. In practice this means that it should have carried  out proportionate  checks to 
make sure Mr J could  repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into 
account a number of different things, such as how much  was being lent, the repayment 
amounts and the consumers income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages 
of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate.  
Ref: DRN87121592But certain factors might  point to the fact that Harvey  & Thompson Limited should fairly and 
reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer.  
These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the longer  the term over which the repayments  needed to be paid; 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Harvey & Thompson Limited was required to establish whether Mr J could sustainably  repay  
his loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable  on a strict pounds  and pence  
calculation. 
The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication  a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments.  But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This 
is because the relevant  regulations define sustainable as being  without  undue  difficulties and 
in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while  meeting other 
reasonable commitments; as well as without having  to borrow  to meet  the repayments. And 
it follows that a lender  should realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Js complaint.
From the information Harvey & Thompson  has provided I can see it asked Mr J for details of 
his income and expenses. It also carried some credit searches before lending  to him.
Although loan 1 was Mr Js first loan with Harvey & Thompson, and the monthly repayment 
was relatively small, the term was over 23 months  almost two years. The repayments 
needed to be met each  and every month over a prolonged period of time. So, I think it would 
have been proportionate  for Harvey & Thomson to verify the information Mr J provided and 
get a full picture of his actual financial situation.
If Harvey & Thompson had done proportionate checks, its likely it wouldve learnt that Mr J 
was spending  a significant proportion  of his income  through on-line betting websites - very 
frequently. I accept that there were occasional credits from these websites, but they fell well 
- short of the sums Mr J was spending.  
Mr J also had at least 5 other short-term loans  with other payday  lenders. Payable over a 
number of instalments,  his regular commitments to these loans was at least  £570  per month. 
Ref: DRN87121593He also had at least two other unsecured  loans  to which he was paying around £444  per 
month.
So as a responsible lender, Harvey & Thompson would likely have seen all of this and not 
agreed to lend loan 1.
Loan 2 was taken out on the same  day loan 1 was repaid.  It was for a larger amount and the 
new term extended Mr Js indebtedness further still. Proportionate checks  would likely  have 
shown Harvey & Thompson  Mr Js actual  financial circumstances had not improved and he 
was still having  the same problems managing his money. Indeed, its own credit  searches 
showed Mr J had increased the number of active accounts he held and had fallen into a 
delinquent status on two of his account  - for which he was in repayment  arrangements  for.
So as a responsible lender, Harvey & Thompson would likely have seen all of this and not 
agreed to lend loan 2 either.
Im upholding Mr Js complaint about  loans 1 and 2 and Harvey & Thompson should put 
things right as set out below.
Ref: DRN87121594Putting things  right
If Harvey & Thompson have sold the outstanding debt it should buy this back  if it is able to 
do so and then take the following steps. If Harvey  & Thompson is not able to buy the debt 
back then it should  liaise with the new debt owner  to achieve the results outlined  below.
A.Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr J towards  interest, fees and 
charges on loan 1, not including anything Harvey & Thompson has already refunded.
B.Calculate 8% simple  interest* on the individual payments  made by Mr J which were 
considered as part of A, calculated  from the date Mr J originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C.Remove all interest, fees and charges  from the balance on loan 2, and treat any 
repayments made by Mr J as though they had been repayments of the principal on 
loan 2. 
If this results  in Mr J having made overpayments then Harvey & Thompson  should 
refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated  on the overpayments, 
from the date the overpayments would  have arisen, to the date the complaint is 
settled. Harvey & Thompson  should then refund the amounts  calculated in A and 
B and move to step E.
D.If there  is still an outstanding balance, then the amounts  calculated  in A and B 
should be used  to repay  any balance remaining on loan 2. If this results in a surplus 
then the surplus  should be paid to Mr J. However, if there  is still an outstanding 
balance then Harvey  & Thompson should  try to agree an affordable repayment plan 
with Mr J. 
E.Harvey & Thompson should remove any adverse information recorded  on Mr Js 
credit file in relation  to loans 1 and 2. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Harvey  & Thompson to deduct tax from this interest. 
Harvey & Thompson should give Mr J a certificate  showing how much tax it has deducted, if 
he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Js complaint as Ive explained above and in my 
provisional decision. I require Harvey & Thompson Limited (trading as H & T Pawnbrokers) 
to put things right for Mr J as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 March  2020.
Kathryn Milne
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8712159