K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Clydesdale Bank  Plc is not providing the business banking 
services that they are paying for.
background
Mr and Mrs C were told by Clydesdale that they could use a third party to make  transactions 
on their business account. They dont think this is the service  promised to them by 
Clydesdale. So it is no longer providing what they are paying  for. And they want the charges 
applied by Clydesdale reimbursed and to be paid compensation.
The adjudicator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that:
-Hed noted that Mr and Mrs C had previously complained about the local Clydesdale  
branch being closed  in July 2017.  But hed agreed with them that he wouldnt be 
looking at that complaint  here as they had not referred it in time.
-Clydesdale had provided evidence of the charges applied  to their account  since  July 
2017 for transactions and account maintenance. And these have  been  applied in line 
with its published  tariff.
-The charges  are applicable to all customers whether banking is carried out in branch, 
online or with a third party.
-Its final response about this was correctly addressed to them and it wasnt 
responsible for them not receiving it.
Mr and Mrs C did not agree. They maintain that they are paying for something  that they are 
not getting. They say this started after the local branch closed. And this is a major change  in 
circumstances and so to their agreement with Clydesdale.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand why Mr and Mrs C are unhappy.  The way they are operating  their account  has 
changed. And they are not having  any day to day contact with Clydesdale staff but with a 
third party.
But their account  remains with Clydesdale. And its said in its final response that theres  
been a cost for it to arrange for access to be possible  through the third party.  Its tariff 
remains the same for transactions - and so too is the monthly  fee for them holding the 
account. 
Im afraid that its entitled to use its commercial  discretion to set the charges that apply for 
providing these  services whether directly or through a third party. As far as I can see the 
charges applied to the account have been made in line with the tariff. So its not made any 
mistake and I dont have a basis to require it to refund any charges or pay Mr and Mrs C 
compensation.
Ref: DRN82455172my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 March  2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8245517