K821x#15complaint
Mr and Ms Y have complained that Avantia  Insurance Limited didnt properly make them 
aware it had changed the terms of their home insurance policy  to remove cover for 
accidental loss of valuables away from the home. As a result, they found  they were  without 
cover when Ms Y lost her rings.
background
In June 2015, Mr and Ms Y took out a home insurance policy  arranged  by Avantia. They 
chose to include cover, both within  and away from the home, for Ms Ys engagement  ring 
which was valued  at £2,500.
The policy renewed  in June 2016 and June 2017.
In May 2018, Ms Y lost her engagement and wedding rings while at a beach. Mr and Ms Y 
enquired about  making a claim for the loss of the items  under  their policy. However, Avantia 
warned them  that the claim was unlikely to be successful. This was because cover for 
accidental or unexplained loss had been  removed when the policy renewed in June 2017. It 
said this had been highlighted in documents sent to Mr and Ms Y shortly  before renewal.
Mr and Ms Y complained that the documents hadnt  done enough  to draw such an important 
change to their attention.  They referred their complaint  to us.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld.  He considered that the 
change in the terms of cover hadnt  been  properly highlighted. He considered that if Mr and 
Ms Y had been  made  aware of the change,  it may have affected  their decision to renew the 
policy. He considered the fair outcome was for Avantia to settle the claim in accordance with 
the policys remaining  terms,  and to add interest to this from the date of loss. He further  
considered it should  pay Mr and Ms Y £100 compensation for the inconvenience caused  to 
them through its actions.
Avantia didnt accept  the investigators findings. It said Mr Y rang it just before  the renewal 
date to discuss the renewal premium  and that this showed he had read the renewal 
documents in which the change in cover  was outlined. It said the investigators 
recommendation was contradictory to findings  we had made  on similar complaints.
In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I uphold  this complaint. 
I shall explain why.
When Mr and Mrs Y took out the policy, they paid extra to obtain cover  for Ms Ys 
engagement ring both within and away from the home. This included  cover for accidental 
loss.
Shortly before the policy renewed in 2017,  Avantia  sent the renewal documents  to Mr Y. This 
comprised eleven  pages, the last of which was headed Changes made to your cover.  
Ref: DRN83731242Among the list of changes, it stated: Pure loss cover  - cover  for losses  is restricted to theft 
only, i.e. unexplained or accidental losses are excluded.
I agree  with the investigator that this was an inadequate way to communicate  what  
I consider to be an important change. There was nothing to distinguish this particular change  
from the other listed changes, many of which were  simply amending claim limits.  
Furthermore, there was no attempt  to show to which section of the policy  the change  
applied, which may have helped policyholders such as Mr and Mrs Y to understand whether 
they were likely to be affected  by it.
Avantia has pointed out that Mr Y definitely  received the renewal documentation  and read it 
because he rang up to discuss it. I accept that he received the documentation and noted the 
premium, calling Avantia  to query  it. But that doesnt mean he had read the material in full or 
that he understood the implications for his own cover.
Given that Mr and Mrs Y had taken the trouble to specify cover for the engagement  ring, Im 
satisfied they were keen  to protect against its accidental  loss. And if they had realised that 
they would  no longer  be covered for this, I think it likely they would have sought to obtain 
suitable cover from another provider which I consider would  likely  have been  readily  
available for a similar cost. Im therefore satisfied that they were disadvantaged by Avantias 
failure to make them aware  of the change  it had made to the policy.
Avantia has said that the investigators findings were contradictory  to other rulings  made by 
us. As the investigator has explained, we judge  each case on its own merits. But, in any 
event, Im satisfied that the investigators  findings  were entirely consistent with the other 
case which was specifically highlighted by Avantia.    
In respect of the wedding ring, I note this wasnt specified in the policy schedule and never 
was. Im therefore satisfied that Mr and Mrs Y never had cover for accidental  loss of this item 
even before Avantia changed the policy at the 2017  renewal. In view of this, I consider that 
Avantias failure  to highlight the change  in cover had no effect on their ability to claim for this 
item.
Taking everything into account,  I consider  that Avantia should pay Mr and Mrs Y the amount 
they would  have received for the accidental loss of the wedding  ring under their policy  had 
the change in terms not occurred. Given that there was no excess under  the relevant part of 
the policy, this means Avantia should  pay Mr and Mrs Y £2,500, plus interest.  It should  also 
pay them  £100  compensation  for the inconvenience  it has caused to them  through  its 
actions.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I require Avantia Insurance Limited to pay Mr and Mrs Y £2,500 plus interest at the annual  
simple rate of 8%, calculated from 3 May 2018 (which was when the loss occurred)  to the 
date of settlement. * I further require Avantia to pay Mr and Mrs Y £100 compensation.
Ref: DRN83731243Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs Y to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 March 2020.
David Poley
ombudsman
* If Avantia considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs Y how much its taken off. It should also give Mr and Mrs Y a 
certificate showing  this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.
Ref: DRN8373124