K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  about delays in getting  in touch with the right person at TSB Bank plc after it 
left him an answerphone  message. 
background
TSB left Mr L an answer phone message on 25 September 2018 requesting he make 
contact. TSB left a direct telephone  number for Mr L to call but hes explained that due to 
poor reception he wasnt able to get full details.  
As he was concerned about fraud, Mr L says he then spent between  six and seven  hours 
trying to speak with the right person at TSB. And he says when he finally  managed to get 
through he was told anyone  couldve handled his call. Mr L says he got in trouble at work 
because of the amount of time he spent calling TSB. 
TSB says it first left a message for Mr L at 12:24 on 25 September 2018  and the person 
whod left him a message was able to speak with him at 15:23  the same  day, around  three  
hours later. TSB didnt  agree itd made a mistake  when trying to speak with Mr L. 
Mr L asked this service to look at whatd  happened.  An investigator looked into his concerns 
but didnt feel TSB had made a mistake  so didnt ask it to take any action to resolve Mr Ls 
complaint. Mr L remains unhappy  about  what happened and asked for his complaint to be 
appealed so its been passed to me to make a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr L says he was on the phone for six or seven  hours while  trying  to get through to the right 
person. But TSB has provided systems evidence to show it first left him an answerphone 
message at 12:24. The evidence shows the person whod left the message then spoke with 
Mr L at 15:23, three hours later. I can see calls continued  after that, but having  discussed 
what the issue was with the original  call handler,  Im satisfied Mr L was aware  he hadnt 
been a victim of fraud. 
Ive listened to the answerphone message TSB left Mr L and its really  clear in explaining 
what number he needed to call. I appreciate Mr L says he had poor reception  so didnt hear 
the repeated direct  number he needed to call when he listened to his message. But the 
quality of Mr Ls reception isnt something I can hold TSB responsible  for and Im satisfied it 
left clear instructions.  
TSBs evidence does show there were some issues getting Mr L through to the right person 
and its clear he did call several times.  I know Mr L says this has caused problems at work 
but, having listened to the message TSB left, Im not persuaded  it misled  him into thinking 
the reason for the call was urgent. I think Mr L couldve called back  at a more convenient 
time if he wasnt free. 
From what  Ive seen and heard, Im satisfied  TSB left Mr L a clear message  asking  him to 
call a specific number to discuss his account.  Ive not found Mr L spent six or seven hours  on 
the phone  as he was able to speak to the person whod  left the message three hours later. 
Ref: DRN87436622And while I appreciate  Mr L was concerned  about his account,  the message didnt say the 
issue required his immediate attention, only that he should  call the bank. I accept there was 
likely some confusion when Mr L called  TSBs  general phone  number  but I think  that was 
quite quickly resolved when the original call handler  phoned him back. 
As Ive not found TSB made an error or misled  Mr L Im not telling it to do anything else to 
resolve this complaint.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept  or reject my decision 
before 10 February  2019.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8743662