K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Great Lakes Insurance SE (Great Lakes) have mishandled his legal 
expenses insurance  claim.
Great Lakes use intermediaries to manage their legal expenses insurance  claims, so any 
reference to the insurer  in this decision should be taken as including  the acts/omissions of 
those intermediaries.  
background
Mr B holds a home insurance policy that includes cover for legal expenses,  which is 
underwritten by Great Lakes. 
He made  a claim in January 2018 seeking  legal assistance to pursue a dispute  against his 
employer after he was made redundant. Great Lakes referred the matter to their panel 
solicitors  Firm S  on 15 February  2018  to act on Mr Bs behalf. However, Mr B became  
increasingly dissatisfied with the way Firm S were handling his case. Amongst other  things, 
he claims they have missed deadlines, have provided him with poor quality legal  services,  
and that they ultimately prevented his claim from proceeding to tribunal by accepting a 
settlement that he deems to be inadequate. 
Mr B was also unhappy with the way Great Lakes have handled his claim.  This includes, but 
is not strictly limited to:
They provided poor quality legal insurance  that could not support a claim through to 
an employment tribunal; 
A letter was sent to the third-party  broker that arranged the policy, making  them 
aware that work was not being completed and that deadlines were being missed,  but 
no action was taken;
Great Lakes failed  to advise him of his right to appoint  his own solicitor in line with 
Regulation 6 of the Insurance  Companies (Legal Expenses Insurance)  Regulations 
1990.
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mr Bs complaint. She didnt think he was entitled to choose 
his own solicitor when  his claim was accepted because legal proceedings had not been  
initiated. And the investigator didnt think Great Lakes could be held responsible for the 
actions or omissions  of either Firm S or the broker in failing to action  his letter  of complaint. 
Mr B disagreed, so the matter has been  passed to me to determine. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it. 
First, I note that a large proportion of Mr Bs submissions are in relation  to his dissatisfaction  
with the actions and omissions  of Firm S. However,  as has been outlined  by the investigator,  
Great Lakes cannot  be held responsible for the actions  of the solicitors, who were  ultimately 
acting on Mr Bs behalf in this matter. They fall under the remit of a different regulator and 
this service is unable  to consider the way theyve handled Mr Bs legal claim. So Im unable 
to comment on any of the points of complaint  Mr B has raised  in this regard, including: 
Ref: DRN86129772The deadlines that were missed by Firm S;
The decisions that were made  in relation  to his legal claim,  and the fact that he feels 
Firm S prevented his case from proceeding to tribunal;
Failing to receive adequate advice in relation  to costs;
The quality of the service or legal advice that was provided;
The handling of the settlement, including how it was arrived  at, whether it was 
reasonable and the fact that tax and national insurance contributions  had been 
incorrectly deducted.
Should Mr B wish to pursue a complaint about  Firm S, he should  contact the Legal  
Ombudsman for further information, who are the relevant body that can consider such 
matters.
I have therefore  focussed solely on the actions of Great Lakes as a Financial  Conduct  
Authority (FCA) regulated firm, and the points  Mr B has made  in relation to the insurers 
handling of his claim.
Settlement
Mr B submits that Great  Lakes provided  poor quality legal insurance that could not support a 
claim through to an employment tribunal, as they said they would withdraw funding for the 
claim if he did not accept the settlement that had been proposed. But the insurer is entitled 
to take such action under the policy terms and conditions, which state:
If an offer of settlementis  made that weor the appointed representative would deem  fair 
and you do not accept it, we will not be liable for any further  costs  incurred.  
Great Lakes discussed  the proposed settlement with Firm S, who said that they thought  the 
offer was reasonable and should be accepted. As outlined above, this service  is unable to 
consider the quality of legal advice provided by a law firm unless it can be established  with 
comparable expert  opinion that the advice is patently wrong. 
I appreciate Mr B is unhappy with Firm Ss advice regarding the settlement as he considers 
he could have received a better resolution  if he went to tribunal. But he has not submitted  
any expert evidence  that would  suggest  the solicitors  advice in relation to the proposed 
settlement was wrong. So theres  currently no basis on which to conclude  that Great Lakes 
were incorrect to rely on the advice of the panel solicitors to conclude that they would  not 
fund the claim any further if Mr B rejected the settlement. And Mr Bs opinion cannot  
reasonably outweigh the solicitors; for example, even where a policyholder is himself legally 
qualified, he cant act as an independent  expert in his own cause. 
I understand that Mr B thinks that the policy would not have supported  him through  to a 
tribunal. But an insurer is a custodian of pooled  funds which have to be managed 
responsibly. And with such a fiduciary duty,  an insurer  cannot be expected to defend or 
pursue cases at any cost,  purely as a matter  of principle of behalf of the policyholder.  And 
given the potential costs and inherent  uncertainties surrounding litigation, it seems  a prudent  
and reasonable strategy to accept a settlement if the legal professionals involved  consider it 
to be a reasonable offer. But I dont  think this means that the policy would never  have 
supported him through to a tribunal, as there is nothing  to suggest that it wouldnt, and this 
would also have been the only remaining option if any alternative dispute resolution attempts 
had failed and where there was no settlement forthcoming.
Ref: DRN86129773Mr B further submits  that the choice  to accept a settlement should not have been applicable 
without reference  to him, as a result of a clause in the policy which states:  
Proportionality
Where an award of damages is the only legal remedy to a dispute and the cost of 
pursuing civil proceedings is likely  to exceed the value of any such  award of 
damages, the most  we will pay in respect of legal costs is the value of the likely  
damages.
I appreciate that a monetary settlement may not have been  the only legal remedy  available 
in this dispute. But this clause does  not mean that Mr B can instruct  solicitors (at the 
insurers expense) to pursue an alternative remedy at any cost  particularly where 
reasonable settlement terms have been proposed.  And as Ive outlined  above, Mr B has not 
produced any expert evidence that would suggest the solicitors advice to accept the 
settlement was wrong. So I do not consider that Great Lakes have acted in breach of their 
policy terms.  
Freedom of choice
Mr B submits that Great  Lakes failed  to advise him of his right to appoint his own solicitor.  
The policy terms and conditions sate:
Appointed representative
i) Before legal  proceedings are issued, an appointed representative  from our 
panel will be appointed  to act for you to pursue, defend or settle any claim we 
have accepted in accordance with the terms and conditions of this section; 
ii) Should legal proceedings need  to be issued or have been issued against  you, 
or where there  is a conflict of interest,  you can choose  a non-panel solicitor  of 
your choosing.  You must inform us in writing of the full name  and address of 
the representative you want to act for you.
I am satisfied this policy term appears to be consistent with Regulation  6 of the Insurance  
Companies (Legal  Expenses Insurance) Regulations 1990 (the 1990  Regulations),  which 
provide a policyholder with the freedom to choose  their own solicitor only in certain 
circumstances: 
(1) Where  under a legal expenses insurance contract recourse is had to a lawyer  (or 
other person having such qualifications  as may be necessary) to defend,  represent  or 
serve the interests  of the insured in any inquiry  or proceedings,  the insured  shall be 
free to choose  that lawyer  (or other  person).
(2) The insured  shall also be free to choose  a lawyer (or other person having such  
qualifications as may be necessary)  to serve his interests whenever a conflict  of 
interest arises.
At the time Mr B made  his claim with Great Lakes,  there was no legal inquiry, and nor had 
any proceedings been issued, so he would not have been entitled  to choose his own 
solicitors at this point. However,  I appreciate  that matters progressed  to the extent that 
Ref: DRN86129774proceedings were  eventually issued, as the Employment Tribunal subsequently accepted the 
claim on 4 June 2018 and scheduled  a hearing  for 12 October 2018. But as required by the 
policy terms and conditions, I cannot see that Mr B informed Great Lakes  in writing of the 
full name  and address of the representative you want to act for you or that he even informed 
them that he wanted to instruct his own solicitor  in the first place. 
Mr B submits that Great  Lakes were  obliged (and failed)  to inform him of his right to choose 
a lawyer under Regulation 9 of the 1990  Regulations which states:
9  (1) Where a conflict of interest arises  or there is disagreement over the settlement of 
a dispute between the insurer  and insured  under a legal  expenses insurance contract, 
the insurer shall give written notice to the insured informing  him of  
(a)the right referred  to in regulation 6(2) 
Mr B says that there  was a conflict of interest with Firm S as they had missed procedural  
deadlines set by the Employment Tribunal to comply with certain case  management  orders. I 
appreciate that missing  procedural deadlines could, in certain circumstances, constitute 
professional negligence on the part of the solicitor such  that it could give rise to a conflict  of 
interest. Firm S said that such delays were normal in the course of employment claims but 
that in any event, any missed deadlines in Mr Bs case did not prejudice his legal claim. But 
even if I accept that the actions of Firm S did give rise to a conflict of interest, I do not 
consider that Regulation 9 would be engaged in any event as Great  Lakes were seemingly 
not made aware of any conflict before the legal claim was settled.  
I can see that the proposed settlement was accepted on or around 10 September 2018. 
Mr B did send a letter  of complaint before this on 24 August 2018, which set out his 
dissatisfaction with the deadlines  missed  by Firm S. However, this letter  was sent to the 
broker that sold Mr Bs home  insurance.  The broker responded  explaining  that they have no 
direct involvement with the claim service provided and said they would forward  Mr Bs 
complaint onto the relevant insurer to respond to. However, Great Lakes  say they never 
received any complaint  referral from the broker. It was then not until 12 November 2018 that 
Mr B wrote to Great Lakes himself to further  his complaint about Firm S. So Great Lakes 
could not reasonably have known of Mr Bs grievances and potential  for a conflict  of interest 
until this date. And by this point, his legal claim had already been  settled,  so Great  Lakes 
would not have been required to make him aware  of his right to choose a solicitor  to further a 
legal claim that had since been  resolved. 
So I do not consider that Regulation  9 was engaged  in these circumstances  as it does not 
appear that Great Lakes were  made  aware of any alleged conflict of interest while the legal 
claim was still under  way. So Im not persuaded that Great  Lakes were obliged  to notify Mr B 
of his right to choose a solicitor and, given  that he appears not to have made  any such  
written request, neither were they obliged to consider  it.  
I appreciate that Mr B had raised  a complaint before the claim was settled. But it had not 
been communicated to the correct  party in these circumstances, and Great  Lakes did not 
receive any notification  of a complaint. So I do not think it would be fair and reasonable to 
put them on notice  of Mr Bs concerns about Firm S given that they were  only reported to his 
broker at the time, which is a distinct legal entity to the insurer, and which does not purport to 
act on the insurers  behalf. 
Ref: DRN86129775The same reasoning applies to Mr Bs complaint  point regarding the failure of the broker to 
pass his complaint on to the insurer as they said they would. The broker does not act on 
behalf of Great Lakes, so the insurer cannot be held responsible for their acts or omissions 
as their principal. Indeed,  there are several insurers listed within the policy booklet that 
provide different elements  of the cover  that was purchased  through  the broker. As such, this 
isnt something I will comment on any further  within this decision.
In summary,  having considered how Great Lakes have handled Mr Bs claim, I do not think 
they have acted in breach of the policy terms and conditions, or that they have  handled the 
claim unfairly or have  done anything substantially wrong. So it follows  that I do not uphold 
his complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 February  2020.  
Jack Ferris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8612977