K821x#15complaint
Mr B says Nationwide Building Society  mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy in 2004.
background
In 2004 Mr B applied  for a loan using  the internet. He then spoke to a Nationwide  
representative on the telephone. Mr B took out a loan for £3,500. He was sold a PPI policy  
which was funded with a single premium of £390.14  which was added to the loan. So Mr B 
borrowed £3,890.14  in total.  
In 2006 Mr B took out a further loan, part of which was used to repay the 2004  loan. In 2006 
Mr B did not take PPI with the loan.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mr Bs complaint should  be upheld. Mr B disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion so the complaint was passed to me.
In March 2019 I issued my provisional findings on this complaint and invited both parties to 
comment and send  me any additional evidence  they wanted me to think  about.  A copy  of my 
provisional decision is attached and forms part of this final decision.
My provisional findings were that I was intending  to uphold Mr Bs complaint. Mr B told us he 
was pressured  into buying the PPI. I thought it most  likely  that Mr B was not given a fair 
choice about whether  to take the PPI. My main reasons were:
Mr B originally  applied for the loan via the internet and opted not to take PPI.
Nationwide then contacted Mr B by telephone  and it was at that point he was sold 
PPI.
Nationwide had not explained why it needed to contacted Mr B after he applied for 
the loan via the internet.
Mr B had already  received a quote  from another lender without PPI. Which  made  me 
think it was likely  he wanted a loan without PPI.
Notes from Nationwides internal systems show that Mr B didnt want  to take any 
extra I thought this indicated  he wanted  to keep costs down and didnt want  extra 
cost such as PPI cover.
Nationwides sales script from the time states that, Skills as a competent  adviser  
must be used to discuss objections and to make sure the customer has an informed 
decision.
The loan agreement  sent to Mr B after the telephone call included  PPI which was 
described as optional. But it gave no indication of what  action he needed  to do if he 
decided not to take it at that point.  Hed likely  need to have  called Nationwide  again 
to get a new loan agreement sent out. And hed likely have  faced more  objection 
handling. 
Ref: DRN82565872Mr B said he was pressured into accepting the PPI. Taking all the points listed  above  
together, I thought it most likely Mr B wasnt given a fair choice about whether to take the 
PPI.
I also set out what Nationwide needed  to do to put things right.
Mr B has told us he has nothing further  to add.
Nationwide disagreed with my provisional  findings.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Mr B has told us he didnt want to take out a PPI policy but felt pressured  to do so. As I said 
in my provisional findings, pressure is a subjective issue.  What one person perceives as 
pressure, someone else may not. So Ive looked  at the circumstances around how the policy 
came to be sold to Mr B. And Ive based my decision on what  I think is most likely to have 
happened.
Nationwide has said it feels I upheld the complaint, Simply because  Mr B declined  the 
insurance initially and decided to take it later having discussed it with a representative over 
the telephone. Id like to assure  Nationwide  that isnt the case.  Ive looked at all the 
circumstances and evidence. And Ive set out in the background of this decision and in the 
provisional decision the multiple factors that lead me to think that its most likely Mr B wasnt 
given a fair choice  about whether to add PPI to his loan. 
Nationwide has pointed  to other  complaints referred to this service that have not been 
upheld and where Nationwide has relied  on the 2003 sales  script.
Nationwide should  be aware that this service treats each case  on its individual merits. The 
document Nationwide refers to is in my view more of a sales  process  than a script.  Without 
a telephone recording and after so many  years I cant know  how closely  the Nationwide 
adviser followed the process. Nationwide has acknowledged that Mr B applied for the loan 
initially over the internet.  And it still isnt clear why Mr B was then contacted  over the 
telephone or how this call fitted into its sales process at the time.
Ive carefully thought  about everything Nationwide has said in response to my provisional  
findings. But having done so Im not persuaded  to alter the finding I set out in my provisional 
decision that Mr Bs complaint should be upheld.
  
Ref: DRN82565873putting things right
Mr B borrowed  extra to pay for the PPI, so his loan was bigger than it shouldve been.  He
paid more than he shouldve each month and it cost him more to repay the loan than it 
would have. So Mr B needs to get back the extra hes paid.
So, Nationwide should:
Work  out and pay Mr B the difference  between what  he paid each month on the 
loan and what he wouldve paid without  PPI.
Work  out and pay Mr B the difference  between what  it cost to pay off the loan and 
what it wouldve cost to pay off the loan without PPI.
Add simple interest to the extra amount  Mr B paid from when he paid it until he 
gets it back. The rate of interest  is 8% a year .
If Mr B made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Nationwide can take off what 
he got for the claim from the amount it owes him.
 HM Revenue  & Customs requires Nationwide to take off tax from this interest. 
Nationwide must give Mr B a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for 
one.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, and in my provisional  decision,  I uphold Mr Bs complaint and 
direct Nationwide Building Society  to pay Mr B compensation as set out in this decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 June 2019.
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
copy of my provisional decision
Ref: DRN82565874complaint
Mr B says Nationwide Building Society  mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy in 2004.
background
In 2004 Mr B applied  for a loan using  the internet. He then spoke to a Nationwide  
representative on the telephone. Mr B took out a loan for £3,500. He was sold a PPI policy  
which was funded with a single premium of £390.14  which was added to the loan. So Mr B 
borrowed £3,890.14  in total.  
In 2006 Mr B took out a further loan, part of which was used to repay the 2004  loan. In 2006 
Mr B did not take PPI with the loan.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mr Bs complaint should  be upheld. Mr B disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion so the complaints been  passed to me.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Im intending  to uphold this complaint  and Ill explain  why:
Mr B has told us he didnt want to take out a PPI policy but felt pressured  to do so. Pressure 
is a subjective  issue. What one person perceives as pressure, someone else may not. So 
Ive looked at the circumstances  around how the policy came to be sold to Mr B. And Ive 
based my decision  on what I think is most  likely to have happened.
Nationwide has told us that Mr B originally  applied for the 2004 using the internet.  
Nationwide has told us that he opted  to take the loan without PPI during the internet process.
Mr B was then contacted  by Nationwide and it was at this point that the PPI was sold to him. 
Nationwide has not made it clear  why it needed to contact Mr B by telephone after the 
internet application was completed.
Nationwide has told us that Mr B had received  a quote for a loan from another lender without 
PPI. It says that Mr B agreed to PPI when told that Nationwides loan was cheaper even with 
the PPI.
Ive thought about this but it seems  clear that Mr B wasnt interested  in PPI when he first 
applied for the loan from Nationwide  and also when he obtained a quotation  from another  
lender.
I can see the notes  from the time of the sale include the line; didnt want  to take any 
extra...  the line is cut short  and doesnt  explain  what  extra  Mr B didnt  want.  But the 
most  plausible  explanation  is that Mr B didnt  want  any additional  costs.
Ref: DRN82565875Nationwide has given  us a copy of its sales process  for telephone sales. It dates from 2003  
but could have still been in use in August 2004.  Although Nationwide  says it didnt give Mr B 
advice the sales  process  states:
Skills as a competent adviser must be used to discuss objections  and to make sure the 
customer has an informed decision.
This suggests to me that if Mr B had objected to the PPI sale,  he would likely have faced 
some degree of objection-handling.
As I said earlier,  peoples  reaction  to pressure differs greatly.  In this case I can see clear  
evidence that Mr B didnt  want  to take out PPI before he received the telephone call. And 
interestingly he didnt  take out PPI when he later refinanced in 2006.
Taking all this into account I think its most likely  Mr B wasnt  given a fair choice  about  
whether to take the PPI. Having applied for the loan over the internet  without  PPI, he was 
then contacted by telephone where his objections to taking out PPI were at least  discussed.
Nationwide has pointed  to the loan agreement that Mr B was sent after the telephone call. 
This states  that the PPI was optional. But the loan agreement doesnt give Mr B the option  to 
simply decline the PPI and return the loan agreement  signed. Its not clear what Mr B 
needed to do if at that stage he wanted  to decline the PPI. Hed have had to call Nationwide  
to ask for a new loan agreement which would have delayed him receiving the funds. And 
hed likely  have faced  more objection-handling if he did so.
In any event the PPI was sold during  the telephone call and not when Mr B received the 
credit agreement.
putting things right
Mr B borrowed  extra to pay for the PPI, so his loan was bigger than it shouldve been.  He
paid more than he shouldve each month and it cost him more to repay the loan than it 
would have. So Mr B needs to get back the extra hes paid.
So, Nationwide should:
Work  out and pay Mr B the difference  between what  he paid each month on the 
loan and what he wouldve paid without  PPI.
Work  out and pay Mr B the difference  between what  it cost to pay off the loan and 
what it wouldve cost to pay off the loan without PPI.
Add simple interest to the extra amount  Mr B paid from when he paid it until he 
gets it back. The rate of interest  is 8% a year .
If Mr B made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Nationwide can take off what 
he got for the claim from the amount it owes him.
 HM Revenue  & Customs requires Nationwide to take off tax from this interest. 
Nationwide must give Mr B a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for 
one.
Ref: DRN82565876my provisional decision
For the reasons  set out above, but subject to both parties responses to this provisional 
decision, Im intending  to uphold Mr Bs complaint and direct   Nationwide Building Society to 
pay Mr B compensation as set out above. 
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8256587