K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Lloyds Bank  Plc are holding him liable for transactions that he says he 
didnt make or otherwise authorise. 
background
The detailed background to this complaint  is well known to both parties, so Ill only provide a 
summary here. The following table provides a list of key events  in relation to Mr Hs 
complaint. Those in bold are transactions that Mr H says he made. 
Date Time Event Amount Status
13/10/2018 3.35am ATM  
Withdrawal£50
13/10/2018 5.05am ATM  
Withdrawal£30
13/10/2018 8.12am Chip & PIN 
Payment£2,000 Declined
13/10/2018 8.27am Chip & PIN 
Payment£2,000
13/10/2018 8.32am Online  Banking  
Password ResetN/A
13/10/2018 8.37am Overdraft 
Extended Via 
Online  Banking£2,500
13/10/2018 8.41am Overdraft 
Extended Via 
Online  Banking£1,500
13/10/2018 8.48am Chip & PIN 
Payment£2,500
13/10/2018 9.01am ATM  Withdrawal £200
13/10/2018 9.08am Chip & PIN 
Payment£1,300 Declined
13/10/2018 9.43am Chip & PIN 
Payment£100 Declined
13/10/2018 10.02am ATM  Withdrawal £100 Declined
14/10/2018 1.54am ATM  Withdrawal £300 Declined
Mr H had two accounts with Lloyds, both had their overdrafts increased  and there was a 
transfer from one to the other which facilitated the spending on the debit card.  And beyond  
those listed above  there  were further  attempted ATM withdrawals which  were all declined.
Mr H contacted Lloyds  on 14 October 2018 at around 11.30am to let them  know  hed lost his 
debit card and to report that there  were  transactions on his account that he didnt  recognise.  
He also said that hed lost his sim card and that someone else had changed his online 
banking password. He said he hadnt applied to increase his overdraft limits. 
During this call it became  apparent that another person had called Lloyds the same morning 
ahead of Mr H. This person was pretending to be him and trying to get the block  on the debit 
card lifted.  Lloyds werent satisfied with the answers  given to questions and had directed this 
person to attend a branch  with ID to be verified. So Lloyds  told the genuine Mr H the same 
Ref: DRN84854972and once this had been done they investigated. Ultimately they concluded that Mr H had 
authorised the transactions in question and declined to offer him a refund. 
Mr H thinks Lloyds havent  fairly considered his claim as he has previously had fraud  on his 
account a number of times. So he referred the matter to our service and one of our 
investigators looked into it. She too concluded that it was more  likely than not that Mr H had 
authorised the transactions he disputes.  So she didnt  recommend that Lloyds needed to do 
more. 
As he still disagrees Mr H has asked for an ombudsman to review  his complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with our 
investigator and for essentially  the same reasons. Let me explain why. 
Mr H thinks Lloyds should  have  provided  him with more information  in a timely  manner  to 
enable him to obtain CCTV evidence. But whilst  I would consider CCTV if it were  available, a 
transaction could  be authorised by an account  holder even if performed by someone else.  
And I dont  think the lack of this evidence makes  a difference  to the outcome of this 
complaint, for reasons  that Ill explain below. 
Generally speaking, Lloyds can only hold Mr H liable for the disputed transactions if the 
evidence suggests  its more likely than not that he made or otherwise authorised them  
himself. 
Im satisfied by the technical evidence provided  by Lloyds that Mr Hs genuine card and PIN 
were used in the disputed  transactions. But the regulations relevant to this type of complaint 
say this isnt enough, on its own, to hold Mr H liable.  So I also need to think about whether or 
not the evidence suggests Mr H consented  to the transactions. 
Having considered the evidence, I think there  are two main possibilities as to whats  
happened here. So Ill explain what I think is most  likely. In cases like this I can never be 
100% sure what has happened, so I have  to consider it in this way, on the balance of 
probabilities. 
Mr H didnt authorise the transactions and has been  a victim of fraud.
There are several pieces of evidence  that support this version of events. The strongest of 
which is the phone call to Lloyds on the morning  of 14 October 2018 which Ive listened to. 
The caller  is clearly not Mr H. But that doesnt in itself mean that Mr H couldnt have 
authorised another to make  the transactions he disputes. The way that the spending took 
place and the fact that some transactions continued to be attempted  after Mr H had reported 
the fraud also support Mr H being a victim.  
But there are also several difficulties  I have in accepting this. All the transactions were made 
using Chip and PIN and there were no incorrect PIN attempts. Mr Hs version of events is 
that he withdrew money from the ATM  at 3.35am prior to going into a club. He describes 
there being people close by who asked  for money  at the time. There also seems to be some 
confusion as to whether  or not Mr H made the cash withdrawal  at 5.05am. Mr H says he had 
Ref: DRN84854973been drinking  and couldnt  be sure, but as it was a comparatively small amount (£30) he 
wasnt concerned. 
I appreciate Mr Hs memory might  be impacted  by the fact that hed been  drinking. And I 
dont think it makes a difference to the outcome of this complaint  if he says he made both or 
only the first ATM withdrawal himself or whether  the people standing  close by were at the 
first or second withdrawal. Even  if I were  to accept either of these withdrawals as a likely 
point of compromise for the PIN, I would still have concerns for the reasons Ill outline below. 
There is also the issue of how Mr Hs online banking came  to be compromised.  Lloyds  have 
shown that an automated  verification call was made to Mr Hs phone to confirm the 
password reset for online banking  and that a positive response was received. Mr H explains  
that whilst  he was in the club he dropped his phone and the sim card popped out. But it is 
also recorded that he still had the tray in which  a sim card sits. I think its unlikely that a sim 
card would fall out of a phone as a result of being dropped. And even if it did I think  it would 
be unlikely for the sim tray to be recovered,  but not the sim card itself. 
The sim would then have needed to have been  found by another person. And this third party  
would have needed to have been the same  person or an associate of the person whod 
observed Mr Hs PIN at a genuine ATM withdrawal  (either  before being in the club or having 
found the sim card, gone  on to observe the PIN at the later ATM withdrawal). 
I agree  with our investigator that the timings of the transactions  mean it is likely that the 
person who increased  the overdrafts on Mr Hs accounts was the same person who was 
making the debit  card transactions. Shortly after the overdrafts are increased, the payments 
are made.  
Lloyds also say that their system will detect  a sim swap  during a verification call. Mr H says 
he didnt lose his phone, only the sim card. So if the sim had been placed into another 
handset, Lloyds system  would most  likely have detected  this. 
Lloyds have also evidenced the information required to reset  an online banking password 
beyond the verification call. This includes some  information which would be on the debit 
card. But also some  further  personal information which isnt, such as Mr Hs date of birth.  I 
asked Mr H if hed lost his wallet or just the debit card,  in case  something  else with his date 
of birth had been  lost / stolen too. He said he couldnt be sure due to his intoxicated state 
that evening. But he thinks  it was just the card, as he usually carries his driving licence in his 
wallet and he still has this. And the driving licence was issued before October 2018. So I 
think its more likely  than not that only Mr Hs debit card was lost, not the whole wallet  as 
Mr H says there was no fraud  or attempted fraud on or loss of his other cards and he still has 
his driving licence. 
Mr H has provided evidence  from his mobile phone provider that he replaced  his sim card to 
support that it was lost. I accept that the sim card was replaced  as he describes.  
Mr H authorised the transactions.
The second  option is that Mr H authorised the transactions he disputes and did so either  
under duress or is disputing them for financial gain. Im alert to the fact that Mr H is a 
vulnerable consumer, so Ive given careful consideration to this possibility.  But Im satisfied 
he has had ample  opportunity to present his case and to disclose information to our service. 
And he hasnt said hes been pressured  in this way. 
Ref: DRN84854974In short,  I think this is the most likely  of the two main  options for what has happened.  For me 
to be able to uphold this complaint, Id need  to accept the following:
Mr Hs PIN was observed by a third party during one of his ATM withdrawals.
The sim card fell out of his phone when it was dropped in the club and Mr H didnt 
recover this at the time but the same third party who observed  (or went on to 
observe) his PIN did.
The same  third party somehow got hold of Mr Hs debit card without him noticing.
Lloyds systems failed and didnt correctly  detect that the sim had been swapped  to a 
different phone when the verification call occurred.
The third party then reset his online  banking  details  and knew Mr Hs date of birth to 
be able to do so. I cant see how they would have  known this information. And even if 
there was an explanation  for this, I think its more likely than not that Lloyds systems 
would have detected the sim swap in any case, as they said it would have done. 
The third party then completed the transactions  Mr H disputes  without his consent or 
knowledge. 
Whilst this is technically  possible,  on balance I think Mr H hasnt told us all he knows about 
the events surrounding this complaint. And I consider it more likely than not that he 
authorised the transactions he disputes.  It therefore follows that I think  it is fair for Lloyds to 
hold Mr H liable for the transactions. And I dont think they need to do anything further to 
resolve this complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, my final decision is that I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 December  2019.
Richard Annandale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8485497