K820x#14complaint
Mr F has complained about Aviva  Insurance Limiteds decision to decline his claim under his 
former employers group  private medical  insurance policy  even though it had pre-authorised 
his treatment.
background
Mr F was employed by a particular company  (which  Ill call Z) and was a member of its 
group private medical insurance  policy,  held with Aviva.
On 9 August  2018, Mr Fs employment with Z ended.
On 17 September  2018, Mr F asked Aviva  to authorise treatment. Aviva agreed to this.
On 5 October 2018, Z informed Aviva  that Mr B no longer worked for it and should be 
removed from cover with effect  from 9 August 2018.
On 18 October 2018, Mr F underwent  his treatment. Aviva subsequently  refused to meet the 
cost of this as it said that Mr F was no longer a member of the policy  by the time he 
underwent the treatment.  This left Mr F liable for the cost of treatment which  was £2,605. 
Mr F complained to Aviva that it had authorised the treatment  and therefore  should provide 
cover. Aviva  wouldnt change its position.  It explained that under the terms of the policy,  
Mr Fs cover had ended  when he left Zs employment. It said it hadnt  been aware that he 
was no longer employed by Z at the time it authorised the treatment.
Mr F was unhappy at Avivas response  and so referred  his complaint to us.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. In his opinion,  Aviva 
had acted reasonably.
Mr F didnt  accept the investigators findings.  He said hed understood from Avivas  
willingness to authorise his treatment that his cover had been extended beyond  the 
termination of his employment.  He noted that Aviva was told to remove  him from the policy  
13 days before he underwent his treatment and he questioned why it hadnt  contacted  him 
during this period. He said that if hed known his treatment wouldnt be covered, he would 
have chosen instead to receive treatment through the NHS.
In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I shall explain  why.
The membership guide, a copy of which was provided to Mr F, states:
If you leave  your company, your membership of the policy  will cease immediately, even if 
treatment was pre-authorised by Aviva.
Ref: DRN87204222Mr Fs employment  by Z ended  on 9 August 2018.  Im therefore  satisfied  that after this date 
he was no longer covered by the policy.
Aviva authorised Mr Cs treatment in September 2018 because Z hadnt yet advised  it that 
Mr C was no longer employed by it. This was unfortunate. However,  I have listened  to the 
telephone calls in which authorisation was given and note that Mr F doesnt  volunteer the 
information that he was no longer employed  by Z, which  would have allowed Aviva  to advise 
him that he was no longer covered by the policy. The policy  makes  clear that cover ends as 
soon as the member  leaves their employment, regardless of whether pre-authorisation of 
treatment has been given. Im therefore  satisfied that the pre-authorisation did not mean that 
Aviva was obliged  to provide cover for the eventual  treatment.
Mr F has said that he understood  his cover had been extended  for 45 days. I dont know  why 
he believed  this to be the case.  I have found no evidence that Aviva  told him this. If he was 
told it by Z, he needs to raise this with Z.
Mr F has questioned why Aviva didnt  inform him once it learned that he was no longer 
covered by the policy. However, the policy schedule states:
Cover for a group member and his/her  eligible  dependants (if any) shall cease forthwith 
upon the group member ceasing  to be included in the group.
The policyholder must,  as soon as possible after each event, notify each group member of 
 the termination of his/her cover and that of his/her eligible dependants  under the policy if 
the group  member ceases to be included in the group 
I therefore consider  it was the responsibility  of Z, as the policyholder, to tell Mr F that his 
cover had been terminated.
It is unfortunate if Mr F underwent private  treatment in the mistaken  belief that he was 
covered by the policy and thus incurred  cost which he would have  otherwise  chosen not to 
incur. However, I cant reasonably conclude that Aviva is at fault in this matter.
Ref: DRN87204223my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2020.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8720422