K820x#14complaint
This complaint relates to a home  reversion plan taken out by Miss EM and Miss MM in 2002. 
It has been stated  the plan was inappropriate for their circumstances and no checks  were 
made to ensure Miss EM was not being  unduly  influenced by Miss MM. 
Phoenix Life Limited was latterly responsible  for its sale.  As such,  I will refer to it throughout 
this decision, even when actions were  taken by its predecessors.
Miss EM is represented by a solicitor  and the estate  of Miss MM is represented by the 
executor of the estate.
Background
In 2002 Miss EM was 79 years old and Miss MM was 85. They  had both retired  in the early 
1980s and they shared a home which Miss MM owned unencumbered.  They  had a joint 
monthly income of £1,749.25 (made up of occupational  and state pensions) and had just 
under £10,000 in savings.  The only liability they had was a bank loan of £1,000.
I note that Miss EMs representative has disputed that Miss MM was the sole owner of the 
property, but it has not provided any evidence to support  its statements. As such,  the 
complaint will be assessed  with the property  ownership as detailed  above, which  is based  on 
Land Registry records.
On 26 April 2002 Phoenix wrote to Miss EM and Miss MM with its offer.  The letter  detailed  
they would  get £17,649.00 and an annuity  of £1 per month  for the remainder of their lives. 
The property would  be transferred into Phoenixs  name, but they would retain  an interest in it 
and given a lease which gave them the right to live in the property for the remainder  of their 
lives. There would be no rent payable under the lease. After  both Miss MM and Miss EM had 
died the property would be sold and the proceeds  of the sale would be divided equally 
between Phoenix  and the estate of the person  who lived the longest. It was also confirmed 
that Phoenix would  insure the property  going  forward unless Miss MM and Miss EM didnt 
want it to. 
The plan terms and conditions  were enclosed with the letter,  as was a quotation for the plan 
details. The quotation detailed Miss EM and Miss MMs joint income as £20,991 per year. 
The plan was to be set up on the shared growth  option, which  meant that any growth in the 
value of the property would be shared 50% to Miss EM and Miss MM and the other 50% to 
Phoenix. They hadnt selected the escalation  basis (to increase the annuity annually)  or the 
inheritance protection option.   The property was detailed  as being worth  £80,000  and 50% of 
that value was to be used  to pay for the purchase of the home reversion  plan. It detailed  the 
lump sum that would be payable and a monthly annuity of £1.
Also enclosed was a reasons why report, which detailed key information about Miss EM 
and Miss MMs  circumstances and the discussions that had taken  place. It was detailed that 
they wanted to release money from their home to buy a new car, repay a loan they had, fund 
future holidays and some  home improvements.  They didnt want to use their savings for 
these purposes as that money was earmarked for funeral costs and as an emergency fund. 
It was detailed that options for the plan were discussed, such  as inheritance protection,  but 
Miss EM and Miss MM wanted to receive  as much  money as possible from the arrangement, 
and so declined  those options. 
Ref: DRN89658922On 16 May 2002 the firm of solicitors Miss EM and Miss MM chose  to speak to wrote to 
Phoenix and confirmed that it had spoken to both of them about the plan. It was confirmed 
the terms of the offer had been explained,  and that Miss EM and Miss MM understood them 
and the consequences of taking the plan. 
The plan went into force; the capital  sum was released, and the monthly annuity 
commenced. In April 2017 Miss MM sadly died. As Miss EM was a joint plan holder, nothing  
relating to it or the property  changed. 
In late 2017 Miss EMs representative  made  a complaint on her behalf about the suitability of 
the plan and the capital  amount  that was received for the 50% interest in the property.
Phoenix rejected  the complaint. It provided  some  explanation of how the plan worked and 
having done so it was satisfied the amount paid to Miss EM and Miss MM was fair and 
appropriate in the circumstances. It also thought the sale of the plan was suitable for the 
needs and circumstances it had been told about at the time of the sale. It highlighted that 
what the plan holders  chose to spend the money on was up to them and it wasnt 
unreasonable or unfair that Miss EM and Miss MM used some of the money  released  to 
improve their home. However,  it apologised  for the delays in its complaint handling and paid 
Miss EM a total of £150 for any inconvenience  shed suffered.
Miss EM didnt  accept Phoenixs position and the complaint was referred to this service. 
When doing so, an additional point was added to the complaint presentation. It was stated 
that Miss EM had no contact with Phoenix  at the time of the sale and as such there was no 
opportunity for her to be advised about  the consequences  of the arrangement.  Following 
referral to this service, the executor of Miss MMs estate joined the complaint.
One of our investigators  considered the complaint, but didnt recommend that it be upheld. 
Miss EM and Miss MMs  estate didnt accept the investigators view of the complaint. It was 
confirmed that the investigators opinion wasnt accepted, but further time was required to 
respond. It also asked  for the investigators qualifications. We declined to provide the 
information requested  about the investigator, but we did extend the time in which a full 
response to the investigators conclusions should  be provided. We gave a total of 17 weeks 
for a response to be provided. No further explanation of why the investigators conclusions 
werent accepted  was provided. 
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss EMs  representative has phrased  his arguments about the suitability of the home 
reversion plan in legal  terms. We are an informal dispute resolution service and we assess  
cases based on relevant regulations, industry  standards and taking account of the law. 
However, whilst  we take the law into account,  I dont propose  to enter into a discussion 
regarding potential legal opinions, as this service  is an alternative to the courts and we have 
a fair and reasonable remit. That is how I will review  this complaint.
In 2002 Miss MM owned the home  she and Miss EM lived in. It appears there were things 
they wanted to spend  money  on and so looked  at releasing equity from their home. It is not 
unreasonable for a consumer to do so, as long as they understand what they are doing and 
Ref: DRN89658923the consequences of it. In this case, in addition to releasing some  money,  taking the plan 
also gave Miss EM an interest in the property and ensured that, if she were to outlive 
Miss MM, she would  have  the right to remain in the property for the remainder  of her life. 
Miss EMs  representative has said that she doesnt recall being  present during the 
discussions that took place before the sale of the plan. The discussions were  some time ago 
and I note that Miss EM was aware  there was some form of equity release on the property. 
Memories fade over time and, given shes also said that Miss MM took most of the 
responsibility for their financial arrangements and it was Miss MMs property involved in the 
process, Miss EMs lack of recollection  about the discussions that took place may well be 
because she wasnt particularly invested  in the process. However, given there were details 
of Miss EMs pension income  and other  circumstances documented in the paperwork, it 
would indicate  Miss EM was involved.   Overall, I think  it more  likely than not that Miss EM 
was, involved,  especially  given that the independent  solicitor confirmed having met with both 
Miss EM and Miss MM.
Looking at the circumstances detailed in the fact find and reasons why letter, it seems 
Miss MM and Miss EM wanted some  funds to spend on various  things. Whilst they had 
some savings, they confirmed they already had plans for that money. So they needed to 
raise money and, given  their ages and circumstances the options would have been limited. I 
dont think the recommendation of an equity release product was unreasonable. Nor does 
the specific plan look unsuitable given it provided  what was needed and also secured 
Miss EM a home  for life, which she may not have had before. I am also satisfied the 
information provided to Miss MM and Miss EM was clear and they would most likely  have  
understood the plan and its consequences, even without the further  explanation from the 
independent solicitor.
I note Miss EMs  representatives comments about the amount Phoenix paid out for a 50% 
interest in a property  worth £80,000  at the time. Whilst the sum was less than half the retail 
value of the property there is good reason for that. When assessing  how much to offer on 
such a plan the life assurance company has to weigh up many  factors  including who the 
consumers were and how long that would  indicate  its money will be tied up, the property, the 
housing market and what was anticipated  to happen  with the housing markets, along  with 
the costs associated with the plan and insurance.  
The amount  paid out doesnt look out of line with the amount I have seen on other such 
products. There is also the fact that whilst the representative is unhappy  with the amount  
paid out, it seems Miss MM and Miss EM were happy with it at the time or they wouldnt 
have accepted the offer. In addition, if there  was any sign of impropriety at the time, I am 
sure their solicitor would have raised  concerns when it ensured  they understood the plan 
and its consequences  for them. 
I note that Miss EMs representative has said that he considers  the independent solicitors 
should be considered to be working for Phoenix  as it was selected from a list given by 
Phoenix. This is because they are remote from where Miss MM and Miss EM lived, and they 
would have had no reason to travel so far for legal advice. Whilst the solicitors  were certainly 
not their neighbourhood firm, I have seen nothing to indicate  the solicitors  were linked to 
Phoenix. Whilst Phoenix may have given a list of solicitors it knew  of that had been involved  
in previous sales of its plans, that doesnt mean  any of those solicitors worked for Phoenix.  
Nor have  I seen any evidence that suggests the solicitors gave a biased or incorrect  
explanation of the home reversion plan in order to persuade Miss MM and Miss EM to take it 
out when they otherwise wouldnt have.
Ref: DRN89658924Overall, I am not persuaded the sale of this policy was unsuitable for Miss MM and Miss EM 
at the time of the sale.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules  of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Miss EM and the executor of Miss MMs estate to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 October  2020.
Derry Baxter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8965892