K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) havent  fairly 
dealt with a claim they made under their home insurance for blocked drains. 
background
Mr and Mrs B noticed their freshwater drain  was overflowing onto their drive  and there  was 
some flooding in their garden. They contacted Lloyds, which  agreed  to look at their claim 
and sent a contractor to look at what was happening.
There were two visits by the contractor,  and on the second the drain was excavated. The 
contractor reported  that the drain  had been  poorly fitted with the drainage pipes inserted in 
half pipe sections, and this was the reason for the problems.
Lloyds said it wouldnt meet a claim for the cost of repairing the drain  as the problem  came  
under a general exclusion in Mr and Mrs Bs policy for poor  design. 
Mr and Mrs B didnt  think that was fair as the policy didnt  highlight this exclusion in the 
section about  drains.  They say it is only listed much  later in the policy  terms and conditions.
Mrs B also says she doesnt understand why the damage isnt covered as she and Mr B 
werent aware of any poor workmanship when they bought the house a few months earlier, 
and wouldnt  have  known  it was a problem.
Lloyds hasnt changed its decision on the claim so Mr and Mrs B have  brought  their 
complaint to us.
Our investigator looked at the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. He thought  
there were two reasons for this: that the pipework was poorly  fitted (the poor workmanship 
reason Lloyds gave) and also that the policy excluded  the cost of clearing a blockage  if the 
blockage itself hadnt damaged the pipe. 
Mr and Mrs B responded to say that Lloyds hadnt mentioned the second  of these reasons, 
but also that they thought  a further  section of their policy should have provided cover  in 
summary, that was when  normal  methods  of clearing the pipe didnt work, the policy covered 
the cost of breaking into a pipe to clear  the blockage.
Ive been asked to decide this complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not going  to uphold this complaint and Ill explain why.
Ive looked at the photos taken by the contractor that visited Mr and Mrs Bs home. At some  
point theyve dug down to the pipe and removed half sections of black  pipe, which  was 
originally linked to the terracotta pipework  in the drain itself.  The contractors report  says this 
pipework has led to the blockage, and shouldnt  have  been installed in this way. 
Ref: DRN89744472Im persuaded that Lloyds fairly relied  upon  this report  when it said it wouldnt meet  Mr and 
Mrs Bs claim under the poor design exclusion  in their policy. It isnt normal  procedure  to 
construct drain pipes  from half sections.
Mr and Mrs B say this exclusion isnt very clear  and theres nothing about  poor 
workmanship in the drains part of their policy. So Ive looked carefully at the policy  document  
to see if I think  Lloyds  made this clear  enough.  I think it did. I agree  there  isnt anything 
mentioned specifically in the section about drains.  But there is a list of exclusions that apply 
to all parts  of the policy  and I think its reasonable to collect  these in one place, in order to 
prevent lost of duplication throughout the policy. The exclusion in question says Lloyds  wont  
pay for damage caused by Faulty workmanship, poor design, or defective or inherently 
unsuitable materials.  
This is a common exclusion in home insurance  policies, and I dont consider it to be 
particularly onerous.  Its unlikely  Mr and Mrs B could have bought similarly priced cover  
without this exclusion (if they could get such cover at all). And its not something  Mr and Mrs 
B have  said they were  particularly interested in when buying  the policy. I wouldnt have 
expected Lloyds to have  pointed this particular exclusion  out when the policy  was sold.
Mr and Mrs B say that a separate section of the policy should have covered them. This 
clause says they are covered If there  is a blockage  in an underground pipe connecting your 
home to the main sewer and normal methods of releasing the blockage to restore service 
are unsuccessful, we will pay the cost of breaking  into and repairing the pipe.  
I dont know if that part of the policy was considered  by Lloyds as it didnt mention it in its 
final response letter to Mr and Mrs B. But even if this clause applied, the exclusion for poor 
design would still mean the claim could be fairly declined  for the reasons Ive given above.
Ive also thought about whether this claim should  be covered by the accidental damage  
part of Mr and Mrs Bs policy. Thats because, as Mr and Mrs B didnt know  the pipe was 
poorly designed, damage might have been building up unnoticed. It might help if I give an 
example of how this might  work  in other  circumstances. For instance, a water  pipe thats  
hidden  in a wall for example  might  leak unnoticed for some time until there were obvious 
signs of damage.  By that time there might be a lot of hidden damage. This service wouldnt 
normally allow an insurer to not meet  a claim to repair that damage  even if the pipe itself 
had been poorly  fitted. But we wouldnt expect the insurer  to pay to repair  the pipe, as its 
only the damage caused thats covered, not the pipe itself.
Apart from the need to clear the pipe and replace the poorly  designed parts, neither of which 
is covered under this policy, I havent  seen  any long term damage caused by the flooding.  
So I dont  think the accidental damage part of the policy  applies.  
I appreciate Mr and Mrs B say they had a survey  when they bought their home, and the 
seller didnt mention  any issues  with this pipe. But Im afraid neither of those things affect my 
decision. If Mr and Mrs B are unhappy  with the content of the survey they had done, theyd 
have to take that up with the surveyor.
Mr and Mrs B also say they were left not knowing that their claim had been  declined. Lloyds 
have sent us a copy  of their internal records about  this. Theyve  noted  that, a couple of days  
after the second visit, the contractor wanted  to send  Mr and Mrs B a copy  of their report  
which said the claim shouldnt be met  so Mrs B could consider what  to do next.  When  Mr B 
called a few days  later the reason  for the decline  was given to him. Whether it was the 
Ref: DRN89744473contractor or Lloyds who said the claim wasnt being  met, the important thing is that Mr and 
Mrs B had that information.  I cant see that they were left without that information  for very 
long. 
Mr and Mrs B say they were also promised  some cctv footage. I dont know whether  this was 
promised because Lloyds  thought that some had been produced when it hadnt, or if Lloyds 
simply didnt or couldnt get it from the contractor.  But even without that I think  there was 
enough evidence  for Lloyds to have reached a fair conclusion.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 September 2019.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8974447