K820x#14complaint
Mrs S complains that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold her a single premium payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mrs S took out an 18 month personal loan with Lloyds in October  1998,  at a meeting  with the 
bank. She also took out a single premium  PPI policy, Lloyds say probably  at the same time. 
This covered her loan repayments for the same term.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mrs Ss complaint should be upheld. Mrs S didnt agree, so her 
complaint has been passed to me to consider. She said,  in summary, if shed known that 
interest was payable on the PPI premium she wouldnt have taken PPI because  she tried to 
avoid paying interest  and instalments wherever  possible. She also said her parents wouldve 
helped with her repayments  if she got into difficulty.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ss case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
was Mrs S given a choice  about PPI?
I cant know what was discussed at the meeting Mrs S had with the bank. Given how long ago 
this was, Lloyds  no longer  has a copy of Mrs Ss paperwork from the time of sale. 
As some of the evidence is either incomplete or contradictory, Ive made  a decision on what  I 
think is most likely  to have happened   based on whats available. So, as well as taking into 
account what Mrs S recalls from the time of sale, Ive looked at the sample loan agreement 
that Lloyds said it was using at the time, and taken into account what  we know about Lloyds 
sales processes from dealing with other cases.
Having done so, I think it likely that Mrs S wouldve  been asked if she wanted  PPI before it 
was added to her loan agreement. I say this because of the way the loan agreement  was 
likely to have been set out  it showed  the amount of the loan, the cost of the optional  loan 
repayment protection, the total amount  of the loan,  the cost of each element as a monthly 
instalment and the interest rate payable. The customer was asked to select a yes or no 
box to say if they wanted optional loan repayment  protection. So, I think  it likely that Mrs S 
wouldve said she wanted PPI and thats  why it was added. I havent seen anything to make 
me think that Lloyds  wasnt following its usual sales process in Mrs Ss case.
Ref: DRN85650082was the policy recommended  to Mrs S? and if so, was it suitable?
Lloyds probably  recommended  this policy to Mrs S, so it had to make  sure that the policy  
was suitable for her needs. It also had to give her information that was clear,  fair and not 
misleading so that she could  decide for herself if she wanted  to buy it.
I cant see that this policy  was unsuitable for Mrs S. I say this because:
Mrs S appeared eligible  to take out the policy;
I cant see that it was unaffordable;
Mrs S said she wouldve got sick pay through work (between three to six months worth).  
But, the PPI wouldve  paid out on top of her work  benefits. It wouldve paid out for up to 
12 months  for a successful unemployment claim and for the term of the loan for a 
successful accident  or sickness  claim. So, I still think  it couldve provided her with useful 
protection to meet her loan repayments,  providing  cover for a longer period than her 
work benefits wouldve covered her for. 
Mrs S said her parents  wouldve helped out with her repayments and that given that the 
loan was only for £1,000 this couldve been covered. I accept her parents may have 
wanted to help. However,  I havent placed  any reliance  on this, as help of this kind cant  
always be guaranteed when the time comes.  I cant  see that her other resources  clearly  
made the policy unsuitable  for her;
Mrs S wouldnt have  got a pro-rata refund of the premiums if she ended the loan and 
policy early. But, I cant see that it wouldve been known  at the time she took the policy  
out that she may want to end it early,  so I dont think shes lost out because of this; and 
I dont know what was discussed about the policys  main  features or how they were  
presented to Mrs S. However, I dont think this wouldve  made a difference to her 
decision to buy PPI as I cant see that Mrs S was affected by any of the main limitations 
or exclusions. As she couldve  benefitted  from everything  the policy  offered,  I dont think 
the policy  was unsuitable for her.
was Mrs S given enough information?
Its possible that Mrs S couldve been given clearer information about the costs of the policy.  
Mrs S said she didnt  know  shed have to pay interest on the premium. But, I think the loan 
agreement did make that clear and tell her the interest rate payable. So, I think even with 
better information most likely this wouldnt have changed Mrs Ss decision to buy the policy.  
I think the policy was suitable and it offered useful  protection.  I cant  see that Mrs Ss lost out 
because of anything  that Lloyds couldve done better.
Ive taken into account everything that Mrs Ss said. But, for the reasons Ive explained, 
I havent changed my view.
Ref: DRN85650083my final decision
I do not uphold  Mrs Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 June 2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8565008