K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken in 1995  when    
Mrs O applied for a credit  card. Mrs O says Bank of Scotland Plc  trading  as Halifax  
(Halifax) - mis-sold  her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Os case.
Having done this, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why. 
Halifax should have  made Mrs O aware  she had a choice in buying the PPI. Mrs O says the 
policy was added without  her consent. Halifax doesnt have  any paperwork Mrs O would 
have completed at the time but it has provided a sample copy of the application  form Mrs O 
is likely  to have completed.
Looking at the sample copy, I can see it asks applicants to tick a box if they want the policy. 
Ive thought about what I know  about  how Halifax sold these types of policies at the time, 
alongside what Mrs O has told us. 
From what  we know about how Halifax presented these policies at the time, it usually made 
it clear it was optional. Nothing  Mrs O has told me makes  me think Halifax  did anything  
different in selling  the PPI to her. 
So I think its more likely  Mrs O selected  to take the PPI. But I can understand why she cant 
remember taking the policy  now.
Halifax says it recommended the PPI to Mrs O so it had to check that the PPI was right for 
her  and based  on what  Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think  that it was. For 
example she wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover.
Mrs O says she had redundancy pay benefits from her employer. The PPI would have paid 
out alongside her employee benefits,  as well as covering her repayments if she was too 
unwell to work. Mrs O says she had some  savings, but having the PPI wouldve meant she 
couldve used her savings  for other things. So I dont think Halifax was wrong  to recommend 
the policy to her.  
Ive noted Mrs Os comments that her husband  would  help out if she couldnt make her 
repayments. I dont  doubt he would have  wanted to help, but circumstances can change. So 
this help cant be guaranteed and it doesnt change  my decision. 
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mrs O about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But it seems  like it would have been  useful  for her if something went wrong. It also 
looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better  information  about the PPI would have put 
her off taking  out the cover.
Overall I dont think Mrs O has lost out from anything Halifax  might have done wrong. So 
Halifax doesnt need to refund everything  Mrs O paid for it. 
Ref: DRN88603392 
But Halifax  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs O because: 
Halifax got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs O about that. Because  Halifax didnt  tell Mrs O, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Halifax  has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
I know Mrs O feels  strongly  and will be disappointed by this outcome. Shes  put time and 
effort into her complaint. And Ive thought carefully about all the points shes raised. But for 
the reasons explained above, these points  dont change my decision. 
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  Plc does  not have to pay back  all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs O.
But Bank of Scotland Plc does have to pay back to Mrs O any commission and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs O to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 November  2019. 
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8860339