K822xcomplaint
Mrs J has complained about the customer  service she received from LP Wealth  
Management Ltd (LPWM), a representative  of St. James's Place  Wealth Management Plc 
(SJP).
background 
In 2016, the firm from whom Mrs J took financial advice  (Ill refer to this as Firm A) closed 
to new business.  LP Wealth Management Ltd (LPWM) was created to give financial advice 
on new business as an appointed representative (AR) of SJP.  
Firm A says that it wrote to all its clients, which should have included Mrs J, telling them  of 
this change. It said that unless its clients told it otherwise, their data would be transferred to 
LPWM. If the client didnt agree to this change, they could still contact an adviser  from Firm 
A. Firm A says that it heard nothing from Mrs J.
In 2018, LPWM contacted  Mrs J offering a financial review. It completed a fact find
and asked her to complete forms agreeing to be a client of LPWM and receive financial
advice from it. It said she needed  to do this for data protection reasons and for other  
regulatory reasons.  
Mrs J was unhappy about being  asked  to sign LPWMs forms as shed previously
been a client of Firm A and had signed its forms. She was also unhappy about the fact find 
saying it was inaccurate and she didnt receive  the financial advice LPWM offered. 
LPWM apologised to her and another adviser  offered to meet her to discuss  advice, but she 
declined to have  a meeting. LPWM then decided not to attempt to give advice to Mrs J.
Mrs J complained to LPWM. It said that it hadnt given any advice and suggested Mrs J take 
advice elsewhere  given her dissatisfaction.
Mrs J referred  her complaint  to this service where  it was considered  by an investigator. After 
the complaint  was referred to this service, LPWM offered to Mrs J £300 for any distress and 
inconvenience its actions  may have caused.  
The investigator endorsed this offer.  He said that whilst he couldnt be sure of what  had 
happened in 2016, it was likely that Mrs J had received correspondence about the move to 
LPWM. And even if the letter wasnt delivered  LPWM  wasnt responsible for that. He thought 
that it was fair of LPWM to ask Mrs J to sign new paperwork agreeing to become its
client. LPWN had apologised for the errors in the fact-find but it had offered £300.
Mrs J didnt agree. She said that the service  had been appalling and she wanted LPWM to 
be censured. She had been a client for many  years,  and there  had been disruption  to her 
retirement planning.
The investigator didnt  change his opinion and reiterated his view.
Mrs J didnt provide any further information.
As no agreement has been reached the case has been referred to me for a final decision.
 
Ref: DRN84676052my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigator,  I think the offer LPWM has made to resolve this complaint is 
fair. I think  its likely  that Mrs J received  the correspondence in 2016. Theres  no reason to 
doubt that it was sent, it was obviously in LPWMs interest to pick up the business from the 
clients of Firm A.
I dont think LPWM was acting unreasonably when  it declined to provide  advice  without Mrs 
J completing formal paperwork. And its apologised for the errors  in the fact-find.
Mrs J says that she has been a client for many years, but I dont think  thats right,  this was 
effectively a new business taking over and then starting a new relationship.  Mrs J was 
perfectly entitled not to go ahead, but equally, LPWM wasnt obliged to advise  her. Im not 
satisfied that LPWM has caused  any significant disruption to Mrs Js retirement planning, as 
it didnt give her any advice.
Mrs J wants this service  to censure  LPWM, but thats not our role. We arent the industry  
regulator; our role is to consider consumer complaints  and assess  whether a business has 
acted fairly.  If it hasnt, we can make  awards for any financial loss and for any trouble and 
upset caused  by its failures. But we have no power to fine or punish  a business.
Overall, I think the offer LPWM has made  is fair compensation for any failures by it.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint,  but I think the offer LP Wealth Management Ltd (LPWM) has made 
(as a representative of St. James's  Place  Wealth Management Plc) is fair. I make no further  
award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 April 2021.
Keith Taylor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8467605