K820x#14complaint
Mr K says National  Westminster Bank  PLC mis-sold  him a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr K bought the policy in 1997  at the same time as taking out a credit  card.  Due to the time 
that has passed, its not clear how Mr K applied for his credit card and PPI policy. 
At the time,  Mr K was employed as a sales  manager. He has told us he was entitled to at 
least three months of sick pay, some redundancy pay and had some life cover. But Ive not 
seen any evidence that Mr K had any other  means of making  his repayments had he been  
unable to work. Mr K has said he was in good  health  at the time of the sale. 
The policy provided  cover  for accident, sickness, and unemployment  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  10% of Mr Ks credit card balance  in the event 
of a successful claim. At the time,  it cost 76p per £100 of the monthly outstanding balance. 
The premium would  continue to have to be paid during a successful claim and it did attract  
interest. 
Mr Ks representative has made  lengthy and substantial representations  on his behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr Ks representative says:
NatWest failed to meet the sales standards which  applied  at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr K wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr Ks representatives 
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means NatWest should  have 
told Mr K about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means NatWest should  have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr K and the 
impact they would have had on his chances of making a claim;  and
The information Mr K received was misleading.  These policies were promoted  as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr K disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  for 
several reasons.  
Ref: DRN83361172As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider having been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ks. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here, but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ks complaint.
This sale took place  in 1997 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like NatWest at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI code and 
these other  publications into account when deciding, what  is in my opinion,  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Ks case. 
 
I have also taken account of relevant law in reaching  my decision, including: the law relating 
to negligence, misrepresentation and contract (including the express and implied  duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
Ref: DRN83361173determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
NatWest was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering Mr Ks complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If NatWest  gave  advice, whether it advised  Mr K with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him, given his needs  
and circumstances.  
-Whether NatWest gave Mr K sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to enable  
him to make  an informed  choice about  whether to take out the policy, including 
drawing to his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr K, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr K suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr K and 
NatWest, Ive decided  not to uphold Mr Ks complaint. Ive set out my reasoning  below. 
did Mr K know  he had a choice?
NatWest had to make  it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
Due to the length of time since the sale, neither  party have been able to provide copies of 
any of the actual documentation that wouldve been used for the sale of the PPI to Mr K. Ive 
considered carefully  what Mr K has said, including that NatWest told him he should  take out 
the PPI as his this would  improve his chances  of being approved for the credit  card.  And he 
also said he felt pressured into taking out the PPI. 
Mr K says that as NatWest hasnt been able to prove that the PPI was presented as optional 
and he chose to take it out, I should  make  the finding that they didnt. But in cases  such as 
this where there is limited  evidence about how the PPI was sold,  I have to consider what 
both parties have said, alongside what we already  know to come to a decision on what I 
think is more likely  to have happened. 
Ref: DRN83361174From what  we know of these types of sales in the past, for any sales channel,  NatWest 
usually did present the PPI as optional and gave  the customer the option whether to accept 
or reject the cover. Ive also considered  how long ago the sale was and that it wouldnt be 
reasonable to expect  Mr K to recall  every detail from the time of sale. Pressure  is also 
subjective, what one person feels  is pressure,  another may not. Based on everything we 
know, I think its possible NatWest told him he should take out the PPI, but thats different to 
saying he has to take out the PPI.  So, without stronger evidence  to support what  Mr K has 
said, its difficult for me to rely on his statements alone to conclude that something untoward 
happened. So, I think its more likely than not that NatWest wouldve made Mr K aware that 
he had a choice  about buying the PPI and that he chose to take it
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr K knew the policy  was optional  
and he agreed  to take it out without undue pressure. 
did NatWest provide  advice?
NatWest says it didnt provide advice during this sale.  Mr K disagrees  and says that he was 
advised to take out the PPI during  a meeting. But Mr K hasnt told us much about what 
exactly was discussed  or the information  that was taken from him to persuade  me that this 
was an advised  sale where a tailored recommendation was made based on his personal 
circumstances at the time. As there is limited evidence from the point  of sale,  I have also 
considered what  we know about  how NatWest  were selling such policies at the time. Usually  
NatWest were selling  PPI on a non-advised basis, and without stronger evidence to the 
contrary, I think this is likely  to be what happened  in this case. So, Im not persuaded that it 
provided advice.
This means  NatWest didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable  for Mr K. Instead, it had to 
give him sufficient, appropriate  and timely information to enable  Mr K to make an informed  
choice about whether  to take out the policy, including drawing to his attention and 
highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main provisions of the policy and 
significant limitations and exclusions. 
the information
While there  is limited  information from the point of sale, I dont think  NatWest  gave Mr K the 
information he fairly and reasonably needed  to make an informed decision about  whether or 
not to take out the policy. 
It is not clear  how the PPI was sold to Mr K and  I dont know  what NatWest  told Mr K about 
the PPI but I think its unlikely he would have agreed to take it out without  at least having  a 
broad understanding of the cover it provided  i.e. life, accident,  sickness  and unemployment 
cover. And I think its unlikely Mr K would have  thought it was free.
But it was NatWests responsibility to draw  to Mr Ks attention the important information  i.e. 
the key information about the nature of the cover and any significant  exclusions and 
limitations which might be relevant to his decision. 
I dont think its likely  NatWest did enough to do this. For example,  I dont think  its likely the 
true cost of the policy was made clear to Mr K, including  the need  to maintain premiums 
during a claim or that the payments would attract interest. In addition, its unlikely NatWest 
adequately drew to his attention the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  
and exclusions.
Ref: DRN83361175So, I dont think NatWest  gave Mr K sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable  
him to make  an informed  choice about  whether to take out the policy, including drawing his 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.  
I have considered how my findings interact with the FCAs list of significant  failings  in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded that there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Ks representative has raised a number  
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Ks. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr Ks representative considers  to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-the common law duty of utmost good  faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr K about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone  further  and 
explained the significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Ks representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr K has suggested. And taking into account the law, industry codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that NatWest ought to have done  either. 
what effect did NatWests  shortcomings have on Mr K? To what extent did Mr K suffer 
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that NatWest  didnt do all it should  have done when it sold this policy to Mr K. So 
Ive gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude  Mr K suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether  or not Mr K would have 
still taken out the policy,  had NatWest  done  things properly. 
Mr K says he wouldnt have taken it out and believes that I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. 
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr K had to weigh  up in his own mind the cost of the policy 
against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if he didnt insure against the 
risk of being  unable  to work. 
As Ive found above, Mr K chose to take this policy out. So I consider that its reasonable to 
conclude he had some  interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But he made 
this decision based  on incomplete information.  So what Mr K thought  he was getting is not 
Ref: DRN83361176exactly what he got. The extent to which this differed is a relevant consideration when 
determining if Mr K has suffered any loss or detriment. 
In relation to the costs, Im satisfied Mr K ought  reasonably to have known  he would have to 
pay something for the PPI and that it would cover a portion of his outstanding. But, I accept 
that NatWest didnt make clear the on-going cost information. So while Mr K didnt  know  
some things, the ultimate position in the event of a successful  claim was not dissimilar to 
what he would reasonably have thought from the information he based his decision to take 
out the policy on and found  acceptable.  
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr K thought he had bought and 
what he actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to any sickness, disease, condition  or injury for 
which Mr K received medical treatment, counselling or advice during the 12 months 
before the commencement date;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr K 
wasnt a permanent employee.
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr K be unable  to 
do his own job, a similar job or any paid work  which his experience, education or 
training reasonably qualified him to do. 
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mr K pause for thought  and may well have caused him to conclude  that the policy 
was not as good as he thought  and he might have decided not to proceed.  The limitations on 
the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might have dissuaded 
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr K from taking out the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr Ks circumstances  at the time of sale shows that the policy  
wasnt fundamentally wrong for him. He was eligible for its benefits and it provided cover 
that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable to him should the 
insured risks have  become a reality. I also havent  seen any evidence to suggest he 
wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions  Mr K didnt have any pre-existing 
medical conditions  and was in permanent  employment. So, I still think he had some good 
reasons to take the policy out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr K would have 
expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some  evidence to 
support that claim.
If Mr K had known he could only claim for disability if he was unable  to do both his job and 
any similar  gainful occupation  which in the insurers view he might  reasonably  be qualified 
for, it might have played into his thinking about what he would have done. And I accept it 
may have  given him pause for thought  although  its possible he may not have been overly 
concerned given that if Mr K was unable (through disability) to carry on his own occupation  
the chances that he would be able to take up a similar occupation would also,  in all 
probability, be limited.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not that Mr K would  still have taken out the PPI. The policy was sufficiently close  to 
Ref: DRN83361177what he thought  he was getting and I think the policy could provide a useful benefit in a 
difficult time, notwithstanding his employment  benefits and other  means. And in those 
circumstances I consider it more likely than not that he would have taken out the policy in 
any event.  
Mr Ks representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) make 
it clear that, where a significant failing is identified,  it should be presumed  the consumer 
wouldnt have taken  out PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption.  They  
say we should follow this other than in exceptional  circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
I have thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, I have found  it would be reasonable to conclude  there  
were substantial flaws  in the sales  process.  In those  circumstances, DISP App 3 says it 
should be presumed Mr K would not have bought the PPI he bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
I am satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude  the presumption  is rebutted 
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr Ks 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr K 
found himself in as a result of the sale was the same  position he would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr K believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I dont  consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr K in the position he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that he would not have taken out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that he would still have 
taken out the PPI had he been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy he was buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude NatWest should  pay Mr K compensation, as that would put him 
in a better position  than he would have been in if everything had happened as it should  have  
done. 
Im also aware that Mr K thinks NatWest misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
NatWests statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion the reason why NatWest  
failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in the 
information it provided  but because the overall  information NatWest gave Mr K, in the way 
it did, was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to 
have met in 1997 when providing information about  an insurance policy.  
Ref: DRN83361178Ive also thought about the approach Mr Ks representative says a court might take if it were 
to find NatWest negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr K and about the remedy a 
court might award if it were to find that NatWest had been in breach of its duty of utmost 
good faith. But this doesnt persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint   including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr K in a better  position  than if everything  had 
happened as it should have done. 
Mr Ks representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says applies to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that we are 
not correctly applying the regulators  rules  and guidance for handling  PPI complaints; these 
policies represented  poor value because  of the number of significant exclusions and 
limitations of cover  coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty of utmost  good faith 
meant NatWest should have disclosed  the poor value  and explained the significance of the 
limitations and exclusions  and the impact  it had on the chances of making a claim.
But Mr Ks representative  has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mr Ks individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr Ks particular case. But 
these points doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances of the complaint - for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold 
this complaint. 
Which means NatWest doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr K. But 
NatWest will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr K because: 
NatWest got a high level of commission  and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr K about that. Because  NatWest  didnt  tell Mr K, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, NatWest has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission  
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in 
this case.
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  the mis-sale of this PPI complaint.  But National Westminster have 
offered to pay Mr K compensation  for some  of the commission he paid on his PPI premiums  
 and I think this is fair.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 August 2021.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8336117