K820x#14Complaint
B, a limited  company  which Ill also call the company  complains  that Lloyds Bank Plc 
(also the bank) mis-sold  a fixed rate loan in 2016.  
The company says the bank didnt properly explain the loan, particularly the break  costs  
that might  be payable if the loan were repaid early. 
Background
The companys business is that of building up and developing a property portfolio and 
earning an income from it via lettings.  The company  took a number of loans from the bank to 
facilitate its business,  including  the particular  fixed rate loan. 
The company entered  into the loan in 2016. It borrowed around £152k over 15 years. The 
interest rate under the loan was (and remains) fixed for the whole term of the loan. Break 
costs are potentially payable if the company  repays the loan, in whole or in part, before the 
15 years  are over. 
In 2018 the bank quoted the break  costs  as being  around £4.6k.  This prompted the company 
to complain about the loan.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. In round terms, he concluded that (a) the bank should 
have explained  the break costs better, before the company entered into the loan, and that 
(b) had the bank done so, the company, because of its circumstances, would have chosen  to 
fix the interest rate for five years instead of 15.
The adjudicator recommended the bank should  compensate the company by adjusting  the 
loan account as if the interest rate had been  fixed for five years and had then reverted to the 
variable rate, with any overpayments  being repaid to the company with interest.
The company accepted  the adjudicators conclusions. The bank  did not. 
The banks response to the adjudicators conclusions
The bank remained of the view that the original loan should be left as it is. In summary, the 
bank said:
In terms of break cost disclosure, the company received from the bank not only a 
product profile  and four quote  process document but also a bespoke break cost 
illustration providing  the potential monthly break costs the company could face if 
there was a 1% or 2% fall in rates. 
Contrary to what the adjudicator  concluded,  the bank thought that the company was 
sufficiently informed  about the size of break costs, when  the break costs that were 
actually quoted to the company fell within the range  of those in the initial  illustrations. 
The bank  disagreed with how the adjudicator  based some of his conclusions on the 
companys distinct legal status. In the banks  view the company and the sole 
tradership should in fairness  be treated as one trading entity  or group.
Ref: DRN81149232The business model of the group was to aggressively grow the property  portfolio  for 
leasing without any intention of selling. 
The group  had other loans, including variable rate loans that could  be repaid without 
any break costs having to be paid.
There was no evidence to support  the adjudicators conclusion that the company  
would have opted for a five-year fix instead.   
The complaint came to me for review. I reached a provisional decision not upholding the 
complaint. The original text of my provisional  findings appears immediately below. 
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  This includes of course everything 
the company has sent in to us. 
The companys complaint  will succeed if I think that the bank ought to have explained 
break costs  better and this would have caused the company to choose  a different 
loan product. 
So the complaint wont succeed if I think the bank did a good enough job of 
explaining break costs.  But even if I conclude  the bank didnt do enough to explain 
break costs,  the complaint wont succeed  if I think the company would still have gone 
ahead with the same loan even if the bank had explained break costs better.
Did the bank  explain break  costs adequately?
It appears the bank  has submitted a piece  of evidence now which the adjudicator 
didnt see when he reached his conclusions. This is the bespoke break cost 
illustration that Ive referred  to above.  
It isnt of course ideal  when a party introduces  evidence at a late stage. But Im 
satisfied the additional evidence is genuine  and relevant.
In March 2016 the company ticked a box and signed  a document relating to the 
proposed loan. Next to the ticked box, whereby  the company opted for a fixed  rate 
loan, the text said:
I confirm  Im unlikely to repay the lending, in full or in part, during the fixed  
rate period  and understand that if I do repay  early during the fixed rate period 
I will be liable for break  costs, as described in the product profile, which  
depending on market  conditions could be substantial. An indicative tailored 
break cost illustration has been  provided within the quote schedule  to show 
how interest rate market  changes could affect the amount of break costs I 
may be liable  for.
Ive asked the company if it could recall seeing  the break cost illustration before it 
entered into the loan. 
The company replied to my query  as follows  (in summary):
Ref: DRN81149233It could vaguely  remember  receiving paperwork by post but doesnt  feel 
things were explained clearly enough.
The bank  merely asked the company  to sign the paperwork and return it.
The bank  steered the company towards a fixed rate loan but without the 
company realising the full implications, including the possibility of a shorter 
fixed rate loan.
The break cost illustration, which is based  on the companys actual loan, shows  what 
the likely  break costs would be if there were a fall in market interest rates,  or the cost 
of funds, of up to 2%. Break costs of around  £26k are quoted  for a fall of 2%, with 
regard to the loan of around £152k.  This is a large figure and much larger  than the 
break costs  quoted to the company when it asked  for a redemption  statement in 
2018.
Ive borne in mind that the cost of funds  element  of the 2016  loan was less than 2%, 
and market interest rates were at historic lows.
I think its likely the company received the break cost illustration with the pre-loan 
paperwork. The illustration is specifically referred  to as having been  included. And by 
signing the relevant  document,  the company confirmed the illustration had been 
provided. 
Taking everything into account,  I think the bank, via the break cost illustration in 
particular, adequately explained break costs to the company including their potential 
size. I consider the company had adequate  opportunity to read and understand the 
paperwork, including the break cost illustration, before committing itself to the loan. I 
note the company wasnt rushed into signing the paperwork, on the spot for example. 
It was sent by post and the company was asked  to return it. 
I also note the company  had in recent years entered into two separate fixed  rate 
loans from the bank where the fixed rate period was for five years. So I think  the 
company was aware of the possibility  of a shorter fixed rate period  without  the bank 
needing to point this out. 
My provisional findings on this point  ie that the bank explained break costs 
adequately  mean that the complaint  as a whole doesnt in my view succeed.
But would the company have said yes to the 2016 loan anyway?
Although its not strictly  necessary  for me to decide the point, I think  the company 
would still have entered into the 2016 loan even if (a) the bank hadnt done  enough  to 
explain break costs but (b) I assumed that it had done so. 
I say this for various reasons:
I think the bank  is right that the company and the sole tradership should  be 
viewed, in the present context, as a single trading  entity.  The evidence is 
clear that the company was set up for tax reasons, not so as to exist and 
trade completely  separately from the sole tradership. They  were effectively 
one and the same business. 
Ref: DRN81149234So the trading entity had the ability  to repay  large amounts of its loans without 
break costs, as there was sizeable variable rate lending that could be paid 
down first.
Where the interest rate was fixed,  rental income should be sufficient to 
service the loan. If the interest  rate were variable,  the loan repayments might  
become greater than the rental  income (and the loan become less easily  
serviceable). 
If temporary voids arose in the property subject to the loan, the financial 
effect of these could  be smoothed  via a portfolio approach and via access  to 
the trading entitys  entire financial resources. 
The trading  entitys ambition  was to substantially increase the number of its 
property holdings. Its aim was to buy and retain  properties. So it was unlikely 
the loan would need to be repaid  because  a property was sold. 
This is reflected in the express acknowledgement that the company gave 
before entering  into the loan (as above): I confirm Im unlikely to repay the 
lending, in full or in part, during  the fixed rate period
Interest rates were  at an historic low. There were  clear  attractions to fixing the 
interest rate over as long a period  as 15 years, when  rates  were  so low.
Break costs arent likely to be a major concern where its unlikely, as here, 
that the loan will need to be repaid during the fixed rate period. 
So I think the company  would  still have  taken out the 2016 loan, even if Id found  the 
bank hadnt adequately informed the company about break costs. 
The companys  response to my provisional decision
Via its director  the company phoned  the adjudicator  to provide its comments on my 
provisional decision. Ive listened to the conversation and considered  the adjudicators notes.
The companys main points were:
I should look at the companys position in less black  and white terms, and more in the 
round. The company  had received poor service  from the bank over the years, and it 
had been encouraged  by the bank to enter  into fixed rate loans when the bank 
probably knew interest rates werent  going to rise.
The bank  had sent the loan paperwork  to the company to be signed and returned but 
without adequately explaining what the loan entailed.
The company  would  have benefited from a more personal touch from the responsible  
managers. 
My final findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im sorry to disappoint the company  but I 
remain of the view that its complaint doesnt succeed. 
Ref: DRN81149235The ombudsman service  doesnt take the view that fixed  rate loans are necessarily and 
always wrong for a commercial borrower. There may be sound reasons why such  a borrower  
wishes to fix their lending  costs, particularly when interest  rates are low. Nor is it necessarily 
wrong for a bank  to introduce  their customers to, or give them  information about,  fixed  
interest loan products.
The bank didnt  act as the companys financial adviser. The bank wasnt  responsible  for 
assessing if the loan was appropriate for the companys needs. We do, however, expect the 
bank to have adequately  explained the potential  size of the break  costs,  should the company 
wish or need to repay the loan early.  For the reasons  Ive given, I think the bank did this. And 
so I havent upheld the complaint. 
My final decision
I confirm my provisional findings  as final. My decision is that the complaint doesnt succeed.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 October  2019.
Roger Yeomans
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8114923