K820x#14complaint
Mr A is unhappy that U K Insurance Limited  (UKI) declined  his commercial vehicle 
insurance claim and that his campervan  was damaged  whilst  in UKIs care.
background
Mr A says his campervan had a collision with a lorry. He told us it happened when he pulled  
into a layby to check a rattling noise,  and a lorry went by and damaged his campervans door 
and engine. 
Mr A made a claim with his insurer, UKI. UKI says it initially suggested a total loss value to 
Mr A, as his campervan was uneconomical to repair. But Mr A had insured his campervan as 
a van under a commercial  policy. During the claim process it came  to light that Mr As 
campervan was a van that had been  converted into a campervan. So UKI appointed an 
external engineer to inspect the campervan and produce a report. Based on that report, UKI 
declined Mr As claim and cancelled his insurance policy.
Mr A complained to UKI about this. In its final response on 13 February  2018,  UKI said the 
engineer found  Mr As van had been  fully converted into a campervan, that Mr A hadnt told 
it about this modification  and that campervan  modifications arent covered under its policy. 
UKI also said the engineer found no impact  damage on the campervan and concluded that 
the door and engine  damage was due to wear and tear, which isnt covered under his policy.  
UKI told Mr A he had six months  to refer his complaint to our service.  
Around this time, UKI returned  Mr As campervan  to him. Mr A said that £90 of fuel had gone 
missing and the drivers  door lock had been  damaged whilst the campervan was in UKIs 
care. Mr A made a second  complaint  to UKI about  this. It said it would inspect the 
campervan before it decided  whether it was responsible for the damage,  but in the meantime 
it paid Mr A compensation of £90 for his lost fuel and £30 for the calls hed made.
UKIs engineering department didnt cover  Mr As area for inspections, so it asked him to 
arrange for a local garage to confirm what had caused the damage together  with a repair 
estimate. Though UKI told Mr A this wouldnt cost anything, Mr A was still concerned about 
the cost of getting his campervan  to a garage, as it wasnt  running.  So UKI offered to pay for 
his campervan  to be taken to a garage. Mr A instead  said hed found a mobile  mechanic to 
inspect the campervan, and UKI agreed to pay for this, which  in the end cost a total of £120. 
At about this time Mr A started legal action against  UKI, but this didnt go to court.  Then in 
about June 2018 Mr A logged his complaint with an external online complaint portal. And on 
24 August 2018  Mr A first contacted our service  and asked us to investigate. After looking 
into it, our investigator thought Mr A hadnt  brought his complaint about the declined claim to 
our service  in time, as he hadnt  brought it within six months of UKIs  final response.  But she 
thought his complaint about  the new damage to his campervan had been brought  in time. 
Regarding that, she said UKI had acted fairly and done everything it could to help.
Mr A disagreed. He thought hed brought his complaint to our service in time, and that UKI 
should settle the claim it had declined as well as paying for the further damage. Mr A also 
thought UKI should compensate him for his taxi costs and the distress and inconvenience he 
says he was caused by its actions. So his complaint  has been  passed to me to make a 
decision.
Ref: DRN80725882my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Mr A has brought two complaints about 
UKI to our service, so Ill address each in turn.
declined claim
Our service isnt free to look into every  complaint  thats brought  to us. Thats because our 
service has to follow the Dispute Resolution: Complaints rules set out by the Financial 
Conduct Authority  in its handbook - these are known as the DISP rules. One of these rules  
(DISP 2.8.2)  says we cant look into complaints brought to us more  than six months  after the 
business has given  its final response  to a consumer, unless the business consents to us 
considering it or exceptional circumstances meant the consumer wasnt able to bring  their 
complaint within  six months.
UKI gave  Mr A its final response  to his first complaint about his claim being declined  on 13 
February 2018. So Mr A would have needed to contact our service  on 13 August 2018 for 
his complaint to be in time under the DISP rules. Mr A first contacted our service about  that 
complaint on 24 August  2018, over six months  later. 
I understand Mr A logged  his complaint with an online complaint portal  in around June 2018, 
but thats not part of our service so its not the same as getting  in touch with us. So Im 
satisfied Mr A didnt bring this complaint  to us in time. And UKI hasnt consented to us 
considered this complaint.
The DISP  rules say I can set aside the time limit if there were exceptional circumstances that 
prevented Mr A from bringing  his complaint to us in time. But the bar for this is a high one. 
Mr A has told us he was taking legal action against UKI and has also mentioned that his wife 
has medical needs. Mr A was entitled to take legal action, but I dont  think it prevented him 
from contacting  our service as well. And his wifes medical needs didnt prevent him taking 
legal action, so I dont think they wouldve prevented him from contacting our service either. 
So Ive seen  nothing  to suggest there were exceptional circumstances which  prevented Mr A 
from getting in touch with us before  13 August 2018.
missing fuel and damaged lock
Mr As second complaint  is about  the loss of fuel and damaged door lock that he says 
happened while his campervan was in the care of UKI. I can consider this complaint 
because Mr A brought it to our service  on 24 August  2018, within six months  of UKIs final 
response about that particular complaint dated  2 March 2018.
UKI has already  compensated Mr A for the loss of fuel. Mr A also wants  UKI to pay for the 
new damage he says it caused. I dont think  it was unreasonable for UKI to want  to inspect 
the campervan again to decide for itself whether it had caused  the new damage and how 
much it would cost to put right.  Its unfortunate UKIs  own mechanics didnt cover Mr As area 
and so couldnt visit him, but I think UKI suggested a reasonable alternative by offering to 
pay for Mr As campervan to be taken to a local garage.
Mr A instead  suggested that a mobile  mechanic  inspect  his car, and UKI agreed to go along  
with that and to cover  the cost. So Mr A found  a mobile mechanic,  and arranged  for them to 
Ref: DRN80725883carry out the inspection and get in touch with UKI. UKI paid Mr A an additional £120  to cover 
the cost of the mobile mechanic. 
I can see that UKI tried to communicate with the mobile mechanic, but the mechanic didnt 
provide UKI with his business  information  or a costed breakdown of the work hed 
recommended. Thats  unfortunate but I dont  think it would be fair to hold UKI responsible for 
that, as this mechanic was Mr As choice and UKI tried to work  with the mechanic. And 
without this information, it wouldnt be reasonable to expect UKI to decide whether it was 
responsible for this damage and pay for repairs.
Taking all this into account, I cant say that UKI caused the new damage  that Mr A says it 
did. Therefore, it wouldnt be fair for me to ask it to do anything  further.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 May 2019.
Ailsa Wiltshire
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8072588