K820x#14complaint
Mr C and Mrs T complain  that Barclays Bank  UK Plc allowed deeds left with it in 
safekeeping to be damaged.
background
Mr C and Mrs T had a mortgage with Barclays. When they first took out the mortgage 
they were required  to lodge the deeds to their property with Barclays. And they say 
that when the mortgage  was paid off they were still advised to leave the deeds with 
Barclays. But when they asked for them back in 2018 they found that the deeds had 
been badly damaged.
Mr C and Mrs T complained to Barclays. They said that the historical  documents to 
their home had been ruined, and that Barclays had failed in its duty of care to look after 
their property. And they asked Barclays to pay to have the documents  restored.
Barclays agreed that the deeds had been damaged  whilst in its care. It apologised and 
offered Mr C and Mrs T £250  compensation in recognition of the distress and 
inconvenience they had suffered. But it said it wouldnt agree to pay for the restoration of 
the documents, as they held no commercial value. This is because  the property was 
registered electronically with the Land Registry.  And once a property is registered the 
original Deeds are no longer required  and do not prove ownership of the property.
our investigators view
Our investigator recommended that the complaint  should be upheld, and that Barclays 
should pay the cost of restoring the documents.  She said that Barclays  should pay 
Mr C and Mrs T £2,700 and then the balance of the restoration costs and VAT when they 
provided a final VAT invoice for the work. But Barclays didnt agree, and so the complaint 
was referred to me for a final decision.
my provisional decision
I issued my provisional decision to both parties on 17 June 2019. I said, in summary:
 It was not in dispute that the deeds  were damaged  whilst  in Barclays care. Barclays 
said that a note on its systems  indicated that the damage happened in 2001;
 Mr C had provided photographs to show the extent  of the damage to the deeds. I 
could see that the damage had been  extensive. And I didnt doubt that this had 
caused Mr C and Mrs T distress.  But, although Id considered  everything they had to 
say, my provisional  view was that I didnt find it reasonable to ask Barclays  to pay to 
restore the documents;
 As Barclays  had explained,  Mr C and Mrs Ts property was now registered land. This 
meant that the deeds were no longer needed for legal purposes. And, although I 
appreciated that Mr C and Mrs T valued the historical information  contained  in those 
deeds, my provisional view was that I didnt find it reasonable to ask Barclays to pay 
to restore documents  with no commercial value;
 Barclays had apologised for the damage  and had offered  Mr C and Mrs T £250 
compensation. And, although  I appreciated that Mr C and Mrs T didnt find this to be 
sufficient, my provisional view was that this was fair and reasonable to compensate  
them for the effective loss of the deeds, and the trouble  and upset caused to them.
Ref: DRN83958202my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both Barclays and Mr C have responded to my provisional decision. Barclays  didnt have 
any further comments. But Mr C has set out in detail why he doesnt agree with my 
provisional view.  He says,  in particular, that:
 the fact that the deeds had no commercial value is immaterial and irrelevant, as is 
Barclays argument that he does not need  the deeds for the sale of the property;
 Barclays was holding the documents for safekeeping, but didnt tell them when their 
documents were  damaged  and took no measures to try and preserve them; 
 Barclays had originally said it would probably  pay for restoration but changed its mind 
when informed of the cost;
 £250 was insufficient  to compensate  them for the undue upset and unnecessary 
inconvenience caused by Barclays negligence, insensitivity and finding  their 
historical documents in this condition;
 The deeds contain more historic  information  than Barclays had assumed.
Ive carefully considered  everything Mr C has to say. But, having  done so, Ive not been  
persuaded to change  my decision. Although I appreciate that Mr C does not agree, I remain 
of the view that the £250 that Barclays has offered  to Mr C and Mrs T is sufficient to 
compensate them for the trouble and upset they have  suffered as a result  of the effective 
loss of the deeds. And I dont find it reasonable to require Barclays  to pay to restore the 
deeds.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  I leave it to Mr C and Mrs T to decide if they 
wish to accept the £250 that Barclays Bank  UK Plc has offered to them.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 August  2019.
Alison Cribbs
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8395820