K821x#15complaint
Mrs C complains, in summary,  that Uncle Buck Finance LLP, (UBF), continued to charge 
her interest on her loan account despite  telling  it that she was off work and unable  to 
continue paying  it.
 
background
Mrs C took out a short term loan with UBF on 7 February 2018 for £600.  The loan was to be 
repaid by six monthly repayments with a highest  repayment of £181.24. The total of all 
repayments under the loan agreement was £1,075.20. 
Soon after taking out the loan, Mrs C became ill and she was under hospital  care.  Mrs C  
immediately sent UBF medical evidence, but UBF continued to apply interest  to her account. 
Although UBF said it would halt her payments, the loan had more  than doubled  in interest. 
Mrs C also said that a default had been applied to her credit  file and UBF had threatened to 
take her to court. But she was still under medical care with the hospital and unable to work 
until May 2019. She wants UBF to remove the interest  it had applied.  Mrs C is also unhappy 
that UBF caused her stress by referring  her account to a debt collection agency. 
In its final response letter,  UBF said that when it received confirmation that a customer was 
having financial difficulties, it needed to establish  what the current financial situation  was. 
The best way to do this was for the customer to complete an income  and expenditure form. 
Mrs C completed  this on 27 February 2018 and her account was placed on hold until 
18 April 2018 due to her situation. This hold expired and was then reapplied on 
24 April 2018 to 24 July 2018, as Mrs C confirmed her situation hadnt improved. UBF also 
requested confirmation  from Mrs C about  her employment status and asked her what  
benefits she was receiving.  After the hold on her account expired, Mrs C was asked to 
contact UBF to discuss a repayment  plan. 
UBF also noted that Mrs C was incorrectly told that she had disposable  income when in fact 
it was clear from the figures shed provided  that there was a deficit. It apologised for this. But 
due to no payment  on the account  despite  requests for an offer of payment to be made, UBF 
passed Mrs Cs account to a debt collection agency. 
Mrs Cs first repayment  on her loan was due on 23 February 2018.  UBF said that it applied 
default interest plus a default charge to Mrs Cs account from that date due to her not 
making the payment on time. Mrs Cs account balance  was the total cost of credit (as set out 
in her loan agreement)  plus the default  interest and default charge. No further  charges had 
been applied  to Mrs Cs account after 27 February  2018, when she informed it of her 
financial situation. When UBF realised  Mrs C was in financial  difficulty  it stopped any 
additional interest and provided  her with breathing space on two occasions. UBF said that 
Mrs C did inform it that she intended  to resume work but due to her ill health, this was not 
possible. It said that it wasnt able to place  the account on hold indefinitely. So it had 
requested an offer of payment from Mrs C, which wasnt forthcoming.
The adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint about how UBF had treated Mrs Cs 
financial difficulties should be upheld. She could  see from the notes provided by UBF that it 
had taken Mrs Cs income  and expenditure information and placed her account on hold.  She 
could see there was further correspondence  from March to May 2018,  but it appeared a 
mutual agreement couldnt  be reached. The account was then transferred to a third party  to 
collect the debt.  The adjudicator thought a reasonable amount of time was allowed before 
Ref: DRN85862612the account was transferred to the third party. She said that UBF had added  contractual 
interest but she didnt  think  this was unreasonable as it didnt appear it had charged her 
more than she was contracted  to repay. The adjudicator thought  that UBF had taken 
reasonable steps to allow Mrs C to make token payments on her account, but she couldnt 
see that this had happened. Due to this she didnt  uphold Mrs Cs complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note that our adjudicator had issued an initial view which dealt with whether UBF had lent 
irresponsibly. But Mrs Cs complaint wasnt about irresponsible  lending. So Im only dealing 
here with the subject  matter of her complaint which was about how UBF had treated Mrs Cs 
financial difficulties. This was also the subject  of the adjudicators second  view which  she 
didnt uphold  as stated above.
Ive seen Mrs Cs loan agreement. I note that Clause 3.10 says that she should  contact UBF 
immediately if she is experiencing financial difficulties and that it will show  forbearance and 
seek to assist Mrs C by agreeing alternative payment arrangements.  
Ive reviewed UBFs contact notes. I note that Mrs C missed  her loan repayment due on 
23 February 2018. I can see from UBFs contact notes that she then contacted UBF on the 
following day and completed  an income and expenditure form. On 27 February  2018,  Mrs C 
told UBF she was receiving sick pay, her priority bills were in arrears  and she was receiving 
treatment in hospital. I note that UBF said on that day that it would put a hold on the account  
until the end of March 2018 and then ask for some kind of token payment. I think this was 
reasonable.
On 24 March 2018, Mrs C sent UBF a doctors note which  UBF noted  had expired  and it 
asked Mrs C if she was back at work. Two days later Mrs C told UBF she was required  to 
stay off work  until 14 May 2018.  And on 24 April 2018,  Mrs C sent UBF documents  to 
confirm that she would need to be off work until 15 May 2018.  So UBF extended the hold on 
Mrs Cs account. On 12 May 2018, I can see that Mrs C told UBF she would  be off sick until 
9 July 2018. UBF said in its final response  letter that it extended the hold on Mrs Cs account  
until 24 July 2018.  I again think this was fair.
I can see that UBF sent Mrs C an email on 26 July 2018, and it sent her another email on 
1 August 2018  asking for more clarification of her debtors. I cant  see that Mrs C responded 
to these emails. On 7 August 2018  UBF sent Mrs C a default  notice and it registered  a 
default on her credit  file on 10 October  2018. The account was sent to a debt collection 
agency on 7 August 2018. 
Mrs Cs loan was regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority. Its Consumer  Credit  
sourcebook (CONC) 7.3.6G says: Where a customer  is in default or in arrears difficulties, 
a firm should allow the customer reasonable time and opportunity to repay the debt. And 
when Mrs C contacted  UBF, I would have expected it to respond positively and 
sympathetically.
I think that UBFs sending  Mrs C an income  and expenditure  form was a reasonable 
response after her missed repayment.  And I think it continued to act reasonably and in line 
Ref: DRN85862613with the CONC  guidance  by putting  a hold on Mrs Cs account and then extending it for 
around five months  until she didnt  respond  to its emails. 
Mrs C was unhappy that UBF continued  to charge her interest. I note that it had charged 
Mrs C a few days default  interest and a default  charge  until 27 February 2018, but it then 
said that no further charges or additional interest  (other than contractual interest)  had been 
applied to Mrs Cs account  after 27 February  2018,  when  she informed it of her financial 
situation.
I dont think that UBF was necessarily required to reduce the amount of contractual  interest 
payable on Mrs Cs loan. CONC 7.3.4R says,  "A firm must  treat customers in default or in 
arrears difficulties with forbearance  and due consideration." CONC 7.3.5G then goes on to 
provide examples of forbearance.  
The first of these includes  suspending  interest  and charges.  But I think  its important  to read 
that example as a whole: considering suspending, reducing, waiving or cancelling  any 
further interest or charges  (for example,  when  a customer provides evidence of financial 
difficulties and is unable  to meet repayments  as they fall due or is only able to make token 
repayments, where in either case the level of debt would continue to rise if interest and 
charges continue to be applied).  
In Mrs Cs case, after the initial default interest  and charges  were  applied to her account, the 
level of debt didnt  continue to rise, as the loan was at a fixed rate of interest and the interest 
was all applied at the start. Her loan agreement  showed that a total of £1,075.20 was due to 
be paid which included  the amount borrowed of £600 plus the interest due on that amount. 
After 27 February 2018, I cant  see that UBF added any extra interest or otherwise increased 
Mrs Cs debt. 
I note that Clause 3.11 of Mrs Cs credit  agreement says that if Mrs C hasnt responded to 
any of its attempts to contact her, it may pass  her file to an external debt collection agency 
for recovery of the outstanding debt. Overall  I dont think  that UBF acted inappropriately in 
passing her account  to a debt collection agency. It had sent her at least  two emails asking 
for more information since the hold on her account had expired. And I cant see that she had 
answered these. 
I note that Mrs C is unhappy that UBF applied a default to her credit  file. I can see that this 
was applied on 10 October 2018. 
I have considered the relevant guidance set out in the Principles for the Reporting of 
Arrears, Arrangements  and Defaults at Credit Reference Agencies  (CRAs)   principles 
agreed by the credit  industry in collaboration with the Information Commissioners Office. 
The guidance explains  to consumers that if they fall into arrears on their account, a default 
may be recorded to show that the relationship has broken down.  This may occur after the 
lender has notified  the consumer of its intention to register a default at least  28 days before 
doing so. The notice is normally given when the account is at least three months in arrears.
Mrs C had missed  six monthly payments when UBF sent her a default notice in 
August 2018.  The default  notice would have warned Mrs C that her account was about to 
default as she was behind with her repayments and given her time to catch  up on missed  
payments. But as she didnt do so, the default  was recorded on Mrs Cs credit file. I dont 
think UBF acted unreasonably  in doing this.
Ref: DRN85862614I appreciate that my decision will be disappointing for Mrs C and Im sorry to see that she 
has suffered poor health and financial difficulties. But, considering all the circumstances 
here, overall  I dont  think that UBF has acted inappropriately here.
If, as seems  likely, a balance remains outstanding,  UBF should  attempt  to agree a mutually 
acceptable repayment arrangement with Mrs C bearing in mind  the need  to treat her 
positively and sympathetically in those discussions if she is still suffering financial difficulties.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 April 2020.
Roslyn Rawson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8586261