K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  that Pensionhelp Limited did not consider recommending a 
qualifying recognised overseas pension scheme (QROPS) when it advised them to move  
benefits they held in defined benefit pension schemes to personal  pension plans.
In particular they say Pensionhelp'...did  not consider  advising me to put my money in 
QROPS and I have now had to pay again  (£10,000) to move  my pension to a QROPS.'
In order to put matters  right Mr and Mr S want Pensionhelp to refund the fees they paid it for 
advice on transferring their pensions.
background
Mr and Mr S have  brought two complaints to this service about two separate  financial 
planning businesses.  This decision only relates  to their complaint about  Pensionhelp 
Limited.
In late 2017 Pensionhelp advised both Mr and Mrs S on transferring deferred  benefits they 
held in final salary  pension schemes  into personal pension plans. At the time the advice was 
given Mr and Mrs S were living in the UK, but intended to retire  in France in the near future.
They were  both in their early fifties  and planned to give up work shortly.  This was 
documented in the factfinds completed by Pensionhelp.
It appears that after moving to France Mr and Mrs S took advice from another financial 
adviser. This adviser  recommended that Mr S should transfer his personal pension  to a 
QROPS.
In late 2018 Mr and Mrs S complained. They said:
1. Why was QROPS not at least considered  from the outset considering we were moving to 
France?
2. Why was QROPS not mentioned or at least discounted during the analysis and advice 
given?
Pensionhelp didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. It said, in summary, that its advisers  
had been aware  of Mr and Mrs Ss intention to move  abroad and had considered  a QROPS, 
but ...did not see any major benefit  in transferring to a QROPS scheme'. It said that if its 
advisers had thought  a QROPS would be of benefit they would still have completed the 
transfer to a UK based personal pension, and then recommended that Mr and Mrs S seek  
advice from an overseas adviser.
Mr and Mrs S were  not satisfied with Pensionhelps response and brought their complaint to 
this service.
Our investigator considered their complaint. Having done so, said she didnt think  
Pensionhelp had acted incorrectly or given unsuitable advice.
She noted that Mr and Mrs S had only complained about Pensionhelps failure to consider  a 
QROPS when making its recommendations. But she said she had also considered the 
overall suitability  of the advice they had received  to transfer benefits  out of their defined  
benefit pension  schemes.
Ref: DRN89677722She said that she thought the advice  to transfer out of their defined  benefit schemes was 
suitable given  Mr and Mrs Ss circumstances and their wish to retire early.  She said she felt 
Pensionhelp had explained the risks and disadvantages involved in giving up the guaranteed 
benefits available from their final salary schemes.  In particular, she noted  that it had set out 
that it was very unlikely  their personal pensions  would match the benefits  they were  giving 
up in their occupational schemes on a like for like basis.
She noted Mr S accepted that Pensionhelps  advice wasnt  necessarily wrong,  but he felt it 
should have considered advising them to transfer  their occupational scheme benefits to a 
QROPS.
Pensionhelp said its advisers had considered  a QROPS,  but hadnt  set out every option they 
had considered in the suitability reports,  so QROPSs werent covered in the reports. It also 
referred to information  from The Pensions Advisory Service (TPAS) that set out some of the 
risks associated with QROPS. It said that where a customer  takes regulated advice in 
respect of a defined benefit pension, this may result in the customer  taking advice in both the 
UK and the country they move to (which is what has happened  in Mr S's case).
Having considered Pensionhelps  comments,  our investigator said she didnt think it had 
acted incorrectly when  it didnt recommend  QROPSs to Mr and Mrs S. Based on the 
information available she said she thought  the personal pension plans recommended  were 
suitable.
She also noted that Pensionhelp had said it didn't  have the relevant  knowledge  or expertise 
to advise on transferring  to a suitable QROPS.  So, if it had felt a QROPS  was suitable, it 
would have suggested that Mr and Mrs S seek advice from an overseas adviser.  As this was 
the case Mr and Mrs S would have incurred further costs on this advice even if Pensionhelp 
had felt a QROPS was the best fit for their circumstances.
In view of this our investigator said she didnt  think it would be fair to require Pensionhelp to 
refund the fee Mr S had paid for advice  on moving  from his occupational pension scheme to 
a personal pension.
Mr and Mrs S didnt  accept our investigators  view. They provided comments  that appeared 
to have been made by their new financial adviser. In summary, the comments said that if 
Pensionhelp felt it did not have the expertise to advise on a QROPS it should have told Mr 
and Mrs S this was the case. They could then have made ...an informed  decision  as to 
whether to use them with their limitations (bearing in mind  the clients live in France)  or find 
another adviser who does have knowledge  at both ends.'
Ref: DRN89677723my provisional findings
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 22 June 2020. In it I explained why I 
considered the complaint should  be upheld in part and how I considered the matter  should 
be fairly settled.
I said that having carefully considered  all that had been said and provided  I was minded to 
uphold this complaint in part because  I thought  Pensionhelp should have made clear that it 
had taken Mr and Mrs Ss intention to retire  in France into account in its recommendations. 
And I said I thought it would have been helpful if Pensionhelp had briefly set out in the 
suitability reports it sent to Mr and Mrs S other options it had considered  to meet  their needs, 
as they were retiring in France.
However, based on the information available, I said I couldnt  safely  conclude  a QROPS 
would definitely  have been  a better  or more suitable option. As this was the case I said I 
didnt think Pensionhelp should refund the fee it charged for its work advising Mr and Mrs S 
on transferring their benefits out of defined  benefit pension schemes.
As Mr and Mrs S did not raise any points or concerns in relation to the suitability of the 
advice they had received to transfer  benefits out of their defined  benefit pension schemes I 
did not re-considered  our investigators view on this aspect of the advice given by 
Pensionhelp.
fees charged
I explained that, as Mr and Mrs S might already know, a QROPS  is a wrapper with 
underlying investments. These underlying investments are not pension  products.
Advising on transferring from a defined benefits  pension scheme to a QROPS is more 
complicated - or at least involves more analysis by the adviser - than advising on transferring 
benefits to a personal pension arrangement.
This is because the transfer value analysis (TVAS) advisers normally  carry out when 
advising on transfers from defined  benefit pension schemes arent designed to compare the 
benefits available in the QROPS being  recommended against those available in the defined 
benefits scheme on a like for like basis.
As a result, advising  on moving to a QROPS is often done  as a two stage process.  First the 
adviser considers  whether transferring benefits out of the defined benefits  scheme  is suitable  
for the consumer. A key part of this consideration is usually  the TVAS,  comparing the 
benefits available from the occupational scheme  against the likely outcome  if the consumer 
moved the benefits to a personal  pension arrangement,  on a like for like basis.
Only if the adviser  thinks a transfer  out of the defined benefits scheme is suitable would an 
adviser then go on and consider whether a different vehicle, such as a QROPS,  might be 
more suitable  than a personal pension arrangement, based on the consumers personal 
circumstances.
If the adviser  felt a QROPS might be suitable  they would then need to consider the 
jurisdiction (and therefore the rules that would apply), the taxation that would apply and the 
investments that would be held within the QROPS.  This would usually involve more work 
Ref: DRN89677724that considering  which  UK pension provider and underlying funds would be suitable. As this 
is the case I explained that the cost of advice on transferring to a QROPS  can often higher 
than if a UK personal  pension plan is recommended.
In view of this, I said I didnt think it would be fair to require Pensionhelp to refund  the fee Mr 
and Mrs S had paid for the advice it provided.  The work it carried  out analysing  the value of 
the benefits Mr and Mrs S were  giving up (when they transferred out of their occupational 
pension schemes) would  have had to be carried out by their new adviser if Pensionhelp 
hadnt already  done this work. As this work  had already been done by Pensionhelp I said I 
thought that the fee Mr Ss new adviser has charged  presumably only related to its work 
advising Mr S on the benefits  and disadvantages  of transferring from a personal  pension 
plan to a QROPS.
should Pensionhelp have  recommended a QROPS?
Mr S said he felt that Pensionhelp should  have  at least considered from the outset'  a 
QROPS as he and Mrs S had said that they were  moving to France  to retire.
Pensionhelp said it did consider a QROPS but discounted it as it felt the disadvantages 
outweighed the likely  benefits.  It also said it would  have referred Mr and Mrs S to another  
adviser if it felt a QROPS  was suitable  for them as it didnt have the expertise to advise on 
recognised overseas pension schemes.
I said I didnt think it was unreasonable for Pensionhelp to say that it didnt  have the 
expertise to advise  on QROPSs and that if it had felt a QROPS  might be suitable it would 
have referred them  to an adviser  specialising in this area. But I said I did think it would have  
been helpful if it had explained this in the suitability reports it sent to Mr and Mrs S.
However, said I didnt think it was the case that a QROPS was demonstrably  more  suitable 
for Mr and Mrs S.
I noted that in the comments Mr S provided  in response to our investigators view it said:
The QROPS may be marginally more expensive but their job is to advise on the best 
product not the cheapest.  None of our funds  pay commission  and certainly  no SCAMS - 
irrelevant comments.  
Under the Financial  Conduct Authoritys Conduct  of Business rules  advisers  are required to 
give suitable advice. It is often the case that more  than one product  (and/or  product 
provider) would meet  a customers needs.  As such there often wont  be an obviously best  
product, instead  there will be several suitable  options. I said I thought this was the case  
here. The personal pension plans recommended met Mr and Mrs Ss objectives.
I noted that Mr Ss new adviser had not provided anything to show or suggest  that the 
personal pension  plans recommended by Pensionhelp were unsuitable. I accepted  that it felt 
that the QROPS  it has recommended was the best product', but this is a subjective  view. 
And as I had explained, there is no requirement to recommend the best product.
should Pensionhelp have  documented  that it had considered  QROPS?
Mr S said he wanted to know why a ...QROPS not mentioned  or at least  discounted during 
the analysis and advice given?
Ref: DRN89677725I explained that advisers arent required to set out every product (and provider)  they have 
considered in their suitability report. But in this case, and given Mr and Mrs Ss particular 
circumstances, I said I thought it would have been helpful if Pensionhelp had explained in 
the suitability report it sent to Mr S that his pension income would be paid in Sterling and - as 
he would  be living in France  - its value would fluctuate with the Euro/Sterling  exchange rate.
I said I thought it would also have been  helpful if it had explained why, despite the additional 
risk of currency  fluctuations, it was still satisfied that the personal pensions  recommended  
were suitable for Mr and Mrs Ss circumstances. In doing so I said it could also have added a 
brief explanation of other vehicles, such as a QROPS, that would have allowed Mr and 
Mrs S to receive their pension income  in Euros and briefly explained why it didnt think  this 
benefit outweighed the disadvantages of the product.
I noted that in its response to this service  Pensionhelp said Mr and Mrs S could  have 
managed the currency risk by setting up a foreign account and transferring into local 
denomination'. It also noted that Euro denominated funds can be held in UK based pension 
schemes. I said I thought  this should  have been  explained in the suitability  reports sent to Mr 
and Mrs S.
In summary,  I said I didnt think the personal  pensions recommended  were  unsuitable. But I 
did think Pensionhelp  should have linked  its recommendations more  closely to Mr and 
Mrs Ss circumstances.
advice given to Mrs S
Based on the information that had been  provided  to this service  I said it appeared that Mrs S 
has not transferred  the personal  pension  Pensionhelp arranged for her to a QROPS.
I also noted that in the suitability report (dated 27 March 2018) sent to Mrs S, under the 
heading Important  Note about retiring to France their adviser set out:
You have advised  me of your plans to retire to France.  The taxation  of pension 
income, retirement lump sums and redundancy  payments would all be different if you 
are a French tax resident. If you have not already done so, you should seek specialist 
advice on the implications and the most  tax efficient approach to the taking of 
benefits. Although it is beyond our field of expertise,  I would make you aware that it is 
possible that taking a tax-free  lump  sum from your UK pensions could have tax 
consequences in France.
You should  remember  that, as pension income will be in Sterling, its value will vary 
with currency exchange  rate fluctuations. If you settle in France  indefinitely,  in future  I 
recommend you seek  advice  on the advantages or otherwise of transferring  your 
pensions to French  pension  plans.
In view of this I said I was satisfied that Pensionhelp  did explain that Mrs S might wish to get 
specialist advice on taking  benefits  from her pension  when she became resident in France. 
But I said I thought  it should also have explained why it felt a personal pension  was a 
suitable vehicle  for Mrs Ss pension benefits and why it had not recommended  a fund that 
would allow Mrs S to receive  her pension income in Euros.
Ref: DRN89677726advice given to Mr S
I said I understood that, having received advice from a new financial adviser, Mr S had 
transferred the personal pension Pensionhelp arranged for him to a QROPS.
I said I was mindful that the suitability report (dated 23 February 2018) sent to Mr S, did not 
refer to his intention to retire  to France,  or the possible tax and currency  implications this 
might have. I said I thought that Pensionhelp should  have discussed  the currency risk that 
Mr S was exposed to in its suitability  report and explained why, despite this, it was of the 
view the personal  pension and underlying funds recommended were suitable for Mr Ss 
personal circumstances.
summary
Having carefully considered this matter my provisional decision was that Pensionhelp should  
have set out in its suitability  reports that it had considered the currency  risk Mr and Mrs S 
faced and funds  and/or products that could mitigate this risk, when it advised them to take 
out personal pension plans.
I noted that there was nothing in the factfind information that showed  Mr and Mrs S wanted 
to receive pension income in Euros,  rather than Sterling.  But I said I thought  the advisers 
should have drawn their attention to the currency fluctuations their pension  income would  be 
subject to.
I said I thought the advisers should also have  briefly explained why they had not 
recommended another pension vehicle (such  as a QROPS) or Euro  denominated funds that 
would have allowed  Mr and Mrs S to receive their pension income in Euros.
I noted that in its responses to this service  Pensionhelp had explained  that it did not think a 
QROPS was suitable due to the reporting  requirements  and the often higher costs involved,  
including commission on the underlying  investments. I said I didnt think  it was unreasonable  
for Pensionhelp to have had these concerns, but I thought it should have briefly covered 
these in its suitability  reports.
In order to put matters  right I said Pensionhelp  should pay Mr and Mr S £500  for its failure to 
explain why it had discounted other  options, including recommending Euro  denominated 
funds, given that Mr and Mrs S were  retiring to France. 
Had it done so I said Mr and Mrs S could then have made an informed decision about 
whether they wanted to take steps to mitigate the exchange  rate risk they would otherwise 
be exposed to.
Both Mr and Mrs S and Pensionhelp responded to say they accepted my provisional 
decision and had not further  comments they wanted to me to consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN89677727Having done so, as neither Mr and Mrs S nor Pensionhelp have provided any fresh 
information or evidence in response  to my provisional decision I find no basis  to depart from 
my earlier conclusions.
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 August 2020.
My decision  is that, as I set out above,  I uphold  this complaint in part. In order  to resolve 
matters Pensionhelp Limited should  pay Mr and Mrs S £500.
Suzannah Stuart
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8967772