K820x#14complaint
Miss C complains National  Westminster Bank  Plc (NatWest) have treated her unfairly by 
charging her current account  with various  fees and not offering her a basic  bank account 
sooner. Miss C is asking  for all bank charges from 2009 to be refunded to her and for the 
associated default  marker  to be removed from her credit file.  
background
In April 2009 Miss C took out account  *1686, a packaged bank account (PBA) with NatWest. 
This remained a packaged  bank account  until it was transferred  to recoveries in 2017 with 
an outstanding  debt, after which the account  was defaulted. Miss C also held account *8063 
which was opened  in 2003  as a basic account. This account remained open  and ran 
alongside account *1686. I understand Miss C still has this basic  account for her financial 
needs.
During the time Miss C held account  *1686, she experienced  some financial difficulties and 
entered into several plans with NatWest. These plans were set up to help Miss C return  the 
account to a manageable position.  NatWest  has explained that, at the times in question, a 
customer was permitted  four successive  plans to help return  their account back  to branch 
control. And that after returning to branch control, the account could then start the cycle of 
four plans again if needed. 
The history  of Miss Cs account  shows Miss C was put into several plan cycles and that she 
successfully managed to exit NatWests collections and return the account back to branch 
control, as set out below. The last cycle of plans allowed for additional plans due to 
NatWests administrative errors. 
03/05/2010 Plan 1 
19/05/2010 Plan 2 
12/06/2010 Plan 3
26/07/2010 Plan 4, completes and exits Collections
18/03/2011 Plan 1
01/04/2011 Plan 2
05/05/2011 Plan 3, completes and exits Collections
01/05/2013 Plan 1
04/07/2013 Plan 2, completes and exits Collections
17/10/2014 Plan 1
31/01/2015 Plan 2
06/04/2015 Plan 3
19/06/2015 Plan 4
19/08/2015 Plan 5 
23/12/2015 Plan 6
28/04/2016 Plan 7, breaks  and goes to Recoveries
Miss C says she became  aware of the charges applied to her account when she made a 
complaint about  the sale of her PBA. NatWest  upheld  the PBA mis-sale complaint and part 
of the redress was used to reduce  the outstanding debt on account *1686, to £416.81.  
Ref: DRN82064882I issued my provisional findings to both Miss C and NatWest  explaining  why I didnt think the 
complaint should  be upheld.  I summarise  my provisional findings as follows:  
I confirmed Miss C wasnt pursuing  a complaint about account *8063,  so I did not 
look into this account. 
I noted Miss C had said things hadnt  been easy for her and offered her reassurance  
that I had considered  all her submissions about her circumstances. 
I noted NatWests responsibilities to treat customers in financial difficulties 
sympathetically and positively. And customers responsibilities to try and help 
themselves. 
I reviewed  NatWests  debt notes  a record  of their interactions with Miss C in 
relation to account *1686. And it was clear that Miss C was in regular communication  
with NatWest from November 2009, so I was satisfied  she was aware of the support 
available and on occasions proactively contacted NatWest herself. 
The debt notes  showed each time a plan was arranged, Miss Cs income  and 
expenditure was assessed and arrangements were deemed affordable  for her at the 
respective times. So it was difficult to say the plans were unaffordable  for Miss C.
The notes showed problems often stemmed from the mismanagement of the account  
and that Miss C was given information about how to help avoid unnecessary 
charges. The notes also showed  the consequences  of not following the plans were 
explained to Miss C and that gestures of goodwill were made to waive charges at 
various times. 
Miss C successfully exited plans allowing her to return  to branch control and use all 
the banking facilities  associated with the account.  
Miss C had been offered to downgrade her account, but she had declined  as she 
wished to use the benefits of the account. 
Returning the account to branch control  meant Miss C had avoided a default on the 
account which couldve significantly impacted her credit  file. And overall  I didnt think  
it had been wrong to set up the plans  in order to help Miss C get the account bank on 
track. 
I noted the terms and conditions  of the account  allowed for NatWest to apply  certain 
charges to the account. Miss C challenged the fairness of those charges. I explained 
that the Supreme Court had essentially ruled  that unauthorised or unarranged 
overdrafts charges were  not unfair. 
I pointed out NatWest had applied no further charges to Miss Cs account  from 14 
October 2015  although they couldnt explain why this was. And noted that account 
conduct after this time could  still have  incurred charges. I also noted that a benefit 
under the PBA had meant (from July 2013) that there would be no arranged overdraft 
Ref: DRN82064883usage fees applied to the account  and Miss C was not asked to pay any such  fees 
retrospectively had they applied (following  the upheld PBA complaints). 
I noted it was difficult  to review all the individual charges given the time that has 
passed. And that Miss C had not been  specific about any particular charges. So I 
considered things in a broader  sense to see how Miss C had been  treated by 
NatWest. 
As far as reasonably  possible  I considered the charges applied to Miss Cs account  
and concluded  it would be fair for NatWest to have applied the charges while Miss C 
was not in a plan.  So I didnt think these charges should be refunded. 
And reviewing the dates of the respective plans (as described  above), I considered  
the stopped cheque  charges were  fair in the circumstances  given Miss C had been 
made aware of how to manage the account. I also noted  some charges would 
already have been refunded due to the upheld  PBA complaints. 
I noted there were  some charges which were less clear to identify but concluded 
these also didnt  need to be refunded. NatWest didnt need  to waive  all charges, and 
the notes regularly assessed Miss Cs income  and expenditure which did 
demonstrate she had the disposable  income  to manage the plans  evidenced as 
Miss C had been able to return the account  back to branch control.
I also noted NatWest  had separated out the outstanding debt during the plans to 
allow Miss C the chance to clear those sums and avoid further charges and interest  
on those amounts. I was also mindful there  were periodic gestures of goodwill and all 
charges were eventually waived  (from October 2014). 
I had no doubt,  at times, things had been particularly difficult  for Miss C. But I didnt 
think there was enough  for me to say all the charges  from 2009  (until October 2014) 
should be refunded as Miss C wished. So overall  I said it appeared NatWest  had 
dealt with Miss C in a positive and sympathetic manner.   
In relation to the default, I commented default  notices were  issued  to Miss C for 
account *1686 but werent registered as the account was managed back  in line to 
avoid a default being registered. However, the account was later passed  to 
collections in January 2017, with the account defaulting after this date. I noted neither 
party had confirmed  the actual date of the default or the amount. But that both parties 
accepted a default was registered. 
I explained NatWest  had a duty to record (and report) accurate information about  an 
individuals financial relationship with them. And while there was some  information 
missing, the debt notes showed that Miss C was aware of the default notices. Miss C 
was able to avoid a default on account *8063 and prevented the default  initially  for 
account *1686. 
I concluded it wasnt unfair of NatWest  to register a default on Miss Cs account 
*1686.
Ref: DRN82064884Lastly, I noted Miss C had been given the opportunity to provide information about 
the costs of calling NatWest, but there was no evidence provided  around this. And I 
was mindful NatWest had said the numbers Miss C had called were most  likely free 
phone numbers, so I didnt think there  was anything for NatWest to do here. 
responses to my provisional  findings 
NatWest confirmed receipt of my provisional  decision but offered no further  evidence  or 
submissions. 
Miss C provided additional information about  her medical condition  by sending  a copy  of a 
government assessment and a supporting  statement  from her carer. I wont  discuss this 
information in any detail given the sensitivity of the contents of these documents, but Miss C 
should note I have very carefully reviewed these  submissions  when  Ive now looked  at the 
complaint afresh.  
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The statement  from Miss Cs carer refers  to the time she has been  caring  for Miss C since 
May 2014. And the assessment papers and their findings  are dated towards the end of 2016 
and early 2017. These submissions leave me in no doubt that Miss Cs health can cause  her 
difficulties when managing her day to day activities.
Miss C and her carer point out that within the 2016/  2017 assessment, there  is an 
acknowledgment Miss C would find difficulty dealing with complex  budgeting  decisions. And 
Ive carefully considered  what this might mean in the context of this complaint. However, Im 
also mindful that these  submissions are more recent and while this has not been an easy  
decision, I still remain of the opinion that Miss Cs complaint should not be upheld  for the 
following reasons:  
Miss C managed her account for long periods of time without needing  to go through 
collections and was able to use all the benefits associated  with the account. 
Miss C was aware of various organisations that could  support her and was made 
aware of NatWests support. The submissions suggest she was in contact with some 
of these organisations, but dont record whether Miss C went through with any 
appointments or what the results  of any such meetings were.  
At the time of each  plan NatWest asked questions to find out why Miss C had fallen  
into trouble with her account. They assessed  her income and established what was 
affordable for her in order to assess and arrange a plan for her each time. I think  it 
was reasonable  for NatWest to have  relied on the information Miss C was giving  
them both in terms of the various  reasons why she was struggling and in relation  to 
her income and expenditure. And the budget assessments showed Miss C did have 
enough disposable income  to manage each of the plans. 
Miss C declined downgrading her account and the debt notes show Miss C was still 
requesting plans close to the time that NatWest then decided  any further plans would 
Ref: DRN82064885not be possible. I think it was, by then, right for NatWest to draw a line under things 
and pass Miss Cs account to recoveries.  
On reflection it appears  no charges  were applied to account  *1686 after October 
2014, as I can see the October 2015  charges were actually  refunded  to Miss C. So 
there were no charges  in the two years prior to the government assessment in 2016. 
No stopped cheque  fees were applied  to the account after January 2012. So I can 
only assume Miss C became more comfortable with using her cheque  book or she no 
longer wrote cheques. 
From  the notes, it appears  Miss C didnt mention her particular condition to NatWest  
until late 2015 (after  charges  had stopped  being  applied to her account). And while 
there is some reference to her ill health  earlier, there doesnt  appear to have been 
any specific detail around this. So its difficult to say that NatWest should  have acted  
earlier on something they didnt know. 
While  Miss C entered into a number  of plans with NatWest over the years, she had 
managed to avoid  plans  for significant periods  of time. And I dont  think  it wouldve 
been fair of NatWest  to hold previous plans against Miss C when she later found 
herself struggling again. The plans  prevented a default being recorded against  her 
during those years which would  have meant  her credit file would not have been 
impacted then. And as Miss C had been able to complete plans, I dont think it was 
unreasonable of NatWest to have assumed she could do so again. 
I do recognise that Miss Cs situation  is not easy, and it is not my intention  to cause Miss C 
any further upset,  but it doesnt automatically  mean NatWest have behaved unfairly towards 
her or that I should uphold this complaint. Overall  I have  to consider whether NatWest has 
done anything  wrong, and reviewing  their actions based on the submissions and evidence 
thats been made available to me, I dont think theyve acted unfairly when  dealing  with 
Miss C in these circumstances and in light of the information they were working with. 
my final decision
I know this wont be the outcome  Miss C was hoping for, but for the reasons above my final 
decision is that I dont  uphold Miss Cs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 October  2020.
Kristina Mathews 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN8206488